GLOBAL
ENVIRONMENT
FACILITY
/553 y
Mozambique
Transfrontier Conservation Areas Pilot and
Institutional Strengthening Project
Project Document
December 1996
THE WORLD BANK



GEF Documentation                      -
The Global Environment Facility (GEF) assists developing countries to protect
the global environment in tour areas: global warming. pollution of international waters,
destruction of biodiversity, and depletion of the.ozone layer. The GEF is jointly implemented
bythe United Nations Development Programme. the United Nations Environment Programme,
and the World Bank.
GEF Project Documents - identified by a green band - provide extended project-
specific information. The implementing agency responsible for each project is identified by
its logo on the cover of the document.
Global Environment
Coordination Division
Environment Department
World Bank
1818 H Street. NW
Washington. DC 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-1816
Fax: (202) 522-3256



Report No. 15534-MOZ
Mozambique
Transfrontier Conservation Areas Pilot and Institutional
Strengthening Project
Project Document
December 1996
Agriculture and Environment Operations
Africa Region






CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of April 1996)
MT 11,128 = US$1
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout this report
ABBREVIATIONS. ACRONYMS. AND DEFINITIONS
AMRU                      Association of Rural Women
ARPAC                     Cultural Patrimony Archive
CAMPFIRE                  Communal Areas Management Programme for Indigenous
Resources
CBD                       Convention on Biological Diversity
COUTADA                  Hunting Concession
CPI                      Investment Promotion Center
CSIR                      Council for Scientific and Industrial Research
DDA                       District Agriculture Directorate
DFB                       Department of Wildlife
DINAGECA                 National Directorate of Geography and Cadatre
DINATUR                   National Directorate of Tourism
DINAP                    National Directorate of Livestock
DPAP                      Provincial Directorates for Agriculture and Fisheries
DNFFB                     The National Directorate for Forestry and Wildlife
DPA                       Provincial Agriculture Directorate
EDG                       Environment and Development Group
EIA                       Environmental Impact Assessment
ESP                       Environment Support Program
EWT                       Endangered Wildlife Trust
FAO                       Food and Agriculture Organization
FEWS                      Famine Early Warning System
FISCAL                    Public Sector Law Enforcement Officer
GEF                       Global Environment Facility
GIS/EIS                   Geographical/Environmental Information System
GOM                       Government of Mozambique
ICB                       International Competitive Bidding
IDRC                      International Development Research Center
INDER                     Institute for Rural Development
IUCN                      International Union for Conservation of Nature
JMC                      Joint Management Committee
KNP                       Kruger National Park
MAP                       Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries
M&E                       Monitoring and Evaluation
MICOA                     Ministry for Coordination of Environmental Affairs



MICOA                    Ministry for Coordination of Environmental Affairs
NCB                      National Competitive Bidding
NEMP                     National Environmental Management Program
NGO                      Non-Governmental Organization
PIP                      Project Implementation Plan
PM                       Project Manager
PPF                      Project Preparation Facility
RCC                      Regional Coordination Committee
SA                       Special Account
SADC                     Southern Africa Development Committee
SDC                      Swiss Development Corporation
SOE                      Statement of Expenditure
SSA                      Sub-Saharan Africa
SPFFB                    Provincial Forestry and Wildlife Services
SC                       Steering Committee
TC                       Technical Committee
TFCA                     Transfrontier Conservation Areas
WWF                      Worldwide Fund for Nature
Vice President           Mr. Callisto Madavo
Country Director         Ms. Phyllis Pomerantz
Technical Manager        Ms. Cynthia Cook
Task Team Leader         Mr. Robert Clement-Jones



PART I: Project Summary






MOZAMBIOUE
TRANSFRONTIER CONSERVATION AREAS PILOT AND
INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING PROJECT
Grant Summary
Source of Grant:    Global Environment Facility Trust Fund
Grant Recipient:   Republc of Mozambique
Amount:             SDR 3.5 million (US$5.0 million equivalent)
Terms:              Grant
Ob-jectives:       To assist the Government of Mozambique to create enabling policies,
activities and institutional frameworks for rehabilitating, conserving and
managing its unique biodiversity and natural resource endowments in three
transfrontier conservation areas. The project will contribute to poverty
reduction by assisting local communities inside and around the
conservation areas, through capacity building, land and natural resource
security measures and small-scale conservation and development activities.
Financing Plan:                                      (US$ million)
Government of Mozambique:              0.5
GEF                                    5.0
Swiss Development Corporation          2.6
Local Communities                      in-kind
Total                                  8.1
Economic Rate
of Return:         Not Applicable
Environment
Category           "}"






MOZAMBIQUE
TRANSFRONTIER CONSERVATION AREAS PILOT AND INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
PROJECT
Introduction
1.    Mozambique is emerging from the devastating effects of two decades of war, during
which, as the country was making a transition from colonial rule, economic progress was stifled.
Massive military expenditures, centralized planning, sabotaged infrastructure, the exodus of
skilled labor, and displacement of large segments of the population, exacerbated Mozambique's
difficult economic and social problems. At US$80 in 1995, per capita income is the lowest in the
world. A population of 17.5 million (of which 70 percent lives in the rural areas) is growing at
2.7 percent per year. The vast majority of Mozambicans live below the poverty line, and social
indicators are among the lowest in Sub-Saharan Africa. Average daily caloric intakes are 77
percent of the daily estimated requirement, compared with an average of 93 percent for SSA. At
least 40 percent of the children are chronically malnourished. Only one-quarter of the population
has access to safe water. Literacy rates are estimated at 35 percent (20 percent female), and are
likely to be much lower in rural areas.
2.    With the transition to peace since 1992, over 1.7 million refugees from neighboring
countries have returned, and over 3 million internally displaced persons relocated. In many
regions refugees are still resettling to their former homes and do not yet have independent means
to ensure their basic survival, especially in areas with low potential and high risks for agriculture
and livestock rearing. Climatic variability has rendered these areas more marginal, and recurrent
drought has made conditions extremely difficult for retuming refugees.
3.    Poverty reduction is the Government's main developmental goal, and will have to be
based on agriculture and rural development. Inevitably the country remains highly dependent on
reconstruction and development assistance. Since 1992, economic growth, largely fueled by
strong support by the intemational community, has averaged around 6.7 percent, and the
Govemment has made much progress in implementing programs aimed at stimulating private
sector investment and reducing the role of the state in the economy.
Sector Background
4.    Mozambique's 80 million hectares have rich land, marine, and mineral resources. The
total estimated area suitable for agriculture is about 35 million hectares (45 percent of total land
area). Forest cover is estimated at 60 million hectares, with deforestation estimated at 4.5 percent
during 1970-90. With the return of people to rural areas, clearing for agriculture will accelerate
this deforestation. About eleven percent of Mozambique's total land area has legal status for
management and protection. Forest reserves make up 450,000 hectares, while conservation
areas, consisting of four National Parks, five Game reserves, and 13 hunting concession areas



(coutadas) cover 6.7 million hectares. The coastline of 2700 km is the third longest in Africa, and
the country has a number of wetlands along the coast and coral reefs offshore. Mozambique's
rich natural resource base represents one of the country's most valuable assets, and an important
source of livelihood for most Mozambicans. If sustainably managed, this asset base provides
critical potential for economic growth, and an opportunity to combine conservation objectives
with income generation. Realizing broad-based growth which contributes to widespread poverty
reduction, will require sustained private sector investment and management, coupled with
community management and benefit-sharing, and investments in community development, human
capitaL and social infrastructure.
Land Ownership and Access to Natural Resources
5.    Much of Mozambique's natural resource base is defacto open access. Neither the State
nor traditional institutions exercise effective control. Over recent years, private concessions have
been sought for significant areas of the country (up to 15 million ha), with little or no
consideration given for the rights of local communities and traditional users of land, forestry,
water and wildlife resources. These rights risk being lost or significantly eroded unless the efforts
to recognize customary ownership are solidified under effective policy and legislation. At present,
ownership and control of natural resources are defined in the Municipalities Law (1994). A new
Land Policy was approved in September 1995. It maintains the principle that land ownership is
vested in the State, but recognizes the legitimacy of customary law and the rights attributed by
such law, including traditional usage rights, and the role of local leaders in conflict management
and resolution. The Land Policy is being concretized in the forthcoming Land Law, under which
it is expected that the management and control of more extensive areas will be delegated to local
communities, as has been piloted in Tete Province. Wildlife, forestry and other legislation are
being revised in light of the new Land Policy. Local governments, being developed under the
Municipalities Law, will be empowered to protect and manage natural resources, and facilitate
community involvement in collaboration with traditional authorities.
Biodiversity
6.    Mozambique's biodiversity, particularly in terms of overall habitat quality, is recognized
internationally to be of global significance and among the best preserved in Africa. This quality is
due to a combination of factors, including the relatively low demographic density and the general
depopulation of rural areas over 20 years of civil strife, together with the underdeveloped
infrastructure base. The key exception to this is the severe reduction in numbers of megafauna
(notably elephants) and other charismatic game species, which took place during the war for
profit or food. Game fencing between South Africa and Mozambique has also eliminated some
traditional migration routes and reduced access to traditional range for various species.
7.    Certain areas with international linkages are particularly important: Southern Maputo
province, a critical part of the IUCN-listed Maputaland Centre of Plant Diversity, ranks as a site
of first order global botanical significance, with important coastal forests. This rich ecosystem
straddles the political boundaries among Mozambique, Swaziland and South Africa, which
maintains a system of protected areas along the border. The Chimanimani massif (Manica
-2-



Province) which straddles the border with Cimanimani National Park in Zimbabwe, is among the
best preserved Afro-montane ecosystems with high levels of species endemism. Other important,
though little known highland areas include Mount Namuli, Mount Chiperone, the Njesi Plateau,
and Gorongosa Mountain. The area in Gaza Province bordering South Africa's Kruger Park,
including the hunting concession Coutada 16, is rich in species and in the quality of its relatively
undisturbed habitat, and is part of the same ecosystem. These areas and others including the
coastal zones (home to important marine biological resources), when coupled with the rapidly
growing potential for tourism in the region, represent unique opportunities to combine
biodiversity conservation and sustainable development.
Institutional Context
8.    The Government recognizes the importance of preserving and maintaining its natural
assets, but has been hampered by years of war and its very limited capacity to tackle even the
most pressing problems in the forestry and wildlife sectors. The end of hostilities and mine
removal programs are now allowing virtually unlimited access to these natural resources, which
are threatened with uncontrolled exploitation. In 1995, Mozambique adopted a National
Environmental Management Program (NEMP) comprising a national environmental policy, an
environmental framework law, and an environmental strategy. The recently created Ministry for
Coordination of Environmental Affairs (MICOA) has the mandate to coordinate, supervise, and
monitor environmental management in the country. The role and powers of MICOA will be
specified in the forthcoming Environmental Law. Mozambique participated in the Earth Summit,
and has ratified many international environmental conventions: Biological Diversity (August
1995), Climate Change, Desertification, CITES, and the Montreal Protocol. Adherence to the
Agreement on Migratory Birds and the Ramsar Convention are also being considered.
9.    Responsibility for managing the vast forestry and wildlife estate lies with the National
Directorate for Forestry and Wildlife (DNFFB), one of seven directorates in the Ministry of
Agriculture and Fisheries (MAP). DNFFB's human and financial resources are very limited.
Between 1992 and 1994, the total public investment and recurrent resources available declined
from MT3.5 billion to MT2. 1 billion (representing, in real terms, a dechne from US$1.4 million to
US$0.35 million). DNFFB was allocated only two percent of the Ministry of Agriculture's 1995
Development Budget, which in turn received 10 percent of the national budget. Of the recurrent
budget, over 95 percent is used for personnel costs, leaving virtually nothing for operational
expenses.
10.   Staff resources and capacity are extremely weak. In 1995, a total of 690 staff was listed at
the central, provincial and local levels. This number included forestry and wildlife personnel in
teaching and research institutions and the remaining state forest industries, as well as park staff.
At the Provincial (SPFFB) and local levels, 475 staff cover 10 provinces. Given the number of
districts and the distribution of forest reserves and protected areas, forestry and wildlife personnel
are spread very thinly. Most staff have received no training since the 1970s due to the destruction
of training facilities during the war. The numbers of trained technical and professional-level staff
is extremely modest (100 and 70 respectively), and core headquarters staffing is limited to 39
technical employees. A lack of transport and other equipment (communications, field) also
-3-



prevents the services having any field presence (e.g., for anti-poaching). These factors, when
coupled with continued emphasis on the Government exercising "control" over natural resources,
have inhibited collaboration with local communities.
11.  In parallel to the weak public institutions, there is limited experience in Mozambique of
NGO and community conservation activities. Most effective conservation operations have
depended on outside support. For example, Bazaruto Marine National Park has been supported
for a number of years by the Worldwide Fund for Nature (WWF) and the Endangered Wildlife
Trust (EWT), and community-based wildlife programs are being supported in Tete Province by
the Ford Foundation and the International Development Research Center. The EWT has also
supported very modest conservation efforts in the Maputo Game Reserve. The role of the private
sector is also relatively limited - mostly concentrated on the hunting and forest concessions and
game farms - although much interest has been expressed in these sub-sectors and in the tourism
industry during recent years by local and intemational investors.
12.   The first major effort to strengthen conservation activities in Mozambique includes the
AfDB financed project focused in the northem provinces (including Gorongosa National Park).
To date the project has only just started and is not underpinned by a coherent policy and
institutional framework. With the assistance of the IUCN, FAO and the World Bank, DNFFB has
been developing a Five-Year Program. This program, of which the current project would form an
integral part, sets out the legaL policy and institutional setting, and identifies a phased priority
investment program.
13.   Key elements of the program, which involves a shift in emphasis from command and
control to an incentives-based system, include:
*     strengthening the DNFFB to fulfill its central functions of policy formulation, planning and
technical guidance;
*     strengthening of the execution and implementation capabilities of the provincial and local
services;
*     consolidation of human resources development and applie I research;
*     improvement of protection, management and utilization of core conservation areas;
*     participation of rural communities as direct agents and beneficiaries in management and
conservation of forest and wildlife resources, through recognition of customary rights; and
*     promotion and appropriate regulation of the private sector in sustainable forestry and
wildlife management.
14.   Mozambique's limited capacity to manage its natural resources starkly contrasts the
situation among her neighbors. In South Africa and Zimbabwe, national and provincial
conservation authorities, linked with a dynamic private sector, an active NGO community, and
well developed research and technical capacity are at the forefront of conservation management
worldwide. In Zimbabwe, the potential for community empowerment in wildlife conservation has
been crystallized in the CAMPFIRE programs, and these experiences are being tested in other
countries in the region.
-4 -



Project Background
15.   The development of the Transfrontier Conservation Areas Project has evolved over
several years. It was originally based on the concept of a 'transfrontier park" focusing on the
Kruger Park and adjoining parts of Mozambique. This idea was officially raised during
discussions between the President of Mozambique and the President of the Southern Africa
Nature Foundation and was discussed by the Mozambique Council of Ministers in 1991; the latter
recommended that further studies were required to fully assess the political, socioeconomic and
ecological aspects. The Government of Mozambique requested the Global Environment Facility
(GEF) through the World Bank to provide assistance for the preparation of a project. A project
preparation facility was granted and a first mission fielded in 1991.
16.   Preparatory work, in three phases, has been a lengthy process, but has evolved in the
context of a gradually improving security situation in the areas being considered, which, until mid-
1993, were inaccessible. Phase I consisted of a preliminary study by an international consulting
firm focusing on the conditions necessary for the establishment of conservation areas in frontier
regions to complement activities in similar areas across the borders in Zimbabwe and South
Africa. Phase II involved a follow-up study by the same firrn, which recommended the
development of projects for two of the three areas originally identified (Maputo and
Chimanimani), and outlined proposals for the strengthening of the DNFFB and for the policy and
legislative framework.
17.   Phase III: project preparation and consultation. From an essentially donor and
consultant driven approach during the early stages, a locally-managed participatory process has
emerged during the last 18 months, bringing in communities and NGOs, and initiating actions to
implement the project. The process has helped shape new thinking on approaches and policies.
This collaborative effort has consisted of a series of consultations and further studies, coordinated
by DNFFB with assistance from IUCN. Consultative workshops have been held for Government,
NGOs, local communities and the private sector for each area, and consultations have been held at
the international level with neighboring countries (South Africa and Zimbabwe). Assessments of
the socioeconomic and ecological conditions have been made in Maputo, Chimanimani, and
Gaza, including consultations with local communities. Consultations have also been held with
other stakeholders among NGOs, government agencies, district and provincial authorities, the
private sector, and academia. Guidelines have been prepared for enhancing the role of the private
sector and communities in natural resources management. The granting of commercial
concessions in the Maputo and Chimanimani areas has been temporarily frozen to protect local
communities' rights. Support has also been made available for preliminary operational programs
for one national park, a game reserve, and surveys have been undertaken to determine the
feasibility and limits for the creation of a new protected area adjacent to Kruger National Park.
(see Appendix 2).
18.   Transfrontier Conservation Area Concept. During the course of these preparatory
activities the original idea of a transborder park has emerged into a broader multiple use
"Transfrontier Conservation Area" (TFCA) concept. TFCAs are defined as relatively large areas,
which straddle frontiers between two or more countries and cover large scale natural systems
encompassing one or more protected areas. These are areas where human and animal populations
-5-



have traditionally migrated across or straddled political boundaries. The proposed project is
based on this principle but expanded to include integrated conservation and economic
development in multiple-use areas. Consideration will have to be given to tradeoffs between
different and possibly conflicting uses (e.g., agriculture, livestock, eco-tourism), while attempting
to harmonize conservation of important ecosystems with the social and economic needs of local
people. Three TFCAs (see Appendix 1) included in the project for funding in Mozambique are:
(a)   Maputo: this area lies in the south-eastern part of Maputo Province, in the extreme south
east of Mozambique. It includes the Maputo Game Reserve (700 kni2) and the proposed
Futi corridor (an area of undisturbed habitat and relatively low population density), which
would link the Maputo Reserve with the Tembe Elephant Park and the Ndumo Game
Reserve in Kwazulu, South Africa. Elephants and other wildlife traditionally migrated
between these areas. Cultural and family links are also strong across the border. The
project area forms part of the Maputaland Centre for Plant Diversity which ranks as a first
order site of global botanical significance. Over 2,500 species of vascular plants are found
there. For its relatively small size this Centre is one of the most remarkable areas of
biodiversity in the world and the rate of endemism is high across all taxa. With the
exception of large mammals, most plant and animal communities in the TFCA are
relatively intact compared to the areas where degradation that has occurred through
inappropriate land use and much higher population densities on the South Africa side of
the border. Local populations are largely Ronga and Shangaan speakers. Not
demographically dense, the area is, however, subject to considerable movement of
populations, due to labor migration and returning refugees. The high potential
conservation and ecotourism-based development in this area, including coastal tourism,
will need to be balanced with other potential uses such as agriculture and livestock.
Additional pressures are felt in this area as conflicting and competing private concessions
are being sought for tourism and agriculture, with the risk of depriving the local
communities of their rights and eliminating the conservation option. The Government has
acted recently to prevent this from happening by freezing the area to new concessions and
by careful environmental and social analysis of a proposed forest plantation project.
(b)   Gaza: this TFCA covers 20,700 km2 of protected areas in Gaza and Inhambane Provinces
and the surrounding areas. Gaza Province borders on Zimbabwe in the north west and
South Africa in the south west. This is a particularly important TFCA as it comprises in
Mozambique: two gazetted national parks - Banhine National Park (7,000 km2) and
Zinave National Park (3,700 km2); and a hunting concession area Coutada 16 (10,000
km2) contiguous with Kruger National Park (KNP). It also borders on Gonarezhou
National Park in Zimbabwe, which itself is closely connected to community and private
sector conservation areas. Although wildlife populations in the Gaza TFCA (outside
Coutada 16) now appear low due to the effects of colonial tsetse eradication programs,
the wholesale slaughter of animals during the independence and civil wars, and the
recurrent droughts, the general state of the habitat is good. Traditionally, animals have
migrated through this area to the Limpopo River. Due to its proximity to conservation
areas in South Africa and Zimbabwe, the potential for natural and artificial restocking is
high. Historically, family and cultural ties across the borders were very strong. While not
as demographically dense as other areas, indigenous farmers and herders are beginning to
-6 -



return to this zone. In terms of land use, conservation and wildlife management represents
one of the highest potential values for this area, comparable to the private and communally
owned wildlife management schemes in the Zimbabwean Lowveld.
(c)   Chimanimani: contiguous with the Chimanimani National Park in Zimbabwe, this TFCA
in Manica Province is a relatively small area of 1,740 km2, and includes the eastern
escarpment and foothills of the Chimanimani massif The area in Mozambique is better
preserved, and represents a relatively intact Afro-montane ecosystem, with high species
endemism (notably plants), and rich wildlife and bird populations. The area, on both sides
of the frontier, is home to a highly traditional Shona-speaking indigenous population and
contains sites of archaeological, historical, and cultural importance. Land use options in
this area are likely to combine agriculture in the lower areas coupled with a managed
conservation area at higher altitudes. Local communities are keen to see the area
protected for cultural and environmental purposes against unsustainable logging and other
concessions.
19.   Social Challenges of the TFCA Concept. Reconciling community development and
conservation in the areas identified presents a series of challenges for which there are no easy or
immediate answers. The challenges include the dynamic demographic situations, breakdown of
social and institutional structures, uncontrolled exploitation of natural resources, extreme poverty,
and the granting of incompatible commercial concessions which may be in conflict with the
objectives of both community development and biodiversity conservation. The high incidence of
female-headed households and the domination of subsistence agriculture by women in
Mozambique, means that particular efforts will need to be made to ensure that women participate
in and benefit fully from conservation initiatives. The extent to which traditional, community-
based structures are sufficiently intact to enable effective management varies from area to area,
and ranges from the relatively strong structures in Chimanimani to highly fragmented ones in
Gaza. Since Mozambique is unique in the Southern Africa Region with local communities living
inside, as well as outside protected areas, the reconciliation of protected area management with
the needs and the development of these communities will mean developing new approaches. The
project will pilot participatory approaches and assist DNFFB to develop policies and strategies for
communities living inside, as well as outside protected areas, which ensure conservation, but at
the same time seek equitable solutions.
Project Objectives
20.   The proposed Project is the first phase of a long-term effort which is likely to span at least
10-15 years requiring continued support over this period. It will assist the Government of
Mozambique to create an enabling policy and institutional environment for rehabilitating,
conserving and managing its unique natural and biodiversity endowments, using the TFCA as the
central organizing principle, and will help implement community-based natural resource
management in three key areas described above. The Project has a broad set of related objectives
in biodiversity conservation and economic development, through institutional and capacity
strengthening, building on community-based pilot conservation projects and applying lessons
learned from neighboring countries. The Project will provide a learning experience in partnership
-7 -



among Government agencies, NGOs, rural communities and the private sector on both sides of
the international boundaries, and set the stage for much more significant investments in the future.
The Project will support field level conservation activities. By enabling local communities to
continue to manage and benefit from their ecosystems, through land security measures and small-
scale conservation and development activities, and providing the framework for private
investment in eco-tourism, the Project is expected to contribute significantly to poverty reduction.
21.   Recognizing that the development of conservation areas is a long term process and the
limited capacity base from which Mozambique starts, the objective of enhanced transboundary
cooperation is central to this project. In terms of both enlarged eco-system/wildlife management
and community cooperation, cross-border interaction (including exchange of expertise and
conservation technologies) at all levels (community, local, provincial, and national) is an essential
complement to Mozambique's internal efforts in conservation and institutional development.
Project Description
22.   The proposed Project, to be implemented over a five year period, has four components:
(i) institutional and policy development, with specific emphasis on training and capacity building;
(ii) habitat and wildlife management (conservation activities); (iii) community mobilization and
development activities, and; (iv) monitoring and evaluation. These are outlined below:
(a)   Institutional and policy development wiRl include capacity building for staff of DNFFB,
its provincial services (SPFFB), and District Agricultural Services (DDA), and for local
communities in Maputo, Gaza, and Manica provinces. The base cost of this component is
US$3.4 million.
•  Support will include logistical support, equipment, and community extension and
sensitization. The project will develop and field test policies on the roles of the public
and private sectors, NGOs and communities in natural resources management.
National and regional policy workshops will be organized with the stakeholders to
contribute to legislative and policy reforms, including the development of sustainable
institutional and financial mechanisms.
*  Training will be provided at all levels - centraL provincial, district, and community -
and will combine formal and on-the-job training with regional study tours and
workshops. Institution building will aim to devolve project implementation to
provincial and district services and co-implementing NGOs, and strengthen
indigenous NGOs in working with local communities.
*  Support will be provided to DNFFB to promote private sector participation in natural
resources management, together with the necessary controls. The project will support
the development of a GIS/EIS Unit. Technical expertise, particularly in the areas of
park management, community development, and commercial and business
opportunities will be financed.
* Support for international collaboration in the transfrontier areas will be provided, in
successive levels of intensity: (i) informal collaboration, training and information
sharing; (ii) formal agreement on the responsibilities of the respective parties defining
-8 -



cooperation in areas such as anti-poaching and ecological monitoring; and (iii)
implementation of the TFCA concept on the ground.
(b)   Habitat and wildlife management (Base cost US$1.7 million) will include a series of
activities in each area, including the identification/revision, formal zoning and demarcation
of core protected areas, and of semi-protected multiple-use areas, the rehabilitation of
these areas, road/track construction, fire management, problem animal control anti-
poaching measures facilitated by guard posts, and water supply points. The project will
also finance the preparation of detailed management plans with particular emphasis on the
potential financial flows, recurrent costs and estimated revenues.
*  For Maputo, the project will continue to support the immediate strengthening of
protection and management of the Maputo Game Reserve, preparation of a
management plan, and renovation of the training facility for community activities.
Financing for the Futi Corridor will include socio-economic and ecological studies
and participatory rural appraisals, water supply points, and boundary definition of the
proposed corridor. The Project may also include some fencing of the corridor to
protect local communities from wildlife (e.g. elephant crop damage) pending an
analysis of its social and environmental impact;
*  for Gaza, the Project will support the rehabilitation of the Zinave and Banhine
National Parks, the preparation and implementation of long term management plans in
surrounding areas in cooperation with surrounding communities. Support will also be
provided for ecological monitoring and the preparatory planning exercise for the Gaza
TFCA which may eventually lead to the creation of an international conservation area
contiguous to the Republic of South Africa connecting KNP and Coutada 16.
*  In Chimanimani, the project will support ecological and social monitoring and the
development of a resource management plan, developed in coordination and under
the control of traditional leadership, and the eventual establishment of a protected
mountain area.
(c)   Community mobilization and pilot programs will aim to mobilize communities living in or
near the TFCAs for conservation action, and provide a body of experience for wider
application of community conservation and development activities. This component is
estimated at US$1.6 million in base costs. The Project will support:
*  social assessments and awareness creation on the value of biodiversity conservation
for development. Using NGOs, the Project will help establish Joint Management
Committees (JMCs) among local communities and provincial and district services,
and finance training to strengthen traditional community institutions and participatory
mechanisms for conflict resolution.
*  immediate pilot efforts to provide direct assistance to local communities through a
small-scale community development fund. The fund will support the testing of
methodologies and strategies for biodiversity conservation which the communities
themselves could manage and implement. Culturaly appropriate activities will be
promoted through close cooperation with traditional political and religious
-9-



authorities, and the assistance of the Ministry of Culture's Cultural Patrimony
Archives (ARPAC). The fund will also help mobilize additional resources from other
donors/NGO sources, with the longer term goal of establishing a more formal
development fund which could provide matching grants to communities and be
financed from various sources.
securing community rights to natural resources, through area demarcation and
incorporating communities in the land-use planning process, to help facilitate the
negotiation ofjoint ventures between communities and the private sector for eco-
tourism, sport hunting and other activities.
(d)   The project will finance monitoring and evaluation activities as integral parts of each
component to ensure early feedback to project implementation. Four different aspects of
the project will be monitored: (i) institutional strengthening/policy changes; (ii)
biological status; (iii) socio-economic and community behavior; and (iv) project
implementation (see Appendix 10). An experienced NGO or consulting firm will be
contracted to design, assist and train DNFFB to implement the monitoring and evaluation
activities. The project will also finance ecological, veterinary and socio-economic studies.
The base cost for this component is US$0.3 million.
Project Implementation
23.   The National Directorate of Forestry and Wildlife (DNFFB) will have overall
responsibility for project coordination and management, with a major part of the implementation
being done by NGOs and local consultants. To avoid diffusing key technical resources and
capabilities, the project is designed to be an integral part of the Wildlife Department (DFB).
Project coordination and management staff; consisting of a Project Manager (PM), a commercial
and business development officer, and an administrator (responsible for procurement and
accounting) will be based in DNFFB Headquarters. The Project Manager will be responsible for
the overall management of the project, and for centrally organized activities - procurement,
training, monitoring and evaluation, policy development, and international collaboration with
partner organizations. A draft Project Implementation Plan (PIP) has been prepared and includes
a first year work program, procurement plan, training and capacity building programs, and
monitoring and evaluation procedures.
24.   Regional Coordinators for the Gaza, Maputo, and Manica (Chimanimani) TFCAs will be
fully integrated in the respective SPFFBs, responsible for the programs for national parks and
proposed conservation areas, community-based activities and transborder links in each TFCA.
25.   The preferred option for the provision of necessary technical assistance will be through
twinning arrangements with organizations based in the region. Such assistance will include a chief
technical adviser to the project manager, technical support to the provincial coordinators in the
three provinces, and short term assistance in areas such as park management, community
mobilzation, and business development.
26.   Community-based activities will be undertaken through Joint Management Committees
(JMCs), organized by Provincial and District services and NGOs. The JMCs will be comprised of
- 10 -



key stakeholders, including community leaders and representatives, possessing knowledge of local
community structures, cultural and environmental values, and economic needs. The role and
representation of women in the JMCs will be promoted on the basis of gender issues identified in
the social assessments. Other stakeholders will include returning refugees, district and provincial
staff, NGOs, and the private sector.
27.   Given the limited capacity and experience that exists in Mozambique and the challenges
posed by the breakdown of traditional legal and institutional structures for natural resource
management (especially in Maputo and Gaza), the project will use an "experimental learning"
model for community participation. Rather than setting out a centralized blueprint or plan to
mobilize a large number of communities for purposes of conservation area management, the
project will first organize and implement a set of pilot activities. These activities will be small in
number and simple in design, and will provide the SPFFB, the DNFFB, project staff; NGOs,
government agencies and donors with learning experiences on how to design, implement and
monitor projects carried out in partnership with local communities.
28.   Institutions which have assisted in the preparation of the Project, including TUCN, CARE,
AMRU, Helvetas, the Ford Foundation, the University of Eduardo Mondlane, the Center for
Forestry Research, and the Cultural Patrimony Archives will continue to provide support, as
facilitators or intellectual resources and on twinning arrangements where appropriate. Institutions
in neighboring countries, such as the Zimbabwe Trust, the Center for Applied Social Sciences at
the University of Zimbabwe, and the WWF/SADC Wildlife Training Centre will also assist in
research and local capacity building.
Project Coordination
29.   Project coordination will be organized at several levels. A national-level Steering
Committee (SC) will be headed by the Minister of Agriculture and Fisheries or his designee and
will be composed of representatives from: key public sector agencies including (DNFFB,
DINAGECA (Land Management), MICOA (the Ministry for Coordination of Environmental
Affairs), DINATUR (Tourism), the Ministry of Planning and Finance, DINAP (Livestock),
NDER (Institute for Rural Development), and the Ministries of Foreign Affairs and the Interior);
NGOs with recognized expertise in biodiversity conservation, wildlife management and rural
development; the University of Eduardo Mondlane; and private sector associations (once these
are established). Government agencies and NGOs responsible for rural development activities in
the areas concerned will also participate in project planning and oversight. The SC, will meet at
least once per year, to review progress reports and work plans, and resolve major intersectoral
issues or submit them to a higher authority. A Technical Committee (TC) will also be established
and meeting at least three times per year will review the implementation program, progress
reports and the annual work plans for submission to the SC; and will make recommendations to
the SC on policy issues. At the provincial level, a Regional Coordination Committee, chaired by
the Provincial Director for Agriculture, will be convened by the Regional TFCA Coordinator, and
will include community representation from the JMCs.
30.   International coordination wil be accomplished initially through international working
groups and then more formal international commissions. Members of the working groups will be
- 11 -



drawn from local authorities from each side of the border, the Regional TFCA Coordinator,
forestry and wildlife officers from each country, the co-implementing NGOs and JMCs, and other
interested local groups and community organizations. Other officials, private sector interests, and
technical specialists will participate as appropriate. Where possible international organizations
(e.g. IUCN) will help facilitate this international coordination. An agreement to establsh a
working group for the Gaza TFCA has already been reached between the DNFFB and the KNP
authorities. Another will shortly be established with the Kwazulu Department of Nature
Conservation and the Natal Parks Board. Contacts have already been established with Zimbabwe
authorities to establish a similar group for the Chimanimani TFCA.
31.   The working groups will explore areas of agreement and mutual interest and develop an
agenda for cooperation in the management of biodiversity resources. They will also deal with
issues such as staff exchange, training, community development, and collaboration in security
arrangements for anti-poaching. Once an agenda for collaboration is established by the working
groups, more formal International Commissions will be established for each TFCA. These
commissions would be formally recognized by participating governments and empowered to
pursue formal agreements in areas relevant to the effective management and conservation of
biodiversity resources between the countries. Recommendations from the Commissions would be
presented to the governments or the relevant authorities for discussion and approval.
32.   Project supervision by the PM will supplement quarterly progress reports by the Regional
Coordinators in direct consultation with the JMCs. The PM will prepare consolidated annual
Progress Reports, which will be reviewed by the SC and TC. Annual reviews will coincide with
the presentation of the following year's work program and budget. The main objective of the
annual review will be to evaluate progress during the prior year and to confirm or adjust the scope
and content of the proposed activities in light of project achievements. The World Bank/GEF and
other donors will conduct three implementation support missions per project year. Each mission
will include representatives (including natural and social scientists) of international conservation
NGOs to provide independent review of the project's performance.
33.   A mid-term review, to be undertaken 24 months after project effectiveness, will assess
learning to date and adaptation of project design for the following years. The mid-term review
will focus on: (i) the validity of the project; (ii) the progress made in institutional development at
all levels - community, district, provincial, national and international; (iii) effectiveness of the
community and government training programs; (iv) progress in the rehabilitation and management
of the protected areas; (v) the effectiveness of the policy and legal framework and the creation of
the enabling environment for community and private sector involvement, and; (vi) monitoring and
evaluation.
Project Sustainability
34.   The Project is designed to respond to a post war crisis through an initial injection of
capital to facilitate a long-term process of biodiversity conservation and community development
in Mozambique, with specific emphasis on three key TFCAs. As such it is the first phase in a long
term effort. Sustainability per se, therefore, is not the foremost concern at this stage. However,
the development of capacity at all levels through training and experiential learning is the key to
- 12 -



institutional sustainability. The Project is an integral component of the Government's Five-Year
Forestry and Wildlife Program The institutions which are to be reinforced and established under
the Project, in particular the JMCs and the International Commissions, are expected to persist
beyond the formal life of the project.
35.   By helping develop an enabling environment for community and private sector
development, the models being tested under the Project are hkely to be replicated in other areas
and will help channel investment (private and development assistance) resources into these
sectors. The Project will also contribute to the development of sustainable institutional structures,
and revenue retention policies within the sector, leading to the creation of autonomous structures
for protected area management. Finally, by helping establish and stabilize much larger
conservation areas, the Project aims to contribute to the sustainability and maintenance of natural
habitat corridors for wildlife migrations and genetic interchange in complex ecosystems in the
Southern Africa region.
Lessons from Past Experience
36.   Experience from other biodiversity and community-based natural resource management
projects in Africa and elsewhere reveals that there are no quick fixes: project success depends on
engaging local communities and other stakeholders in design and execution. Local capacity
building, through basic training in planning, financial and implementation skills is usually needed
before substantial village-level investments can be made. Flexibility in design is essential so that
the project activities can be readily modified on the basis of implementation experience.
37.   With the increasing budgetary limitations of governments and donors, the private sector
and NGOs inevitably must assume an increasingly important role in these programs. Community-
based wildlife management is already a significant land-use strategy in parts of Africa, and
provides a complement to agriculture as a source of income for poor rural communities. In
Zimbabwe, CAMPFIRE activities, which enable rural communities to directly benefit from
wildlife resources in 15 rural district councils in communal areas, are injecting fairly large amounts
of revenue into community development. In Zimbabwe, lessons can also be drawn from private
sector wildlife management conservancies. In Burkina Faso, this approach is to be used in all ten
southern game reserves, and there is a GEF Transfrontier community based biodiversity
conservation project in Burkina and Cote d'Ivoire. Other experience is drawn from Malawi
(beekeeping in Nyika National Park), Botswana (in wildlife management areas) and South Africa
(e.g. Kwazulu/Natal and Pilanesburg). Kenya is increasingly pursuing community involvement in
wildlife management in recognition of the importance of this approach and the fact that 70 percent
of wildlife is outside protected areas.
38.   In Mozambique, lessons can be taken from the Community Natural Resource Management
and Staff Development Project, currently being piloted by the DNFFB, with support from the
Ford Foundation and IDRC in Tete Province. One aim of the project is to maximnize the returns
to the community from tourism, sport hunting and timber/fisheries management. Rapid social
assessments have been used to identify management options, local institutions, and community
development objectives. Lessons are also being learned from the Community Conservation
- 13 -



Program carried out by the DNFFB with support from EEC, WWF and EWT in Bazaruto
(marine) National Park, the only conservation area in Mozambique with highly developed tourism
facilities. Structures for co-management of Bazaruto National Park by islanders, the DNFFB and
other government structures are being established. This experience demonstrates collaboration
and partnership among the private sector, island communities, NGOs and Government agencies
for the sustainable use of a marine ecosystem, and the length of time and persistence required to
accomplish conservation objectives.
Rationale for GEF and World Bank involvement
39.   Mozambique's biodiversity is of global interest and importance, but is seriously threatened
by extreme poverty, lack of effective management capacity, and scarcity of resources. Two of the
three TFCAs targeted by the project (Maputo and Chimanimani) are unique ecosystems with high
levels of endemism. The third (Gaza) is an area contiguous with one of the most famous
conservation areas in the world. The three areas also possess significant cultural and linguistic
diversity, which will be enhanced through community mobilization and development aspects of
the project. The project will help the country take advantage of a unique opportunity brought
about by the advent of peace in southern Africa, and will facilitate the adoption of common
conservation strategies based on ecosystems rather than political boundaries. The project will
assist Mozambique implement the principles of the CBD and other intemational conventions (e.g.,
RAMSAR, CITES) and bring intemational recognition for its resource management efforts. It
has already helped mobilize regional expertise through conservation training and the exchange of
research and information. The Project is therefore fully consistent with Conference of the Parties
policies, with respect to conservation of arid and semi-arid lands, forest and montane habitats, as
well as key Convention objectives of capacity building, innovation, strengthening local people's
involvement, and in-situ conservation of ecosystems and habitats. Although designed during the
GEF's Pilot Phase, it is also consistent with the Operational Strategy adopted by the restructured
GEF.
40.   The GoM and the World Bank's overarching objective in Mozambique is poverty
reduction, and this project is designed to help test new approaches to exploit the synergies
between conservation and community development in very poor areas where income earning
opportunities are limited. Due to the global significance of the biodiversity affected, the pilot
nature of the program, the uncertainties involved, and the limited ability of Mozambique itself to
contribute investment resources, it is absolutely essential that the GEF should contribute grant
financing. By supporting poverty reduction and environmentally sustainable development
the project is entirely consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy for
Mozambique (November 1995).
Project Financing
41. The total project cost including contingencies is estimated at US$8.1 million. The Global
Environment Facility resources represent 61 percent, while the Swiss Development Cooperation
represents 32 percent, and the Government contribution (primarily staff salaries) 7 percent. Local
communities will contribute in kind, with their labor, land and natural resources. The SDC funds
- 14 -



will specifically support the full cost of the Maputo TFCA, and will be provided through Helvetas.
Although not included in the financing plan, the Project is expected to generate private sector
investment in the medium term.
Economic Considerations
42.   The Project is of a pilot and experimental nature, with heavy emphasis on policy and
institutional development. As such, it is not subjected to formal cost-benefit evaluation. The
benefits of wildlife and habitat conservation in the TFCAs to Mozambique and the region fall into
several broad categories: (i) direct value for non-consumptive tourism (e.g., game viewing); (ii)
consumptive use of wildlife (e.g., game ranching, hunting, fishing, live animal trade); (iii)
subsistence and commercial use of plants and wild foods (e.g., medicines, food supplements, reeds
for construction, edible caterpillars, silk worms, beekeeping); and (iv) overall ecosystem integrity
(e.g., watershed management, land husbandry). Experience from Zimbabwe indicates that in areas
such as Gaza, wildlife management and conservation may be the most productive form of land-use
(usually in combination with animal husbandry). The management plans to be prepared for the
three areas under the Project, will analyze the economic retums to altemative land uses. Close to
the Kruger Park, which generates over US$60 million annually in gross expenditure, the Gaza
area is likely to be able to benefit significantly from wildlife management and tourism. (See
Appendix 9). Costs of conservation, other than the direct costs, include loss of income from
altemative forms of land use (e.g., agriculture or animal husbandry). Conservation does not
eliminate altemative future uses. In many cases, particularly in the southem Africa region, these
alternative land uses are not sustainable, and may lead to irreversible conversion of habitat. A
number of key issues have a direct bearing on the distribution of benefits and costs - including the
relative shares of profits, licensing fees, allocation of quotas, the granting of licenses and
contracts. These will be tackled under the policy development process discussed above and tested
through the pilot activities.
Incremental Costs and Global Benefits
43.   Mozambique is desperately poor and in a process of war reconstruction. The fiscal deficit
in 1995 was 20.3 percent of GDP, and the current account deficit 22.7 percent. Imports were at
US$784 million and exports only US$169 million. Only 21% ofthe Govemment's investment
budget is financed locally, and as described above, conservation (forestry and wildlife) activities
only receive two percent of the Ministry of Agriculture's budget and 0.2 percent of the total
budget. These severe financing limitations mean that the project as designed would simply not be
undertaken in the absence of GEF financing.
44.   The baseline scenario is therefore a very modest expansion of govemment services to the
communities for natural resources management and of efforts to establish these TFCAs. Without
GEF assistance, the expenditure on these baseline items would certainly have been no greater than
the Govemment's US$0.5 million contribution, and probably substantially less. Under the
baseline scenario, all or part of the Swiss Development Corporation financing (US$2.6 million)
would probably also have been available to support conservation in the Maputo TFCA.
- 15 -



45.    The GEF alternative extends conservation efforts to the other two transfrontier areas and
considerably deepens the capacity building, community outreach, and habitat and wildlife
management programs. The cost of these additional interventions, which are required to achieve
global benefits, will be met largely by the GEF grant of US$5 million and, by community
contributions in-kind to more effective resource management. By creating an enabling
environment, the project is expected to leverage additional funds for conservation activities in the
future. The project's global benefits include the extension of the range available to key mega-
fauna which should enhance its long term survival and promote the conservation of its globally
significant biodiversity.
Environmental and Social Aspects
46.   The Project is designed to promote environmentally sustainable development by helping
develop Mozambique's capacity to protect and conserve ecologically sensitive areas. Key
environmental considerations, which have to be weighed against likely alternative outcomes (i.e.,
without project) include: the impact of safari hunting on the wildlife resource, sustainable levels of
environmental tourism, planning of tourism infrastructure, and issues relating to restocking (e.g.
animal transport). The proposed management plans for each TFCA will be developed through a
highly participatory process with local communities. Impact assessments and broad community
consultations will ensure the involvement of local populations in protecting the area's biodiversity
and natural habitat.
47.   Community Negotiations and Conflict Resolution. No involuntary resettlement will be
conducted under the TFCA project. However, negotiation procedures will be put in place for
dealing with resource use/tenure conflicts related to the presence of communities within protected
areas, compensation for limitations required by conservation activities on the traditional livelihood
regimes of local people, communities/private companies joint ventures (e.g. poaching control,
conservation-related tourism enterprises), or other issues that may arise during implementation.
The Project will provide funds to expedite the official demarcation of customary land, to ensure
that the traditional rights of local communities are fully protected. Specific clauses are included in
the draft guidelines on community relations, and will be incorporated in the Grant Agreement, to
ensure transparency and clarity on these matters.
48.   Within each TFCA, a participatory assessment and planning process will also be
introduced to build consensus and resolve outstanding conflicts between biodiversity preservation
and local community needs. This process will be organized by the Joint Management Committee
(JMC) for each TFCA with the assistance of the NGO facilitator organization(s). With the high
incidence of female-headed households in the project areas, particular efforts will be made to
ensure that women participate fully in this process. A major purpose will be to ensure that TFCA
land-use and protected area management plans are adapted to the socio-cultural and ecological
realities of each region and that their ownership rests with the majority of stakeholders.
49.   The potential impacts of eco-tourism activities (even where they are not funded by the
project) will be examined to assess the tourist carrying capacity of project areas and the
acceptability of the activities to local populations. Careful planning and siting of tourist facilities
will be carried out to maximize the benefits from tourism without interfering with the goals of
- 16 -



biodiversity protection, community integrity and livelihood improvement. To increase economic
benefits to local communities tourist accommodation on communal/private land outside protected
areas will be promoted, and will be subjected to environmental and social impact assessments.
All tourism facilities will adopt best practices for the region in terms of sewage and garbage
disposal, water supplies, renewable energy, and use of local materials and traditional building
styles. The impact of eco-tourism will be monitored during Project implementation.
50.   For the Futi Corridor, the Project will finance firther detailed ecological and
socioeconomic studies as well as participatory rural appraisals to define its biodiversity and
determine the long-term sustainability of the Corridor and, if consensus exists, define its
boundaries with the intent of gazetting it as a conservation zone. Based on the Rapid Rural
Appraisal already undertaken, and additional social assessments, the project will introduce
measures to minimize potential problems that conservation may pose to the agricultural/livestock
regimes of the local people. The Project may finance some fencing of the corridor on the west
side to protect local communities from wildlife. The Project may also support the construction of
veterinary cordon fences and operation of foot and mouth disease quarantine camps for livestock.
A decision on the fencing of the corridor will only be made after widespread local consultations
and thorough analysis of the social and environmental impacts.
Project Benefits
51.   The main benefit of the project will be the conservation of biodiversity in areas of global
ecological importance, while bringing development opportunities for poor rural communities.
The project will provide training and institutional strengthening, and an injection of capital for the
Government of Mozambique to protect such areas and will provide a model for strategic planning,
and consensus building during the planning and implementation process. The TFCA concept also
provides an excellent opportunity for linking local communities to the wider goals of biodiversity
conservation and protected area management. The active involvement and participation of the
local people and NGOs in the design and implementation of management plans and development
projects will improve community institutional capacity and welfare and enhance socioeconomic
stability. The Project will contribute to the development of a potentially lucrative eco-tourism
industry, particularly when coupled with Mozambique's tourism potential along the coast, and
promote international collaboration within the region.
Risks
52.   The risks associated with this project are common to many activities in rural Mozambique,
where uncertainties abound. The dynamic social, political, demographic and institutional situation
in the three areas means there can be no single answers for the development of TFCAs. As shown
in other countries, conservation development is not a linear process. The inherent risks can only
be mitigated by adopting a flexible learning approach with monitoring and evaluation an integral
part of the process. Other mitigating factors include the re-establishment of a presence in the
National Parks, and the strong collaboration with Mozambique's neighbors will provide core
conservation activities to which the community activities can be associated. Policy guidelines for
community and private sector involvement agreed with GoM at negotiations, will help create a
- 17 -



transparent framework for DNFFB's relationships with non-governmental stakeholders, and
provide for retention and distribution of revenues to local communities.
53.   The inexperience of the different parties (DNFFB, SPFFB, NGOs and communities) poses
another risk to project success and speed of implementation. Active partnerships will be required
throughout the implementation of the project and beyond to respond to this risk. In particular,
the Joint Management Committees together with the national, provincial, and international
coordination structures have been designed to facilitate the creation and strengthening of
partnerships.
54.   The indiscriminate granting of concessions for commercial agriculture, forestry, hunting,
and mining activities without adequate consultation and social and environmental assessment is a
major source of risk. This risk will be mitigated through the introduction of the new Land Law
provided that it makes adequate provision to protect community rights, but will require
continuous monitoring and high level political support. Recent moves demonstrate the
Government's commitment to give fuill consideration to conservation options. The granting of
concessions in the Maputo and Chimanimani TFCAs has been frozen pending the development of
participatory land use plans, and a forestry plantation project in the Maputo area has been
canceled following an environmental impact assessment due to its predicted serious environmental
and social impacts in an ecologically sensitive zone.
Agreed Actions
5 5.   During appraisal, agreement was reached with the Government of Mozambique on the
institutional arrangements, and the definition of responsibilities of the Steering Committee,
Technical Committee, Joint Management Committees, the communities, the government, NGOs
and the private sector. Agreement was also reached on the TORs and recruitment schedule for
the Project Manager, the Regional Coordinators and other key personnel. During negotiations,
agreement was reached on draft Government statements on the involvement and protection of
rights of communities and the role of the private sector, and a standard procurement schedule.
56.   Grant Effectiveness would be conditional on: the appointment of the Project Manager; the
nomination of the members of the Steering Committee; adoption of a Project Implementation Plan
(PIP) satisfactory to the Trustee, the establishment of procedures for financial management and an
accounting system consistent with the PIP; and the TORs and short list of external auditors
satisfactory to the Trustee.
- 18 -



Schedule A - Proiect Costs and Financinl Plan
Table 1: Project Cost Estimates
Total
(US$000)      Foreign   Base
Local Foreign  Total  Exchange Costs
A. Institutional Strengthening
1. National Level - DNFFB                744    671    1,415         47    19
2. Provincial Level SPFFB
Maputo SPFFB                           151     434     585         74     8
Gaza SPFFB                             120     405     525         77      7
Manica SPFFB                            47      85     133         64     2
Subtotal Provincial Level SPFFB          318     924    1,242        74    17
3. Other
Training Program                       513      55     568         10      8
International Collaboration                    150     150        100     2
Subtotal Other                           513     205     718         29    10
Subtotal Institutional Strengthening     1.576   16800   3,376         53    45
B. Habitat & Wildlife Management
1. National Parks & Game Reserves
Maputo Elephant Reserve                255     193     448         43     6
Zinave National Park                   115     101     216         47     3
Banhine National Park                  130     107     237         45     3
Subtotal National Parks & Game Reserves    500   402     901         45    12
2. Conservation Areas
Futi Corridor                          481     305     786         39    11
Coutada 16                                      15      15        100      -
ChimanimaniTFCA                                 12      12        100      -
Subtotal Protected Areas                 481     332     813         41    11
Subtotal Habitat Wildlife Management       980     734   1,714         43    23
C. Community Avereness Pilot Activities  1.587            1,587              21
D. Monitoring & Evaluation                  36    271      307         88      4
E. Unallocated                             458             458                6
Total BASELINE COSTS                     4,637   2,805    7,442        38   100
Physical Contingencies                   421     109     529         21      7
Price Contingencies                              147     147        100      2
Total PROJECT COSTS                      5,057   3,061    8,118        38   109
Table 2: Project Financing
Financing Source                       Local Foreign   Total  %Total
T t~~~~ ~Cost
(US$ Million)
Government                              0.55              0.55         7
Global Environment Facility             3.00      2.00   5.00         61
Swiss Development Cooperation            1.00      1.60   2.60        32
Total                                   4.55      3.60   8.15        100
- 19 -



Schedule B - Proiect Procurement and Disbursement
Table 3: Indicative Procurement Arrangements (US$ million)
Expenditure Category          ICB    NCB    Other        Non-GEF       Total
Civil Works                           0.15                    0.50      0.65
(0.15)                           (0.15)
Goods                         0.30    0.25      0.10          0.50      1.15
(0.30)  (0.25)   (0.10)                   (0.65)
TA, Training & Studies                          2.70          0.80      3.50
(2.70)                 (2.70)
Community Pilot Activities                      0.30          0.20      0.50
(0.30)                 (0.30)
Incremental Operating Costs                     1.70          0.70      2.40
(1.20)                  (1.20)
Total                         0.30    0.40      4.80          2.70      8.20
(0.30)  (0.40)    (4.30)                   (5.0)
Note: Figures in parentheses refer to amounts to be financed by the GEF grant.
Table 4: Summary of Disbursements (GEF Grant)
Totals Including Contingencies (US$ million)
Category of Items            1997 | 1998 | 1999 | 2000 | 2001  | Total
Civil Works                    0.05   0.05   0.05                     0.15
Goods                          0.30   0.25   0.05   0.05              0.65
TA, Training, Studies          0.60   0.60   0.55   0.35    0.30    2.40
Community Pilot Activities     0.05   0.05   0.05   0.10    0.05    0.30
Incremental Operational Costs   0.10   0.20   0.20   0.25    0.25    1.00
Unallocated                                   0.20   0.20    0.10    0.50
Total                          1.10|  1.15   1.10   0.95    0.70    5.00
Note: Figures rounded
Table 5: Disbursement of GEF Grant
Category          Amount Allocated in       Percentage of Actual
US$ millions     Expenditure Financed by GEF
1. Civil Works                       0.15                     90 %
2.  Goods                            0.65                 100% of foreign
90% of local
3. TA, Training, Studies             2.40                     100%
4. Community Pilot Activities        0.30                      95%
5. Incremental Operating             1.00           100% until December 31, 1999
Costs                                                  80% thereafter
6. Unallocated                       0.50
Total                            5.00
- 20 -



Schedule C - Timetable Of Key Processing Events
57.   The preparation of the project, as outlined in paragraphs 16-18, has been the work of
many. During the final stages of preparation the Bank's project team was led by Rod de Vletter
in Mozambique and Robert Clement-Jones in Washington. Jeri Larson, Isabel Nhassengo, Robert
Hal, Inacio Manecas, Tim Lamrock, Francisco Pichon, David Hughes and Shelton Davis
participated in the pre-appraisal and appraisal process. Kishor Uprety is the Legal Counsel and
the Lead Adviser is Francois Falloux. The peer reviewers were Jeffrey Lewis and Kathleen
Mackinnon. During project preparation, Chaim Helman and Jean Paul Chausse were Division
Chiefs, Phyllis Pomerantz was Country Operations Manager, and Stephen Denning and Katherine
Marshall, Department Directors. The Country Director is Phyllis Pomerantz, and the Technical
Manager is Cynthia Cook.
Time taken to prepare the Project:              5 years
Prepared by:                               GOM, fUCN
First Bank Mission                           July, 1991
Return from Appraisal:                       July, 1996
Negotiations:                                July, 1996
Planned date of Effectiveness:           February, 1997
List of relevant PCRs and PPARs:                 None
58.   World Bank/GEF Implementation Support: The proposed staff input is shown in the
following table. The principles of the implementation support missions have been outlined earlier
(paragraphs 32-33).
Approx.          Activity                      Skills                Staff
2/97       Project Launch         TM/Proc./Fin/Socio/NGO/M&E/SDC        12
6/97       Project Launch Review    TM/Proc/Socio/EcoloNGO/M&E          10
10/97      Implementation Support  TM/Socio/NGOEcolo/Proc               8
2/98       Implementation Support  TM/Socio/NGO/M&E/SDC                 8
6/98       Implementation Support  TM/Socio/Ecolo/NGO/Proc              10
10/98      Implementation SuDpOrt  TMlEcolo/Socio/NGO                   8
2/99       Mid Term Review        TMiEcolo/NGO/Socio/Proc/M&E/SDC       12
6/99       Implementation Support  TM/Socio/NGOEcolo                    6
10/99      Implementation Support  TM/Socio/NGOEcolo/M&E/SDC            8
2/00       I Implementation Suport  TM/Ecolo/NGO                        6
10/00      Implementation Support  TMiEcolo/M&E/SDC                     6
2/01       Implementation Support  TM/Ecolo/NGO                         6
10/01      Implementation Support  TM/Fin                               4
8/02       Implementation Support  TM                                   2
- 21 -






PART II: Technical Annexes






Table of Contents
THE  PROJECT                                       .1...........I.       ,. .,...
PROJECT DESCRIPTION .................1
Institutional and Policy Development ......................... ....... - ,             1
Community Mobilization and Pilot Programs ................................,.6
Monitoring and Evaluation                              .7
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ..................           ,                                  ,.8
Project Organization and Management ...........................           , .          8
Institutional Arrangements ............................................             ,.9
PROJECT REPORTING AND IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT .12
COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENT .............................................  13
PROJECT  COSTS  ...........................        ,. 13
PROJECT FINANCING .14
PROCUREMENT .14
DI            S      B       U       R      S      EME                      NT.. .S
Project Implementation Schedule .16
AccOUNTs AND AUDIT .1............. , 17
APPENDix 1:           PROJECT AREAS: BIODIVERSITY, PEOPLE, AND KEY ISSUES
APPENDIX 2:           PREPARATORY ACTIVITIES
APPENDix 3:           INSTITUTIONAL ANALYSIS
APPENDix 4:           TRANNG
APPENDix 5:           GIS/EIS COMPoNENT
APPENDIX 6:           PRIVATE SECTOR STRATEGY
APPENDix 7:           PRELIMINARY GuiDELiNEs AND ACTION PLAN FOR CoMNMuN1Y NATURAL RESOURCES
MANAGEMENT
APPENDIX 8:           ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL CONSIDERATIONS
APPENDix 9:           ECONOMIC CONSIDERATIONS
APPENDIX 10:          MON1TORING AND EVALUATION
APPENDIX 1 1:         DETAILED PROJECT COSTS
APPENDix 12:          IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
APPENDIX 13:          IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT SCHEDULE
APPENDIX 14:          BIBLIOGRAPHY






THE PROJECT
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
1.    The Project is designed to help Mozambique improve the management of its globally
important biodiversity in the three transfrontier conservation areas through capacity building
efforts, the rehabilitation of national parks and reserves, the securing of community rights to
natural resources, empowering local communities in the land use planning process, and benefiting
from international experience and collaboration. The Project has four components to be
implemented over a five-year period. These are: (i) institutional and policy development; (ii)
habitat and wildlife management; (iii) community awareness and pilot programs; and (iv)
monitoring and evaluation.
Institutional and Policy Development
2.    Capacity Building. The Project will finance capacity building, through training and
technical assistance, for DNFFB staff and SPFFB staff in Maputo, Gaza and Manica provinces.
Support will include logistical provisions, equipment, training, and community extension and
sensitization. The Project's capacity building activities will finance 50 courses and seminars for
high and mid-level technicians. At the central level, there will be speciahzed training programs in
subjects such as financial management, procurement and disbursement, project planning and park
management, private sector development, strategic planning and policy formulation, and program
monitoring and evaluation. Training at the provincial level will include community program
development and extension, participatory rural appraisal, management planning, computer
courses, financial management, and monitoring and evaluation. Limited financing will be available
for high and mid-level technicians to pursue Bachelor and Masters Degrees.
3.    Regional study tours will be financed under this component to visit community-based
development projects and conservation activities in the Tete Province and Bazaruto National Park
in Mozambique, CAMPFIRE in Zimbabwe, and other natural resource management initiatives in
neighboring countries. The objective of the study tours will be to enhance DNFFB and SPFFB's
staff skills by exposing them to successful methods of community-based natural resource
management which may be applied in their own work. Representatives from the communities and
local NGOs will also participate in these study tours to foster partnerships, sensitization, and
shared learning experiences. The study tours will be organized at the central and provincial level.
Local authorities and DDA staff will have training sessions in natural resource management.
Financing will be available for more than 200 field personnel to have basic level training in wildlfe
management and community issues. Local level expertise, drawn from within Mozambique and
neighboring countries, would be financed to support community mobilization and conservation
activities.
4.   Training and institutional building will aim to create decentralized implementation skills
and structures with project responsibilities devolved to the provincial services. DNFFB staff will
receive training locally and regionally to acquire the skills needed to run the country's protected
area system at the national level. The Project will also finance training sessions for indigenous
- 1 -



NGOs to strengthen their capacity in working with Joint Management Committees'/ and local
communities in natural resource management. There will be 30 training sessions for community
members in the basic management skills essential to develop community level institutions. Further
details on the training program are included in the Project Implementation Plan (see Appendix 4).
The DNFFB will have overall responsibility for the organization of the training program and will
recruit qualified individuals, NGOs and Institutions to teach the various modules. In addition to
training programs that will be developed, the Project will also finance technical assistance,
particularly in the areas of park management, community program development, commercial and
business opportunities, and technical advisers for the project manager and regional coordinators.
5.    Geographic/Environmental Information System (GIS/EIS). The Project will support
the establishment of GIS/EIS capacity for DNFFB as part of the inventory unit. This unit will
concentrate on the planning, design, programming and full maintenance (data capturing, validation
and report generation) of a spatial database for Resource inventory, and Forestry and Wildlife
management both at national and provincial levels. The unit will perform the same functions for a
textual database management system for community area management, law enforcement, and
economic/financial data. The unit will be linked to similar units in South Africa and Zimbabwe to
share eco-system wide information and monitor the TFCAs in the broader biosphere context. At
a larger scale (lower level) the unit will perform area-based management tasks for the protected
areas defined within the project. The unit will be responsible for assembling and processing
relevant spatially based data such as: standard land cover and zoning/land use; biophysical
indicator monitoring; thematic representation of resource inventory; species location records;
ecosystem maintenance; human population and demographic patterns in selected communities;
infrastructure and socioeconomic indicators; and, limited cadastral spatial and attributes
recording. Close institutional links will be established with SADC whose member countries are
implementing a Region-wide Network System. More formal linkages will be established with the
Environmentek/Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) in South Africa and the
Famine Early Warning System (FEWS). The staffing of the unit will be comprised of GIS/EIS
personnel and specialists in other areas from DNFFB. There will be continuous training and skills
development. More detail is given in Appendix 5.
6.    Policy Development. The Project will facilitate the development and field testing of
natural resource management policies, and help DNFFB to develop a national policy framework
defining the roles of the public and private sectors, NGOs and local communities in sustainable
development. Action Plans to enhance both the private sector role and community-based natural
resource management (described below) are two ways to accomplish this goal. DNFFB will also
organize a series of national policy workshops to discuss key issues among the stakeholders (e.g.,
representatives of the communities and the JMCs, national policy makers, and representatives
'/ Joint Management Committee (JMC) membership will be decided by each community and will comprise
representatives of SPFFB, district authorities, traditional community leaders, private sector concessionaires,
and representatives of other government or international agencies.
- 2 -



from NGOs, the private sector and the universities). The findings and recommendations of these
workshops will lead to legislative and policy reforms.
7.   Action Plan to Enhance Private Sector Role. Financing will be provided to implement
DNFFB's Action Plan (see Appendix 6) to enhance the role of the private sector in sustainable
natural resource management. This will be achieved through the following key elements:
(a)   policy and legislative reform. The Project will promote a systematic policy review based
on working groups of key stakeholders and an annual policy development and review
workshop for all stakeholders. This work is linked to the ongoing legislative and policy
review process under the auspices of the MICOA led UNDP/UNEP Environmental Law
Program. Professional hunters and private sector operators will be encouraged to form
associations to facilitate cooperation, self-regulation and policy negotiation;
(b)   tendering and project approval mechanisms. A detailed document to regulate tendering
and project approval mechanisms is being drawn up. It will focus on two types of tourism
activity: in core conservation areas and coutadas, and in "free areas" (communally-
owned). The tendering and project approval process will be carried out in close
collaboration with CPI and DINATUR, and will be closely monitored during project
implementation to ensure an open and transparent process;
(c)   tax regime, fees, licenses and revenue retention. The current system of taxation, fees,
licenses and revenue retention will be reviewed during the project's first year. The
purpose of this review, to be done in collaboration with the Ministry of Planning and
Finance, will be to rationalize the fees and taxes paid by concession holders, and to
determine how revenue retention for conservation purposes can best be achieved;
(d)   regulation and monitoring. The Project will test new methods of monitoring and
regulating private sector activities. Some concessionaires have proposed the creation of a
fund to finance independent baseline studies as the basis for quota allocations, annual
monitoring of wildlife population dynamics, and effective wildlife management. The
Project will provide resources to enable senior SPFFB staff with the means to visit TFCA
coutadas and game farms at least once in the hunting season. These visits will include
discussions with staff and local residents, and unannounced spot checks will be carried out
by pairs offiscais (public sector enforcement officers);
(e)   law enforcement. The Project will also test new methods of involving the private sector
in some law enforcement through training fiscais and game guards in legal skills, basic
wildlife management and community issues. One option for managing this process would
be to establish a law enforcement fund with private sector contributions and managed by a
board consisting of private and public sector stakeholders; and
(f)   community relations. The Project will test new approaches to private sector/community
collaboration and help facilitate the negotiation ofjoint ventures between communities and
the private sector.
-3-



8.    Action Plan to Enhance Community-based Natural Resource Management. The
Project will support the implementation of DNFFB's Action Plan for community natural resource
management. Further details on the Action Plan's implementation are provided in the Community
Awareness and Pilot Programs component and in Appendix 7. The key elements of the Action
Plan include:
(a)   JointManagement Committees (JMCs). The Project will facilitate through the
work of NGOs and the extension agents, the creation of Joint Management
Committees whose main role will be to design and implement community-based
conservation and development activities. The JMC, whose membership will be
decided by the respective communities, will have the authority to negotiate, receive
and distribute benefits from natural resource management, evaluate private sector
bids through the tender process, and allocate quotas between the local residents
and professional hunters.
(b)   Socioeconomic Assessments and Generating Awareness. Socioeconomic
assessments of the communities and their use of the natural resources in the
TFCAs will be carried out. These assessments will provide valuable insight into
the local communities' history and current dynamics, particularly with respect to
the authority structures and patterns of resource use which will form the basis for
both conflicts and opportunities in sustainable resource management. Community
sensitization and generating awareness on the value of biodiversity conservation
for development and economic growth will be facilitated by the extension workers
and through training modules. Special focus will be given to the role of women
and other disadvantaged groups and their access to revenues generated from
biodiversity conservation.
(c)   Security of Tenure andLegislative Reform. The Project will help the local
communities gain control over the sustainable use of their natural resources
through: accelerating the demarcation of land according to the principles of the
new Land Policy and upcoming Law; initiating a process of dissemination and
community discussions on the implications of the new Land Policy and Legislation;
and, contributing to the legislative review process to secure management rights for
local communities.
(d)   Pilot Community Development Fund The Project will initiate immediate pilot
activities for local communities through a pilot-scale community development fund
in each TFCA. The fund will be managed by Joint Management Committees at the
provincial level based on guidelines that will be produced by DNFFB. The
community development fund will provide small grants to eligible communities.
The use of these grants will be determined by the communities themselves, but may
include funding for small-scale conservation and development activities (e.g., game
farming, eco-tourismi, beekeeping). The communities will contribute to the
activities and investments in kind (i.e., labor, materials). The fund will be used to
test biodiversity conservation activities, managed and implemented by the
-4 -



communities. The fund will also be a catalyst to mobilize more substantial
resources from other donors/NGO sources.
(e)   Community/Private Sector Collaboration and Revenue Sharing The Project
will test approaches for negotiation and collaboration in commercial natural
resource-based activities between the communities and the private sector. This
will be achieved through training for JMCs and local communities to evaluate
private sector bids and negotiate the fair allocation of revenues.
International Collaboration
9.    The Project will support the strengthening of international collaboration between
Mozambique and her neighbors -- South Africa and Zimbabwe. The Project will finance the
travel, subsistence and logistical arrangements for the facilitation of international working groups
and international community exchange programs to begin the identification and discussion of key
issues and concerns of biodiversity conservation in the border areas. Support will be provided for
travel and subsistence costs for personnel exchanges among these countries. Workshops, to share
information and discuss topics of regional importance, will also be facilitated. To foster linkages
with SADC's Region-wide Network System and Environmentek/Council for Scientific and
Industrial Research in South Africa and the Famine Early Warning System, the Project will
provide financing for GIS/EIS to access the World Wide Web through either a local or regional
Internet Services Provider and training in the use of these systems. As the regional dialogue
develops and the agenda for collaboration has been firmly established, the Project will finance the
travel, subsistence, and logistics for the International TFCA Commissions for each region.
Habitat and Wildlife Management
10.   Protected Areas. This component will finance the identification, zoning and demarcation
of land, the rehabilitation of protected areas, and the construction of roads and tracks. The
Project will support programs for the immediate rehabilitation of the Maputo Elephant Reserve
(Maputo TFCA), and the development of a long-term management plan for this area as well as
the Zinave and Banhine National Parks (Gaza TFCA). Financing for habitat/wildlife management
activities such as anti-poaching measures facilitated by the construction of guard posts, and
improving the water supply will be provided by the Project. In the Maputo Reserve, the Project
will finance the renovation of the park center which will also be used as a training facility,
construction of guard posts and field housing, and 50 kms of road construction and rehabilitation.
In addition to the development of a long-term management plan for the area, the Project will
finance a study on the tourism potential of the area and the identification of potential economic
opportunities for local communities.
11.  In Zinave and Banhine National Parks, financing will be provided for zoning and the
development of long-term management plans for both parks. Road construction of 10 km each
for Zinave and Banhine will be supported by the Project. Project financing will also be provided
for aerial surveys, ecological and social baseline studies, surveys and monitoring. This analysis,
developed with local participation, will lead to the development of a land use plan for the Gaza
TFCA which ensures that the rural communities derive the maximum benefits from the sustainable
-5 -



utilization of the natural resources, and that private sector investment is encouraged. This plan
will also provide the best development options for the TFCA. Part of Coutada 16 is already
under serious consideration to become a National Park, whereby the area between the Singuezi
and Limpopo Rivers will remain as a hunting area, while the western section would become a
National Park. Project financing will be provided for the future National Park such as the
construction of the main camp, guard posts and roads, social baseline studies, surveys and the
production of a long-term management plan.
12.   Proposed Protected Status. Financing will be provided to help the DNFFB define the
boundaries of the proposed Futi Corridor based on socioeconomic and ecological studies, and
participatory rural appraisals. The Corridor would provide a vital link for biodiversity
conservation between the Maputo Elephant Reserve, the Tembe Elephant Park and the Ndumo
Game Reserve in Kwazulu, South Africa. While the Futi Corridor does not yet have protected
status, DNFFB's intent is to gazette it as a conservation zone, while ensuring the rights of the
local communities. Financing for the Futi Corridor will also include the construction of section
and patrol bases, 70 km of road and track rehabilitation, and water supply points. Support may
also be provided for some fencing of the corridor to protect local communities from wildlife (i.e.
elephant crop damage). A decision on the construction of the proposed fence will be made
pending an analysis of its social and environmental impact. For the Chimanimani TFCA, the
Project will finance an aerial survey, ecological and social baseline studies, surveys, monitoring,
and the development of a resource management plan. DNFFB is considering acquiring protected
status for the area.
Community Mobilization and Pilot Programs
13.   Consistent with the Action Plan, an experimental learning approach to community
involvement and participation will be tested in each TFCA under this component. Rather than
setting out a centralized blueprint for mobilizing a number of communities for the purposes of
conservation and protected area management, the Project will finance small-scale pilot activities.
While these activities will be relatively simple in design, they will provide the SPFFB, NGOs and
other organizations with models of how to design, implement and monitor projects in partnership
with the local communities.
14.   Six communities have been identified among the TFCAs to start the process. In the Gaza
TFCA, Makandezulu A and B settlements, situated along the Chinguizi River close to the border
of South Africa and Kruger National Park, and Catina, located inside and around the eastern part
of Banhine National Park, have been chosen. In the Chimanimani TFCA, the two communities
selected are Chief Mahate's Area and Chief Mafussi's Area which extend from the Lucite River
on the east and north, to the Puzizise River on the south, and to the Zimbabwean border on the
west. For the Maputo TFCA, the communities are Salamanga and Majajane which are both
located in the Matutuine District.
15.   For each TFCA, a facilitating institution such as an indigenous or intemational NGO, or
government institution, will be contracted to provide technical assistance and training to the
JMCs. Institutions which have assisted in the preparation of the Project, including the IUCN
Regional Office for Southern Africa (IUCN-ROSA), CARE, Swiss Helvetas, the Ford
-6 -



Foundation, the University of Eduardo Mondlane, the Center for Forestry Research and the
Cultural Patrimony Archives, will continue to provide support as facilitators where appropriate.
Institutions in neighboring countries such as the Zimbabwe Trust, or the Center for Applied Social
Sciences at the University of Zimbabwe, may assist in research and local capacity building efforts.
The contracted organization will undertake social and environmental assessments, consultations
with local communities, and the design of community-based development and conservation
activities.
Monitoring and Evaluation
16.   An experienced NGO or consulting firm will be contracted to help DNFFB design and
implement the monitoring program in terms of its impact on both the environment and lives of the
communities in the TFCAs. The GIS/EIS system to be supported by the project will also provide
valuable input into the monitoring program, as well as ensuring sustainability. GIS activities will
be supplemented with on the ground monitoring. Due to the pilot nature of the project, and the
importance of early feedback to project implementation, four different aspects of the project will
be monitored. These are: (i) institutional strengthening/policy changes; (ii) ecological
monitoring; (iii) socioeconomic and community assessments; and (iv) project implementation.
17.   Institutional Strengthening/Policy Changes. This activity will assess the progress being
made with capacity building efforts, involvement of the local communities in planning and
implementation, achievement of policy and regulatory changes, and the extent of international
collaboration in the TFCAs. Specifically, the following aspects will be closely monitored: the
number of training sessions and weeks of training for DNFFB, SPFFB, DDA staff community
leaders and NGOs; the increased technical capacity of DNFFB, SPFFB and district authorities to
implement proposed programs; the development of management plans and their execution; the
level of participation of community groups and traditional authorities in the TFCA and protected
area management activities; the increase in awareness on the benefits of biodiversity conservation
and sustainable natural resources use; progress in the implementation of policy, regulatory and
institutional changes such as the zoning and demarcation of community lands, gazetting of
proposed conservation areas; granting of tourist and other concessions within TFCAs, sharing of
revenues from sustainable natural resource use among the local communities, district, provincial
and national government agencies, and private companies.
18.   EcologicalMonitoring. Ecological monitoring will determine whether the project is
achieving its goal of conserving biodiversity, is stabilizing natural resource use and production
systems, and has improved habitat management techniques. Key aspects of biological monitoring
will include: an assessment of the status and distribution of the flora and fauna; changes in land
use; determining and monitoring sustainable offlake levels and setting quotas, monitoring of
veterinary cordon fences and operation of quarantine camps; and measurement of hydrological
cycles and climatic parameters as these relate to the ecological stability of each TFCA.
19.   Socioeconomic and Community Assessments. The objective of the M & E activities
under this category are to assess the effectiveness and number of JMCs that are being created, to
monitor the management of the pilot-scale community development funds, to determine the extent
to which the expected benefits are being realized, to identify the local perceptions of project
-7 -



progress and applicability to local concerns, and to provide input into the development of national
conservation and protected area policies. Specifically, the M & E activities will monitor the
change in local capacity, assess the social and economic changes that are taking place in the
communities living in each TFCA and follow the flow of project benefits. Household surveys and
group discussions involving local communities living in the project sites, buffer zones and
surrounding areas, will be undertaken to set up baseline data on the population, land tenure,
economic and production activities against which project impacts can be measured. The
community development funds will also be monitored closely to determine the extent to which
they catalyze the development of sustainable community conservation and development activities,
and serve as models for future, larger scale efforts, likely to have a much wider impact than the
pilot projects.
20.   Project Implementation and Accountability. This element will include details on the use
of funds from GEF and account audits, procurement and disbursement and beneficiary
assessments. Effective implementation of the project will require that the different participating
institutions at all levels (e.g., SPFFB, DDA, JMCs, NGOs, Universities and international NGOs)
provide accurate and complete information to the Project Manager, and provide their own inputs
into the monitoring and evaluation program throughout Project implementation.
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Project Organization and Management
21.   The National Directorate of Forestry and Wildlife (DNFFB) will have overall
responsibility for Project coordination and management. Project coordination and management
staff will consist of a Project Manager, a commercial and business development officer, and an
administrator who will be based in DNFFB Headquarters.
22.   The Project Manager will be responsible for day-to-day Project management in
accordance with the Project Implementation Plan and the approved annual work plan. The PM,
assisted by a Chief Technical Adviser, will oversee all project activities in the TFCAs and will
directly supervise the implementation of the project by the Regional TFCA Coordinators in Gaza,
Maputo and Manica. An effective monitoring system will be required for project management
and the PM will have access to a data base on all project-related activities. The PM will be
guided by the Steering and Technical Committees on general project implementation issues. At
the end of the assignment, the PM will prepare information that the Government of Mozambique
will use to assist the Bank with the preparation of the Implementation Completion Report within
six months of the project closing date.
23.   Regional Coordinators for the Gaza, Maputo and Manica (Chimanimani) TFCAs will be
fully integrated in the respective SPFFBs and will be responsible for the programs for national
parks and proposed conservation areas, community-based activities and transborder links in each
of the TFCAs. Technical assistance will include a Chief Technical Adviser to the Project
Manager, support to the provincial coordinators in the three provinces and short-term expertise in
areas such as park management, community development and commercial business opportunities.
-8 -



24.   The Project Implementation Plan includes, inter alia, a first year work program,
procurement plan, training program, terms of reference for key project staff and monitoring and
evaluation procedures.
25. Annual Planning and Programs. The Project Manager will be responsible for the
preparation of an annual consolidated work plan for the project components and the annual
budget allocations within each component, in collaboration with the provincial coordinators, and
will submit the plan and a progress report, including an account of beneficiary assessment, to the
Steering Committee and the Bank for review and comments. The Project's annual review will
coincide with the preparation of DNFFB's work program and budget for the subsequent year.
The annual review's main objective will be to evaluate progress during the prior year and confirm
or adjust the scope and content of the proposed activities according to Project achievements.
PROJECT MANAGEMENT
r            1~~~~~TFCA Project Nanager| 
Regional Coordinator Regional Coordinator Regional Coordinator
Gaza TFCA    Chirnanimani TFCA  _Nbputo TFCA
----  National Prk     Extension     Nbpito Bephart | ---
Directors      Workers       Reserve Dlrector
Itaenting  laFuti Corndort
NGO C         o Envnmenta AffaCoordinr or            s
IndustI, Commerce and Tourism),ImF(Minisnnplenmnting   I
Extension F                      NGO
WorkersI
Exten sion
|Comwunities|                    Workers
Institutional Arrangements
26.   Steering Committee (SC). The project wifllbeguided by amulti-sectoral national leveI
Steering Committee (SC). The SCtor.le   headed by the Minister of Agriculture and Fisheries or
his designee and wi  be composed of representatives from key public sector agencies (including
MAP, MICOA (the Ministry for Coordination of Environmental Affairs), MICTUR (Ministry of
Industry, Commerce and Tourism), MPF (Ministry of Planning and Finance), INDER (Institute of
Rural Development), the Ministries of Foreign Affairs and the Interior; NGOs with expertise in
biodiversity conservation, wildlife management and rural development; the University of Eduardo
Mondlane; and the private sector. The SC will meet at least once a year in order to review
progress reports and work plans, and resolve major intersectoral issues or submit them to a higher
authority.
27. Technical Committee (TC). A Technical Committee will also be established composed of
representatives of MICTUR, MICOA, MAP, and selected international and national NGOs. The
TC will be chaired by the Director of DNFFB and will meet at least three times a year to review
-9-



the implementation program, progress reports and annual work plans for submission to the
Steering Committee; and make recommendations to the Steering Committee on policy issues.
28.   Regional Coordination Committee (RCC). At the provincial level, a similar mechanism
to the national level SC will be set up. The RCC will be chaired by the Provincial Director for
Agriculture and will be comprised of representatives from the provincial services, local NGOs and
appointed JMC members. The RCC will be convened by the Regional TFCA Coordinator and
will provide guidance and technical advice to the coordinator, ensure that project activities respect
the priorities and plans of the provincial and district authorities and integrate the project's
activities into the programs and activities of other technical services in the area. The RCC will be
a mechanism for the JMC representatives to raise issues and voice the concerns of the community
to the TFCA Project staff, district officers and provincial authorities. The RCC will also review
the quarterly and annual work plans and performance of the community extension component of
the project, as well as provide input into national conservation and protected areas policies.
29.   JointManagement Committees (JMC). The Project's community-based activities will be
carried out through JMC. The JMC will comprise key stakeholders, including primarily
community leaders and representatives, possessing knowledge of local community structures,
cultural values, economic needs and environmental perceptions. Women will play an important
role in the JMCs. Other stakeholders could include district and provincial staff, NGOs and the
private sector. The membership of the JMCs will be decided upon by each community based on
their needs and interests. The JMC will be responsible for negotiating, receiving and distributing
any revenues received and will manage the community development fund. For the Maputo and
Gaza TFCAs, a facilitator (domestic or international NGO) will be contracted to provide technical
assistance and training to the JMCs to help undertake the community-based biodiversity
conservation and resource management activities that are being identified through community
consultation. In the Manica TFCA, the JMC will be supported by the SPFFB with assistance
from a consultant and other DNFFB personnel.
30.   International TFCA Working Groups. International informal working groups to discuss
common concerns, explore areas of agreement and mutual interest and develop an agenda for
cooperation in the management of biodiversity resources in the border areas will be established.
The working groups will also address other issues such as staff exchange, training, community
development and collaboration in security arrangements for anti-poaching. Members of the
working groups will include local authorities from each side of the border, the Regional TFCA
Coordinator, forestry and wildlife officers from each country, the co-implementing NGOs and
JMCs, and other interested NGOs, local groups and community organizations. Other private
sector agency officials, private sector interests and technical specialists will be invited to
participate when appropriate. An agreement to set up a working group for the Gaza TFCA has
already been reached between the DNFFB and the Kruger Park authorities. Another working
group will soon be set up between the Kwazulu Department of Nature Conservation and the
Natal Parks Board. Contacts have been establshed with the Zimbabwe authorities to establish a
similar group for the Chimanimani TFCA.
31.   International TFCA Commissions. As the main issues are identified and an agenda for
collaboration is in place, the subsequent phase to the international working groups will be to
- 10-



establish formal International TFCA Commissions for each region. Membership would mirror the
TFCA working groups, with the addition of the regular participation of DNFFB and TFCA
project staff. The ultimate goal will be for the International TFCA Commissions to be formally
empowered to pursue formal agreements in areas relevant to the effective management and
conservation of the biodiversity resources between the border countries. The International TFCA
Commissions' recommendations would be presented to each government or relative authority for
approval.
32.   Private Sector Interests. Other consultative structures and mechanisms are required to
ensure that the private sector interests in the areas to be incorporated in the TFCAs, and those
interested in investments in other forestry and wildlife areas are known to the provincial and
national authorities in an open and transparent manner. Regular meetings, at least quarterly, will
be held in each TFCA to discuss with the private sector and other parties, the TFCA project and
its activities and other issues relevant to the development of the forestry and wildlife resources.
The TFCA Regional Coordinator will chair these meetings, and the Commercial Development
Specialist from DNFFB will be invited to attend. Private sector interests will also be facilitated
through forming Associations.
33.   Community Interest. One mechanism for the communities to express their concerns,
grievances and issues, is through the Regional Coordination Committee. Regular meetings will
also be organized at the district level to discuss the Project's objectives and activities, and provide
opportunities for the resolution of grievances or concerns expressed by the communities or
individual landholders. The community extension workers, NGO representatives and SPFFB staff
will attend the meetings in the districts.
- 11 -



Oversight and Coordination
= a onal Steedng CCommitee  International
Technical   . Chr: Ministry of Agculture  -  TFCA
Committee           (Multisectoral)        Commissions
-Director    1
DNFFB
Project Manager
Regl Coorination I  Regl Coordination  Regl Coordination
Committee       Committee       Committee
Chr: OPA        Chr: DPA        Chr: DPA
Regional X      Regional        Regional
Coordinator     Coordinator     Coordinator
Gaza TFCA      Maputo TFCA    Chimanimani TFCA
NGOs J            NGOs            NGOs
JMCS X          JMCS  .         JMCSI
and             and             and
Communites     1Communibes.     Communites 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..... ....  .. ...   ...   .. ...... .... ................. ..... ......... . 
PROJECT REPORTING AND IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT
34.    The Project will require regular project reporting and careful project supervision. Project
supervision by the PM will supplement quarterly progress reports prepared by the Regional
Coordinators in direct consultation with the JMCs. The World Bank/GEF and other donors will
conduct three implementation support missions per Project year. Appendix 13 gives an
indicative schedule and composition of the implementation support missions. However, the
skills required for each mission will be determined at that time based on the Project's needs and
progress. Each mission will include representatives of international conservation NGOs to help
provide an independent review of the Project's performance.
35.    A mid-term review, to be undertaken 24 months after project effectiveness, will assess
learning to date and adaptation of the project design for the subsequent years. The mid-term
review will focus on: (i) the validity of the Project; (ii) the progress made in institutional
development at all levels -- community, district, provincial, national and international; (iii) the
effectiveness of the community and government training programs; (iv) progress in
rehabilitation and management of protected areas; (v) the effectiveness of the policy and legal
framework and the creation of the enabling environment for community and private sector
involvement; and (vi) monitoring and evaluation.
- 12 -



COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENT
PROJECT COSTS
36.    Project Costs are summarized in Table 1
Table 1: Project Cost Estimates
Total
(US$000)      Foreign   Base
Local Foreign   Total  Exchange Costs
A. Institutional Strengthening
1. National Level - DNFFB                744     671    1,415         47    19
2. Provincial Level SPFFB
Maputo SPFFB                           151     434      585         74      8
Gaza SPFFB                             120     405      525         77      7
Manica SPFFB                            47      85      133         64      2
Subtotal Provincial Level SPFFB          318     924    1,242         74    17
3. Other
Training Program                       513       55     568         10      8
International Collaboration                     150     150        100      2
Subtotal Other                           513      205     718         29    10
Subtotal Institutional Strengthening      1,576   1800    3,376         53    45
B. Habitat & Wildlife Management
1. National Parks & Game Reserves
Maputo Elephant Reserve                255      193     448         43      6
Zinave National Park                   115      101     216         47      3
Banhine National Park                  130      107     237         45      3
Subtotal National Parks & Game Reserves    500    402     901         45    12
2. Conservation Areas
Futi Corridor                          481     305      786         39    11
Coutada 16                                       15      15        100      -
Chimanimani TFCA                                12       12        100      -
Subtotal Protected Areas                 481     332      813         41    11
Subtotal Habitat Wildlife Management       980      734   1,714         43    23
C. Community Avareness Pilot Activities   1,587            1,587               21
D. Monitoring & Evaluation                  36      271     307         88      4
E. Unallocated                             458              458                 6
Total BASELINE COSTS                      4,637   2,805    7,442        38   100
Physical Contingencies                   421      109     529         21      7
Price Contingencies                               147     147        100      2
Total PROJECT COSTS                       5.057   3,061    8,118        38   109
- 13 -



PROJECT FINANCING
37.   Project Financing is summarized in Table 2 below.
Table 2: Project Financing
Financing Source                 Local Foreign Total %Total
____________________________I_I_cost
(US$ Million)
Government                        0.55           0.55       7
Global Environment Facility       3.00    2.00  5.00       61
Swiss Development Cooperation     1.00    1.60  2.60       32
Total                             4.55    3.60  8.15      100
38.   The SDC Grant, equivalent to US$2.6 million, will be administered by Helvetas for the
Maputo TFCA.
PROCUREMENT
39.   Planning and Monitoring. The procurement of GEF-financed goods and civil works
will be performed in accordance with the Guidelines; Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits, January 1995, revised in August 1996. Under International Competitive Bidding (ICB),
a margin of preference will be granted in the evaluation of bids to qualified locally manufactured
goods and civil works contractors. Indicative procurement arrangements are summarized in Table
3. DNFFB has prepared a procurement plan identifying the contract packages, value,
procurement method and schedule. This plan will be updated quarterly and included in periodic
Project progress reports.
Table 3: Indicative Procurement Arrangements
Expenditure Category         ICB    NCB    Other       Non-GEF    Total
Civil Works                          0.15                   0.50     0.65
(0.15)                          (0.15)
Goods                        0.30    0.25     0.10          0.50     1.15
(0.30)  (0.25)   (0.10)                 (0.65)
TA, Training & Studies                        2.70          0.80     3.50
(2.70)                 (2.70)
Community Pilot Activities                    0.30          0.20     0.50
(0.30)                 (0.30)
Incremental Operating Costs                   1.70          0.70     2.40
(1.20)                 (1.20)
Total                        0.30    0.40     4.80          2.70     8.20
(0.30)  (0.40)   (4.30)                  (5.0)
Note: Figures in parentheses refer to amounts to be financed by the GEF grant.
- 14 -



40.   Civil Works. Civil Works financed by the GEF Grant will consist pnmarily of
rehabilitation and construction of small facilities, road tracks, and fencing in scattered locations.
These works would not be attractive to foreign or large local contractors. Contracts with a value
of greater than US$20,000 and less than US$100,000 to an aggregate value of US$150,000 will
be procured following National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures acceptable to World
Bank.                                                             1
41.   Goods. Contracts financed by the GEF Grant which will include vehicles, equipment, and
spare parts will, to the extent possible, be grouped into contracts costing US$100,000 or more
and will be procured following ICB procedures. Contracts valued at less than US$100,000, yet
more than US$30,000 to an aggregate total of US$250,000 will be performed under NCB
procedures acceptable to the World Bank. Contracts valued at less than US$30,000 to an
aggregate value of US$100,000 may be procured through prudent shopping.
42.   Procurement with Communities. Works, goods, and building materials costing up to
$20,000 primarily for community pilot activities to an aggregate amount of US$300,000, may be
constructed or procured through lump-sum contracts either negotiated with NGOs or awarded on
the basis of at least three quotations from local contractors.
43.   Consultant Services and Training. Consultant services including training will be
procured in accordance with the IDA Guidelines on the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency (August 1981).
44.   Bidding Documents. Current IDA Standard Bidding Documents and sample Letters of
Invitation (LOI) respectively will be used for ICB procurement and consultant selection. NCB
Bidding Documents used in Mozambique and previously approved by IDA will be used wherever
available. All other Bidding Documents to be used in the Project shall be acceptable to the World
Bank.
45.   World Bank Review. Contracts for goods estimated to cost US$100,000 or more will be
subject to prior review by IDA in accordance with the Guidelines. The first NCB procurement for
civil works and the first NCB procurement for goods are also subject to prior review. IDA prior
review for consultants will be required for: (i) contracts with an estimated value of US$100,000
or more; (ii) contracts with individuals for US$50,000 or more; (iii) all sole-source selections;
(iv) critical assignments; (v) terms of reference for all contracts regardless of value; and (vi)
amendments to contracts with consulting firms or individuals that result in revised contract values
greater than US$100,000 and US$50,000 respectively. All other procurement will be subject to
random post-review. DNFFB will be responsible for ensuring that all documentation is on ifie and
readily available to facilitate post-review.
DISBURSEMENT
46.    The GEF Grant, equivalent to US$5.0 million, will be administered by the Bank and, as
such, will follow the disbursement procedure outlined below. The GEF Grant will be disbursed
over a period of five years. The anticipated disbursements are summarized in Table 4 and 5.
- 15 -



47.   GEF Grant disbursements will be fully documented, except that a Statement of
Expenditure (SOE) would be used for the training, operating costs and contracts for goods,
works and services with consulting firms costing less than US$100,000 equivalent and for
individual consultant contracts costing less than US$50,000 equivalent. The PM would retain all
documents for review by the Bank and by the Auditors. Given the availability of the Special
Account (SA), the minimum application for direct payment would normally be for the equivalent
of 20 percent of the initial deposit to the SA.
48.   To expedite disbursements and to ensure that funds are available when needed, the
Government will open a SpecialAccount (SA) in US dollars. This account will reside in a
commercial bank acceptable to the World Bank. This account will be established under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the World Bank and will be used to finance the local and foreign costs
of eligible expenditures financed by the GEF Grant. The authorized allocation of the Special
Account will be US$500,000.
49.   The Government, as represented by DNFFB, will prepare disbursement requests which
will be submitted to the Bank which will then replenish the Special Account upon receipt of
satisfactory proof of expenditures incurred and evidence that such expenditures were eligible for
financing. Up-to-date bank statements and reconciliation of the account will accompany
replenishment requests.
Project Implementation Schedule
50.   An early start to the project implementation will be facilitated by the remainder of the GEF
project preparation advance and early availability of SDC Grant financing. Activities for
immediate implementation will include: (i) preparation of bidding documents for vehicles and
equipment; (ii) establishment of Project accounting system at the national level; and, (iii) pre-
selection and identification of candidates for recruitment (both national and international) under
the Project. The bulk of the procurement work will be contracted to suitably qualified NGOs or
local consulting finns.
Table 4: Summary of Disbursements (GEF Grant)
Totals Including Contingencies (US$ million)
Category of Items          1997 l 1998 l 1999 | 2000 | 2001   Total
Civil Works                 0.05   0.05   0.05                  0.15
Goods                       0.30   0.25   0.05   0.05           0.65
TA, Training, Studies       0.60   0.60   0.55   0.35    0.30   2.40
Community Pilot Activities  0.05   0.05   0.05   0.10    0.05   0.30
Incremental Operational Costs   0.10   0,20   0.20   0.25    0.25    1.00
Unallocated                               0.20   0.20    0.10   0.50
Total                       1.10   1.15   1.10   0.95    0.70   5.00
- 16 -



Table 5: Disbursement of GEF Grant
Category        Amount Allocated in     Percentage of Actual
US$ millions    Expenditure Financed by GEF
1. Civil Works                    0.15                   90 %
2. Goods                          0.65               100% of foreign
90% of local
3. TA, Training, Studies          2.40                   100%
4. Community Pilot Activities     0.30                    95%
5. Incremental Operating          1.00         100% until December 31, 1999
Costs                                             80% thereafter
6. Unallocated                    0.50
Total                         5.00
ACCOUNTS AND AUDIT
51.   The Special Account and the accounts of the project will be maintained by the DNFFB
Headquarters. These accounts will be maintained in a manner consistent with sound accounting
practices which fairly reflect, in accordance with international accounting standards, the situation
of the Project.
52.   Audited accounts and reports (short-form report, special report on the utilization of the
GEF and the management letter) for each year would be audited by qualified independent auditors
acceptable to the World Bank. The audit will include specific verification of the legitimacy of all
expenditures and an opinion on the reliability of the SOE procedures and the utilization of goods
and services financed under the Project. The auditors will also provide a long-form report
including detailed comments on the accounting and financial system and an assessment of the
operational efficiency of the Project and its components. The final audit of the Project would be
submitted to the Bank no less than six months after the end of the fiscal year. In addition, six-
monthly audits would be undertaken for the first eighteen months of the project, or until such time
as the Auditors propose and the Bank accepts that they are no longer necessary.
- 17 -






Appendices






APPENDIX 1
MOZAMBIQUE
TRANSFRONTIER CONSERVATION AREAS PILOT AND INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
PROJECT
PROJECT AREAS: BIODIVERSITY, PEOPLE, AND KEY ISSUES
Introduction
1.    Achieving the project's objective of transfrontier conservation areas (TFCAs) - legally
valid, effectively co-managed areas embracing sections of Mozambique and neighboring countries
- will be a long-term process. TFCAs will straddle international frontiers, without prejudice to, or
loss of individual national sovereignty. The project will help to promote a dialogue, within
Mozambique and in the international arena, to define the legal and management status of the
TFCAs. It is likely this will lead to: (i) the opening up of wildlife corridors for the movement of
species within historical migration routes facilitating the conservation of genetically diverse
populations; (ii) adopting common conservation strategies on the same or similar habitats of
adjacent conservation areas, facilitating the implementation of more efficient biodiversity
conservation strategies; (iii) promoting cooperation, training, and exchange of information
among the participating countries; and (iv) the fostering of socio-economic development for the
TFCAs' inhabitants through development strategies that are conducive to sustainable multiple use
of natural resources.
2.    The project will cover three independent Transfrontier Conservation Areas (TFCAs):
Maputo, Gaza, and Chimanimani. This appendix presents a summary of the main issues regarding
the biodiversity significance, the human population, threats to and management of the TFCAs.
The Biodiversity of the TFCAs is described in more detail in a project working paper which is
available in the project files.
Maputo TFCA
Description of the Area
3.    The Maputo TFCA lies in the south-eastern part of the Maputo Province, which is in the
extreme south-east of Mozambique. It includes the Maputo Elephant Reserve and the proposed
Futi Corridor (on either side of the Futi River). The Maputo TFCA would link the Maputo
Elephant Reserve with the Tembe Elephant Park and indirectly with the Nduma Game Reserve in
Kwazulu, South Africa. The project area forms part of the Maputaland Centre, which has been
recognized as an International Center of Plant Diversity by IUCN. Over 2,500 species of vascular
plants are found in the Centre. Of these plants, about 225 species/infraspecific taxa and three
genera are endemic/near-endemic to the region. The Maputaland Center also has more than 472
Appendix 1-1



bird species (about 60% of South Africa's total) of which 5 species, and about 43 subspecies are
endemic/near-endemic to the centre.
4.    Within the Futi Corridor the sand forest, one of its most important habitats, has a number
of known endemic animal and plant species, including the Swazi ordeal tree, Neergard's Sunbird
and the endemic sub-species of red duiker. The Futi Corridor was once a traditional movement
route for a population of elephants that is now divided by an electric fence on the border between
Mozambique and South Africa. In the north, at least 150 elephants occupy an area comprising
the Maputo Game Reserve, and the proposed Futi Corridor comprised of mainly cows and calves.
In Kwazulu, a population of primarily bulls is found in Tembe Elephant Park. Neither population
of elephants is genetically viable on their own, and the fence is challenged regularly from both
sides. The corridor would provide a link between the Maputo Elephant Reserve and the Tembe
Elephant Park, that will enhance the conservation of the habitats and biodiversity systems, and re-
establish/maintain species and genetic movements along the north-south gradient. By removing
the electric fence, it will also help to relieve elephant pressure on the vegetation. Tembe is already
suffering from the effects of the compression of the elephant range, and if no other action is taken,
it will be necessary to reduce the population of elephants through culling. Stringent conditions,
however, must be met for the Kwazulu authorities to remove the fence. This would include the
fencing of the corridor on the west and possibly east sides, and meeting veterinary requirements.
Tembe Elephant Park contains black and white rhinos and the KwaZulu Department of Nature
Conservation is concemed about the risk to these populations. Anti-poaching protection will be
another major issue to resolve before the electric fence is removed.
5.    The diverse vegetation within the 700 sq. km. Maputo Elephant Reserve is comprised of
coastal forests, dry forests, grasslands, riverine vegetation, mangroves, wetlands including swamp
forests and bushy savannah. The biodiversity which has been identified in the reserve includes 64
mammal species, 318 bird species, 43 reptile species, 27 amphibian species and 23 fish species.
Two species of turtle are also known to nest along the beaches: the loggerhead turtle (Caretta
caretta), and the leatherback turtle (Dermochelys coariacea). With the exception of the large
mammals, the plant and animal communities in the Maputo TFCA are relatively intact in
comparison to the degradation occurring on the South African territory of the Maputaland Centre
from increasing population and inappropriate land use. The reserve also has a high diversity of
habitat types, extremely attractive and varied landscapes, and the unique combination of coast and
inland attractions for tourism, including game viewing in the future.
Population
6.    The Maputo project area has never been densely populated and the majority of its
inhabitants fled to South Africa and Swaziland during the war. Estimates are that there are now
about 5,000 to 8,000 people living in the area between the Maputo River and the coast. Most
local people are engaged in subsistence agriculture. For others, their livelihood is supplemented
by fishing in freshwater pans and gathering shellfish and other forms of sealife from the coastal
shoreline. flala palm wine production is one means of earning a cash income, particularly for the
Ndlovu and Puzu communities. Hunting and snaring of small antelope and game birds is
apparently common. There are very few livestock in the area, since most have been slaughtered
Appendix 1-2



or removed across the Mozambique- South Africa border during the war. Within the Maputo
project area, the tribal authorities are not formally recognized, and the effectiveness of the local
government is limited.
7.    The two communities that have been selected to implement the project's community based
activities are both Ronga-speaking and located in the Matutuine District. In the community of
Salamanga, located 10-20 km .west of the Maputo Elephant Reserve, crop damage is the main
issue. Elephants now travel frequently to the Maputo River for water, maize and sugar cane.
Farmers in Salamanga, with the assistance of the Swiss rural development NGO, Helvetas, have
formed four associations - Salamanga, Macassane, Tinungunine, and Fabrica de Cal - and through
these associations will be able to gain control of the natural resources in their buffer zone and
negotiate with representatives of SPFFB. Each of these associations has petitioned the Provincial
Directorate of Agriculture (DPA) for a collective land title. Until recently, the associations did
not address wildlife management as a central issue, concentrating their efforts on establishing
agricultural credit and marketing cooperatives. The Associacao de Salamanga has already met
with the Director of the Maputo Reserve to discuss solutions to the crop damage problem such
as fencing and armed scouts for animal control. The other community, Majajane, is comprised of
people who previously lived within the Maputo Reserve. Majajane suffers from wildlife intrusion
and crop damage to an even greater extent than Salamanga. Like Salamanga, the residents of
Majajane have also demanded fencing and scout patrols. Currently, Majajane has no association,
although Helvetas plans to assist them with the formation of one. In the meantime, discussions
with the Director of the Maputo Reserve have been held with the induna (traditional Ronga
leader) and the Frelimo Secretary.
Threats to the Biodiversity of the Area.
8.    The main threat to the biodiversity in the Maputo TFCA is the uncontrolled commercial
poaching of wildlife and loss of habitat due to encroachment and conversion. Compared with pre-
war levels, there has been a drastic reduction in wildlife. The elephant population has declined
from around 350 elephants in the 1970s to about 150. White rhinos have been virtually eliminated
and the population of antelope is also decreasing. The poaching in the area south of the Maputo
Reserve lead the Kwazulu Department of Nature Conservation to construct the electric game
fence on the South African-Mozambique border in 1988. Forest resources are also being
commercially exploited on an uncontrolled and unsustainable basis, particularly valuable
hardwoods, from the forests in and around the Reserve.
9.    Poverty, and the lack of alternative sources of income, is a significant factor in the area's
natural resources use. They can be defined as open access resources since there are few controls
on unsustainable usage. Without active interventions to conserve the ecosystem, degradation will
continue resulting in the loss of valuable plant and animal species. There is also the perception of
a lack of land tenure security and the threat of concessions which limit the incentives for long-
term sustainable approaches to resource use. The southern part of the Maputo Province is under
heavy pressure for tourism, agriculture, and forestry concessions which would involve some loss
of the population's rights to the natural resource base. Much of the land in the Matutuine District
Appendix 1-3



has already been requested. While this area is now frozen to concessions by the Provincial
Agriculture Directorate, including the east bank of the Maputo River and all land in the vicinity of
the Futi River, the boundaries of the proposed Corridor will have to be defined soon so that other
compatible developments can proceed. Concurrently, refugees are still returning after the war,
and many people are resettling on land that has been requested for concessions. The new Land
Policy, and the pending new legislation governing community rights over land and associated
resources, should help to defuse a potentially explosive situation between the concessionaires and
the local people. The work being undertaken by the National Institute of Physical Planning in
developing a Land Use and Development Plan for the Matutuine District also is a positive step
towards the resolution of possible conflicts in this TFCA.
AManagement of the Area
10.   The widespread poaching within the Maputo TFCA indicates the breakdown of the
vildlife law enforcement capacity in the project area and the official abandonment of the Maputo
Elephant Reserve during the war. The Provincial Forestry and Wildlife Services (SPFFB) has
very limited capacity due to the low number and level of training of personnel, available transport
and equipment, inadequate infrastructure and insufficient operational funds. With these
constraints, the SPFFB is impeded in its efforts to control illegal activities, control elephants from
crop damage, and promote the long-term sustainable use and conservation of wildlife and forest
resources.
1i.   The main management activity related to this area is undertaken by the Reserve Warden
with the assistance from the Endangered Wildlife Trust of South Africa (EWT). Poaching control
rnay have been at the expense of establishing good relations with the communities since anti-
poaching activities have not been linked with community extension and awareness programs. The
lack of a national policy for the management of protected areas has until recently also hindered
biodiversity conservation. In 1995, during the preparation of this project, some funds have been
used to prepare an emergency management plan for the Maputo Elephant Reserve. A longer term
niianagement plan is now being prepared. Other financial support to the reserve has been given by
the Environmental Investigation Agency.
20.   Helvetas has pioneered setting up "protected zones" for communities, which gives
communities secure tenure rights through the granting of long term land concessions to
'omnmunity associations". Helvetas has expressed interest in carrying out the initial freezing
-age of developing a protected zone in the Futi Corridor so that the area remains free of
co,ncessions to outside interests while the Land Use Management Plan is being developed for the
area. The work proposed in the Futi Coridor, with the assistance of Helvetas, will provide
itrportant input into the Project's implementation. A procedure for establishing protected zones
A'7lj need to be clearly defined within the current legal framework, so that the process can be
qutickly adapted in other critical areas under pressure. It will also be important to develop
conmunity associations, as was done in the Salamanga, in order to protect communal
smiallholders from commercial concession interests
Appendix 1-4



Gaza TFCA
Description of the Area
13.   The Gaza TFCA covers 20,700 sq. km of protected area in the districts of Mabalane,
Chigubo, Chicualacuala, and Massangene in the Province of Gaza, and the district of Mabote in
the Province of Inhambane. The Gaza Province borders on Zimbabwe in the north west and
South Afiica in the south west. This TFCA includes three main conservation areas: Coutada 16
(a 10,000 sq. km. wildlife utilization area), the Banhine National Park (7,000 sq. km.) and the
Zinave National Park (3,700 sq. km).
14.   Due to the vastness of the Gaza TFCA, it has been divided into two zones - Gaza East and
Gaza West. The Limpopo River and railway forms the dividing boundary. Gaza East, stretches
from the boundary of Gona Rhe Zhou National Park in Zimbabwe to the area adjoining and
incorporating the two national parks of Zinave and Banhine. The Gaza East TFCA forms a
corridor between the rapidly developing wildlife and tourism industries in South East Zimbabwe
and the more slowly developing, but potentially lucrative tourism industry along the Inhambane
coast and Bazaruto Archipelaga. Gaza West is mainly comprised of Coutada 16.
15.   Four broad vegetation types are distinguishable in this TFCA. These are: (i) the dry
deciduous tree savanna dominated by the Colophospermum mopane; (ii) the deciduous miombo
tree savanna with gregarious dense dry woodland. These formations are characterized by the
presence of the miombo species Julbernardia globiflora and monspecific stands of Androstachys
johnsonii occur as patches scattered throughout the miombo matrix; (iii) the deciduous tree
savanna dominated by the Terminalia sericea occurs within the mopane woodland; and (iv) tree
savanna (inland) dominated by Acacia spp.
16.   The wildlife slaughters of the pre-independence tse-tse eradication program, the
independence and civil wars, and the recurrent droughts have significantly reduced the wildlife
populations in this TFCA. Although the wildlife now present in the Gaza TFCA appears limited,
in the past the area was inhabited by populations of giraffe, ostrich, impala, bufilo, elephant,
eland and the wildebeest, among others. The extent of this decline in wildlife however is difficult
to determine because no systematic surveys have been carried out in the Gaza Province since the
early 1970s. The lack of wildlife in Gaza East is compensated by the pristine quality of its nature
and the richness of its woodlands. There are, however, still some wildlife populations in the west
along the international border. These areas are being restocked by natural animal movements
from the neighboring protected areas - Kruger, Gona Rhe Zhou and the game conservancy areas
between them.
Population
17.   Gaza West is sparsely populated with most of the population of the area settled along the
Limpopo River. Recent population estimates for the Coutada 16 are at about 7,800 people.
Similarly, populations in Gaza East are widely scattered. The total population of the Massengena
District is about 20,000. Aerial observation suggests that the human settlements in the area
Appendix 1-5



between the Coutada 16 and Banhine National Park are sparse with limited sized agricultural
areas except for the Limpopo Corridor.
18.   A high percentage of the households in this project area are headed by women. Most of
the area's inhabitants are dependent on rainfed agriculture for their livelihoods. Prior to the war,
Gaza was a major cattle producing area. Livestock production is currently lmited to a few head
of cattle per community and other small animals such as goats and chicken. During the dry
season, the local inhabitants collect roots and tubers, honey and wild fruits. Game hunting for
local consumption has traditionally been practiced by the local people of the area, and bushmeat
constitutes their most important source of protein. Fishing is also an important economic activity
for those communities living close to the rivers and the Massingir dam. The majority of the
inhabitants in this TFCA value the natural resource base - wildlife, water, forests - and recognize
its importance for meeting their subsistence needs. Only those communities that have been in
direct contact with the private sector wildlife based initiatives realize the potential for income
generation. Employment of the local people is hmited and seasonal migration to work in other
areas is common. The only exception is the Gaza Safaris-operated hunting safari in Coutada 16,
where one tourist camp and nearly 600 km of roads have been built since 1993. The private
operator pays about US$18,000 per year for its three-year lease, plus trophies and hunting fees, to
the central Government of Maputo. No revenues are retained at the community, district, or
provincial levels.
19.   Historically, villages in the project area were led by traditional leaders, or regulos, an
inherited position. With the internal civil wars, the traditional social hierarchical system was
replaced by a new political and administrative system headed by secretarios. Although the
regulos are now reassuming their historical leadership role, in many villages both structures still
co-exist and there is a division of power, based on an area and/or type of problem, between the
regulo and the secretario.
20.   The two communities identified to implement the community based activities in the Gaza
TFCA are Makandezula A and B; and Catina. The Shangaan-speaking communities of
Makandezulu A and B, located along the Chinguizi river, close to the border of South Africa and
Kruger National Park, have been involved in and affected by the Gaza Safari sport-hunting
activities since 1993. A seasonal hunting camp is 9 km from Makandezulu B, and residents have
been employed at the camp and on road clearing crews, but they have not obtained a share of the
company's revenues. Estimates are that together the population of Makandezulu A and B is
about 360 inhabitants. Neither settlement has strong decision-making structures. The community
of Catina located inside and around the eastern part of Banhine National Park has about 5000
inhabitants. Due to the area's extremely low rainfall, Catina residents rely on hunting, gathering,
and cattle raising to a greater extent than on cultivation for their livelhoods. A private sector firm
has expressed interest in developing the area of Catina for tourism and sport hunting.
Threats to the Biodiversity of the Area
21.   The uncontrolled poaching, particularly during the war, has resulted in the depletion of
large mammal species both within and outside the national parks. The area has, since colonial
times, attracted big game hunters in the pursuit of elephant, buffalo, and kudu. Agricultural
Appendix 1-6



production in most of the Gaza TFCA is limited by the frequent droughts and it does not
constitute a development option beyond family subsistence. There is a well developed logging
industry in the area, but the degree of control is largely unknown. Deforestation is also occurring
due to fuelwood collection and charcoal production since producers do not have transport to go
exploit more remote areas. Since the major centers of Mozambique are dependent on fuelwood
for energy, the uncontrolled cutting of timber threatens the long-term sustainable land use of the
project area. This will expand more rapidly once the communities become more established and
transport systems improve. The absence of guidelines to manage the area is also responsible for
environmentally degrading activities.
Management of the Gaza TFCA
22.   The years of war have taken their toll on this TFCA. Most of the infrastructure has
deteriorated or been destroyed. The management of the area's national parks and hunting
reserves has been non-existent for many years. The National Directorate for Forestry and
Wildlife's priorities for the Gaza TFCA are to rehabilitate the existing parks, develop their long
term management, strengthen implementation capabilities at the provincial, district and local
levels, and over the medium to long term create an international park connecting with Kruger
National Park.
Chimanimani TFCA
Description of the Area
23.   The Chimanimani TFCA is a relatively small area of 1740 km2 contiguous with the
Chimanimani National Park in Zimbabwe, and including the eastern escarpment and foothills of
the Chimanimani massif. It has a large diversity of vegetation and fauna, spectacular landscapes,
and rich historical and archeological sites. About 1000 vascular plant species have been recorded
for the area, of which 45 are endemic. There are six vegetation types on the eastem side of the
massif. The moist forest formations occur on the foothills, on slopes and in the valleys between
300 and 1500rm Typical tree species include Afzelia quanzensis (Fabaceae), Breonadia
microcephala (Rubiaceae), Celtis africana (Ulmaceae), Cleistanthus apetalus (Euphorbiaceae),
Khaya nyassica (Melaceae), Milletia stuhlmannii (Fabaceae), Pterocarpus angolensis (Fabaceae),
and Xylopia aethiopica (Annonaceae). Chlorophora excelsa (Moraceae), a commercially
important hardwood tree is also found in these forests although it is rare in the area. Epiphytic
orchids (Ansellia, Bulbophyllum, and Polystachya spp.) are common in the forests. Dry montane
forests occur in the valleys and on gentle slopes at higher altitude (1000 to 1600 m). Commonly
found tree species include Ilex mitis, Macaranga capensis and Myrica pilulifera. Open woodland
comprising tree species such as Brachystegia spiciformis and Uapaca kirkiana occur on well
drained schistic/quartzite soils up to 1600 im Almost treeless grasses occur on schistic and
quartzite soils between 1400 and 1800 n. Common graminaceous species include Andropogon
spp., Digitaria spp., and Eragrostis spp. Fires are frequent in these grasslands. On the shallow
rocky soils Aloe and Euphorbia species are commonly found.
Appendix 1-7



24.   Commonly occurring mammals on the Mozambican side of the Chimanimani Massif
include bushbuck, eland, sable, klip-springer, common duiker, and blue duiker. Reed-buck occurs
on the alluvial floodplains and along the river courses east of the Massif. The area is also rich in
bird life. Over 160 bird species have been recorded for the Chimanimani, some of which are
considered to be endemic to the Afro-montane regions of eastern Africa.
Population
25.   The area of Chimanimani was an important field of political dispute both during the war
and in present times. Renamo strongholds remain in the localities of Dombe and Mavita.
Chimanimani is the only area where the traditional authority structures are relatively intact. These
communities maintain a strong traditional organization that includes a council of elders headed by
a chief(Sabhuku). All Sabhukus have clearly delimited territories which they can distribute
among individual members and returning refugees. The protection of wildlife and flora remains
under the control of the chiefs.
26.   There are few, if any, permanent settlements located on the central core of the
Chimanimani Massif above 1000m. There are several permanent settlements which occur below
the 500m contour, particularly along the three major river systems (Lucite, Mevomozi, and
Mussapa Rivers). Small-scale farms (machambas) are cleared annually through slash and burn of
secondary vegetation, but also occasionally, of intact forest. The average size of each machamba
is 0.25 to 1.0 ha. The main crop is maize, although cassava, groundnuts, sweet potatoes, beans
and assorted horticultural crops are also grown. Traditional bee-keeping is widely practiced. A
variety of indigenous fruits are harvested from the forests and woodlands. Traditional hunting of
small game, duiker, and bush buck using dogs and snares is also common.
27.   The two communities identified in the Manica Province for the TFCA project's
community-based activities are Chief Mahate's Area and Chief Mafussi's Area. Chief Mahate is
already making preliminary decisions and establishing his community's bargaining position on the
use of its natural resources. Chief Mafussi's Area extends from the Lucite River, on the east and
north, to the Puzuzuse River, on the south and to the Zimbabwean border, on the west. Just
across the border from Chief Mafussi's area in Zimbabwe, residents in 1994, formed the Vhimba
Area Development Committee. This Committee is now negotiating with Zimbabwe's Department
of National Parks and Wildlife Management for community-based management of two botanical
reserves. This committee will undertake all management activities and control tourism and its
receipts in the two reserves which is already attracting bird watchers. This offers the opportunity
for future bird watchers to cross the border into the Mozambican side of the Risitu Forest and
explore Chief Mafussi's Area.
Threats to the Biodiversity of the Area
28.   The major threat to this TFCA's biodiversity is from inappropriate commercial
concessions, particularly timber and safari operators. The area is, however, currently frozen to
concessions. Like the other TFCAs, the lack of trained personnel and equipment at the provincial
Appendix 1-8



level is preventing the effective monitoring and management of the natural resource base of the
region.
Management of the Chimanimani TFCA
29.   On the Mozambique side of the Chimanimani National Park, the only protected areas are
three lowland forest reserves comprising 160 km2 leaving the majority of the forested massif
within the country unprotected. The National Directorate for Forestry and Wildlife is considering
acquiring protected status for the area. Control over the land wifl not be taken away from the
Chiefs. Rather, in this process, emphasis is being given to the protection of community land rights
against undesired concessions being granted to outside commercial and private interests. An
intensive de-mining operation may also need to be undertaken before the area is declared
completely safe.
Appendix 1-9



I



APPENDIX 2
MOZAMBIQUE
TRANSFRONTIER CONSERVATION AREAS PILOT AND INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
PROJECT
PREPARATORY ACTIVITIES
1.    Project preparatory work has evolved through three phases. In Phase I, an intemational
consulting firm was hired to prepare a preliminary study focusing on the conditions necessary for
the establishment of protected areas in the frontier regions that could complement existing or
proposed protected areas in adjoining regions of neighboring countries. Phase II, involved a
follow-up study by this same firm which recommended the TFCA concept, and made proposals
for the strengthening of DNFFB, as well as the policy and legislative framework. This work was
followed by the preparation of status quo reports for the Maputo and Chimanimani TFCAs.
Phase III, has comprised a series of workshops, surveys and consultations in the three TFCAs,
and the formulation of emergency management plans. This work is outlined below.
Consultative Workshops
2.    Workshops were held in Maputo, Chimanimani and Greater Gaza with the objectives of:
* informing the provincial and district government, NGOs working in the area,
community representatives and the private sector of the proposed project objectives
and the implications for them.
* obtaining initial feedback from the stakeholders.
* promoting a base for collaboration and networking among the various entities.
* identifying further activities needed to prepare the project document.
Surveys and Local Consultation, Maputo
3.   In Maputo, two major activities were carried out. These are:
*  a ecological survey to determine the ecological limits to the Futi Corridor and to
review the management considerations.
*  a socio-economic survey to determine the numbers and location of the people living in
the Futi Corridor, their use of the area, and attitudes towards elephants. This survey
also furthered the process of community consultation about the Project.
Appendix 2 -1



Surveys and Local Consultation, Chimanimani
4.    Two surveys were also undertaken in the Chimanimani area. These are:
*  an initial survey to determine the Project limits and the communities living within
them, to further community consultations on the Project and the possibility of
acquiring protected area status for Chimaniimani, and to identify sites of cultural
importance.
* a second survey to expand the consultations on the Project, acquiring protected area
status and determining the Project boundary.
Surveys and Local Consultation, Gaza
5.    The activities in the Gaza area included:
* further consultations with the Government, communities, and private sector.
* the preparation of proposals for community pilot projects, Coutada 16, and Banhine.
*  an aerial survey of Greater Gaza and development of a proposal for a new protected
area on the border with Kruger National Park.
*  a ground survey of Banhine and Zinave National Parks to develop proposals for their
rehabilitation.
Prrotected Areas Management
6.    This involved the preparation and interim funding of an emergency plan for the Maputo
Game Reserve and determining the co-funding arrangements for the plan's implementation.
Institutional Strengthening - SPFFBs
7.    This took the form of meetings with SPFFBs of Manica, Inhambane, Gaza and Maputo to
identify logistical strengthening requirements under the project to enable the SPFFBs to support
project implementation effectively (DNFFB 1995c, d, e, Zolho 1995d), and small-scale assistance
to certain SPFFBs, mainly in terms of vehicle maintenance, to enable them to undertake Phase 3
activities.
National Level Consultations
8.    Meetings were held with various government institutions to inform them about the project
and discuss their possible participation.
Background papers
9.    The following background papers were prepared:
review of community rights to land and natural resources (Tanner 1995)
Appendix 2 -2



* review of policy and legislation in relation to the project (IUCN 1995)
* review of the role of the private sector in relation to the project (Boyd 1995b)
* review of veterinary implications for the project (Pereira 1995)
* background paper for Greater Gaza TFCA (DNFFB 1995i)
Project proposal
10.   A project proposal for the Maputo TFCA formulated and presented in draft form to SDC
(DNFFB 1995a)
International Liaison
11.   The following activities were taken to initiate international collaboration:
*  Kruger National Park: liaison with staff of Kruger, joint aerial survey of Greater
Gaza project area, and joint agreement for future collaboration (DNFFB 1995h)
*  Kwa Zulu Department of Nature Conservation: informal contacts and
collaboration with staff of KZDNC including joint survey work in the Futi Corridor
(Ostrosky and Matthews 1995). (The Director of DNFFB will visit Tembe Elephant
Park in the near future for further discussions.)
*  Department of National Parks and Wildlife Management, Zimbabwe: informal
contact with the Director (Soto 1995) followed up with a meeting in Harare in
November 1995 with the Acting Director of DNPWM and the Director of DNFFB.
Phase 3 related contracts
12.   Phase 3 involved a series of contracts under the umbrella of the IUJCN contract. These
included:
* Phase 3 management: IUCN
* Counterpart coordination: Roberto Zolho followed by Bartolomeu Soto
* Greater Gaza preparation studies funding: Novib
*  Chimanimani's workshop: John Hatton
* Gaza workshop, consultation and pilot project formulation: CARE
* Community rights: Chris Tanner
* Policy and legislation: John Hatton
* Futi Corridor community work: Helvetas and Jose Machaque
* Assessment of veterinary implications: Lopes Pereira
* Second Chimanimani's survey: CEF
Appendix 2 -3



I



APPENDIX 3
MOZAMlBIQUE
TRANSFRONTIER CONSERVATION AREAS PILOT AND INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
PROJECT
INSTITUTIONAL ANALYSIS
Introduction
1.    Although the National Directorate for Forestry and Wildlife (DNFFB) is responsible for
managing Mozambique's rich forestry and wildlife resources, the years of war have severely
constrained its operations in accomplishing this mandate. DNFFB, during this time, lost access to
many of the country's protected areas resulting in the deterioration of natural resources and
infrastructure, staff have not received training in over 20 years, communication and logistical
arrangements with the provincial services is minimal, and the Directorate must rely on the
Ministry of Agriculture for its budgetary resources.
2.    This appendix examines the organizational setting for the forestry and wildlife sectors and
provides insights into the design of the Project's institutional and policy development component
to help Mozambique build its capacity to manage its natural resources. With support from NGOs
and the private sector, the aim of the institutional building activities is to devolve project
implementation to the provincial services, while also assisting communities to gain control and
derive economic benefits from the multiple use of natural resources. At the national leveL the
project will help DNFFB's staff through training and study tours to acquire the skills needed to
effectively run the country's protected area system. The Project's institutional and policy
development elements will be closely monitored throughout implementation.
Organizational Setting
The National Directorate for Forestry and Wildlife (DNFFB)
3.    DNFFB is one of seven Directorates within the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA). As the
largest Ministry in Mozambique, MOA has a broad range of functions including agricultural
production, land management, fisheries, forestry and wildlife. With limited staff and resources,
DNFFB's stature within MOA is modest. In 1995, only 2% of the Ministry's Development Plan
budget was allocated to the forestry and wildlife sector.
4.    With the assistance of IUCN, FAO and the World Bank, DNFFB recently completed an
organizational review and produced a sectoral program - The National Program of Forestry and
Wildlife for the period 1995 - 2000. The Program objectives are:
Appendix 3-1



* Strengthening DNFFB to fulfill its central functions of policy formulation, planning
and programming, technical guidance, program administration, and monitoring and
evaluation;
*   Strengthening the execution and implementation capabilities at the Provincial,
District, and local levels for decentralized sector development, particularly in resource
assessment, planning, and monitoring and evaluation;
*  Consolidation of human resource development and applied research, to raise the
professional and technical capabilities required for forestry and wildlife sector
development;
*  Improvement of the protection, management, and utilization of the conservation areas
which will contribute to sustainable national development, biodiversity conservation,
and appropriate land-use;
*  Increased participation of the rural communities as direct agents and beneficiaries in
the integrated management, utilization, and conservation of forest and wildlife
resources; and
*  Promotion of the role, interventions, and regulation of the private sector in
sustainable forestry and wildlife management.
5.    Personnel In 1995, DNFFB had 690 employees at the central, provincial and local levels.
This number includes forestry and wildlife personnel in the teaching and research institutions and
state forest industries. About 500 of these employees are technical personnel, 61 have completed
professional training, 100 are mid-level technicians and the remaining staff have had basic
elementary level training At DNFFB headquarters, staffing is extremely modest with 39 people.
The Center for Forestry Research employs 16 of these staff while the Department of Wildlife has
only 9 employees. For DNFFB to fulfill its function of effectively managing the existing forest
preserves, state-owned plantations, national parks, reserves and other areas it will mean the
recruitment of more technical staff at both headquarters and the provincial levels, and undertaking
training in the key areas of protected area management and planning, community participation,
and commercial and business opportunities.
6.    Budgetary Resources DNFFB's budgetary resources have substantially declined in
nominal terms over the past three years. The total operational and investment funding decreased
from 3,555,749,000 Meticais (US$1.4 million) in 1992 to 2,184,781,000 Meticais (US$0.35
million) in 1994, representing a decline in real terms of about 75 percent. The majority of
DNFFB's operational funds (about 95%) goes to salaries and other personnel costs, leaving only
5% for other operational expenses.
7.    During the Project's policy reform workshops it will be discussed whether public service
agencies should be allowed to retain revenues generated by their activities. User fees, charges,
and proceeds from the sale of products are now all deposited in the national treasury. The lack of
self-financing options is curtailing DNFFB's operations due to the declining budgetary resources
and enforced austerity. This will have important repercussions for DNFFB, particularly as it seeks
to establish an effective presence in the protected areas and re-open key National Parks and
Reserves.
Appendix 3-2



Provincial Forestry and Wildlife Services (SPFFB)
8.     Mozambique's public services are organized vertically, with policy and program
development at the national level. The vast size of Mozambique, and the lack of adequate
communication infrastructure, has provided defacto autonomy for those regional governments
that wanted to assume responsibility for their social and economic development. Generally, all
provincial personnel are under the authority of the provincial hierarchy and are paid from the
provincial budgets, with the exception of provincial service directors. The provisional budgets are
heavily dependent on direct subsidies from the national treasury. There are few means for the
provinces to generate revenue since commercial activities that are taxed by the province are
limited, and personal income is not taxed at either the provincial or district levels. The high
degree of subsidization of provincial budgets, coupled with limited revenue, suggests that the
province acts as a formal representative of the State rather than as an autonomous level of
govemance.
9.    At the provincial level, Mozambique's forestry and wildlife services are organized
through the SPFFB. The SPFFB consists of three divisions - forestry, wildlife, and law
enforcement. Currently, the heads of the SPFFB are foresters trained as mid-level technicians.
The SPFFB Director reports to the head of the Provincial Agriculture Directorate (DPA), and
shares funds from a combined operational account managed by the DPA. Projects managed by
individual services (e.g. forestry or wildlife) may set up separate accounts for project funds in
commercial banks. Service chiefs are then responsible for both funds management and project
implementation. The SPFFB structure is replicated at the District level with forestry and wildlife
staff working under the Director of the District Agriculture Directorate (DDA).
10.   Personnel There are approximately 475 forestry and wildlife staff covering 10 provinces.
Given the number of districts and the distribution of the forest preserves and protected areas,
forestry and wildlife staff are very thin on the ground. In the Province of Gaza, there are only 44
employees for the 11 districts. Six of these employees are mid-level technicians, five are basic-
level technicians, and the rest are auxiliaries and laborers. The Maputo Province has only 26
sector employees for its seven districts comprised of two mid-level technicians, one basic-level
technician and 23 scouts. Many of these staff have not received training since the 1970s due to
the destruction of the training facilities during the war.
11.   Budgetary Resources At the Provincial level budgetary resources are extremely scarce.
In 1995, the DPA for the Gaza Province received operating funds, not including salaries, of 180
million Meticais (less than US$17,000). These funds were to finance all of DPA's activities for
the year including extension, land management, forestry and wildlife, agricultural research and
training. Two million Meticais, or US$185.00 was specifically allocated for Gaza's Provincial
Forestry and Wildlife Service. Given the extremely modest operating budget for the province,
little, if any, trickles down to the district level.
Appendix 3-3



I



APPENDIX 4
MOZAMBIQUE
TRANSFRONTIER CONSERVATION AREAS PILOT AND INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
PROJECT
TRAINING PROGRAM
Introduction
1.    Capacity building, leading to the effective management of Mozambique's forestry and
wildlife resources, will be a central feature of the Project. DNFFB recently completed a staff
training needs assessment for all levels of the Parks and Wildlife Service (central, provincial, and
protected area) and has designed an ambitious professional training program to improve its
institutional capacity.
Training Needs
2.    At the central level in Maputo, staff training is needed in strategic planning and policy
formulation, private sector development, project planming and management, and monitoring and
evaluation. Training will also be provided for DINATUR personnel in wildlife-based tourism.
The Agronomy and Forestry Engineering Faculty at the University Eduardo Mondlane, where
DNFFB's few wildlife professionals have been trained (mainly as biologists or veterinarians), does
not have courses in these areas. DNFFB will establish partnerships with neighboring country
universities such as the University of Pretoria's Eugene Marais Center for Wildlife Management
to provide university and post-graduate training in wildlife management, and the University of
Zimbabwe's Center for Applied Social Sciences for the social science aspects of natural resources
management. The training program will include scholarships for one Bachelor of Science (BSc.)
candidate in Wildlife Management and three Masters Degree (MSc.) candidates in the social
sciences, including MSc. by correspondence.
3.    Training will also be critical at the provincial level where most of the mid-level parks and
wildlife technicians are located. During the civil war, the wildlife school at Gorongosa was
closed. Many staff did not receive training during this period, and those few mid-level technicians
that did were sent to the Mweka Wildife School in Tanzania, despite their limited competence in
English.
4.    While Mweka continues to be an interim institution used for mid-level training of wildlife
service technicians, DNFFB will develop more cooperation with the Southern African Wildlife
College in South Africa. It will offer a one year, wildlife and protected area management course
in Portuguese under its "Affirmative Action" Program. DNFFB also envisages re-opening the
Gorongosa training school to become a major national center for training provincial wildlife and
protected area officials. Introductory training in computer skills, and providing the technology,
will be required to modernize both the central and provincial administration levels.
Appendix 4-1



5.    At the basic education level, a far-reaching program of short-term courses (30 and 60 day
modules) is proposed for park guards, local game wardens (fiscais) and community outreach
workers and agents Training at this level will take place at Gorongosa when it is re-opened and
in Botswana, where SADC has been sponsoring courses for park guards and other wildlife staff
from countries in Southern Africa.
6.    Training in community-based conservation will also be emphasized, and study tours to
gain hands-on experience will be undertaken to programs such as CAMPFIRE in Zimbabwe and
ADMADE in Zambia. NGOs and community representatives will participate in these study tours
to strengthen partnerships and shared learning experiences among these people and staff from the
forestry and wildlife sectors at the central, provincial, park and local levels.
7.    The following tables outline the training program for upper and mid-level professional
staff, courses for park guards and wardens, and courses for support-level staff and community
members.
Table 1:     Training Program for High and Mid-Level Technicians (National, Regional
and International)
Year                 1  2  3  4  5  Total
Short Courses               2  5  4  4  2  17
Seminars                    5  5  5 4  3  22
Bachelor Degrees                I l   l      1
Masters Degrees                 I     1  1 3
Mid-Level Technical Courses  2   1  1  1  1 6
Affirmative Action          2  2  1         5
Study Tours                 4  4  4  4  4  20
Table 2:     Basic Level Training
Trained People during the       1         2        3         4        5      Total
Year
Guards                       24 + 18   24 +18   24 +18   25 + 16   25 + 16   122 + 86
Public Sector Law Enforce-    3 + 4    3 + 4    3 + 4    3 + 4     3 + 4     15 + 20
ment Officer
N.B. The first number in the above table indicates the new guards and public sector law enforcement officers that
DNFFB plans to recruit. The second number indicates those already active in the system who will be integrated
into the training program.
Appendix 4-2



Table 3:    Training Program for Support Staff and Community Members
Trained People during the  1  2  3  4  5  Total
Year
Support Personnel        5  5  5  3  2  20
Community Members        6  6  6  6  6  36
Appendix 4-3



I



APPENDIX 5
MOZAMIQUE
TRANSFRONTIER CONSERVATION AREAS PILOT AND INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
PROJECT
GIS/EIS COMPONENT
Introduction
1.    The TFCAs which the Project will help develop, are relatively large areas. They represent
complex ecosystems, are subject to a whole series of influences and pressures, and will be multiple
use areas. Spatial monitoring will be critical to provide timely and composite information.
Geographic/Environmental Information Systems tools are ideal for this purpose and will be used
to assemble and process spatially based information. The Project will support the establishment of
GIS/EIS capacity for DNFFB as part of the inventory unit. This is an integral part of the
institutional building component of the Project, but will also be essential for the Monitoring and
Evaluation component.
Objectives
2.    The GIS/EIS unit will primarily concentrate on the planning, design, programming and
fiull maintenance (data capturing, validation and report generation) of a spatial database for
Resource inventory, and Forestry and Wildlife management both at national and provincial levels.
The Unit will perform the same functions for a textual database management system for
community area management, law enforcement, surveillance and economic/financial data
management directed towards overall planning, monitoring and evaluation, revenues and tax
collection from the public and private sectors operating in the TFCAs. The Unit will also be
linked to similar units in South Afiica and Zimbabwe to share eco-system wide information and
monitor the TFCAs in the broader biosphere context. At a larger scale (lower level) the unit will
perform area based management tasks for the protected areas defined within the project.
3.    The GIS/EIS unit will provide timely and accurate relevant spatial data, with products
including:
*  Country overview (Standard Land Cover and Adequate zoning/Land Use)
*  Biophysical indicator monitoring
*  Thematic representation of (Resource Inventory, species location records, systematic reports
on depletion of forests, degradation of soils and agricultural land, ecosystem maintenance)
*  Human population and demographic patterns across selected communities
*  Infrastructure and social indicators
Appendix 5-1



*  Limited cadastral spatial and attribute recording
4.    As the capacity to provide these kinds of information develops, the Unit should be able to
market its products (basic topographic mapping and remote sensing products, interpretation and
analytical information) as a full-service provider.
Organization and Structure
5.    The Unit will be formed and equipped at three levels:
*  Central Unit at DNFFB
*  Provincial Unit as Gaza SPFFB
*  Protected Area Units for selected conservation areas (likely to be the Maputo Special
Reserve, Banhine and Zinave National Parks or Chimanimani)
6.    Staffing of the Unit will require a combination of dedicated GIS/EIS personnel and
specialists in other areas drawn from the DNFFB. The total staff numbers will be kept to a
minimum, with heavy emphasis placed on training staff in the use and application of GIS/EIS
tools. The following minimum functions, which may be performed by the same staff, will be
required:
*  Central Unit (DNFFB): Database/System Administrator; GIS/System Analyst; Programmer;
Topographer/Cartographer/Surveyor; Computer Operator
*  Provincial Unit (SPFFB): Topographer/Cartographer/Surveyor;
*  Protected Area Unit (PA): Computer Operator (with general surveying knowledge)
7.    Training and skills development will be a continuous process, through hands-on, formal
and non-formal training. Refresher courses and exchange visits with institutions in the region will
enable staff (both generalist and specialist) to acquire the facility to use GIS tools and techniques
for project monitoring and decision-making.
External Linkages
8.    Most of the necessary initial data for the unit to produce valuable information, is already
available from other Information System Units, Remote Sensing Centres, Surveying Departments,
Statistical boards and other entities both in-country and from the region. The Project will help
foster close links with SADC, whose member countries are already implementing a Region-wide
Network System in the various sectors such as forestry. More formal linkages will be established
with the Environmentek/Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) in South Africa,
and the Famine Early Warning System (FEWS). For example, FEWS has been delivering to the
region periodically the Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI) a very advanced satellite
imagery interpretation system for systematic monitoring of vegetation cover. The Project will
enable image acquisition/interpretation for professional remote sensing applications and products
through CENACARTA. DINAGECA should be the natural source for topographic and geodetic
applications as well as for specific surveying and cadastral tasks.
Appendix 5-2



9.    An electronic mail account will be established as a first priority. As full Internet services
become available in Mozambique, links to access the World Wide Web through either a local or a
regional Internet Services Provider will be added. These two communication tools will enhance
the potential of downloading directly information from the suppliers, considerably reducing the
time spent in data entry and validation. It will also greatly enhance the sharing of information
with outside agencies in South Africa and elsewhere (e.g. World Conservation Monitoring Centre
(WCMC). The Project will also actively cooperate with the Environmental Information Systems
Program for Afiica based at the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIFR - South
Africa).
Technology and Equipment
10.   Suitable technology (high powered computers with significant data storage/backup
capacity, equipped with state of the art peripherals and appropriate professional software) will be
provided. The unit will be established as a full Local (expandable to a wide) Area Network
(LAN/WAN) using Unix operated workstations equipped with 17-19" Color SVGA monitors, an
AO-A3 size digitizing tablet, an A3 Color scanner and an A3 inkjet pen/pencil color plotter and
printer. The standard GIS software to adopt will be the workstation version of ARC/INFO (full
modules) integrated by a complete office software package and standard utilities (antivirus, disk
caches, optimizers, etc.) for DBMS and routine office tasks. High speed Modems and TCP/IP
kits/package will be included for communications.
Appendix 5-3






APPENDIX 6
MOZAMBIQUE
TRANSFRONTIER CONSERVATION AREAS PILOT AND INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
PROJECT
PRIVATE SECTOR STRATEGY
Introduction
1.    One central objective of the Project is to help establish an enabling environment in which
the private sector can play an enhanced role within the TFCAs and in Mozambique generally.
Private sector investment will be crucial to achieve the objectives set out for the Project. As
demonstrated elsewhere in the region (South Africa, Zimbabwe) the private sector plays an
indispensable role in sustainable conservation. Private sector activities within the wildlife and
conservation sector in Mozambique are limited to: the tourism development and marketing of
Bazaruto National Park; a hotel linked to the Pomene Reserve leased to a private sector operator
through a tender process, and; the management of thirteen hunting coutadas (areas) and five game
farms in the "free zones". Of the coutadas, management activities are only fully underway in five.
2.    All other core conservation areas in Mozambique need substantial rehabilitation work
before significant tourism activities can recommence. Emergency plans for all core conservation
areas under the Project have been drawn up and implementation has already started. One
important output of these emergency plans will be long-term management plans, which include
tourism development. Based on these plans, tenders will be held for tourism development
activities by the private sector. Elaboration of these plans is a priority. Substantial interest has
been expressed for concessions within the TFCAs. No concessions will be granted until these
areas have been zoned. The Project will also promote planning and zoning of these areas.
3.    The Project itself will be a testing ground for collaboration between the private sector,
communities, NGOs and the Government at all levels and the modalities of collaboration will
evolve over time. This Appendix sets out the current policy of the GoM and outlines elements of
a strategy and Action Plan. Detailed development and implementation of the Action Plan will be
monitored as part of M&E and Project supervision.
Role of Private Sector
4.    The Forest and Wildlife Policy and Strategy states:
"The prospect of lasting peace in association with a new private sector investment code and tax
incentives establish the basic conditions and incentives for the participation of the private sector
in development activities. In line with these policies, the forestry and wildlife administration
will: encourage the private sector, which includes both formal and informal elements, to
Appendix 6-1



contribute to the national economy and rural development through participation and investment
in the conservation and management offorest and wildlife resources; seek the involvement of the
private sector in all categories of land, including State Protected Areas; encourage potential
concessionaires to enter into direct negotiations with recognized communities, and require that
tenders for concession allocations incorporate community agreements guaranteeing existing
customary rights; andfoster a transparent, competitive process for private sector investors.
5.    This statement of general principles will need to be reinforced by the adoption of a code of
practice and policy statement by the Govemment. These statements will be developed and
discussed with the private sector prior to being adopted. In the wildlife sector, private sector
involvement will be promoted in tourism development and marketing (particularly linking coastal
and wildlife-based tourism), and in wildlife management outside the core conservation areas, (e.g.,
in coutadas or hunting reserves and game farms in the "free areas" - communally held zones).
Other specialized activities may also be contracted to the private sector, particularly the
management of conservation areas, ecological monitoring, and in some cases law enforcement.
Role of Public Sector
6.    In Mozambique, the likelihood of substantial inflows of resources for conservation and
widlife activities is low. The role of the public sector is likely to be limited for the foreseeable
future, and the prospect of attaining a level of wildlife services found in East Africa or in
Mozambique's neighbors is very slim The public sector should therefore focus on its core role of
creating and maintaining an enabling environment within which the private sector, communities
and NGOs can fulfill Mozambique's conservation objectives. Key areas will be: (i) formulation
of policy and legislation; (ii) law enforcement, conflict management and mediation; (iii)
monitoring and regulating private sector activities; (iv) promotion of competition among tourism
operators; (v) training and capacity building;(vi) promoting local community participation and
protecting the interests of communities; (vii) maintaining a direct role in managing core
conservation areas, such as National Parks and Game Reserves, but with private sector
involvement where appropriate, and; (viii) donor coordination. Central and Provincial
Governments will share these responsibilities.
Action Plan to Enhance Private Sector Role
7.    The key elements of the action plan will be: (i policy and legislative review; (ii) review
of the tendering andproject approval mechanisms and policy on length of concessions; (iii) tax
regime, fees and licenses; (iv) regulation and monitoring procedures; (v) law enforcement, and;
(vi) community relations policy.
Policy and Legislative Reform
8.    A Forest and Wildlfe Policy and Strategy was approved by the Consultative Council of
the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries in May, 1996. This includes an overall policy statement,
strategies for institutional development, biodiversity conservation, community participation in
forestry and wildlife and private sector involvement (including the extent of private sector
Appendix 6-2



management acceptable within core conservation areas), and considers the roles of various
stakeholders. Other key issues on which decisions are urgently needed include: the proportion of
revenues to be retained by communities and each level of government, and; the future status of
Coutada 16. A review of forestry and wildlife legislation, supported by FAO, began in October
1995, and an interim report was issued in March, 1996. Revised legislation is being prepared and
a draft is expected by the end of 1996.
9.    At present there is no systematic policy review mechanism in place. The TFCA project
will promote systematic policy review, based on working groups of key stakeholders and an
annual policy development and review workshop for all stakeholders. The need for an annual
review reflects the rapid pace of change and the pilot nature of the project. Professional hunters
and private sector operators will be encouraged to form associations to facilitate cooperation,
self-regulation and policy negotiations.
Tendering and Project Approval Mechanisms
10.   One critical element in attracting serious and responsible private sector investors is the
need to ensure an open and transparent process, with little room for unofficial negotiations. This
implies public tendering where applicable and well documented approval processes. Tendering
has to date been limited to the hunting concessions (coutadas). Proposals were submitted, and
selection was based on a number of criteria including: wildlife management experience; technical
capacity; financial capacity; financial proposal; investment, and; labor force. Game farm proposals
and other wildlife-related activities in the "free zones" for which investment incentives are sought
and submitted to the Investment Promotion Center (CPI), which coordinates the approval
process. CPI evaluates the proposal in terms of the investment legislation. Environmental impact
assessment is required by MICOA, and the proposal is reviewed by DNFFB, DINAGECA,
MICOA and other relevant Government entities. Project approval, by the Director of CPI and the
Minister of Planning and Finance, is based on the recommendations of the technical departments.
A separate process through DINAGECA is required for approval of the land concession.
11.   A detailed document to regulate tendering and project approval mechanisms in coutadas
has been prepared. Another document governing activities with protected areas is currently being
drawn up. This aspect will be monitored during project implementation. The document will
focus on two types of tourism development activity: (i) in core conservation areas and coutadas,
and; (ii) in '"ree areas" (communally-owned). The following steps are proposed:
*  Tenders will be advertised in the national press and in the regional tourism or safari hunting
press as appropriate . Regional tourism and professional hunting associations will be
informed. Interested investors will then request a briefing document to be generated from the
tourism development component of the long-term management plans of a given area
*  The briefing document will contain information about the tender process, including: the
evaluation criteria which will be standardized for all tenders of the same type; a description of
the type of investment opportunity offered, (e.g., the coutada or type of tourism facility);
broad guidelines on sensitive issues (e.g., maximum number of beds, materials and methods
Appendix 6-3



of waste disposal, environmental standards). Evaluation criteria will include environmental
impacts.
*  Interested investors should be invited to submit general proposals for pre-qualification.
These should include information on the identity of the investor, and a general description of
the project, and proof of financial capacity. These should be evaluated within a few days.
* Pre-qualified bidders will be invited to submit a final proposal, detailing: technical and
financial capacity; projected accounts; proposed labor force; proposed relations with
communities, and; detailed description of construction and facilities.
*  Prequalification and final proposals will be opened in public to ensure transparency. A
summary of the Selection Board's findings will be made available to the public.
Environmental impact assessments will be undertaken after final selection.
*  The Selection Board will include representatives of DNFFB, DINATUR and MICOA and
their provincial services, National Park or Reserve staff and representatives of local
communities. Community representation is particularly significant in the case of coutadas, as
many communities live inside the area being offered, and have traditional use rights over
some of the land.
*  Prehminary Guidelines for Community Natural Resource Management (Appendix 7)
outline how private sector operators will work with communities, in the "free areas" of the
TFCAs. Communities will form local management councils with responsibility for natural
resource management, and will be enabled to offer use of their natural resources through a
simplified tender process. Standard project approval will be modified to reflect the needs of
communities to involve them in the decision-making process, and at the final consultative
meeting, facilitated by the community development officer. Zoning of TFCAs will be
undertaken as soon as possible, in order to enable private sector proposals to go ahead.
*  A review is being undertaken to establsh the most appropriate length of concession time. In
the wildlife management sector, where existing infrastructure and wildlife stocks are low,
pay-back periods of 10 years and longer are accepted by the operators, but concession
agreements must be for similar periods and be transferable to encourage investment and good
management practices. Land ownership is vested in the state, but rights to land can be
transferred. Subject to the provisions of the Land Law and the final approval of DNFFB,
concession agreements will be filly transferable.
Tax Regime, Fees, Licenses and Revenue Retention
12.   The current system of taxation, fees, licenses and revenue retention will be reviewed
during the first year of the project. The purpose of the review will be to rationalize the fees and
taxes paid by concession holders, and to determine how revenue retention for conservation
purposes can best be achieved. The private sector operators have indicated that they would be
willing to pay higher fees if this would directly contribute to public sector law enforcement
activities.
Appendix 6-4



13.   Currently, private investors pay a range of taxes to the Ministry of Planning and Finance,
including: industrial contribution tax, import duties, consumption tax, circulation tax and
supplementary tax. Tax incentives are negotiated with the CPI. Investors who hold wildlife
management concessions pay fixed annual concession fees, negotiated during the tender process.
Hunting operators pay hunting license and trophy fees. Investors in the tourism sector, including
safari hunting, pay a 10% tax on net profits to the National Directorate of Tourism (DINATUR),
which retain them. At present none of the core conservation areas is open to the public except
Bazaruto National Park and the system of entrance fees will be reviewed and updated.
14.   Revenues from concession fees, hunting licenses, trophy fees, export fees and entrance
fees are paid to DNFFB, but then passed to central treasury. (One exception, on a pilot basis, is a
hunting concession in Tete Province, where revenues are divided between the local community,
and provincial and national level governments). DNFFB has no financial autonomy, while the
central government budget barely covers salaries and other recurrent costs. Sustainability of the
wildlife sector requires that a minimum public function, such as regulation and law enforcement,
be maintained. To accomplish this, it is essential that a proportion of revenues generated by the
wildlife sector are retained. A new system will be developed along the following lines:
*   standard taxes on private investment continue to be paid directly to the Ministry of Planning
and Finance;
-   100 percent of hunting licenses and trophy export fees: retained by DNFFB and SPFFBs;
*  at least 50 percent of the existing tourism tax: retained by DNFFB and SPFFBs;
*   50 percent of concession fees, trophy fees and entrance fees retained by DNFFB/SPFFBs and
50 percent allocated to local communities;
* in the case of wildlife-related tourism activities, tourism operators pay a levy per bed-night to
local communities.
Regulation and Monitoring
15.   Regulation of private sector activities are constrained by inadequate resources for effective
monitoring. The project will reinforce monitoring capabilities in each of the TFCAs. Hunting
quotas are proposed for coutadas by SPFFB, based on wildlife inventories undertaken by
concessionaires accompanied by DNFFB/SPFFB staff, analyzed by DNFFB, and approved by the
Minister. Monitoring activities are based on annual reports submitted to the Provincial
Directorates for Agriculture and Fisheries (DPAP) and DNFFB, at the end of each hunting
season. The reports cover the following: infrastructure and construction; labor force; safaris,
hunters and observers; animals killed; trophies; law enforcement; wildlife inventory; demographic
report; links and cooperation with local authorities; links with provincial agricultural structures;
official visits to the tourist camp. The annual reports also cover perspectives for the non-hunting
season and the following year, and suggestions by the concessionaire. Financial information is
submitted to the Ministry of Planning and Finance.
16.   On-the-ground verification by SPFFB staff is very limited due to a lack of resources.
Legislation stipulates that a public sector law enforcement officer, fiscal, should be permanently
Appendix 6-5



based in each coutada, and accompany all commercial hunts to provide on-the-ground training
and facilitate monitoring of poaching activities within the coutadas. However, the number of
fiscais and resources available to SPFFB are very low,' so that these requirements are not always
implemented. This system is inherently open to abuse as the fiscal is dependent on the operator
for food and transport. Each coutada or game farm is visited by senior SPFFB staff at least once
in the hunting season.
17.   The project will test new methods of monitoring and regulation. Some concessionaires
have proposed the creation of a fund to finance independent baseline studies as the basis for quota
allocations, annual monitoring of wildlife population dynamics and effective wildlife management.
Concessionaires will be required to contribute to this fund in proportion to the size of their
concessions. All annual reports and financial reports should be passed to DNFFB for analysis.
Fines will be imposed for late submission of reports. DNFFB will produce an annual report on
private sector activities, including recommendations for the following hunting season. This report
will be discussed by private sector operators and other relevant stakeholders, and will form part
of the annual policy review process. The Project will provide resources to enable field visits to
private sector activities. Private sector operators should be able to support the training and
equipping of furtherfiscais. The Project, will provide senior SPFFB staff with the means to visit
TFCA coutadas and game farms at least once in the hunting season. These visits will include
discussions with staff and local residents, and unannounced spot checks will be carried out by
pairs offiscais. As far as possible, differentfiscais should be detailed for each spot-check. A
similar system should be established for other types of private sector concessions.
Law Enforcement
18.   Law enforcement activities are also limited by the low capacity of the provincial wildlife
services. Anti-poaching activities are implemented byfiscais. In the coutadas granted to private
sector concessionaires, these are supported by game guards employed by the concessionaires. In
most cases private sector game guards have limited rights to charge and arrest offenders. The
lack offiscais and accredited game guards is constraining private sector attempts to secure their
concessions against non-subsistence poaching.
19.   Government intends to test new methods of involving the private sector in law
enforcement, through training fiscais and game guards. The private sector would also equip the
guards with uniforms, equipment (e.g., communications), and transport. Government would then
be responsible for the salaries offiscais, while concessionaires would continue to pay the salaries
of game guards. Game guards who have passed the course would be accredited with law
enforcement powers. One option for managing this process would be to establish a law
enforcement fund with private sector contributions and managed by a board consisting of private
and public sector stakeholders.
'A report published for DNFFB in 1993, Forma,ico de Pessoal para os Servicos de Florestas e
Fauna Bravia, found only 282 fiscais for the whole country, an average of 1 fiscal per 2836 km2.
Appendix 6-6



Community Relations
20.   The Project will help test new approaches to private sector/community collaboration
(Preliminary Guidelines for Community Natural Resource Management - Appendix 7). Within
the framework of the new Land Policy, community rights to land will be extended beyond
cultivated areas. Provisional demarcation of community land will be undertaken by the provincial
geographical and land registration services (SPGC), and mechanisms will be developed to
facilitate communities to gain legal title to land rights. The Land Policy alters the relationship
between concessionaires and communities. Communities may gain legally recognized rights to
land within coutadas, as well as land in the "free areas" where private sector concessions are
proposed. Pilot projects within TFCAs will explore mechanisms for involving communities in the
management of coutadas and concessions, through contracts or equity participation in the form of
land rights. The new Land Policy, reaffirms that private concessionaires who forcibly remove
local inhabitants from coutadas or concessions will be in contravention of the law.
Appendix 6-7






APPENDIX 7
MOZAM:BIQUE
TRANSFRONTIER CONSERVATION AREAS PILOT AND INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
PROJECT
PRELIMINARY GUIDELINES AND ACTION PLAN FOR COMMUNITY NATURAL RESOURCES
MANAGEMENT
Introduction
1.    This Appendix provides preliminary guidelines and an action plan for community
participation and empowerment in natural resource management which form the basis for the
planning and implementation of the community-based development and conservation pilot
activities in Mozambique. These guidelines are based on a November, 1995, DNFFB-sponsored
workshop held in Tchumo Tchato (Tete Province) to discuss the experience of two pilot projects
for community management of natural resources in Mozambique together with several other
similar regional experiences, and recent work developed by DNFFB with IUCN support.
2.    A central objective of the Project is to help establish an enabling environment in which
communities can play an enhanced role in the management of their natural resources within the
T'FCAs. DNFFB is now formalizing the establishment of a unit for community based natural
resource management. The TFCA Project is viewed as a testing ground for collaboration among
local communities, the private sector, NGOs, and the Government at all levels. Through piloting,
the concepts incorporated in these guidelines and the experience generated by the project will be
expanded to other areas and form the basis for establishing a national policy framework for
community participation in conservation and protected area management.
Role of Communities
3.    As demonstrated elsewhere in Africa and the world, the involvement and empowerment of
communities is the only sustainable strategy for biodiversity conservation and natural resource
management. The poorest and most vulnerable sectors of the population are often the most
dependent on renewable natural resources for income generation and risk aversion. Rural
communities often bear direct and indirect costs of living in or near protected areas, in terms of
marauding animals and loss of access to resources. To become partners in biodiversity
conservation, local communities must derive sufficient benefits from it to compensate for these
costs.
4.    An important corollary to the critical role of local communities is also that publc or
private sector law enforcement (often seen as the alternative to community participation) is costly
and usually unsustainable. It imphes high costs for conventional protective strategies, and high
costs for communities in terms of loss of access to resources. Success and sustainability of
Appendix 7-1



conservation activities will thus depend upon direct and visible flows of benefits to the local
communities, and maximizing the proportion of benefits captured at local community levels.
5.    Mozambique is committed to the concept of involving communities in natural resource
management. The Forest and Wildlife Policy and Strategy states:
"The rural population has always been the main user of natural resources, and these
rights are enshrined in the constitution of Mozambique. The current policy of open access to
these resources outside government reserves has also allowed their exploitation under license for
commercialpurposes. This will increase as more concessions within customary areas are sought
by private enterprises. Since there has been no overall management of those natural resources,
equitable access to benefits and long run sustainability have not yet been ensured Whilst
Government policy now addresses these issues, enabling legislation is incomplete, and
contingent upon high level political decisions regarding the legal basis of customary rights,
municipal election law and district financial law. As far as relevant laws permit, DNFFB is
committed to implement schemes which will: promote and enable the development of community
resource management regimes involving recognized communities, and which reflect the role of
women; introduce mechanisms which progressively empower communities by affirming existing
customary rights and ensuring exclusive access to natural resources in customary areas,
permitting the sustainable commercialization of these resources for community benefit and
provide for concession arrangements with government; involve the rural communities in the
management of State Protected Areas through such mechanisms as Biosphere Reserves. On the
basis of its accumulated experience in these schemes, DNFFB will develop proposals for further
enabling legislation. "
6.    Experience is being gained in conservation activities in Mozambique. The Bazaruto
Marine National Park has been supported for a number of years by the World Wildlife Fund
(WWF) and the Endangered Wildlife Trust (EWT). The Ford Foundation and IDRC support
community-based programs in Tete Province. The EWT has also supported conservation efforts
in the Maputo Game Reserve. These activities, and others from neighboring countries, provide
useful lessons -- the most important being that there are no rapid solutions or simple blueprints
which can be applied to all circumstances.
Objectives
7.    The objectives of community involvement in natural resource management systems can be
summarized as follows:
*     to provide local communities with the institutional capacity to plan and implement
activities designed to improve management of natural resources;
*     to improve their quality of life through information, training, and technical and financial
support;
*     to empower local people by providing them with greater authority and legal power to
manage natural resources;
*     to reduce conflicts between communities and wildlife (e.g., animal hazards, crop damage,
livestock loss, competition for water);
Appendix 7-2



*     to reduce management costs for the State or private sector;
*     to reduce dependence of local communities on the State.
The Approach
8.    Rather than setting out a blueprint for mobilizing a large number of communities for
purposes of conservation and protected area management, the approach is based on a set of pilot
activities which will be essentially experimental in nature. These activities will provide the
provincial forestry and wildlife services (along with other entities such as NGOs, the scientific
community, and collaborating government agencies) with critical learning experiences in how to
design, implement and monitor projects carried out in partnership with local communities. The
critical elements of this approach are described below.
Joint Management Committees
9.    Community participation is based on the establishment of "learning partnership
structures" comprised primarily (though not exclusively) of representatives of the local
communities. These partnership structures wiUl function as Joint Management Committees
(JMCs). JMCs will emphasize understanding and working with local communities, involving
them in project planning and implementation and, to the extent possible, relying on local
institutions and traditional structures to implement components which involve public participation.
Their primary role will be designing and implementing a series of pilot community-based
conservation and development activities. JMCs wiUl be also responsible for receiving, managing
and distributing revenues generated through wildlife management and for allocating quotas
between local residents and professional hunters.
10.   The JMCs will be comprised of members who actually represent the key stakeholders in
the communities - traditional community leaders, district authorities, provincial government
representatives, NGOs. The final membership will be decided by the communities themselves
based upon their needs and interests. JMC members must possess adequate knowledge of local
community structures, cultural values, economic needs, and environmental perceptions. The
committee members must strengthen their capacity to work with other members for the wider
goals of regional conservation and development.
Facilitator institutions
11.  Institutions such as NGOs wil be contracted to provide technical assistance and training
to the JMCs. Institutions which may serve in such a facilitator role include: IUCN, CARE,
Helvetas, the Eduardo Mondlane University, the Center for Forestry Research, and the Cultural
Patrimony Archives. Institutions in neighboring countries, such as the Zimbabwe Trust or the
Center for Applied Social Sciences (CASS) at the University of Zimbabwe, may also assist in
research and local capacity building. Such institutions will help in conducting of social and
environmental assessments, consensus building among committee members, consultations with
local communities, and the design of community-based development and conservation activities.
Appendix 7-3



Security of tenure
12.   Security over use of land and other natural resources by local communities is essential to
provide incentives for sustainable management, and to facilitate enforceable contracts between
local people, the Government, and the private sector. The following actions related to the control
of land and natural resources are needed to enable community-based natural resource
management:
*     acceleration of the ongoing legislative review to ensure clear and secure management
rights for local communities over natural resources;
*     disseminate and discuss with communities information about the new Land Policy and
legislation, and their implications;
acceleration of the demarcation of community land, according to the principles of the new
Land Policy and proposed Land Law.
Community/private sector contracting
13.    The current lack of an efficient, equitable and transparent community/private sector
contractual process creates unrealistic expectations, confusion and suspicion. To ensure the
commitment of local communities to wildlife management, mechanisms are needed for returning
financial benefits to those communities who bear the costs. The following measures are proposed
to facilitate negotiation and equitable revenue-sharing between communities and the private sector
for commercial natural resource-based activities (see also Appendix 6 Private Sector Strategy):
*     ensure that legislative review makes provision for adequate financial returns to local
communities;
*     support local capacity building of JMCs and local communities to evaluate private sector
bids for conservation and tourism activities and negotiate the sharing of revenues gained
from these activities with district and national government agencies and private
companies;
3     ensure that community representatives and community development officers have
membership in conservation area administrative boards.
Training and technical support
14.   GoM recognizes that sustainable use of natural resources will require that local people
have skills in a wide variety of areas including: community relations, organization and leadership,
business and financial management, economic analysis, public administration, proposal writing,
land-use planning, wildlife conservation and management, poaching control, hunting, handling and
processing and marketing of wildlife related products and services. Training in these fields is
necessary to promote capacity building and self-sufficiency at the community level to lay the
groundwork for transferring authority for implementation of conservation activities to local
organizations and communities.
15.   Training and financial assistance will be needed to help local entrepreneurs develop small-
scale enterprises to take advantage of new economic opportunities. Examples include organizing
Appendix 7-4



tourism or hunting safaris, providing accommodation, preparing hunting trophies, and production
of curios and souvenirs. Communication will be facilitated between local communities and public
sector agencies and the private sector for technical assistance and investment opportunities. The
communities will contribute to the activities and investments undertaken through labor and
eventually through some financing.
Decentralization
16.   Empowerment of local people entails the transfer of central government authority to
communities so that they have the legal status and internal decision-making power to manage
natural resources and receive the benefits of improved conservation activities. Current
government efforts to decentralize through the new Law of the Municipalities and empower local
communities, will be strengthened with the following actions:
focusing financial resources, institutional strengthening and capacity building on lower
levels of government, community institutions, and local NGOs;
*     defining the role of each level of decision-making;
Community Conservation and Development Fund
17.   Financial assistance is needed to assist local communities until tourism and other revenues
are captured. A small community conservation and development fund will be established to
support community generated projects and programs.
18.  Initially pilot-scale community development funds will be established. These funds will be
financed by grants from donors, as well as a percentage of revenues from tourism, safari hunting
and other concessions. The funds will be managed by the JMCs, based on guidelines that will be
produced by the DNFFB. Small grants of US$1-5,000 will be made to local communities for
social infrastructure (rustic school buildings, health posts, water systems, etc.) or small-scale
conservation and rural development activities (fencing, game farming, beekeeping, eco-tourism,
traditional medicine gardens and pharmacies).
Designing a National Policy Framework
19.   Simultaneous with the formation of JMCs and the implementation of the above strategy,
the DNFFB will establish an institutional process for formulating a national policy framework for
community participation in conservation and protected area management. At the national level,
policies and procedures will be formulated in the following key areas: (i) zoning and demarcation
of community lands and gazetting of proposed new conservation areas; (ii) granting of tourist
and other concessions within TFCAs; (iii) sharing of revenues gained from tourism and
conservation activities among local communities, district and national government agencies, and
private companies; and (iv) protecting cultural properties such as sacred forests, medicinal plants
and burial sites.
20.   The DNFFB will organize a series of national policy workshops to bring together
representatives of the JMCs, national policy makers, national and intemational NGOs, and other
Appendix 7-5



experts to discuss these issues. The findings and recommendations of these workshops will serve
as the basis for legislative and policy reforns.
Implementation Strategy and Actions
21.   The approach outlined above is designed to transfer authority and responsibility for
project planning and execution to local communities. The following actions are central to
implementing this approach. The time required to complete each action will be determined by
site-specific conditions:
*     detailed socio-economic assessments and geographic surveys of focus communities;
provisional demarcation of community lands;
*     participatory district-level natural resource and socio-economic planning process;
*     dissemination and discussion with communities of new land polcy and its implications,
including land use options;
*     creation of JMCs in focus communities;
development of training and study tour programs;
establishment of conservation and development funds - managed by JMCs; and,
*     negotiation with private sector for commercial natural resource-based activities.
SocialAssessments
22.   The first step in the community planning process wil be to carry out social assessments of
the communities and groups which use or are affected by wildlife and other natural resources.
NGO facilitators in coUlaboration with JMCs wil conduct participatory assessments to build
consensus and resolve outstanding conflicts between biodiversity preservation and local
household and community needs.
23.   A major purpose wil be to ensure that the land-use and protected area management plans
are adapted to the socio-cultural and ecological realities of each region and that ownership rests
with the majority of stakeholders. The initial concern wil be to define the pilot communities,
including those which are losing crops or livestock to wildlife depredation or where poltically
explosive situations exist. In each community, measures will be taken to minimize the problems
that wildlife protection are posing to the agricultural/livestock regimes of the local people.
24.   New processes and mechanisms for conflict resolution wil be introduced. A simple
monitoring system for crop damage wiU be established as a priority and support for increased
employment of local community members as game guards, guides, camp workers, cooks, manual
laborers, construction workers, carpenters, mechanics, etc. will be made available.
Community Perceptions andAuthority
25.   In planning this process, NGO facilitators and DNFFB personnel wil develop an
understanding of the local community histories and pohtical dynamics, particularly in relation to
the authority structures and patterns of resource use which form the basis for both conflicts and
opportunities in sustainable resource management. Communities will only participate and
Appendix 7-6



cooperate in an activity if it is consistent with their perceptions and aspirations. Critical
perceptions include: wildlife and other natural resources (positive economic or cultural values
versus threats to self or property); history of conflicts with government authorities or outsiders in
relation to natural resources or protected areas; and their goals for maintaining or improving their
standard of living.
Community-Based Conservation and Development Initiatives
26.   Community-based conservation initiatives will address the priority economic and social
problems of local communities. This means integrating development of services and infrastructure
and seeking new sources of income for communities. On the social side, it means emphasizing
basic health and education and seeking a balance between productive and welfare components.
The particular concerns of women, youth, returning refugees and other significant resource users
will be considered in the over-all analysis of resource users interests and needs.
27.   The overall prospects for generation of revenues or other benefits from improved natural
resource management in any given area are highly variable, depending on specific ecological and
economic factors. There is a need for trained people to evaluate and monitor biodiversity,
develop management plans and monitoring systems, and for community mobilization and
organization.
Appendix 7-7






APPENDIX 8
MOZAMBIQUE
TRANSFRONTIER CONSERVATION AREAS PILOT AND INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL CONSIDERATIONS
Environmental Analysis
1.    The Project is designed to help Mozambique protect and conserve ecologically sensitive
sites. With heavy emphasis on institutional development, community capacity building through
participatory assessments, and pilot activities, the Project is expected to promote social and
environmental sustainability. Key environmental considerations include the following:
Positive environmental impacts
2.    The project will have a number of positive direct and indirect environmental impacts.
Direct impacts will be in improving the management and protection of conservation areas
(whether community related or formally protected areas such as the Maputo Game Reserve,
Banhine and Zinave National Parks, Coutada 16, and the Futi Corridor). Indirect impacts include
the general increase in awareness about conservation and protection of ecologically sensitive
zones. Direct impacts include:
3     identification, zoning and demarcation of land, the rehabilitation of protected areas, the
construction, improvement, and maintenance of infrastructure, including roads, tracks,
field housing, guard posts, and water supply points
3     immediate rehabilitation of the Maputo Game Reserve, and Zinave and Banhine National
Parks, and the preparation of long-term management plans
*     renovation of the Maputo Reserve park center as a community training facility and a study
on the tourism potential of the area to identify potential economic opportunities for local
communities based upon wildlife utilization and improved natural resource management
*     aerial surveys, ecological monitoring, a demographic study and the preparation of a land-
use plan for the Gaza TFCA which may eventually lead to the creation of an international
conservation area contiguous to South Africa, connecting Kruger National Park and
Coutada 16.
*     In Chimanimani ecological and social monitoring and preparation of a resource
management plan developed in coordination and under the control of traditional
leadership.
*     the Futi Corridor provides a link for biodiversity conservation and the exchange of genetic
material between conservation areas in South Africa and Mozambique. The Project will
help define the boundaries of the proposed corridor based on socioeconomic, and
ecological studies and extensive participatory rural appraisal with the intent of protecting
Appendix 8-1



traditional land rights according to the newN Land Policy and florthconm.g I-and. Law. The
Project includes the construction of section and )patrol bases, road and track rehabilitation
and construction, and water supply points. Wildlife conitrol, though fencirig or other
methods would be subject to environmental and social assessment
3.    Indirect impacts result from the improved institutional capacity of the puibiic sector
agencies (DNFFB, SPFFBs), capacity building in commumities and i proved interaction with the
private sector. Increasing awareness about the importance of conservation wZill also contribute to
environmental sustainability. Project preparation has already contributed to avvareness raising,
particularly in the Maputo area, and has provided additional justification for feezing commercial
concessions in sensitive areas pending firther studies.
Negative Environmental Impacts and Mitigatory Actions
4.    Without proper attention some activities promoted by ihe Project n4hi. ave negative
environmental impacts. However, the project has been designed to avoid adverse ervironmental
impacts through a series of mitigation measures integrated dithin the different comnponents.
5.    The proposed management plans to be developed foi- each project area will include an
impact assessment to ensure the protection of the area's biodiversity and rgatwual iiabitat. The
management plans will clearly distinguish between national parks and otheT formally protected
areas, whose purpose will be to preserve intact, ecosystems, and game reserves and buffer zones,
in which the sustainable exploitation of biological resources will be a legitimate objective. For the
actual management of biological resources, particularly those targeted for conswnptive use, the
project will provide financing to develop adequate scientific knowledge of the population
dynamics of the key species in order to determine sustainable offlake levels and desirable
population structures. Where necessary due to potential problems with Fc.,t and Mouth and
other animal diseases, the project will support the const-raction of veterinary cordi :ufences and
operation of quarantine camps.
6.    Environmental tourism generally is considered to hbave a positive ra;pact by encouraging
the maintenance of habitat in a fairly natural state (although not completely niatural, as tourists'
comfort and convenience is an important consideration). Poorly managed tourism can have
serious negative impacts. High populations of wildlife may be encouraged to enhance the
attraction, but this can result in environmental damage as the carrying capacit- is exceeded.
Large numbers of tourist vehicles can damage vegetationl and disrupt animal feeding and behavior.
In the drier areas, water may be channeled to tourist facilities at the expense of habitats, the
wildlife and local communities. Poorly planned infrastructure can also generate problems, such as
erosion caused by roads, or water contamination fronm seswage alnd garbage disiposal
7.    Although not directly financed by the Project, eco-tounsm activities wvill be assessed to
determine the carrying capacity of project areas and the acceptability to local com'munities. Siting
and sizing of tourist facilities and roads will be planned to ensurve thiat tourist ilnumibers are
consistent with the goal of biodiversity protection. Siting tourist acoomiunodations on private or
communal lands immediately outside protected areas will be promoted to increase economic
benefits to local communities. All tourism facilities will adopt best practices br the region in
Appendix 8-2.



terms of sewage and garbage disposaL water supplies, renewable energy, use of local building
materials and respect of traditional styles. Environmental assessments will be required for any
community development activity planned in the areas surrounding the protected areas.
8.    Environmental impacts of wildlife utilization The Project will contribute to the
development of policies on non-consumptive and consumptive wildlife utilization. Economic
utilization of wildlife can take many forms, and the Project will help Mozambique establsh a
framework for determining the most economically and environmentally sustainable forms of use.
These questions can only be addressed during Project implementation. Environmental impacts of
the various types of utilization will be evaluated in comparison to those alternative land uses.
9.    Safari hunting probably has the least environmental impact of all types of economic
utilization of wildlife. Hunters generally require and cause less modification of the habitat than do
tourists and they are content with much lower animal population densities. They kill and remove
only a small proportion of animals from the population. The product sold is really the experience
of tracking and killing the animal, the services that go with this, and the prestige of taking home
the trophy. This high value means that a trophy-quality animal is worth a great deal more if sold
to a sport hunter than if harvested for its meat and hide. Marketing of safari hunting depends on
the quality of trophies (mostly mature males) offered, and this in turn requires that the population
is not over-harvested. Offlake rates from safari hunting are often so low that populations must be
controlled by cropping non-trophy animals.
10.   Increasing income from a hunting enterprise can be achieved by increasing the number of
hunters or tourists, the fees, or the quality of services. Increased income results not from
extracting environmental capital at a higher rate, but from selling the commodities in a higher
quality form, and from selling non-environmental inputs such as provision of services. The main
negative ecological impact is on species with social systems in which removal of certain
individuals can be disruptive, such as "lone bulls" which are in fact territorial males, or threatening
the survival of family troops if the mature adults are killed (such as among elephants).
11.   Subsistence hunting and live animals trade The major hazard in using wildlife for meat
and durable products is obvious: non-selective harvesting and over-exploitation of the population
are difficult to control. In addition, subsistence hunters may set brush fires to drive the game or
make it easier to control. On the positive side is the proposal that promoting the use of meat from
wildlife may in some cases provide at least a partial alternative to livestock, whose grazing leads
to deterioration of marginal areas.
12.   The live animals trade represents a wide range of environmental impacts. If well
controlled, it can support an effective wildlife management system by providing a relatively high-
value market for excess animals (e.g. zoos, game ranches, etc.). Except on private lands, it is
difficult to control and the demand for some species (e.g. birds, reptiles, etc.) has greatly
contributed to overexploitation, sometimes leading to the brink of extinction. In addition, free-
lance collectors tend to be unselective and many additional animals also die in capture and
transport.
Appendix 8-3



Social Dimensions
13.   The social challenge of the Project relates to understanding and mobilizing local
communities and finding common objectives for integrated conservation and development. The
project has been conceived to minimi e or avoid potential risks associated with the internal
sociological and institutional constraints in Mozambique through its experimental learning
approach and a range of mitigatory measures. Project activities will aim to increase rural
incomes, improving standards of living, strengthening local community structures and developing
human resources. They are intended to empower local communities to manage their natural
resources with minimal external input or control. Despite these potential benefits, there are a
number of sources of risk. These are discussed below.
14.   Complex demographic and social situation The dynamic demographic situation within
Mozambique and the existence of parallel or overlapping community institutions make it
extremely difficult to determine who represents local communities. Given these conditions, the
Project will not set out a standard project design, but will organize and finance pilot activities.
These activities will be relatively small in number and simple in design. They will provide the
SPFFBs, NGOs, the scientific community, and other government agencies with critical learning
experiences in designing, implementing and monitoring projects carried out in partnership with
local communities. The project will work within existing local institutions rather than create new
structures, and will ensure that disadvantaged minorities and women are not excluded from the
consultative process and project benefits.
15.   Limited experience in community development The limited experience in Mozambique
in designing and implementing conservation and development projects with local communities
poses another possible source of risk and conflict for achieving meaningful community
participation. This problem will be addressed by establishing 'learning partnership structures" -
Joint Management Committees - comprised primarily (though not necessarily exclusively) of
representatives of the local communities with assistance from facilitating NGOs. The role of the
JMCs will be to design and implement pilot community-based conservation and development
activities and increase the experiential knowledge base in each area. Technical assistance will be
used to augment the capacity of JMCs, DNFFB, and SPFFB. Project activities will be phased and
adjusted according to the acquired capability and implementation experience, and augmented by
active NGO and private sector participation.
16.   Private concessions granted without community consultation In many parts of
Mozambique, including Project areas, serious challenges exist associated with the indiscriminate
granting of concessions. Commercial agriculture, forestry, hunting, tourist, fishing, and mining
concessions are being considered in the areas adjacent to and surrounding protected areas. In
very few cases have there been prior consultations with local communities or standard social and
environmental impact assessments. The granting of these concessions impact upon on the
traditional rights of the communities.
17.   The recently approved Land Policy guarantees customary land rights of communities and
concessionaires would need to negotiate directly with local communities for the use of their land.
GoM also plans to introduce new policies allowing communities to control wildlife and other
Appendix 8-4



natural resources and retain the benefits accruing from them. Until these policies becomes
enshrined in the new Land Law, the opportunity remains for investors to obtain concessions
directly from the State.
18.   A series of actions are proposed to mitigate these risks in the Maputo TFCA, the most
volatile area. In advance of Project approval, a forum is being established for participatory
planning of development and livelihood options in the Maputo TFCA. MICOA is undertaking a
participatory Land Use planning exercise for Matutuine District which is subject to the heaviest
pressure for concessions for tourism, agriculture and forestry. The area has been frozen to
concessions by the provincial government. The Project, through the JMCs and the pilot activities,
will address land issues and access rights, and build on these efforts. The Chimanimani TFCA is
also frozen to concessions pending the elaboration of a land-use management plan.
19.   Changing livelihoods and community uncertainty Given current levels of poverty and
lack of livelihood, local community interest in conservation will decrease if the Project does not
yield immediate benefits or if rural incomes decline due to new land use strategies. The Project
will establish pilot-scale community development funds to finance community-based development
and conservation projects. Initially financed by the Project, these funds will receive additional
resources from other donors, tourism, safari hunting and other concessions. The funds will be
managed by the JMCs, based upon funding guidelines produced by DNFFB. They will provide
grants to local communities for purposes of social infrastructure (schools, clinics, water systems,
roads, etc.) or small-scale conservation and rural development activities.
20.   Other Project activities will generate local employment in multiple aspects through the
proposed wildlife and habitat management and monitoring activities - fire management,
biodiversity inventory, poaching control, etc. - and infrastructure - wildlife area boundaries, local
tracks, road construction and improvement, water pans, tourist facilities - to be built, rehabilitated
and maintained during the life of the project. Ecotourism activities are also expected to generate
employment (e.g., game guards, guides, camp workers, cooks, manual laborers, construction
workers, carpenters, mechanics).
21.   Conflicts between human activities and conservation While no involuntary resettlement
will be required by the project, negotiation procedures will be put in place for dealing with
resource use/tenure conflicts related to the presence of communities within protected areas,
compensation for limitations imposed by conservation activities on the traditional livelihood
regimes of local people, community/private company joint ventures (e.g., poaching control,
conservation-related tourism enterprises, etc.), or other issues that may arise during
implementation. Participatory assessment and planning processes will help build consensus and
resolve outstanding conflicts between biodiversity preservation and local household and
community needs. This process will be organized by the JMC for each TFCA with the assistance
of the NGO facilitator organization(s). A major purpose of this process is to ensure that land-use
and protected area management plans are adapted to the socio-cultural and ecological realities of
each region and that ownership rests with the majority of stakeholders in each TFCA.
22.   Futi Corridor The Project will finance socioeconomic and ecological studies and
participatory rural appraisals to determine the viability of the Corridor and, if consensus is reached
Appendix 8-5



with the affected communities, define its boundaries with the intent of gazetting it as a
conservation zone. Based upon recommendations in social assessments, the project will introduce
measures to minimize possible problems that wildlife protection may pose to the
agricultural/livestock regimes of the local people. A decision on the fencing of the corridor will
depend on analysis of its social and environmental impact. The project will also provide funds to
expedite the official demarcation of traditional lands according to the new Land Policy and
forthcoming Land Law.
23. Inadequate policy and legislative framework Underlying many of the problems outlined
above is the currently inadequate legislative and policy framework. The Project will help DNFFB
establish a process for formulating national policies for community participation in conservation
and protected area management. Key areas include: (i) zoning and demarcation of community
lands and gazetting of proposed new conservation areas; (ii) granting of tourist and other
concessions within TFCAs; (iii) sharing of revenues gained from tourism and conservation
activities among local communities, district and national govemment agencies, private companies;
and (iv) the protection of cultural properties such as sacred forests and burial sites. National
policy workshops will bring together representatives of the JMCs, national policy makers, national
and intemational NGOs, and other experts to discuss these issues. The findings and
recommendations of the workshops will serve as the basis for legislative and policy reforms. To
start the process DNFFB has issued two discussion papers dealing with community participation
in resource management activities and a private sector strategy. These will be discussed and
revised based on the input provided by communities, district and national authorities, the private
sector, and other stakeholders in all three TFCAs (see Appendices 6 and 7).
Appendix 8-6



APPENDIX 9
MOZAMBIQUE
TRANSFRONTIER CONSERVATION AREAS PILOT AND INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
PROJECT
ECONOMIC CONSIDERATIONS
Introduction
1.    The project is of a pilot and experimental nature, with heavy emphasis on institutional
development, and as such is not subjected to formal cost benefit evaluation. Economic valuation
of environmental assets is not yet able to capture all of the potential benefits, and proxies have had
to be developed through techniques such as contingent valuation. The benefits of wildlife and
habitat conservation in the TFCAs to Mozambique fall into several broad categories: (i) direct
value for non-consumptive tourism (e.g. game viewing); (ii) consumptive use of wildlife (e.g.,
game ranching, hunting, live animal trade); (iii) subsistence and commercial use of plants and wild
foods (e.g., medicines, food supplements, reeds for construction, edible caterpillars, silk worms,
beekeeping); (iv) overall ecosystem integrity (e.g. watershed management, land husbandry). This
Appendix is intended to give an indication of the benefits which can be derived from enhanced
conservation activities in Mozambique. Costs of conservation, other than the direct costs, include
loss of income from alternative forms of land use (e.g. agriculture or animal husbandry). In many
cases, particularly in the southern Africa region, alternative land uses are not sustainable, and may
lead to irreversible conversion of habitat. Conservation does not eliminate alternative future uses.
Tourism
2.    Tourism overall is one of the world's fastest growing industries, already ranking second to
oil in terms of revenue generation. In 1994, global tourism generated an estimated US$3,400
billion of gross output, equivalent to 10 percent of global GDP. Responsible for over 10 percent
of consumer spending, tourism generates over US$600 billion in tax revenues.
3.    Currently, Africa's share of world tourism is estimated at less than 2 percent but Sub-
saharan Africa generates only a tiny fraction of this. Tourism receipts of the major SSA tourist
countries such as Kenya (US$420 million), South Africa (US$1,200 million), Zimbabwe (US$100
million), Namibia (US$100 million) and Swaziland (US$30 million) combined total only about
US$1.2 billion or less than 0.01 percent.
4.    Southern Africa can capitalize on the re-entry of South Africa into the international fold
and the global tourism market. The South African Tourist Board expects the number of foreign
tourists to rise from 3.6 million in 1994 to 9 million in 2000. At a ratio of 1:4 overseas (outside
Afiica) to continental (within Africa) tourists, this would translate to 1.8 million overseas visitors.
At about US$1,500 per overseas visitor, about US$2.5 billion would be generated from this
Appendix 9-1



category of visitor by the year 2000 at 1995 prices. The advent of peace in the sub-region,
together with initiatives in the Southern Africa Development Community (SADC), such as the
proposal to introduce a single tourist visa for overseas tourists, are likely to stimulate tourism
generally in the region, building on the existing tourism base.
5.    Although the current contribution of tourism to the economy of Mozambique is unknown,
the country's tourism potential is considerable. With over 2700 km of coastline, Mozambique has
the opportunity to develop potent tourism combinations: inland, nature and wildlife-based
experience combined with coastal tourism. Two of the three TFCAs (Maputo and Gaza) offer
direct opportunities for this. Information on the Kruger Park indicates that demand for
nature/wildlife based tourism could soon begin to outstrip supply. With a total number of visitors
of 700,000 in 1994, occupancy rates of overnight facilities run at over 70 percent, and the park
itself is reaching a saturation point. Gross expenditures run at over US$60 million per year in and
around the park. Progressively soaking up some of the excess demand would be entirely feasible
in the Gaza area, taking advantage of the infrastructure and marketing potential through
association with KNP. In the Maputo TFCA, coastal tourism is already developing rapidly, and
with the improvement of conservation activities the area will become even more attractive. The
Project, as part of the TFCA management planning, will finance additional studies on the tourism
potential in each of the three TFCAs.
Consumptive
6.    Safari hunting is the highest value use of wildlife, as the animal sold as a hunter's trophy is
worth many times more than the same animal sold for its meat and hide. The market for safari
hunting is very large, apparently price inelastic, and far from being saturated. Trophy fees for
elephants in Southern Africa range between US$20-30,000, and fees for other species are
generally in the US$3,000-6,000 range. Daily rates for hunting safaris are also high, in the $1,000
range. Safari hunting generally exploits the more remote areas which are generally less suitable
for wildlife viewing.
7.    Other forms of consumptive use (which are not mutually exclusive with either tourism or
safari hunting) is game ranching either by communities or by private landowners. Experience in
areas which are very similar from an ecological perspective demonstrates the potential for
Mozambique. Zimbabwe's Lowveld Conservancies, where more than a million acres of formerly
private cattle ranches have been converted to wildlife management areas, demonstrate that wildlife
represents a more sustainable and economically viable proposition than cattle ranching. Wildlife
are more suited to the eco-climatic conditions (particularly drought resistance). Employment
generation, through tourism and other spin-offs in these and other areas (e.g. in South Africa) is
up to ten times that in the cattle ranches. Financial projections yield short term gross revenues per
hectare at US$5-6 per hectare, rising to US$20-25 in the medium term from mixed wildlife and
tourism. This compares with US$3-6 in cattle ranching, with the upper end considered
unsustainable. No increase is expected in the medium term Game ranches also provide the
opportunity for wildlife farming such as crocodile and ostrich farming for which important niche
markets exist.
Appendix 9-2



8.   In communally owned areas, the CAMPFIRE experience has begun to demonstrate that in
some areas, wildlife-based enterprises are financially more attractive than livestock systems when
combined with safari hunting. In some districts, household incomes have increased by a third.
Other benefits include development of community-based institutions and reduced incentive to
overstocking of livestock areas.
Wildfoods, Plants and Other Products
9.    In Mozambique, as elsewhere in Africa, the economic value of wildfoods, plants and other
non-wood forest products, is hard to estimate. However, there is a significant amount of
evidence that these products are critically important for survival by rural communities. Wildplants
are estimated to provide more than 3 5 percent of food intake for remote communities in Gaza,
while the socio-economic survey in the Maputo TFCA indicated that over 80 percent of the
population depended on natural/herbal medicines, in addition to all of the other natural resources
products (reeds for construction and baskets, thatch, honey, palm wine and other products).
Many wild foods are collected, including several types of fruit, tubers, and vegetables. In the
Maputo TFCA, medicinal plants which have a high economic value, are in relative abundance
compared to across the border in Kwazulu, South Africa. The socio-economic assessments to be
carried out under the Project, will attempt to improve the knowledge base in this area.
Ecosystem Management
10.   To these direct economic benefits to be obtained from improved conservation in
Mozambique, should be added the value of improved eco-system management in all its
dimensions. Quantification is difficult, but the benefits include improved watershed management
with important downstream benefits in terms of water supply and quality, better (more
sustainable) management of woodlands, and overall biodiversity integrity. In the case of the
TFCAs - particularly in Gaza and Maputo, the linkages with the conservation areas in South
Africa will provide additional benefits through extension of the habitat. By having more extensive
areas the viability of the existing conservation areas will be enhanced, and the need for culling
(particularly elephants) will be reduced.
Appendix 9-3






APPENDIX 10
MOZAMBIQUE
TRANSFRONTIER CONSERVATION AREAS PILOT AND INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
PROJECT
MONITORING AND EVALUATION
Introduction
1.    An effective monitoring and evaluation program will be integral to the success of the
Project. The pilot nature of many Project activities will require timely and constant feedback to
ensure that problems, as well as opportunities, are identified early in implementation and that
appropriate actions are taken.
2.    An experienced NGO or consulting firm will be contracted to help DNFFB design and
implement the monitoring and evaluation program. The main objective in designing this system
will be to use the simplest, most cost-effective and replicable methods, involve local communities
at the field level, and ensure long-term sustainability. The M&E process will be enhanced though
the GIS/EIS unit within DNFFB which will provide valuable input into the Project's adaptive
management approach. Local communities will be trained to undertake systematic field
monitoring and evaluation of Project activities, and provide direct data to the relevant Project
staff and implementing institutions. Implementation support by the Bank and other donors to
evaluate overall implementation and achievement of the objectives over the life of the Project will
also be an important tool in M&E.
3.    Four different aspects of the Project will be monitored. These are: (i) institutional
strengthening/policy changes; (ii) ecological monitoring; (iii) socio-economic and community
assessments; and (iv) project implementation and accountability. The following paragraphs
outline some of the indicators that could be used in developing the monitoring and evaluation
program.
Institutional Strengthening/Policy Changes
4.    This activity will provide feedback on the progress being made with capacity building
efforts, involvement of the local communities in planning and implementation, achievement of the
policy and regulatory changes, and the extent of international collaboration in the TFCAs. The
main indicators are:
Appendix 10-1



Training
(a)   DNFFB Staff
* No. of training days
* No. of people trained
* No. and type of new skills acquired
* Level of nationally protected area management
* Use and impact of new skills to achieve priorities for the forestry and wildlife sectors
(b)   SPFFB Staff
* No. of training days
* No. of people trained
*  No. and type of new skills acquired and feedback from the users of these skills: the
communities
*  Ability to undertake field level activities related to these new skills particularly in
community program development and extension, participatory rural appraisal,
management planning, and financial management activities
(c)   Local Authorities and DDA Staff
* No. of training days
* No. of people trained
* No. and type of new skills acquired
* Quality and impact of activities for natural resources management
(d)   Indigenous NGOS
* No. of training days
a No. of people trained
*  No. and type of new skills acquired
*  Enhancement of work with Joint Management Committees and local communities in
natural resource management and evaluation by the JMC of NGO skills
(e)   Local Communities
* No. of training days
* No. of people trained
* No. and type of new skills acquired
* Level of community management of their natural resources and impact on the
communities
Appendix 10-2



Geographic/Environmental Information System
*  No. of training days in GIS/EIS
* No and type of new skills acquired
* Production of spatially based data in place by December, 1997
* Level of integration of GIS/EIS into the development of activities - planning,
programming, community area management, enforcement, and monitoring and
evaluation
Impact of GIS/EIS in the dissemination of information and stimulating public interest
Institutional linkages established with SADC, Environmentek/CSIR, and FEWS by
December, 1997
*  Establishment of a four year regional action program with indicators
Policy Development
* First draft revision to the forestry and wildlife legislation by December, 1996
* Completion of an annual policy development and review workshop for all
stakeholders
*  Adoption of a polcy ensuring equitable distribution, transparency, and equity for the
granting of concessions in the protected and unprotected areas by December, 1997
* Establishment of indicators to monitor pohicy implementation
* Level of recognition of customary rights and the extent of community involvement in
the negotiation of concessions on traditional land
* Degree of decentralization of governance and local government participation
* Enabling environment for tourism flows into the country
Enhancing the Role of the Private Sector
No. of professional hunter and private sector operator associations established and
fimctioning
* No. ofjoint ventures between the communities and the private sector
* Facilitation of bi-annual meetings with the TFCAs for the private sector to discuss
issues related to the development of forestry and wildlife resources
* Draft revision of taxes, fees, and revenue system by December, 1997
* Development of a standard format for the private sector reporting for DNFFB
*  Completion of a DNFFB annual report on private sector activities by December, 1998
Enhancing the Role of the Communities
*  No. of people contacted to generate community awareness on sustainable natural
resources use
* Change in awareness on value of biodiversity
* Number and impact of training and exchange programs to generate community
awareness
Appendix 10-3



* Level of development of local initiatives related to training and the effectiveness of
the Commercial Business Officer
* Level of management rights for communities
* Quantity, type, and distribution of economic benefits
Level of Community/Private Sector Collaboration
Perceptions of the communities on the direct benefits from the private sector's
activities
International Collaboration
* Two meetings per year of the international working groups with the first to be held by
December, 1997
*  First bi-annual newsletter to disseminate information on transfrontier issues by
December, 1997
* Establish coordination mechanism with neighboring countries
* Integrated tourism and wildlife strategic planning process initiated by December, 1997
* Finalization of monitorable indicators for regional tourism and wildlife strategic
planning
C Completion of an annual regional workshop
- Number and effectiveness of TFCA Commissions established
L Level of identifying, assessing and mitigating threats (e.g. mining) at the national and
regional levels
Ecological Monitoring
5.    Ecological aspects will be monitored to determine whether the Project is achieving its goal
of conserving biodiversity, is stabilizing natural resource use and production systems and has
improved habitat management techniques. GIS/EIS activities will be combined with on the
ground monitoring. The indicators are:
* No. of ground observations and aerial surveys
* Status and distribution of target flora and fauna
* Dynamics and resilience of the habitat
* Establish presence on the ground with conservation officers in the Maputo TFCA,
Zinave, Banhine, Coutada 16 and Futi Corridor by December, 1997
No. of anti-poaching patrols undertaken
No. of poachers caught
* Changes in wildlife population
* Animal Offlake
* Changes in the vegetation cover and land use
* Measurement of hydrological cycles and climatic parameters
* Number of boreholes constructed
* Freezing of concessions in the southern part of Coutada 16 by December, 1997
Appendix 10-4



* Number of Management Plans Produced
- Adoption of a Management Plan for the Maputo Game Reserve by December,
1997
- Development of a Management Plan for the Futi Corridor by December, 1997
- Completion of a final Management Plan for the Gaza TFCA by December, 1998
- Development of a Management Plan for Banhine by December, 1998
- Development of a Management Plan for Zinave by December, 1997
- Development of a Management Plan for Coutada 16 by December, 1998
* Effectiveness of implementation of Management Plans to be refined with indicators
by December, 1997 and December, 1998
Extension of the Maputo TFCA reserve boundaries by December, 1998
* Completion of an Action Plan for the Chinmanimani TFCA by December, 1998
Socioeconomic and Community Assessments
6.    The goal of the M&E activities under this category will be to assess the effectiveness and
number of Joint Management Committees that are being created, to monitor the management of
the pilot-scale community development funds, to determine the extent to which the expected
benefits are being realized, to identify the local perceptions of project progress and applicabilty to
local concerns, to monitor change in local capacity, and to provide input into the development of
national conservation and protected area policies. To obtain baseline data on the population, land
tenure system, economic and production activities against which impacts can be measured, the
Project will undertake a number of household surveys and group discussions involving local
communities living in the project sites, buffer zones and surrounding areas. The socioeconomic
indicators will include:
*  No. of Social Assessments undertaken:
- By December, 1997 four will be undertaken
- By December, 1998 four will be undertaken
- Social assessments on-going
*  No. of Joint Management Committees created:
- By December, 1997 two will be created
Foimation, operation and review of Joint Management Committees will be on-
going
* Changes in local perceptions of potential use and value of natural resources
Changes in resource allocation, access, controls for encroachment
Adoption of improved land management and agricultural techniques
Effectiveness of conflict resolution mechanisms
Changes in migration patterns
* Development of sustainable activities generated through the community funds:
- Subprojects: 2 by December, 1997
3 more by December, 1998
4 more by December, 1999
5 more by December, 2000
6 mOle by December, 2001
Appendix 10-5



* Economic benefits measured at two levels. First, those that the communities generate
themselves. Second, those direct and indirect benefits that the communities receive
from hunting concessions and tourism revenues.
* Impacts of the project's activities on the cultural and social values of the communities
* Levels of impacts and opportunities for disadvantaged groups
Project Implementation and Accountability
7.    This category will include M&E on the use of funds from GEF and account audits;
procurement and disbursement; and beneficiary assessments. The main indicators will be:
Results of quarterly and external audits
Attainment of the objectives of the annual work plans and programming
* Disbursement Rates
* Procurement Rates
* Beneficiary Assessments
* Project expenditure by component
* Level of coordination of participating institutions at all levels
Appendix 10-6



Mozambique
Tranefrontier Conservation Areac & Institutional Strengthening Project
Tabl 1. I2NFPP
Detailed Colts
fusS)
13uantitep                Unit                             BaSS Co-t
Uti.t        19947  12        1999  2000  200  Total C2L.   1997        LI..                           2019   21000  t1
3. Investmeat Costs
A. Civil llorks
RA habilLation of Offices                             Lump sum                                                        10,0C0          -          -         -          -    10,000
D. Tenhieil A.itatre
Advi,er to Project Co.Ordinator                      man ronths          12    12    12      3     3    42  8,000    96,000    96,000    96,000    24,000    24,000   336,000
Short-term TA   Park Management                      man months           3     2      -     -     -      5  6,000    24,000    16.000           -                    -    40.000
Short-te s TA   Costunity Program Adviser            an  months           3     2      -     -        -  5   .000    24,000    16.000            -         -          -    40,000
Short-term TA   Commerci&I/Susiness Adviser          man months           2     2      2     -     -      6  S,000    1,Q000    16. 000    16. 000         -          -     ft00
Subtot4l Teahnical Assistaene                                                                                           160.000   144,000   112,000    24,000    24.000   464.000
C. Vebiole o   a quipmet
4x4 Vehicle                                              no               I     -      -                  1 30,000    30,000                     -         -          -    30 000
202 Vehicl                                               no               I                               1 20,000    20,000          -          -         -          -    20,000
Repairs to 4a4 Vehicle                                   no                               1                  10,000    10,000- -                                           10000
Repair  to 4x  VehicI                                    no               1     -      -     -            1  6,000     6,000          -                     -         -     6,000
Computer & Printer                                       no                                               1 46500      4,500          -          -                           4.500
Photcopier                                               no               -I                                       -  -     -                          8,000                6.000
Repairs to Photcopiers                                   no               3     -      -     -     -      3  3,000     9,000          -          -          -         -     9,ooo
Radio lquip...eot                                   vehicl  sets          3     -      -     -     -      3  2,000     6.000                -              -          -     6,000
otr I,s Pu * lul                                         no               4      -     -     -      -     4  3,500    1OJQ00          -,         -          -         - 
SuAtotel vebirI.. 6 EquiPet                                                                                              99,500                     ,     60000          -   107,500
D. lnte...tioel.   Collb o..tioo
Regional Trvel,  Meetings and Consultations           Lump sue                                                        30,000    )0,000    30,000    30,000    30,000   150,000
E. 9viroeesntol & BLidiversity Monitoring
SIS equipment - Central Unit                    hardware &  otftware                                                 100,000          -                               -   100.000
RIS Equipment - Provincial Unit                 hsrduare & sottfare                                                   10.000          -               -               _    10,000
SIS Squipment - Protected Ares Units 43)        hardware & software                                                   17.600          -          -          -         -    17,600
Technical Assistance                                 man months           2     3      -     -      -     6  6.000    24,000    24,1000--                                  40,000
Tr ining_n courses                                                        3     3            -            6  6,000   12000oo   12000                        -               36,000
Other studies end Support                             IUmp sue                                                            000   20 0^0  ,             20 000    15  ooo    gsoo
Subtotal  eviroseatel   Sliodiversity  lositorieg                                                                        1569,600    62.000    20,000    20.000    15,000   306.600
. Onsllocatei
Unallocated                                             uOsU.                                                               '2_  200 000 Zf   1S            -5 -2
Total Ivesteawt Costs                                                                                                        680,100   436,000   219,900    S2,000.   69,000 1,496.000
II. Reourreflt Coats
A  Isrementl Salaries
Project Coordinator                                  mn months           12    12    12    12    12    60  1,000    12,000    12.000    12,000    12,000    12.000    60.000
Coerc*l/Business Developmnt Officer                  man montha          12    12    12    12    12    60    t00        9.600     9.600      9.600     9,60 9     9 600    40.000
secretary/Adminlstrator                              mn months           12    12    12    12    12    40    100        1.200     1,200      1,200     1.200      1,200     6.000
Driver                                               Man  month          12    12    12    12    12    60       s0        600       600        600       600        600      3,000
S11/0G6 Database/System Administrator                men months          12    12    12    12    12    60    Soo        6,000     6.000      6.000     6,000      6,000    30.000
515/013 System Analyst                               man months          12    12    12    12    12    60    500       6,000      6.000      6,000     6,000      6,000    30,000
AISO15 S Programer                                   man month.          12    12    12    12    12    60    500        6,000     6,000      6,000     6.000      6,000    30,000
Topographer/Cartographsr/Surveyor                     n  months          24    24    24    24    24   120    400        9,600     9,600      9,600     ".o00      9,600    4b,000
Coeputer Operator                                    m:n months          60    60    60    60    60   300    300                          ..00.LO _0JwLfQ   Q            0  00.00
Subtotal Incrameatal Slaries                                                                                              61.000    61.000    69,000    69.000    69,000   345,000
. Subaistames a Travel Alloumaes
Project Coordinator                                   per month          12    12    12    12    12    60  1,000    12,000    12.000    12.000    12,000    12,000    60,000
Park ManaI emnt Otticer                               per month          12    12    12    12    12    60  1,000    12,000    12.000    12,000    12,000    12,000    60,000
Community Development OtfIcer                         per month          12    12    12    12    12    60  1.000      1 12,000    12.000    12,000    12.000    12.000    60,000
Co-ercial/sueinees Developunt Ofticer                 per month          12    12    12    12    12    60  1000    12 00          2000        .000      1.0    12.0000    60,000
Secretary/AdLinistrator                               per month          12    12    12    12    12    60    100        1,200     1,200      1.200     1,200      1.200     6.00
Rls/OIS Databaso/Systos Administrator                 per month          12    12    12    60    500                   6 000      6.000      6,000                 I 000  6.000    30.000
S18/018 System Analybt                                per month          12    12    12    12    12    60    500       *,000      *.000      6,000 6.000          6.000    30,000
I6/GIS Programmer                                     per month          12    12    12    12    12    60    500       6.000      6.000      6,000     6,000      6,000    30,000
Topographer/Cartographar/SuIveyor                     per month          24    24    24    24    24   120    300        7.200     7.200      7.200     7,200      7,200    36,000
Computer Operator                                     per mnth           60    60    60    60    60   300    100       6,000      6,000      6,000     6,000      6,000    30,000
Driver                                                per Month          12    12    12    12    12    60       30        16°       3l0        360       36 QO             A.
subtotel Subsistencs A Travel AllowaeCo                                                                                   60,760    80,760    S0,760    00,760    80.760   403,000
C. Otber Operating Costs
Vehicle Operating Costs /a                      lump sum per month       12    12    12    12    12    60  1.2         5         1,                   15,000    15000    71.000
Office supplies                                       lump aum                                                                                : ,,.Jf   LJn  LJO  Lf0  1..Jf.
Subtetal Other Operatiag Co-to                                                                                                                 17 000  _17.01 000    10Q       S0
total teourteat Costes                                                                                                    ,,,7,-   0   1.J,760   166l760       L,        L        11211112
Totel                                                                                                                         SS,660   602,760  316,660   24S,760   235.760 2,329,5800
\a Vehicles $2S0 pmi motor bikes 5100 pm.
Mon Apr IS 12,47S50 1996
I-I * D116.



140,a.bique
Tranlfronnier Conservation Areae & Inetitutlonal Strelgthening Project
Table . Maputo SPFlB
Detailed Cost.
(USS)
_   _UDit    ___ L 2z2  i4   Ouant    _ 1029  2 001000  2OGL roULO2  CAL ._-192L.  j.  -9 222.  2iAL   .2.021- rJI  aL°
1. t.oceateeot CaCta
A. Ial..Otnntut* D.v-lopSt
Reh.bilt.tion of G.a4l  Pouts                    no               2      3                           5    300       600      900                               1,S00
Constructlon of Guard Pots                       1no               3      4      -      -      -      7    500   1,00   2,000                               -   3,500
Guards boles ot                                                    2      3                           s  2,000   0,A.92   6, QO                             - AiOD9Q
Bubtotel Iotr tcuature Doe-lep.t                                                                                      6,100   6,900              -         -      10,000
Technical Assimteace
Ad&Iuer to Regional Co-Ordinator             man n,onh            12    12       4      4      -    32  6,000  96,000  96,000  32,000  32,000               - 256,000
C. Vehicle. a Equipmet
44 Vehicle                                        no               I      -      -      -      -      I 30,000   10,000         -                  -        -  30,000
2x2 Vehicle                                       no               I             -                    1 20,000  20,000                                         i 20000
Repel', to 4.4 Vehicle                            I0                                                  I       10,000  10,000    -                  -10,000
Motriado                                          no              10             -                   10  4,000  40,000                            4-        -   0,000
VII? Radio Race                                  eet               1             -      -      -      1  5,000    5,000         - -           -             -    ,000
Portable Radio,                                  set,             10      -      -      -I10    670   0.700                                                     8 -  6,700
Repeater & Installation                           no               I      -      -      -      -      I   O5,00   S,s00         -        -         -            5,500
Batteries                                         n o             10      -             -      -    10       0s      aso        -         -        -        -     as0
Conputer & Printer                                110              I             -      -             1  4,000    4 500              -             -        -   4,500
Typewr,iter                                       no               2      -      -             -      2    5000   -QO                    -         -         -12
Subtotal Vehicle, 6 Squipaa-t                                                                                       030,000-O                                     120,S00
D. Cavleg *qulpeat
Unifoulm                                          no              10          -         -            10    100   1,000                   -   -              -   1,000
Canteen sets                                       °              10             -                   10      20      200        -         -        -        -      200
.enerato.                                                          1       -0-3         -      -      3  3,000   9,o00           -        -        -            9,000
0Oc  Cooler0 no                                                     3     -                           3    300       900                                           9 -  00
Tente    m /u                                                     00      -             .           010      75      750                  -          -             750
Coa.eee/Bue.lC                                    *10             10       - to                      10      20      200             -             -               200
sinocullce                                        no              10      -      -                   10    150  10500                              -             ,Soo
SlerpIng Rago                                                     100            -             -    10       60      600        -         -        -              600
Ru.k"acks                                         no              10      -      -      -            10      30      300        -                                  300
Cacplng Crockery                                  no              10                    -      -    10       10    o100         -            __   ____
Subtotal C      oag %%uipaet t4L550                                                                                               __- -               -_     _    IiS0
Total  Xe-aet..t Coats                                                                                                  202,200 104,900  32,000  32,000               411,1000
. Recurrent CoSt.
A. Buohltac./T.-vel RlIvc-
Regional Caordlnaor                           par mn,c,           12    12    12    12    12    60  1,000  12,000  12,000   12.000   12 000  12,000  60.000
Secreary                                     per mcri,            12    12    I        12     12    00    100   1,300   10200   1.200    1,200    1,200   6,000
Ad.illntcatoc                                 par moI'll,         12    12    12        2     12    60      100   1,200    1,200    1,200    1,200    1 200   6,000
Dric,t                                       par IV I1 12    12    12    12    12    60                      10      360      360      360      160      3160   0,0o0
Guards                                        per ..011i,        120   120   120   120   120   600           30   Q1        1 0 0    1 6QQ   3O .  Q Q2o0 iQ  IJiJQQ
Oubtotel Sbiatnce/TtavCl A           sou..                                                                           08,160  18,300  18,360  18, 60  19,160  91,@00
5. othtc op.r.tIag CoSt l
Vehicle Operating CoStS                  lump au. pa.r   m lth    12    12    12    12    12    60    950  11,400  l1,400   11,400   11,400   11,400  57,000
Olalntenance                                   lm,olp aol,                                                         3,000   ),000   3,000    3,000   3.000  10,000
Office loppl.e                                 Iump e,                                                             2,QQQ   2 QQQ .22.00a   .2 0Q _ 2000 -1   QQ0
Sabtottl Otle.e  ope-etiog Casts                                                                                      L02  .Ji0i  -16,100 .1 6.2Q A16.45i .12.10U
To~teS Reaurce   Ca. to11  ..li.2.i  ..34-760 II j4  1    -34.2fi  172.800
Tot1 1                                                                                                                   276,960 139,660  66,760  66,760  34,760 S04,900
McI, Apr IS 12 47.59 1996
3-I Ht.puto OPFp



ozmawbiquP
Tronstrontler Conservation Areas & IInrtitutonAl 8tr.ngth*nlng Project
Table 3. 0... BPPPB
D.t-il-d Coata
DOant tiles                 Unit                        BaBe Coat
Unit         IfLkiLlii  Z                  O1L a 12i SO = 20nQ. A  . SlLT Co st 1997    1L   .O 2D  2001   IDLA
. Inv.-a"tt Co.to
. Cicil wor"
Rehahilitotion of Gd-rd Poets                     o               2                                I    S00   1,000          -        -        -        -   1,000
Constroction of Gu.rd Poets                      no              10                               to  - 1   1.000  1.0.Q000  -00
SJbtotel Civil Works                                                                                              11.000                                       11,000
B. Tchanicel Assist ec
Advilsr to Regional Co-Ordinator            men  -nnthe          12    12      4      4      -    32  0,000  96,000  96,000  31,000  32.000                256,000
C. Vehiles. & Equip..nat
4,4 Vehicle                                      no               I            -                    1 30,000  30,000              -                     -  30,000
Motorbik-.                                       no              10             -            -    10  4,000  40,000           -        -        -       -  40,000
Repair to Vehicles                               no               I         -      -         -      1  5.000   5,000          -        -        -       -   s5ooo
VNP Radio base                                  X..               I      -      -     -      -      I  5     000    5,000     -        -       -        -   S,000
Portable Radio.                                 *t               10                               10    870   *.700                   -         -       -   5,700
Repeater " Inatailation                       lu p uo             I      -      -     -      -      1  S,500   5.500          -        -        -            S 1,5
Batteries                                        no             100      -      -     -      -   100      85   e,S00          -                -        -   6.S00
Co,outeer & Printer                              no               I      -      -     -      -      1  4        4,500         -        -        -        -    ,300
Oftite Furniture                                sets              I                                 I -  -  1   ,500   3,500  -                 -        -   3,500
Reds                                             no               S         -      -         -      a    150   1,200                  1-        -        -    ,200
Unitforms                                        no              10      -      -     -      -    10    100 -i-=   _         _                _                 QQ
Robtotel Vehicles a squipeit                                                                                     212.900                  -                 - 112,900
D Cmping Xquipmsat
-arda.ento.                                      no              10      -     -      -      -                       -
Mosqoito Mete                                    no              10      -      -     -      -    10      50      S00         -        -        -        -      00
Tente                                            no              10                                10      75     750         -        -        -        -     750
Sleeping Bags                                    no              10      -      -     -      -    10      60      600         -        -        -              600
Camping Kit Sets                                 no              10      -                   -    10       10     100         -                 -        -     100
Ruckeacks                                        "o              10      -      -     -      -    10       30      000            -                      -     300
Hand Tools - Shovels, Axe. etc                lump sum                                                          2,000                  -        -            2,000
Co..pe.se/Bu-ulCe                                no              10         -            -  -      10      20     200         -        -                       200
Binocoler.                                       no              10                                10    150  ..     o                                       I-S100
Subtot-l Cping Equipmet                                                                                             .9SO         -        -                     5,2 5Q
Totel l-vs-eat Cost                                                                                                   225,850  96,000  32,000  32,000            - 305,B50
11. Recurrent Costs
a. 9ub.Ist"ee*/Travl AlloneACes
Regional Coordinator                        ptr month            12    12    12    12    12    60  1,000  12,000  12,000  12,000  12,000  12,000  60,000
Driver                                      per month            12    12    12    12    12    60          30     360      360      350      360      360   1,800
..ards                                       per month          320   120   220   120   120   600          30   .h600  3.1. a0      "a0  --"O   _.Q        A6 E -,IL-
Sobtotel 2.bsitvt-a tTr-,el Allo.annea                                                                            15,960  15,960  IS,9b6O  15,960  15,960  79,000
*  Other Operating Coset
Vehicle Operating Cost                  lump *u. per month    12    02    12    12    12    60    650   7,000   7,600   7,61.0   7,500   7,800  39,000
Ofie  Supplies                               Iump soc                                                          1,000   1,000   1.0Q7   1,000   1,000   S,000
Maintenance                                   lump sum                                                          3,000 __L QQQ  tA,iQQ _.000 ..0Q0  4. 00Q
Sbhtotel Other Operating Costs                                                                                  1.J.AD  6l-00 M ,L&1   A          SQ -AijQQ  5ZO000
Totel scao.rrQt COsts                                                                                                  2ZL760, 2,760 _U _l0  _        27176 7L01 RQ
Totel                                                                                                                  253,610 123,760  59,760, 59,760  27,760 524,650
Mon Apr IS 1240:06 1996
3-1 Gata SPPpV



ioaa.nhque
Tranafrontier C.nneruCtlOn Area. £ Institutional Strengthening Project
oeCtail1 Coot.
(USS 
_Quantitl................... 93Ullt  _                Oa.e Cost
UniL _ 1291  liii - I            2000    20111I Tot a                1997 A   1999 7    2000    200    -1oLAL
1. Invots'at Coat:
A. Intra-truttur. Dav.1015qt
RehC billtmtion  ot Ouard Posts              no              2      -            -            I   5      I 000  10     -        -                       ooo
lubto ta I 'at5a C1C Doagop t                                                                              11,000         -        -        -           11,000
S. V61.1.
Motorbikea                                   no             10         -         -      -    10 4°000  40,000          -        -                    40,000
C. Equlp..t
Oatt.tia,                                    no            100         -         -      -   100   S05    ,500                            -       -   S,500
VIFP Radio Base                             anet             1      -      -     -      -      1 S 000   5,000             -        -             -   5,000
Repeater 6 Installation                  lump au%            I      -      -     -      -      1 5.500   S,500         -        -                -   5,500
portable Radios                             set             10      -      -     -      -    10   *70   0700                                          0.700
UJnttorm                                     no             10             -     -      -    10
Mosquito Nate                                no             10      -      -     -      -    10    50       00             -        -        -          500
Tent,                                        no             10         -      -         -    00    75       750                     -                   750
Sleeping pags                                no             10          -     -         -    10    60       600                                         600
Camping Kit Sets                             no             10      -      -     -      -    10    10       000                          -              10
RZckaseka sno                                               10             -            -    10    30       300        -        -        .               0o0
H.nd ToOI  - Shonal. Asee etc           lump sum                                                         2,000                                       1 000
Compasses/Russulas                           no             10      -      -     -      -    10    20       200            -             -       -      200
Binocular                                    no             10      -      -     -      -    10   150 _1.5Q            -        -
Subtota1 Nquipmeet                                                                                         -1111          -        -        -    _    _13  -
Total Inv-stm"t Coats                                                                                           644650                  -                -  84650
I1. seecrret Costs
A. Subsietoca/To-el Allo eSamo
Guard.                                  par month           120   120   120   120   120   600    30   3,600   3,600   3,600   3,600   31600  IH.000
*. Ot hr op"ratieg Costs
Vehicle Operatlog Costs             1ump sum por month    12    12    12    12    12    60   Soo   6 000   h.000   6f                000000 'QQQLQQ00Q
TotWl Reaurreet Coate                                                                                               100 LQ 100   L600   L 60Q   96Q00 -a'QoQ
Tatal                                                                                                            94,250   9,600   9.600   9,600   9,600 132.650
Mon Apr IS 12,40:12 1996
4-1 Monica SPFB



TrrAotrontier Conservation AreMa . ainatitutional Strengthening PrOject
Table S. Training Program
UInit     3997- lJ%                                roouantitlee  Unit  _9__ 1_9___ __ 99_     202 0 loE QLc
S. rnveatna_t Cost.
A. Tr-ining - MpUto Prolvince
1. Tr-aini
A. High *ad Mediau LeCel
Bachelor Course.                                              courae.                       -                   I 10,000            30,000                             0o,000
Haeter,  Couroes                                              course.          -     I                          1 15,000         - ilSOQ0         - _ _-  __ 15000
Subtatal  ig9h aud Mediu  Level                                                                                                     -  45,000        -        -        -  45,000
b. BORIC Level
t3uard: training                                              route           20    20    20    20    20   100    100   2,000   2,000   2,000   2,000   2,000  10,000
Guard a uper lIore ttSining                                   couraes          2     2      2      2     2      0    20 0              40     0          400     i00 ---2.0QQ
auhiotal  asic Lvel                                                                                                           2,400   2,400   2,400   2,400   2,400  12,000
c. cou-ity Bupport Tr-ining
Support Personnel                                             course           2     2      2      1     -      7  1,000   2,000   2.000   2,000   1.000            -   7,000
Comeniity Training                                            courses          4     3      3      3     3    16    200       900      600      600      600     600   3,2CO
Comnunity Awareness R.chonge Progra.a (CMPPIRI)              luep sum                                                      10,000  10,000  10.000  10,000  10,000  500000
Regional Visit - Commounity Leaders                        per comeunity       2      -     2      -            4  2,000   4,000         -   4,000         -        -   0,000
'A                  Workahopo                                                  par come,untty      2      2     2      2      -     a  1,000   2,000   2,000   2,000   2,000            -   0,000
Short cour-e in Financial Adelnistration                   per coenunity       7     -      2      -     -      4     000                - ..0Q            - 0 g
.ubtota. Co_u-ity Support Training                                                                                           _,  QQ   1.AoQ   19 S00  13 600  10,600  71t 20Q
Subtotal T-aining                                                                                                                 22,200  62,000  22,000  14,000  13.000 135,200
2. Training tftr- et.ur.
Rehabilitation ol Training Centre at Maputo Mlephant Rea   lump *ue                                                           25.000200 -0
Zmbtotl Training - Maputo Province                                                                                                  47,200  62,000  22,000  16,000  13.000 160,200
0. T7rainiag -ational., C... Moanea
1. training
H Blgh oad Raediu Level
Short co-rse                                                  course           2     S      4      4     2    17  6,000  12,000  30.000  24,000  24,000  12,000 102,000
Seelnara                                                      courses          4      4     S      2     3    19  3,       12000  12,000  15,000   9,000   9,000  57,000
Bachelor Courses                                              couree              -                -     -      1 30.                    -  30,000 -                -  30 ,000
M eters Courase                                               coure            2      -               1; ' .    2 15,000         -                -  IS000  IS50v0  30,00
Nadine level courses                                          coursee          2      1     1      1      1     6  6.000  12,000   6,000   6.000   6,000   6,000  36.000
Affirsuative Action Courses                                   cour-s           2      2     1      -      -     5  6,000 _ QQ12000 120000  ___                      -Q.QQ
Subtotal Sigh ad Medius Level                                                                                                 40,000  60,000  81,000  S4,000  42,000 285,000
h. BOSic Level
Guards training                                                course        23    32    32    32    32   160    200   3,200   3,200   3,200   3,200   3,200  16,000
Guardo supervinore training                                    courses         3      3     3      3      2    15    200 ,,         ---..60Q   6QQ,   60  60Q    6QQ    0S
ga"ot.tl Casia Level                                                                                                            3,S00   3,800   3,800   3,800   3,800  19,000
Coauaity support Training
Support Pearonnel                                             cou"e            I      3            2 2   1      23  2,000   3,000   3,000   3,000   2.000   2,000  13,000
Coewunity Training                                            couraea          6      S     S      S     S    26    200   t,200   1,000   1,000   1,000   1,000   5.200
coanunity A.argnesa iSChang9  Program  (CAMPPIRE)            mup  u                                                         0,000  10,000  20        _000        0      0000
.aglonCi VI it - Covomun  ty leaderr                       per comvmunity                                       a  _00    .,000        e       .000        - -         16,000
rinrkshope                                                 per coemunity       4      3     4      4     -    16  1,000   4.000   4,000   4,000   4,000                16,000
Short course in Pinancial AdO,inistration                  "er comamunity      4      -     *      -            0    300   2.00Q                       - -7Q -
L.btotol Comnity Suyport Training                                                                                             ,.20Q   18 0Q0 _ioo -.o 00Q  13. o00 10i4200
2ubtoia2 Trtaining                                                                                                             *j2fl09 .JL.liD 11Q 2.8    74. 800  58jiQ   408L200
Total                                                                                                                                    327,200 143,800 134.800  S00.00    6300  068,4
-n Apr 2S 12 4.a18 1996
5-1 Training Progrom



Mo. nbiqe~
T,,u,vIrontier Conservation Areas': Institutional Streo9thening Project
Table 4. TIICA 3osrgency Botabllah.ent Plans
Det-iled Costs
(US$)
oI,^nt_sUies              unit                    Bass CcAit
uniL    1997  19l9  l999   2000  2lA00   ALna  COst   19      1flL   IL   2001L A L Total
I. lnvaat ast Coats
A' Cou.tda 10 TPCA
1. studis
Aerial Survey              lump aun                                                 5,000               ,               ,  5,000
Demographic Study          lump au.                                                 5,000           -           -          5,000
Rutource Management Plan lump sum                                                  -        S ,Of .         _              S00
aubtokal Studis                                                                        10,000  5,000       --              - 1,000
C. Chbiataali SPCA
1. Studies
Aerial surva               lump u.                                                  S,000                   -       -      5,000
Demographic Study          lump eu.                                                  2,000       ,      _               -  2,000
Resouce Management Plan  lump aue                                                        -  L,flf               -            j°°
aubtotal studies                                                                        7000  Sf000         -                 12000
Total                                                                                           17,000 10,000        --27.000
Mon Ap, IS 12 4ah24 1996
6-1 TPCA .n*rgency Establishnent Plans



Moxasbique
Transtrontier CuRnsevaLion Areas & IOntirutional Strengthening Project
Table 7. Banihine National Park - emergency Plan
Detailed Coats
(us%o
Guantitiss          ~unit  ___________             lLs CoAL._________
_lnJt..  1R22_ 122_ lS9PL           i200   2QWQ Total _0AJ4_ _IUL..  _Lt..          1.A     _MO__ i9Q    200LQ   x0fauL
Z3. Znevatest coata
A. Vehicles
Vehicle 4s4                                    no            I-                         -      I 20,000  20,000           -        -        -        -  20,000
Motorbikea (125 ccl                            no            6      -                          6  2,500   5.010Q  -                         -0
Subtotal Vehicles                                                                                             35,000         --                         -  35,000
B. !ntrestructure
Constructlon ot Main Camp                   lump sum                                                        4,000         -                 ,        -   4,O
Construction of Posts                         each           0      -                                S0o   2.5000                                         2.500
Bo,undar-y Demarcation                     lump sUm                                                           £00        -                  -000
Road nehabilitation i Construction             km           to                                10  1t.00  IjjjQf  -       -  -5              -
Subtotal ifxtratrecture                                                                                       22.100              -        -      -      -  22  0
C. Ugulipat
VNP Radio Base                                 no            1      -                          1  2,000   3.000           - o  .                     -
Radio for Vehicle                              no            I s2000   2,000                                              -                               2 ,o
Portable Radios                                no            s      -      -     .                    70   4,310          -                 -        -
Batteries                                      no            7      -      -      -     .a                      5         - 9 5                      -
Furniture - Patrol office                  luop Bum                                                         1,000                  -          -
Work Bquipment                              lump sum o1.000                                                               -        -        -        -   1, 00
Generator                                      ,o,                                                 3.000       0 .            -             -        -   3, 3-
Water Tankg                                    no            3      -      -                         200 -   ,20          -        -        -        -
Solar Rnergy Setvs                            vct                          -      -            0S      0 s     000
Gau  Cooler                                    nO                   -                                200      700                  -        -
Tents                                          tO            0 .2                                     75       00 --
COmpasnec                                      no            0                                        Th      000 -  - f :
Binoculara                                     P.            5                s                        0       so         -        -       fl
Sleeping sags                                  W0           12                    -                   60      720r-
Rucksacks                                      PO                                                               o -  - 2                    -        -        z
Camping  ets ult* C                                         f       -                         I 2      3      020         -        -        -               ,
Uniforms                                       uetu         2              .      .                   90   2,q6O                        -                 2 -
Canteen Sara                                  Set           122            -      -      -2 0   ....AZ   _                    __    _          _
iubtotXl Iquiamat                                                                                             23,575                                     .23,z?
s. Studies
Aerial Survey                              lump sum                                                         0,000         -        -        -               -, 
Doegraphic Study                            lumD sum                                                        2,000                                         2,1<0
Management Plan                             lump sum                                                         -__ ,                                    -
Subtotal Studies--10-UU
Total limest.et Consts                                                                                             oi,i7s  iiun            -        -         * 602.ot2
E1. Recurrent costs
A. Xmcrmaatfal Salari.s
Additional Guards (103                    man  ntt.U         0    :7      00   <31   _!':   ,.1(2     25   a,009i   A,!300   q,000   0,00o   0,500  22:-
B, Siubsitamtc/Traval Allou.ac!r
Reservs Director                          per mnoth          2     12    ;2    22   012    30    0oo   9,600   0,600    9,600    9,;00    0.600  40,stC:
GuOards  111                              per Wm.th        "no    07 t    e.e                000 A0 a00         0   iGtD   ..LOO  ..h.Ase 5.soA   SL1A
Subtotal Sublststce/T00ni; Allo.axLcna                                                                        15,000  10,000  IS,000  15,000  15,000  7S,OsO
C.  nmereatel Opereting Costs
Vehicle Operating Coate                  monthly rata       12    ;2    1;    02    12    s0    400   s,400   1,400   5,400   S,400   5,400  27,000
miscellaneous                               lemp sum                                                        L000    Z19  san     ago.  ..tOOfl ..L.on   -1..nSgo
Subtotal        NIieatel OParatiep CoatO                                                                      _lA0 ..LAOD   7..420    ifl 7....Lo   02.£.U
Total Rasurrent Coats                                                                                            _2L4_=   _L-S_=  _26Ql         __ 2 qL   _,i't   a__-
Total                                                                                                              114,575  41,900  26.900  26,900  26,900 237,.733
Mon Apr 15 12:46,30 1996
7.1 manjuine Nsticonal Perk - Emrgency Plan



Nloseebique
Txanstrontier Conervation Areas & 1s0titutional Strengthening Project
Table S. Zinav.   National Park - 94ergency Plen
Detailed, Costs
ouanr.tites                Unit                       -ass Cost
Unit    1797L         ILSU  ZaQL 2001l Total SEaL  1J27   Alli   1jU                       20Tju      l
1. Ieveat.mt Costs
A. Vehicles
Vehicle 4X4                                     no           I         -         -      -     1 30.000  30,000         -            -            -  30o000
Bicycles                                        no          IS                               IS    300   * 500              _-                          o
Sabtotel Vekilel                                                                                            34,500                 -                   34,500
S. Istractructuce
Rehabilitation of Main Camp                  luep cu.                                                     S,000                         -        -   S000
Construction of Post.                           each          2            -     -      -     2    Sao   1,000         -        -       -        -   1.000
Boundary Demarcation                         luep au                                                        700                                        700
Road Rehabilitation C Construction              km          10      -      -     -            o10  1,500 SOJQQQ                                    _1 hQQQ
Subtotel Setrectructure                                                                                     21,700        -        -       -        -  21.700
C. Equipment
VHF Radio Base                                  no            I     -      -     -      -     1  2.000   21000             -            -        -   2,000
Radio for Vehicle                               no            I     -      -     -            I  2.000   2,000         -        -       -        -   2,000
Portable Radios                                 no            3     -      -     -      -     3    870   2.610         -        -       -        -   21610
Battern.                                        no           S      -      -     -      -     5     aS      421        -        -       -              425
Furniture - Patrol Office                    lump aue                                                     1,000        -       -        -        -   1,000
Work Squipent                                lump um                                                      1o000                                      1,000
Generator                                       no            I     -      -     -      -     1  3,000   3.000         -        -                -   3,000
Water Tanks                                     no            6                               6    200   1,200             -                     -   1.200
Solar Snergy Sets                               ets           3     -      -     -            3    500   1,500         -        -       -        -   1.00
Rehabilitation of Water Pumping Station   lump  u                                                            so            -        -       -           50
Gas Cooler                                       no           I     -      -     -      -     1    200      200        -        -       -              200
TentM                                           no           10     -      -     -           l0      71     750        -        -       -        -     750
Compasses                                       no            S     -                            -  -    20  100       -        -       -        -     100
Sinocular                                        no         1S      -      -     -      -    1S     SO    220                           -            2,250
Sleeping Saga                                   no          1S      -      -     -      -    15      60      00        -        -       -              900
auckc                                            no          1      -  -      -         -    11      30     450                 -       -        -     450
Camping  ets                                    sts          15     -      -     -      -    1s      10     1SO        -        -       -        -     150
Uniform.                                        sets        15             -     -        -    10    90   1 350        -        -       -        -   1,350
Canteen Sets                                    nete         is         -     -         -    IS      10    .ISOl       -         -       -       -     IS
Subtotal 09165nt.- 21,080                                                                                                                              21,085
0. Ctudies
Aerial Survey                                lump sum                                                     5000         -                               000
Demoraphic Study                             Lump sue                                                     2:,00,0      -        .                - 2.000
managemnt Pln                                 lump au0.                                                                                            _l) -QQ-
Subtotel atudl.. I.GPI .nL ---oo                                                                                                            -       - _  22Q
Total la.0t-mest Coats                                                                                           84. 2S  1S.000         -       -           99 .85
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Sncr_ntsl selarlie
Guards t(S)                                 mAn months    180  I8    180   180   1SO   900          25   4.500   4,500   4,500   4,500   4.500  22,500
S. ab.,st ace/Ttrval AlloesOcOa
Russva Director                             per month        12    12    12    12    12    60    800  90600   9.600   9,600   9,600   9.600  48,000
Prmanent Gu.rde  115S                       per month       IS0   180   ISo   ISO  g10   900        30  S.. 0f  LADO  ...24           S     IAOO   ai.7 Q
Pubtotol Subsist.:c./T?eel Allo.sePes                                                                      15000  IS000  IS,000  15000  15.000  75.000
C. Incremetal Opereting Coat.
Vehicle Operating Costs                    monthly uta       12    la    I2    12    12    60    I50   1.000   1.800   1,800   1,805   1,800   9.000
Hiscal Iansoue                               lump sUe                                                    J.000  2L00   2L000  2AOG0   2GG 000          l
Rubtotel  inar.tal o7Pratias Costs                                                                           --U      3 000   1 so   1a *O  3. *00  19 OQQ
Total Reourt eat Costa                                                                                          23.300  JLOG .21.         23.200  L2300 11.100
Total                                                                                                            107.545  38,300  23,300  233.00  23,300 215.785
Mon Apr 15 12:45:30 1906
Z-1 Z1InV- NLtional Park -  orgency Plan



T1...nOfrontier C-40sevtion Areas.  lount itutional Stre.igthftolg Project
Table 9. PUti Corridor
DfltaiIle  Coats
(uso
ui    --- -.4UALLiU,si-   ____             Unit                       Base CouB______           __
199L )22  19981 i9  2~L21IlAI  C0&Lt   12 -1L. 2A±35    -122.L_~ZJ 2000    221__0TLAL-
1. In'.0tok"t coots
A. Vhoe
Vahila CI                                                   n             I   --                    -      1 30,000  30,000                          -        -30,000
M4ot orbikes                                                no            4     -     10                  2 4  4,000  1j,000f          40,000      _           -H-
Subtota  Vehicles                                                                                                        46.000        -40,000                      86.000
S. 1. Os..t5stcture
Constructi on 01 Secin    sSeach                                          I     1I                         2  5,000   5.000   soGoQ          -                -10.000
Cosr`uctio to    Ftrol Bases                            Bachi          2      -    10      -     -      2    500   1.000         -   sil           -            6,000
Road and Track Bhabilitation0  Conetruction                 km           10    10    25    25       -     70  1,500 _,j3LfL_   _5*g     2.l50   17.1lAl        - IDLO
Sub.totl ..treta t2are                                                                                                   21.000  20.000  42,500  37.500             121,000
C. Equipeet
RadiLo for VLehIle                                          no            I                   -            I   2,000   2,000        -                 -            2000
.Repsatr Sttion                                             no            I                                I         5,soo    ,o    -        -        -       - 5,500 
Port able Radios                                            no            4           to0                 14    870   3.460         -   B.03          -           12,160
batteries                                                   no            4     -     10      -     -     14     Is      240        -      50         -            1,190
Furniture _ Sectionl BaseS                               lump sum                                                      1.060            1.000         -       -   2,000
Work EqUipment                                           lump aum                                                      2.000        - 2.000           -            4,000
Generator                                                    no          1I                                2  3,000   3.000         . 3,000           -        - 6,000
Vate:r Tanks                                                *.o           3     -      3      -            6    200      600        -      600        -        -    1.200
Solr Ener.gy fete                                          sets           3     -                          3    S00   0.500         -- 1.500
Gas Cooler                                                   no           2      -     -                   2    200      4100                -4.00
Tants                                                       no.         - I060                            70      75     750             4.00Q        -             .250
COOeP",s                                                     no           s      -    30      -     -     30      20     100        -      600        -        -     700
Binoculara                                   n~     ~    ~~~          ~~~     ~~~~ ~~~~o 10  60  - - 70    150   1.300  .  ,00-  10,0
Sleeping Rags                             no          ~~~     ~~~~~        ~~~~~~~~~10  - 60  - - 70  60  600     -   2,00..                     4,200'
RuCkaSOhe                                    ~~~         ~~~     ~~~~~        ~     ~     ~~~~no  10  - 60  -70  30  300  1.000                     3,~100
CaeWing soet                                               sets          10     -     6                    0      1       0                 0                         0
Uniforms                             eats          10      -    6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:0  70  90  900        -    ,001                        7 .00
Canteenet                         sets                      1:t           0      -    60      -     -     70      Z0 ---In           -1=Df            - ___
EuhtO.s I  quipment                                                                                                      24.170         -42.2S0          -           k,420
0.studies 
Soci al  anbd Bnvironmental Study of Fencing Options   lump Sum                                                       50. 000                         -        -  50,000
'.Glaging
Fencing Naterials                                         per km                                          so 8  6  900     -   -       72,000-  72.0
Eneirgising Equipment                                   per 12 km                                          a       1,500   -        -14.400           -14:,400.
CJ..rJIn  sod Const"cucron                                per km                      so 8                so8  1,000        -80,000                   -            0.010
Eupee-Iiion                                              lump ci sumL s1l 0                                                                           ..       - ILAOA
Subtotal  aencimg                                                                                                       ____  ---            "0LO        -           76I2400
Total Investmeint Coats                                                                                                      141,170  20.000 301.150  37,S00           - 499,820
II. Recurrent Coaste
A.  seareMeatal SalarieS
Guards (703                                             man -ontha    120   120   940   S40   840 2,760           25   3.000   3,000  21.000  21,000  21.000  69,000
3. suboliateeselrsvel Allowances
Arl", CO-Ordinator                                      per month        12    12    12    12    12    60    g00   9.600   9,600   9,600   9,600   9.600  48.000
Section Co-Ordinato-s  (23                              per month       25    25    25    25    25.  125    200   5.000   5.000   0.000   5,000   5,000  25.000
parmaent GuardS (703                                    par miuth       120   120   840   840   840 2,760        30 _1_jHl  3L60    Lff 25.20   25_    _2LZ200  ALJ-
Subtotal SahsiStOAnC/ TrAvs  AllsmseCea                                                                                  16,200  16.200  39.600  39.600  39,600 1S5.800
C. Imorme"ats l parstiog Costs
Veh,ice Operatinj Coats                                monthly rate    12    12    12    12    12    60    150   1,600   1,600   1,600   1.800   1,600   9,000
Motorbike Operating Costs                              mnthly rate    24    24   166   148   1t8   552            50   1.200   1.200   8.400   8,400   6,400  27.600
Fenc ing Re:pair lstatrilet                              lump sum                                                          -        -   0.000   5.000   5,000  15,000
S4LecelsneOue                                            lumpi sun                                                     Lfl(l0   1A10M   L0jfl   2-000   2,000JJ
Subtotal lacreeantal Operating Costs                                                                                      LDflD   LSflfl  17AG20   17.200  172.00 _&I~600
Tatal Recurret costs                                                                                                         .2Iflfl -Z1-M-ff -1L-Of   7LD000 ?1L00   2U-.09
Total                                                                                                                         167,370  46,200 379.150 115.500  76.000 786.220
Mon Apr 15 12,48,47 196
9,-1 Putt Corridor



40:ebique
Tcenstrontier Conservation Area. A I0stitutIOnal StCengthening Project
Table 10. I4aPutO Ilephapt Reserve -Mergency Planl
Retailed Coats
___AL         ULuz  UJIL  ISIL  a    U9ZfL Total SO-L JIL2L   -12L   -L&2l    2000    200fl              Total
I. lEveatAmet costs
A. Vehicles
Vehicle 4s4                                 no           3-                  -2 30.000  60,000                              -                    0,000
Recontitiouing L-anderuimer              lump sun        I      --1  4,000 ....000lf                                 A__Ono
Subtotal vehislee                                                                                       04,000                                  -64,000
3. S.freetmtgetsg
Rehabilittation of Main Camp             luep sum                                                    20,000        .                             0,000
Construction of posts                      each         10o                              10    S00   5,000                          -soo
Construction of Field Housing              each          s             -                     1.000   ,,soo         -        -       -            7500
Road Rehabilitation A Conatructlon          km          25    25       -                  0  1.100  37.800  37.5000                             7S.000
sign Posts                               lump aum                                                     3.100        -                             I - -   250
enclosures (Vedaesol                     limp sum                                                    -2 flfl0      -                             2-000
Subtotal infrastructure                                                                                 74.S00  37.500         -                   113.o000
C. Rqipaisast
Portable Radio$                             no          10      -                         0    570   0.700                  -                - 8700
Repeater a Installation                  luap sum                                                     S,Soo        -                              ,soo
Batteries                                   no            3     -                   -     3      a5     255        -                         -      25
Solar Snergy Sets                          eats           3     -                   -     3    S00   1.500                  -        -             ,50
Purnitu.. - 6t1,1 OMfCO                    saet           0                               6  1.000   0.000                  -        -       -   6.000
Furnitufa   Hal, Offl,.                    met            I                               I       3.500   3.100    -                              3500
Wo.k Mquipd*ft                           lumep sue                                                    3,000        -                              3000
Gonerat.r                                    no           I                                I    3.000   3,000       -.                        - 3,000
cambs de Agua SlIlCtriCo                                 I                                I       3,0100   2,0100                   -            2.000
Gas Freezer                                  no            I                               I         400  400       -                         .     400
Gas Cooler                                   no           I     -                               200      200        -                         -     200
CoqMteer & Printer                           no           1     -                             4.000   4,000         -       -        -        - 4,000
Tents                                        nbo          5     -                                71      373        -                               37S
Coepagssa                                    no           S     -                                20      100        -                         -     100
Binoculars                                  no           10                              1       0    IS0   1,500  -                               ,500
Sleeping Bage                                no          35                              35      s0   2,100                                       2       ,100
Rucksack,                                    n0         35Is                             35      30   1.000-                                      1,050
Camping eats                                sets         35     -             -     .    35      to1    350         -       -                       350
Unifonms                                    sets         70     -             -70                90   6,300         -       -        -        . 6.300
Canteen Sets                                eat~    s                    35 .  .            -   351   0                       3Sf --      
Subtotal squieeAnt                                                                                      46.180         -                -        -45,160
D. Studies
Study On ToUrist Potential               lump sun                                                          -10.000          -10,000
S"bttal   ntplan                           lump am                                                           -         ______                     -I___
Sutto    tudiest                                                                                            2 ZL0OS                  __ 2___
Total Isavsimeat Coat                                                                                       106,680  62,S00         -                   40.150
II. Reaurtet coats
A.inerumetal Salaries
Additional P8ciansnt Guards (20)        man amoths    240   340   340   240   340 1,200          25   6.000   6.000   6,000   6,000   6,000  30,000
D. Subaiatamae/TraveX AllavasoSa
Rseeeve Dlirector                       per  month       12    12    12    12    12    60    500   9,600   0.600   0,600   9.600   9,600  46.000
Assistant Director                      per  month       13    12    12    13    12    s0    200   2.400   2.400   2,400   2,400   2.400  13.000
Area Heeds (31                          per  mcoth       36    36G   36    36    16   160    100   3.600   3.600   3,600   3.600   3,600  18,000
Fermencot Guards (301                   per  month    3S0   360   360   360   360 1,8000         30  1.JLEO    1L0.0 .J0IGJI ..Ljod  0.J. 0 4L-000
Subtotal subeitataca/Travel Allouaaeso                                                                   36,400  26,400  26,400  36.400  26.400 133,000
C. l.ormsemtal Operatiag Costg
Veh:icl  operating Costs               monthly rate    12    12    12    12    12    60    450   5,400   6,400   0.400   5,400   5,400  27,000
NOine llanaous                           IUtA, SUM                                                   2..000  2..LDG     L.Dfl  2~z.00lf   2f000 _J.Q_0
subtotal lacoreOteftl Opanatlag Cost.                                                                   7LA0f  7..400 ..L401    7-40f  7LAS0 .2L000
Total Eaocuaeat Coote                                                                                       3LIfl*  ts.Ifl0  .3LJflfl ..jLSR  -1L10   lAIjOGQ
Total                                                                                                        236,400 102,300  30,400  30,600  36.800 448,i50
Mon Apr 1S 12,46,55 1996
10-1 H4apoto Sitephant seserve - Emergency Plait



Mosambigue
Trnaofxontier Coooer-vatlon Areas & Institutional SLrengtheninig P-oJeQt
Table 11. Coionunlty A.areneSA L Pilot Activities
Detailed Costs
(USS)
- ouatirles                Unit                             nape Cont   __       ____--
Unit  __ 1997 197,  1999  Z000  20vl. Total  Cost- _1997                         1908 As   2000     _20QL    _ital.
I. rov-.ta.t Costs
A. Maputo Province
1. ilot CosSuntit.
a. Couveity Field Worksra
qalarig,                                           man yea.n         3     3      3     3      3    15 12,000    36,000    36,000    36,000    16,000    36,000   180,000
Sobsistanco/Travel Allo.annee                      man years         3     3      1     3      3    15  5,000    15,000    15,000    IS,000    15,000    11,000    75,000
Motorbike                                              no            3      -            -     -     3  4,000    12,000            -         -                     -    12,000
Training Materials                                  lump su.         3      -     -      -           3  1,000       3,Q ADD   -_                      :                  1 Q 0
Subtotal Comunity Field Workers                                                                                       66,000    51,000    51,000    51,000    51,000   270,000
b. Co_unity Activities
Provi8lonal Demarcation   DINAOvCA               per co-munity       4            4            -     8  3,000    12,000            -    12,000          -          -    24,000
Unepecified Studies                              per commuonity      4      -     4     -            a B  2.000    0,000           -     8,000          -          -    16,000
Flunds for Urgent Wildiite/COItlunity Conilicta lump sum p.a.        1            I     I      1     5 10.000    10,000    10,000    10,000    10,000    10.000    00,000
Con-unity Conservation Invetmment pund           per community       4      -     4      -           0 10,000        0QQ                40 000          -
Subtotal Co_ulity Activities                                                                                         7Q 0QQ   _lQ.°.0 7I0Q  _L OoLQQ
Subtotal Pilot Co.aitie                                                                                                 136,000    61,000   121,000    61,000    61,000   440,000
2. Capacity Buildiog gor Local NvO,s
Capacity Iluilding for Local Nv^O'                    lump 6..                                                         Q0 lMU0 10Q00_ iQ,QQQ   to-_92    b3L
Subtotal laputo Province                                                                                                   146,000    71,000   131,000    71.000    71.000   490,000
. ass & Manice  ProvinCeA
1. Ilot Cin-9"itie
a Co.suaity Field Worker;
Salarigo                                            man years        6     6      6     6      6    30 12,000    72.000    72,000    72,000    72,000    72,000   360,000
S.bsista.ce/Tr-vel Alloaces                         man years        6     6      6     6      6    30  5,000    10,000    30,000    30,000    30,000    30,000   150.000
Motorbike                                              n0           12      -            -     -    12  4,000    48,000            -               -          -         48,000
Training Materials                                  lump Sum        12           12                 24  1,000   - 12 000            -   02_Q    -       -       Z 4 0Q
Subtotal Couaity Field Work.rs                                                                                       162.000   102,000   114,000   102,000   102,000   582,000
b. Cimunity Activities
Provisional Demareation - DINAOJECA              per co-Unsnity    12       -    12                 24  1,000    36,000            -    36,000          -          -    72,000
Unspecified Studien                               per comunnity    12            12                 24  2,000    24,000            -    24,000                    4- ,000
Punds tor Urgent Wlildlife/Community Conflicts lupm Snu  pa.         4     4      4     4      4    20 10,000    40,000    40,000    40,000    40,000    40,000   200,000
Community Conservation Investment Fund            per community    12       .    12                 24  5,000    6  00Q        -        60000  _                   ,   120 00Q
Subtotal Co_uoity Activities                                                                                         10Q00Q   40-000   160 00QU- _ -      0iQ    40 000   44000 O
Subtotal Pilot Counialties                                                                                              322,000   142,000   274,000   142,000   142,000 1,022,000
2. Capacity Suilding for Local MOO's
Capacity Suilding for Local NGOO0                      lump sum                                                      ISQi        15.0_    Q            5000 .12Q° ._. 75iiQ
Subtotal Ga.. & laic. ProvIncos                                                                                         -_U7. OOQ   -  _57QQ2QL             15700 noo   1570O 1-0970Q
Total                                                                                                                            483,000   228,000   420.000   228,000   228,000 1,587,000
Hon Apr 15 12:49 02 1996
11-1 Community A.areness & Pilot Activities



Appendix 12
1997                   1993                   1999                   2000                    2001
ID   Task Name                  Duration  Qtr 4   tr I iQtr 2 Otr 3 Otr jQUt 1Qtr2|Qtr33|Qr4  Qtr 1rtr Qtr                           3
I    INSTITUTIONAL & POLICY        1327d                              J            _
2        Policy Developmnent        2SId  4
4        Equipment & Infrastru      412d   _
C            Vehicle Procuremen      64d
S            Equipment Procure       64d
7            Equipment Procure       64d
S            Intrastruclure Devel   326d                              I
___        Technical Assistance       1304d
10           Advisor (DNFF          1304d
11  u        Advisor (SPFFB-Ma      1043d                                                            - ---_-_--------__------_
12           Advisor (SPFFB-Ga      1043d   ;i
13               Park Management        522d
14            Community Progra  522d   _                    ___
16    CommercialUBusine  783d  _______
16           M onitoring   &    Evalua  522d             - ---------_-_-----------------------
17       Training Progranmne        1304d
19       International Collabora    1305d                             I                       I
20           Information Sharing/   1304d           _                _   __
21            Formal Agreement/        Od                                                                               111
22           Transirontler Conse     522d
23   HABITAT & WILDLIFE MAN         1304d                              I                                        _
24       Maputo Elephant Rese       1304d                              I                      I
26           Vehicle Procuremen       64d
Task                                  Summary                                Rolled Up Progress
Protect.
Date. Mon 4j22/96                    Progress                              Rolled Up Task
Milestone                             Rolled Up Milestone K



AppendIx 12
r  1997                1998                  1999                    2000                   2001
IO   Task Name                  Duration  Qtr 4 Gtr 1 Qlr 2 Qtr 3  1 Qtl 4 qtirl |Qtr2  Qtr3 Qtr4 iQtr  itr2 Qtr3 Qir4 Gtr_ 1Qtr2 10tr3 lQtr4 lQtri ltr2 l Olr 3 tQr4 Gt i
26           Equipment Procure       64d
27           Equipment Procure       64d
29           Infrastructure Devel   326d
29           Management Plan/S      129d
30           StaMng/Operations     1 304d
31       Zinave National Park      1304d
32           Vehicle Procuremen      64d
33           Equipment Procure       64d
34           Equipment Procure       64d
35           Intrastructure Devel   326d             __;
36           Management Plan/S       1 29d
37           Staffing/Operations    1 304d
38       Banhine National Park      1304d
39           Vehicle Procuremen       64d
40           Equipment Procure        64d
41           Equipment Procure        64d
42           Infrastructure Devel    326d
43           Management Plan/S       1 29d
44           Stafllng/Operatlons    1304d            _             ...
45       Futi Corridor              1304d
46           Vehicle Procuremen      64d
47           Vehicle Procuremen      64d                                                     -
48           Equipment Procure       64d
Task                                  Summary                               Rolled Up Progress
PrDoect,                            Progress                              Rolled Up Task
Milestone                             Rolled Up Milestone (



Appendix 12
__   _   __   _1_   1997        199i                   1999                 _ 2000                   2001
ID   Task Name                  Duration  Qtr4 Qr 1 |Qlr  Qtr3 Qtr4 Qlr 1 2Qr2 Qr3 Ql4 Qt 1 Qt2 Qt31Ot4! Qr 1 Q"r?I Qt3 Qt4 |QT1  t2Thtr3I4Qtr
49           Equipment Procure       64d
60           Infrastructure Devel   719d                                            _ -
61           Consultation/Socioe     197d |- -
62           Resource Use/Man        i 29d
63           Staffing/Operations    1304d                                   -
54       Coutada 16                 261d               _
66           Aerial Survey/Sludie    129d
s6           Management Plan         130d
67       Chimanimani TFCA           261d
66           Aerial Survey/Studie    129d
69           Managemeni Plan         130d
60   COMMUNITY AWARENESS           1326d                     _
61       Community Activities      1326d |                                                   I
62           Equipment Procure       64d
63           Stafligl/Operations    1304d
_4           Awareness Raising/     651 d
66           Local Management       261d                    -
66           Demarcation/Securi     393d
67           Resource Use Plan      261d                                         _
as           Conflict Resolution    261d
69           Communily Conserv       i96d
70           Negotiation with Priv  1 29d                                                        -
71           Awareness Raising/     651id                                                                                                        -------------_-
Task             -_                   Summary                               Rotled Up Progress
Project:                            Progress                              Rolled UpTas __
Date: Mon 4/22V96
Milestone         *                   Rolled Up Milestone  >



Appendix 12
1997            ~~~~~1998                19SS                   2000                   20
ID   Task Name                   Duration  Qt lr4 Qr  Qlr 2 Qlr 31 Gr 4 QrI Ql           r         1 1 G Qlr 21    trr 3 1  trr 4  QtatI  lr  G      Qtr QQtr  3 r 34 Gir l
72            Local Management       261d                                                                        -
73            Demarcalion/Securl     393d                                                                                              -
74            Resource Use Plan      261d
76            Conilict Resolution    262d                                                                                1     _     --_
76            Community Conserv      195d
77            Negotiation with Priv  131d
78       Capacity Building for L    1304d      ' 
80   MONITORING & EVALUATI          1304d
81       Equipment Procurement        64d
82       InstitutionaUPolicy Chang  1304d
83       Biological Monitoring      1 304d
84       Socioeconomic Assessm      1 304d
85       Project Implemenatilon a   1 304d
Task                                  Summary                   _            Rolled Up Progress
Project:                             Progress                               Roled Up Task
Date: Mon 4/22/96
Milestone                             Rolled Up Milestone  >






APPENDIX 13
MOZAMBIQUE TRANSFRONTIER CONSERVATION AREAS PILOT AND INSTITUTIONAL
STRENGTHENING PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT SCHEDULE
Proiect     Mission       Activity                                              Skill Requirement
Year        No                                                                                             SW
PY1            1        Project Launch: review of organization and           - Task Manager              2
management, establishment of accounting system,      - Financial                2
Feb. 1997    procurement arrangements and plan, establishment of    Analyst/Disbursement      2
service contracts, training program, work plans PYI.  - Procurement Specialist  2
Feb.                                                                           - Sociologist               2
1997/                                                                           - NGO Technical Expert
Jan. 1998                                                                       - M&E Specialist            2
2        Project launch review: procurement,accounting, training   - Task Manager         2
M & E system, PRAs and baseline surveys, and         - M & E Specialist         2
June 1997   intemational collaboration.                           - Procurement Specialist
- Sociologist              2
- Ecologist NGO            2
Representative            2
3
Review of field activities, training, procurement,   - Task Manager             2
Oct. 1997     disbursements, and PRA.                              - Conservation NGO          2
Discuss PYl performance and PY2 work program.         Representative            2
- Sociologist              2
- Procurement Specialist
PY 2
4        Review of field activities, training, procurement,   -Task Manager               2
disbursements, PRA, M&E, intemational coordination.    -M&E Specialist          2
Feb. 1998                                                         -Sociologist                2
Feb. 1998/                                                                     -NGO Representative         2
Jan. 1999
5        Review of activities, training, procurement, and     -Task Manager               2
June 1998    disbursements.                                       -Ecologist                  2
-NGO Technical             2
Representative
-Procurement Specialist    2
Appendix 13-1



6       Review of activities, training, procurement, and                              2
disbursements. Discuss PY2 performance.           - Task Manager             2
Oct 1998                                                        - Sociologist              2
-Ecologist                2
-NGO Representative
PY 3
7       Mid-term review and discuss annual work plan for PY 3.  - Task Manager        2
Feb.                     -Project Design                                    -Ecologist                 2
1999/Oct.    Feb. 1999   -Progress in institutional development             -M&E Specialist            2
2000                     -Effectiveness of community and government training  -Sociologist             2
programs                                          -Procurement Speciahst     2
-Effectiveness of policy and legal framework      -NGO Technical Expert      2
-Monitoring and evaluation
-Procurement
-Audits
-Disbursements.
-Task Manager             2
8                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-Sociologist/Ecologist2
Review of activities, procurement, disbursements,  -NGO Conservation         2
June 1999  financial performance, and international cooperation.  Specialist
9                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~-Task Manager  2
- Review of activities PY 3 and work plan PY 4.   -M&E Specialist            2
Oct. 1999                                                       -Sociologist/Ecologist     2
-NGO Technical            2
Representative
PY4           10
Review of activities.                              -Task Manager             2
Feb. 2000                                                      -Ecologist                 2
-NGO Representative       2
Feb. 2000/                                                                  -Task Manager              2
Jan. 2001       11                                                          -clgs 
Review of activities PY 4, disbursements.         -Ecologilst                2
Oct. 2000                                                       -M&E Specialist            2
PY5
12
12 . ~~~~~~~~~~~-Task Manager                                           2
Feb. 2001    Review of activities.
Feb.2001/                                                                   -Ecologist                 2
Jan. 2002                                                                   -NGO Representative        2
13
Oct. 2001    Review of activities, PY5, disbursements.          -Task Manager              2
-Financial Analyst        2
Appendix 13-2



14        Grant Closing.
Feb. 2002/
Aug. 2002   June 2002
15          Review of activities disbursement, implementation  -Task Manager              2
completion report.
Aug. 2002
Appendix 13-3



I



APPENDIX 14
MOZAMBIQUE
TRANSFRONTIER CONSERVATION AREAS PILOT AND INSTITUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
PROJECT
BIBLIOGRAPHY
Agostini, Paola (1994). Back to Office Report: The role of GAZAF Safari in the development of
the TFCA project.
Bila, S.(1996) Programa de Formasao no Ambito do ACTF. UEM, Maputo.
Boyd, C. (1996) Private Sector Strategy, DNFFB, Maputo.
Boyd, C. (1996) Socio-economic Survey of The Proposed Futi Corridor Zone
CARE Internacional (1995) Pilot project proposal: Integrated conservation and development in
the Gazaland Transfrontier Conservation Area. CARE Internacional, Maputo.
CARE Internacional (1995) Relatorio do trabalho de consulta as comunidades e instituigoes na
TFCA de Gaza. CARE Intemacional, Maputo.
CARE Intemacional (199Sa) Seminario de consulta participative as comunidades e instituicoes
das Areas de Conservacao Transfronteiras para o Projecto de Apoio
Institucional as Provincias de Gaza e Inhambane. CARE Intemacional, Maputo
Chitara, S. (1995) letter to World Bank on the feasibility of freezing Greater Gaza TFCA land
against concessions. DNFFB. 15 September 1995.
Coopers and Lybrand Associates.(1994). Masvingo Province Tourism Development Strategy:
Outline and Proposal. Unpublished Report.
Cunliffe, RN (1994). Save Valley Conservancy Community Based Projects: Overview and
Presentation of Project Concepts. Report prepared for Beit Trust, World Wide Fund for Nature
and Department of National Parks and Wildlife Management (Zimbabwe) on behalf of the Save
Valley Conservancy.
Davis, S. D., Heywood, V. H. and Hamilton, A. C. (1994) Centres of Plant Diversity: A Guide
and Strategy for their Conservation. WWF/IUCN.
Appendix 14-1



de Sousa, C., Juma, J. & Serra, A. (1995) Relatorio do trabalho consultivo na area de
conservacao transfronteira de Chimanimani. Centro de Experimentacao Florestal, Maputo.
De Vletter, R. (1994). Proposal for a Sustainable Development Activity in Southern Maputo
Province. Unpublished report
De Vletter, R. (1994). From Conflict to Cash Flow, The Story of the Mahenye CAMPFIRE
Project. Unpublished report.
De Vletter, R. (1995) The GEF Transfrontier Conservation Areas and Institutional Strengthening
Project: interim preparation report for DNFFB. World Bank, Maputo.
Direccao Nacional de Florestas e Fauna Bravia (1994) Gorongosa - Marromeu: management plan
for integrated conservation and development, 1995-1999. DNFFB, Maputo.
Direccao Nacional de Florestas e Fauna Bravia (1995) Programa Nacional de Florestas e Fauna
Bravia, 1995-2000. DNFFB, Maputo.
Direccao Nacional de Florestas e Fauna Bravia (1995) Concept note and background paper on
the Gazaland Transfrontier Conservation Area. DNFFB, Maputo.
Direccao Nacional de Florestas e Fauna Bravia (1995) GEF Transfrontier Conservation Areas
and Institution Strengthening Project. Phase 3: Final project preparation. DNFFB, Maputo.
Direccao Nacional de Florestas e Fauna Bravia (1995) report on Kruger visit and agreement.
DNFFB, Maputo.
Direccao Nacional de Florestas e Fauna Bravia (1995) Transfrontier Conservation Areas and
Institution Strengthening Project: Concept paper. DNFFB, Maputo.
Direccao Nacional de Florestas e Fauna Bravia (1995) Maputo Transfrontier Conservation Area,
Mocambique: Funding proposal for submission to Government of Switzerland. DNFFB,
Maputo.
Direccao Nacional de Florestas e Fauna Bravia (1995) Workshop on the Transfrontier
Conservation Areas and Institutional Support Project. DNFFB, Maputo.
Direccao Nacional de Florestas e Fauna Bravia (1995) Plano das necessidades da DNFFB.
DNFFB, Maputo.
Direccao Nacional de Florestas e Fauna Bravia (1995) Plano das necessidades dos SPFFB
Maputo. DNFFB, Maputo.
Direccao Nacional de Florestas e Fauna Bravia (1995) Plano das necessidades dos SPFFB
Manica. DNFFB, Maputo.
Appendix 14-2



Direccao Nacional de Florestas e Fauna Bravia (1995) Plano das necessidades dos SPFFB
Inhambane. DNFFB, Maputo.
Direccao Nacional de Florestas e Fauna Bravia (1996) Transfrontier Conservation Areas and
Institutional Strengthening Project. The Chimanimani Community Liaison Project, Maputo.
Direccao Nacional de Florestas e Fauna Bravia (in prep) proposal to Ford Foundation for
funding of community liaison in Chimanimani.
Direccao Nacional de Florestas e Fauna Bravia & Endangered Wildlife Trust (1995) Relatorio
do workshop sobre a proposta para o projecto da Area de Conservacao Transfronteira de Maputo
e desenvolvimento da Reserva do Maputo. DNFFB, Maputo.
Du Plessis, P. and Grossman, D. (1994). Proposed Private Sector Involvement in Gaza East
Transfrontier Conservation Area. Unpublished report.
EDG (1992). Mozambique Transfrontier National Parks and Institution Strengthening Project:
Report from First Preparatory Mission. The Environment and Development Group, Oxford.
EDG (1994). Mozambique Transfrontier Conservation Areas and Institution Strengthening
Project: Preparation Studies. The Environment and Development Group. Oxford.
FAO/IC (1993). Mozambique Forestry and Wildlife Resources Project: Preparation Report.
GEF (1994). West African Pilot Community-Based Natural Resource and Wildlife Management
Project (GEPRENAF). Technical Report to the Memorandum and Recommendations of the
Director.
Gouws Uys & White Landscape Architects (1995) Expansion and rapid revitalization of the
Maputo Elephant Reserve. Blanchard Mocambique Enterprises, Maputo.
Hatton, J. C. (ed.) (1 995a) Status quo assessment of the Chimanimani Transfrontier Conservation
Area. IUCN ROSA, Harare.
Hatton, J.C. (ed.) (1995b) Actas do workshop sobre a elaboracao de uma proposta para o
Projecto da Area de Conservacao Transfronteira de Chimanimani. IUCN ROSA. Harare.
Hatton, J..(1996) Biodiversity Of the Proposed TFCA's, UEM, Maputo
Hatton, J.C., Chande, B., Serodio K. and Jujumen, A. (1995) A status quo assessment of the
Maputo Transfrontier Conservation Area. IUCN ROSA. Harare.
Appendix 14-3



Hughes, D.M. (1995) Community-based forest management in the Lucite (Rusitu) Valley:
people and policies of a proposed Mozambique-Zimbabwe Transfrontier Conservation Area.
University of California, Berkeley.
Iqbal, M. (1994). Mozambique Mission Report on UNEP/UNDP joint project "Environmental
Law and Institutions in Africa".
IUCN (1995) Contribuicao para os aspectos politico legais no ambito do Projecto de Areas de
Conservacao Transfronteiricas. IUCN, Maputo.
IUCN/WWF (1993). Parks for Life. Report of the IVth World Congress on National Parks and
Protected Areas.
Kiss, A. (1994). The World Bank and Protected Areas Conservation in Africa: Some
Operational Quandaries. Document prepared for IUCN Commission on National Parks and
Protected Areas, CNPPA Africa Region Working Session
Landrey, K.W. (1994). Gaza East Transfrontier Conservation Area: A Motivation for Private
Sector Involvement.
Madope, A. (1996) Relatorio de Tete, DNFFB, Maputo
Mander, M. and Creemers, G. (1995) The economic potential of a conservation and tourism
development in the Gaza and Maputo Provinces, Mozambique. (draft). Institute of Natural
Resources, University of Natal, Scottsville.
Manecas, I. (1996) Ecological, Spatial and Social Information. WB Resident Mission, Maputo
Murphree, M. (1995) Summary report on human elephant conflict in areas adjacent to Maputo
Reserve. IUCN/DNFFB, Harare/Maputo.
Oglethorpe, J., Botha, M. & Boyd, C. (in prep.) Some environmental impacts of fencing the
Futi Corridor. DNFFB/Endangered Wildlife Trust, Maputo.
Ostrosky E. W. and Matthews W. S. (1995) The Transfrontier conservation initiatives in
southern Maputo Province, Mozambique, comments on feasibility of the Futi Corridor. Kwa
Zulu Department of Nature Conservation, Kwa Zulu.
Pereira, C.L. (1995) Transfrontier Conservation Areas preparation study: animal health
implications. Universidade Eduardo Mondlane, Maputo.
Price Waterhouse (1994). The Lowveld Conservancies: New Opportunities for Productive and
Sustainable Land Use. Compiled on behalf of Save Valley, Bubiana and Chiredzi
Conservancies (Zimbabwe).
Appendix 14-4



Silva, A. P. R. (1995) Area de Conservacao Trans-fronteira de Chimanimaini: relatorio da Fase
III. Servico de Florestas e Fauna Bravia. Direccao Provincial de Agricultura e Pescas, Provincia
de Manica, Chimoio.
Soto, B. (1995) note on meeting with Department of National Parks and Wildlife Management,
Zimbabwe. DNFFB, Maputo.
Spamer, Conrad. (1994) Reviving Maputo Elephant Reserve, On Track.
Republica de Mozambique (1995) Politica de Terras. Republica de Mocambique, Maputo.
Republica de Mocambique (1995) Principais aspectos da politica nacional do turismo.
Republica de Mocambique, Maputo
Tanner, C. (1995) Os direitos das comunidades acerca do acesso e uso de terra e de outros
recursos naturais. Cambridge SEPR Associates, Cambridge.
Tinley K.L. (1990) A strategy for the most beneficial use of Mocambique's wildlife and
wilderness resources. FAO contract MOZ/86/003 (unpublished).
Thompson, 1. (1995) letter to DNFFB outlining conditions for removal of Tembe elephant
fence along international border. KZDNC, I November 1995.
van Vyk, A.E. (in press) Biodiversity of the Maputaland Centre. In: Proc. Symp. Biodiversity in
African Savannahs. Convenor: C. Geerling. 15th AETFAT Congress, 22-27 August 1994,
Wageningen, The Netherlands.
World Bank (1994). Incorporating Social Assessment and Participation into Biodiversity
Conservation Projects.
Zolho, R. (1995a) Plano operacional (emergencia) para a Reserva Especial do Maputo. DNFFB,
Maputo
Zolho, R. and Correia, A. (1995) Report on aerial survey of the Gaza/Inhambane Transfrontier
Conservation Area. Direccao Nacional de Florestas e Fauna Bravia, Ministerio da Agricultura e
Pescas, Maputo.
Zolho, R. (1995) Apoio institucional aos Servicos Provinciais de Florestas e Fauna Bravia de
Gaza. DNFFB, Maputo
Zolho, R. (1995) Relatorio do reconhecimento e proposta de programa de emergencia para o
Parque Nacional do Banhine (Gaza). DNFFB, Maputo.
Zolho, R. (1995) Relatorio do reconhecimento e proposta de programa de emergencia para o
Parque Nacional do Zinave (Inhambane). DNFFB, Maputo.
Appendix 14-5






MAP SECTION






IBRD 27820
32~'  M.'pad                                      't Ch
PROJECT SITES                 32n Machipcnd   'Vnuzi                        ChmoIo                             N
CONSERVATION ZONES:                                                                       p
NATIONAL PARKS
HUNTING RESERVES                                         j               ..N
SPECIALLY PROTECTED ZONE
EXPLOITATION ZONES:
-20'               HUNTING BLOCK                                       '
GAME ZONE
RIVERS                                                     )
°    SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS                               /
S    PROVINCE CAPITALS                                  !
6    NATIONAL CAPITAL
DISTRICT BOUNDARIES                              /                                           '
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
-~--   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Z I MBABWE                                                              2Z/         F NW |IE
22'                            7                      s..' ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N.F                  . 
- 227                                            ,/        - .          -           >,     . -    \/.                  //                                 22'-
-  -->_         ,pcttpo R _/                                                   3                 ";       ..  
N                            -K
\  ,q                                 ' A .      Al  ! ,i    ...
-24^                                                           . '  .   0o    ^> !  .  ffi   ,  K/ i' 0Inhambane  24
S      O        U    T      H              !V .,,,,",'!\',,,''.
\ ' '     Ch;6uto       >
I   '-,  ,  WE5:, di,w''''''"X"^ 's  ',,,  
! ^.1 9 i, 1 < 0 <3~Xai-Xoj
Res n  GarcialO-^  !0, sln I N D I A    N                                                        C F A N
A     F    R      I   C      A  eson         0      Sa6i.  .- QWCfhhiCa
0~~~~~~~
/     > ,t t>t $ IE''                                   /
/ \ - X ~~~.:  9Marracuene
- 26^                         j              '   ,            .    6MAPUTC)                       M  O  Z            A  M  B I Q  U  E                    26'
SOUT   maa/h-
A Ri C  A                     0'aFpn 0iTRANSFRONTIER CONSERVATION AREAS
) -k ?,rFt               TRNSPIlOT AND INSTITUTIONAl
I SWAZILAND !  ...... i . 0 STRENGTHENING PROJECT
l t   Q                                             PROJECT SITES
'      '                              C        ~         ~~~        ~        ~~~         ~        ~~~~~ 100  200  300 KILOMETERS
The boundaries, colors, denominojions and any other informojion
shoan on this map do not imply, on the port of The World aonk Group,
any judgment on th legol status of any terriory, or any endorsement
or acceptance of such boundaries,
-28' 30                                      32                                        34-                                      36c                       28'-
MAY 1996






I
I



IMAGING
Report No:            15534  MOZ
Type: PD
@    Printed ont recycled paper.



