Document of
The World Bank   FILE COUPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2488-IVC
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST
FOR A
SECOND TOURISM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
May 2, 1979
' This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autborization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(September 1978)
US$1 = CFAF 220
ABBREVIATIONS
BCEAO     Banque Centrale des Etats d'Afrique de l'Ouest
BIDI      Banque Ivoirienne de Developpement Industriel
CAM       Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement
CCCE      Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique
CCI       Credit de la Cote d'Ivoire
CSPPA     Caisse de Stabilisation de Prix des Produits Agricoles
FNI       Fonds National de Financement
GTZ       German Technical Assistance Agency
ICTA      Ivory Coast Travel Agency
ONT       Office National du Tourism
SIETHO    Societe Ivoirienne d'Expansion Touristique et Hoteliere
SONAFI    Societe Nationale de Financement
SSE       Small-Scale Enterprise
SME       Small- and Medium-Scale Enterprise
USAID     US Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
CCI: October 1 - September 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IVORY COAST
SECOND TOURISM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            The Republic of the Ivory Coast.
Beneficiaries:       Credit de la Cote d'Ivoire (CCI)
Republic of the Ivory Coast
Amount:              US$14.2 million.
Interest rate:       7.9 percent per annum
Terms:               Amortization of $12.0 million to be on-lent to CCI
would conform substantially to the aggregate of the
amortization schedules applicable to the specific
investment projects financed by CCI out of the
proceeds of the proposed loan. $2.2 million to be
used by the Republic of the Ivory Coast would be
repaid in 17 years, including 4 years of grace.
Relending Terms:    $12.0 million of the proceeds of the loan would be
relent to CCI on the same terms as the Bank loan.
The foreign exchange risk would be borne by
Government for a fee of 1 percent to be included
in the interest rate charged by CCI to the ultimate
borrowers.
Project              The project aims at supporting development of tourism
Description:        as a means of diversification of the economy and as
a source of income, employment and foreign exchange
earnings for the Ivory Coast. It would provide US$12.0
millionlong-term financing for hotel construction
through CCI; US$1.0 to finance a wildlife program; and
US$1.2 million to finance a technical assistance
program in the Ministry of Water and Forests, CCI, the
Office National du Tourism (ONT), and SIETHO. The
project does not face any special risks.
Costs and            Total project costs, including $0.1 million taxes
Financing:         applicable to the wildlife component, are estimated at
US$63.6 million of which about US$39.4 million is in
foreign exchange. (Hotel investments are exempted
from customs duties and value added taxes under the
Investment Code.) A summary costs table follows:
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
US$ Million
Local          Foreign            Total
Hotels                              17.4            28.7              46.1
Wildlife                             0.9              0.7              1.6
Technical Assistance                 0.2              1.0              1.2
18.5            30.4              48.9
Contingencies:
Physical (10 percent)              1.9             3.0               4.9
Price (20 percent)                 3.8             6.0               9.8
5.7             9.0              14.7
TOTAL                         24.2             39.5              63.6
Following is a table indicating the financial plan for
the various project components (in US$ millions):
Hotels Wildlife Tech. Asst. Total
IBRD                       12.0      1.0          1.2       14.2
Government                    -      1.3          0.2         1.5
Financial interm.          26.9        -             -      26.9
Private investors          21.0        -            -       21.0
TOTAL                59.9     2.3           1.4       63.6
Estimated                                          (in US$ Millions)
Disbursements:                           FY80  FY81  FY82  FY83  FY84  FY85
Annual                1.8   5.0   3.0   2.1   1.5   0.8
Cumulative            1.8   6.8   9.8  11.9  13.4  14.2
Rate of Return:       Over 14 percent.
Appraisal Report:   No. 2371-IVC dated May 2, 1979.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF THE IVORY COAST
FOR A SECOND TOURISM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of the Ivory Coast for the equivalent of US$14.2 million to
help finance a second tourism development project. The loan would bear
interest at 7.9 percent per annum. Twelve million dollars of the proceeds of
the loan would be relent at the same interest rate to Credit de la Cote
d'Ivoire (CCI) who would, in turn, onlend this amount to hotel promoters for
up to seventeen years, including an appropriate period of grace, with an
interest rate of 12.0 percent per annum. Amortization of this part of the
loan would substantially conform to the aggregate of the amortization schedules
applicable to the specific investment projects financed. US$2.2 million of
the loan, to finance technical assistance and a wildlife program, would have
a term of 17 years including 4 years of grace.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The Report No. 1147b-IVC "Ivory Coast:  A Basic Economic Report"
was circulated to the Executive Directors in May 1977. Its principal find-
ings and conclusions, updated by missions which visited the Ivory Coast in
October 1978 and February 1979 are incorporated in the following paragraphs.
Annex I provides basic country data.
Past Performance
3.        Throughout the 1960's Gross Domestic Product (GDP) grew at a high
annual rate of about 8.3 percent; however, during 1971-75, economic growth
slowed to an average of 5.6 percent per annum partly because of the effects
of adverse climatic conditions in the early years of the period and the
impact of worldwide recession, and partly for structural reasons. In 1977,
per capita GNP reached US$710, one of the highest in Africa. The good over-
all performance of the Ivorian economy over the last 17 years has resulted
from a combination of the following factors: large agricultural potential
and early identification by the Ivorian Government of the best opportunities
for developing this potential; liberal government policies vis-a-vis foreign
private investment as well as importation of foreign labor and managerial
talent; and generally adequate public finance performance and availability
of external aid.
1/   Substantially identical with Part I of the President's Report
No. P-2408-IVC for an Artisans, Small and Medium Scale Enterprises
Project, dated February 12, 1979.



- 2 -
4.        Favorable ecological conditions in the southern region give the
Ivory Coast a comparative advantage in the cultivation of tree crops (par-
ticularly cocoa and coffee) and in the exploitation of timber resources.
From the early years of independence, the efforts of the Government were
concentrated on the agricultural and forestry sectors. Large investments
were made in transport infrastructure to open up new forestry and agricul-
tural areas, and in agricultural research programs. Adequate guaranteed
producer prices and other incentives were introduced to which a dynamic
smallholder subsector has responded well. Government-owned large-scale
plantations with outgrower components were developed for oil and coconut
palm. Rapid growth has been achieved in the production of cotton, pineapple,
palm and coconut oil, cocoa and coffee, for the last two of which the Ivory
Coast is now the third largest producer in the world.
5.        A long period of political stability, combined with the free trans-
ferability of profits and capital, has created an aura of confidence abroad
which assured access to foreign capital. However, the necessary technical
skills to foster the planned development were lacking in the country, and
the Ivorian community welcomed the wide variety of foreign managerial and
technical assistance which rapid growth required. A member of the franc
area and a strong supporter of monetary and economic cooperation, the Ivory
Coast has always been willing to welcome new regional institutions; it joined
the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), and has recently
helped promote the CIMAO project, which is the first regional industrial
undertaking involving both French and English speaking countries in West
Africa. An important feature of this cooperation with neighboring coun-
tries, which has been beneficial to all parties concerned, is the large
influx of unskilled labor from less well endowed Sahelian countries, par-
ticularly Upper Volta and Mali. In 1976, the foreign population of the
Ivory Coast (mainly non-Ivorian Africans) was 1.5 million, i.e. about 25
percent of the country's total population.
6.        The factors mentioned above have enabled the external sector to
grow rapidly, and the value of exports and imports increased more than six
times from 1960 to 1975. The trade balance during this period was positive
and amounted to 14 percent of export earnings. However, the deficit on
non-factor services, workers' remittances and direct investment income
has never allowed a surplus on the current account. The most noticeable
aspect of export earnings in recent years has been the high prices received
for coffee which increased by 60 percent in 1976 and a further 120 percent in
1977, and those for cocoa which increased by 20 percent in 1976 and a further
66 percent in 1977. Total exports receipts more than doubled from 1975 to
1977, when they reached approximately US$2.7 billion. However, merchandise
imports increased by 70 percent from 1975 to 1977 to US$2.2 billion, partly in
response to the import requirements of the increased public investment program
(see paragraph 7 below). The deficit on services and transfers also increased
at a rapid pace, amounting to more than US$800 million in 1977, but net
capital inflows of approximately US$500 million allowed a foreign exchange
reserve build-up of US$200 million.



7.        The success of the Ivorian economy is to a substantial extent
attributable to generally sound government policies regarding public finance
and external aid. The public sector generated savings which, after debt ser-
vice, financed about 50 percent of the public investment program. The level
of public investment is projected in the five-year plans and implemented
through a series of rolling three-year investment programs and annual invest-
ment budgets. The 1976-80 Plan called for public investment of about US$5
billion, the equivalent of about 30 percent of projected GDP (compared to 23
percent during 1971-75). The main objectives stated in the Plan were to
further increase production in developed regions, develop agriculture in poor
Savannah areas, accelerate the opening up of the southwest, and substantially
increase social services. During the last two years, however, public invest-
ment has increased substantially beyond what was envisaged in the Plan as
funds became available from coffee and cocoa export receipts and as the
country borrowed extensively abroad. New investments were programmed to
expand education and other social services, to develop sugar production into a
major industry, and for a variety of projects in transportation, energy and
other fields. State enterprises have played a substantial role in this
expansion, especially in that portion financed by external credit. The
increased reliance on external capital is reflected in total external debt
(disbursed and undisbursed) which stood at US$1.5 billion at end 1975, US$2.2
billion at end 1976, and US$3.6 billion at end 1977. The implications of the
sharp rise in external public debt are discussed below (paras. 13 through 16).
Recent Development Issues
8.        To maintain the momentum of recent years and help broaden the access
to the benefits derived from it, the Government will need to persevere with
existing policies designed to diversify the economic base, improve income
distribution, increase the participation of Ivorian nationals in the manage-
ment of the economy, and maintain a public investment program of appropriate
dimensions. Current government policies are directed with some success to
protecting the export-oriented economy against fluctuations in world market
prices and to promoting more balanced regional development. Agriculture
remains the most important sector, but the share of manufacturing in GDr
has increased from 4 percent in 1960 to 13 percent in 1976. Within agri-
culture, the production of new crGps such as bananas, pineapples, rubber,
cotton, coconut and palm oil has been encouraged, resulting in a decline
of the share of cocoa and coffee in agricultural exports from 72 percent in
1960 to 51 percent in 1976. In 1977, a year of very high coffee and cocoa
prices, these commodities' share of exports rose to 60 percent. As part of
a more balanced regional development policy, large infrastructure invest-
ments are underway in the southwest in an effort to develop access to that
potentially rich region.
9.        Better income-earning opportunities are being provided for the
population in poor rural areas in the north following the identification
and cultivation of improved varieties of cotton, and the promotion of ox-
drawn methods of farming. Income distribution is being further improved



- 4 -
by increases in agricultural producer prices, implementation of wage poli-
cies which favor the urban poor, and execution of regional investment pro-
grams. As a result, income inequality has diminished in recent years, with
the poorest 40 percent of the population currently receiving about 20 per-
cent of total income.
10.       Progress in the Ivorianization of capital and labor remains limited.
While agriculture is almost entirely in Ivorian hands, foreign ownership is
still important in forestry, industry and modern commerce. However, educa-
tion and training are given very high priority in the allocation of govern-
ment resources; increasing recognition is given to the employment potential
of the informal sector and the Government is sponsoring a variety of programs
designed to promote the development of small-scale industrial and commercial
enterprises.
II.       These new policies are being implemented at some cost.  The
development of new products, new sectors and new regions yields decreasing
returns on investments. For example, agricultural diversification is being
extended to crops with lower comparative advantage; forest reserves may be
depleted in ten to fifteen years unless costly reforestation programs are
started; the best opportunities for import substitution in industrial develop-
ment are becoming exhausted; heavy infrastructure and productive investments
in the potentially rich but sparsely populated southwest yield initially low
returns; large programs to improve living conditions in the north and other
poor rural areas involve long gestation periods. Finally, the direct and
indirect costs of foreign production factors are increasing.
12.       The financial burden of the expanded public investment program has
also increased despite the funding of a large proportion from the exceptionally
large surpluses accumulated in 1976 and 1977 in the stabilization fund (equiv-
alent to about US$1.5 billion). Thus, the program still relies on external
credit for 40 percent of its funding, about 85 percent of which comes from
private banks and suppliers. This represents a large increase from previous
years. The overall terms and conditions of external public debt are hardening,
reflecting increased reliance on commercial credit, and the grant element of
public and private lending to the public sector declined from 29 percent in
1969 to 8 percent in 1976. The increased costs of development, the larger
scale of investment now being undertaken and envisaged for the future and
the heavy reliance on foreign commercial credit to fund a major portion
of investment, point to the necessity of measures to ensure that the limits
of absorptive capacity are not exceeded and that repayment capacity is not
strained. The substantial decrease in external borrowing during 1978 when
commitments were $900 million, or one-half the amount committed in 1977, is an
encouraging sign that the Government of the Ivory Coast is aware of the
situation. Other recent restraining measures include a much stronger control
by the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement over the state enterprises' borrowing
and investment programs.



-5-
Prospects
13.       Provided the Government becomes more selective in determining in-
vestment priorities and limits external borrowing to prudent levels, the
medium- and long-term prospects of the Ivorian economy remain favorable and
an annual rate of growth of about 6 percent is feasible for the eighties.
14.       The economy has considerable potential for further development of
traditional export crops. Moreover, after large initial investments have
been made, output of new products and development of new regions will start
to yield substantial benefits and can later be expanded at reasonable eco-
nomic cost. The Government is planning to review the system of protection
and tax holidays which has encouraged some marginal import-substitution in-
dustries, and there is scope for expansion of export-oriented processing of
local raw materials. Finally, many aspects of the country's policies of
income distribution (preference for the family-size farm, programs to in-
crease agricultural productivity in the poorer north, and the promotion of
the informal sector and of small-scale industrial and commercial enterprises)
are fully compatible with sustained economic growth.
15.       It is unlikely that the high prices for coffee and cocoa will per-
sist and export earnings will probably be considerably less buoyant in the
near future than in the past two years, despite some mitigating effects of
diversification into other export products. Imports, however, have increased
substantially and the large deficit on services will remain as long as the
country relies heavily on foreign factors of production. Thus pressures on
the balance of payments will remain. The size and financing of the public
investment program will be a key element in determining the extent of these
pressures.
16.       The authorities are therefore engaged in a review of new commit-
ments and indications are that the three-year public investment program
1979-81 will be closely linked to available public savings plus official
development assistance. The aim is to carry out as much as possible high-
priority plan targets while achieving an external debt structure consistent
with the medium-term balance of payments prospects of the economy. By these
means it should be possible to keep the debt service ratio from rising above
25 percent during the next several years, and declining thereafter, thereby
maintaining the country's creditworthiness for borrowing on IBRD terms.
17.       Of the total external public debt outstanding at the end of 1977,
19 percent was provided bilaterally by governments, 12 percent by interna-
tional organizations (of which 55 percent by the Bank Group), and 49 percent
by private banks and bond issues, while 20 percent came in the form of sup-
pliers' credits. More than half of the total capital not supplied by inter-
national organizations came from four countries; France (27 percent), USA
(23 percent), Lebanon (5 percent), and Germany (3 percent). France and the
European Communities remain the principal source of development assistance
in grant form, accounting for about 3 percent of the flow of foreign assis-
tance to the public sector.



- 6 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE IVORY COAST
18.       Since 1968, when Bank Group operations in the Ivory Coast started,
lending has expanded rapidly and now includes thirty-four loans totaling
US$461.9 million (including US$14 million from the Third Window) and an IDA
credit of US$7.5 million. Fourteen of these thirty-five operations have been
for agriculture, supporting cotton, cocoa, rubber, oil palm and coconut devel-
opment. There were siX road projects. The remaining fifteen loans were for
education, telecommunications, the Abidjan sewerage and drainage system, water
supply, urban development, tourism development, small- and medium-scale enter-
prises, a regional cement project and a regional railway project. IFC's
involvement includes participation in the Banque Ivoirienne de Developpement
Industriel amounting US$423,500. IFC's Board also approved, in 1977, a 10
percent equity investment, equivalent to about US$880,000, in Etablissement
R. Gonfreville (ERG), the largest textile plant in the country. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank Group operations and notes on the execu-
tion of ongoing projects, with particular reference to those which are en-
countering problems in execution and giving rise to delays in disbursements.
19.       The main thrust of the Bank's lending program will continue to be
in the agricultural sector supporting the Government's emphasis on small-
holder production, where the benefits will more readily be felt by the small
farmers. A smallholder rubber project was approved in October 1978 and a
rural development project in the northeast will shortly be presented to the
Board. The Bank is presently helping in the preparation of two pilot projects
aimed at strengthening the newly created agencies in charge of rural develop-
ment in the Center and Southern regions, and is associated with the prepara-
tion of a mechanization study and pilot scheme, carried out by CCCE, to
determine the feasibility of introducing mechanized farming in the country.
The new emphasis placed by the Government on smallholder development has
involved the re-organization of the sector institutions and has delayed the
effectiveness of the Bank's fourth oil palm loan. However, the institutional
arrangements have now been finalized and the project is being re-appraised.
The Bank has also recently appraised a project in the forestry sector, the
third most important foreign exchange earner of the Ivory Coast, aimed at
developing 20,000 ha of plantations and strenthening the institutions con-
cerned.
20.       Another important sector for the Bank is transportation.  The Bank
was closely associated, as executing agency, with the 1969 UNDP Transport
Survey of the Ivory Coast, which has served as a basis for determining future
priorities among transport investments. Thus far the Bank has financed six
road projects totaling $123.3 million. The first project was completed in
December 1974 with final costs falling within appraisal estimates. The OED
report on this project dated June 28, 1977 recommended, inter alia, that more
emphasis should be given to road maintenance. This had been picked up in the
third highway project. The second road project was satisfactorily completed
in September 1975, after an initial delay caused by project modification and
subsequent poor work organization for the construction component. The third
and fourth highway projects incurred substantial cost overruns which the
Government is covering; otherwise execution is proceeding satisfactorily. The



- 7 -
fifth highway project approved in FY76 will contribute to a further improve-
ment of the primary road network of the country. A feeder roads and highway
maintenance project was approved in December 1977. For the future the Bank
is studying the possibility of extending a highway sector loan to the Ivory
Coast which would finance a portion of the country's highway investment
program for 1980-83. A railway project, focusing on the improvement of the
Bouake-Petionara section of the Abidjan-Ouagadougou rail line, renewal of
rolling stock, technical assistance and training, was approved in FY78. A
second railway project to complete the rehabilitation from Petionara to Tafire
is being prepared under the first project.
21.       Despite its rapid expansion, the education system of the Ivory Coast
has not provided the country with an adequate supply of skilled manpower. The
Bank has been closely associated with the Government's efforts to modernize
the education system, in particular, at the secondary and vocational levels,
through two education projects. A third project, covering mainly vocational
training and informal education in rural areas, has been appraised.
22.       The Abidjan sewerage and drainage project, approved in FY75,
covers the first phase of a ten-year government program to improve sanitation
in Abidjan. The Board approved, in FY78, a second project which includes
the second phase of the program and studies for the third. An urban develop-
ment project, whose primary aim is to help meet some of Abidjan's low income
housing and transport needs, was signed in December 1976. With respect
to the smaller towns, the Board approved in FY78 a secondary centers water
supply project. A secondary centers power distribution project is being
appraised.
23.       In view of the predominance of foreign ownership and management
in the private sector of the Ivorian economy, the Government is placing high
priority on strengthening local entrepreneurship. In support of this policy
the Bank extended a loan for the promotion of small-scale enterprises in
FY1976, which has been followed up by an artisans, small- and medium-scale
project approved in March 1979. The Bank Group also provided support for
medium-scale enterprises through another local development finance company and
a line of credit for hotel financing and technical assistance in the tourism
sector for which the proposed project would be a follow-up. In June 1976 the
Bank extended a loan to the Ivory Coast in support of the CIMAO project which
is sponsored jointly by the Governments of Ghana, Ivory Coast, and Togo.
CIMAO will utilize limestone deposits in Togo for the production of clinker
for the cement market of the three countries.
24.       The Bank Group's lending in the Ivory Coast has increased steadily
from a yearly average of below US$20 million during the early years to an
average of US$57 million annually in the 1973-78 period. The average annual
lending rate is expected to continue to grow substantially over the next few
years. The Bank Group's share of the Ivory Coast's external debt at the end
of 1977, stood at approximately 10.6 percent (including undisbursed). Its
portion of external debt disbursed is expected to rise from the present 6.4
percent to about 11 percent in the next ten years; its share of total debt
service, at present 3.6 percent, is expected to go up to about 6.0 percent
in the early 1980's.



- 8 -
PART III - THE TOURISM SECTOR
25.        Although tourism accounts for only about 1 percent of GDP, it is a
rapidly growing sector with good potential for contributing to the diversi-
fication of the country's economic activities and for the creation of new
opportunities for the generation of income, employment and foreign exchange
earnings. Tourism's main direct impact on the economy is through foreign
exchange receipts from visitors which increased to about US$30 million gross
in 1977 (1.0% of total receipts from goods and nonfactor service exports), up
from US$8 million in 1970. Employment in the sector amounts to about 5,000
jobs, mostly in hotels, restaurants and transport. In addition, there are
self-employment opportunities in the production and distribution of handi-
crafts and in other activities which supply part of their output to the hotel
industry. Budget revenues, deriving mainly from the tourism development tax,
hotel corporate income and staff salary taxes, currently amount to about US$5
million per year.
26.        The Ivory Coast has little potential for mass vacation tourism.
Transport costs from the main tourist generating countries are high and ser-
vices in the Ivory Coast are also expensive. The climate is hot in February
and March and rainy from May to July and undertows make swimming dangerous
on many beaches. Nevertheless, there is some scope for beach tourism and
Club Mediterranee has successfully promoted a village at Assinie, a resort
characterized by long expanses of sandy beach and palm groves. Tropical
forests and savannas complement the coastal lagoons of Abidjan, Assinie and
Grand Bassam, and provide an attraction for people who wish to experience
the "tropics" in relative comfort. Local customs, folklore and handicrafts
constitute other valuable tourism assets.
27.        Travel to the Ivory Coast is mostly business motivated and centered
on the capital, Abidjan, the main port of entry. Numerous restaurants and
night-clubs cater to visiting businessmen as well as to a large expatriate
community. Abidjan also has an active market for African arts and crafts,
sold in the numerous bazaars and galleries of the city.
28.        Since 1970 foreign arrivals by air to the Ivory Coast have increased
at an average rate of 17 percent per annum to 138,000 in 1977. This impressive
growth has taken place despite the relatively high cost of air travel to West
Africa and the insufficient hotel capacity. Europe accounts for 60 percent of
arrivals and Africa for 27 percent but Africa has been increasing its relative
share in recent years. Two thirds of the Europeans were French, followed by
Italians and Germans with 7 percent and 6 percent respectively.
29.        As of March 1977, overall hotel capacity in the Ivory Coast com-
prised 132 hotels with a total of 4,804 rooms, up from 2,381 rooms in 1971
(a growth rate of 13 percent). Only 50 of these hotels reach the minimum
standards needed for official classification. In addition, there are two
beach vacation villages and 82 unclassified hotels, mostly small pensions or



- 9 -
"hotels de quartier". Reflecting the growing pressure of demand on supply,
room occupancies in Abidjan hotels have risen from 73 percent in 1970 to 78
percent in 1977. The only dips in occupancy occur between May and August;
hotels are generally full in the other months of the year. To cope with
this situation, the Government instituted a number of incentives to encourage
private investment in the sector and requested Bank financing for hotel con-
struction in 1974. The incentives are in the form of import duty exemption
for equipment and construction materials and an income tax holiday and exemp-
tion from sales tax for the first seven years of operations. These incentives
are effective in increasing returns on investment and should be maintained in
the short- to medium-term to facilitate entry into the sector. Although the
hotels being built under the first Bank tourism development project (see para.
33 below) are expected to ease this situation, additional hotels will be
needed in the early 1980's to satisfy the growing requirements of the market.
Hotel Tariffs
30.       In common with Government practice in other economic activities
hotel tariffs are currently regulated by the establishment of ceilings on
prices which can be charged to hotel users. Hotel tariffs are controlled by
the Ministries of Tourism and Commerce who together form the commission on
hotel prices. Such controls are primarily designed to provide an orderly link
between prices in the sector and the general movement in price levels, and to
eliminate temporary fluctuations which could endanger the medium- and long-
term growth prospects of tourism-related activities. The Ivorian authorities
are aware of the distortions that price controls can bring about and review
the ceilings regularly to respond to general movements of prices and other
factors. In the context of the proposed project the government has agreed
to continue its practice of periodic reviews of hotel tariff ceilings and
to remove such ceilings as hotel capacity expands and competition heightens,
not later than December 31, 1981, by which time hotels financed under the
first project would be in operation.
Air Travel Policy
31.       A bottleneck to the growth of vacation tourism in the past has been
the Government's air policy which is designed to protect Air Afrique in which
the Government is a shareholder together with six other West African countries
and France (through UTA). Foreign carriers were limited to a few flights and
few seats per flight, and have had difficulty in the past getting permission
to fly extra flights, to sell seats above quotas, and to schedule charter
flights. Recently, however, the Ministry of Tourism,with Bank support, has
been successful in inducing the authorities to ease restrictions on these last
two items and now the civil aviation authorities routinely grant quota exemp-
tions and charter authorizations. This, together with the possibility of
foreign carriers operating additional "pool" flights with Air Afrique, has
resulted in better entry by air to the Ivory Coast.
Sector Institutions
32.       The central institution in the sector is the Ministry of Tourism,
which was created in 1971 as a successor to lower ranking institutions,



- 10 -
to set and implement tourism policy through: identification of zones for
tourism development and planning proposals for their implementation; marketing
and promotion of the Ivory Coast; regulation and control of the tourism sector
in general and of the hotel industry in particular; and coordination of public
and private activities in tourism. In a major reorganization of the institu-
tional structure in 1977, the execution of these functions was delegated to a
new Office National du Tourisme (ONT), a statutory corporation under the
tutelage of the Ministry of Tourism. Other institutions in the sector remain
under the tutelage of the Ministry of Tourism, such as SIETHO, the Government
owned national hotel chain, and the Ivory Coast Travel Agency (ICTA), a
tourism promotion agency. The current institutional structure is adequate to
insure proper coordination with other government departments on tourism-
related activities, like the development and administration of National parks
under the Ministry of Water and Forests, and to implement policies in the
sector. But the institutions themselves need to strengthen their technical
and managerial capability. The proposed project would help solve this con-
straint. Credit Cote d'Ivoire, partially through the first tourism project,
has established itself as the main source of commercial financing for hotel
construction and is discussed below.
First Tourism Project (Loan 1124-IVC)
33.       In May 1975, the Bank made a US$9.0 million loan to the Ivory Coast
to finance a first tourism development project. The project was primarily
designed to provide long-term financing to private investors for hotel con-
struction, to develop an expertise within CCI, the financial intermediary,
and in the Government in tourism investment, and to attract other sources of
finance to the sector.  Implementation of the project is proceeding satisfac-
torily although, at the initial stages, there were some delays reflecting the
longer than anticipated period required to promote and organize subprojects.
Seventy percent of Bank funds have been committed for four hotel sub-projects
and a fifth subproject, which has already been submitted for Bank approval,
would exhaust the line of credit. The project has been successful in esta-
blishing CCI as the leading tourism bank in the Ivory Coast and encouraging
private sector participation in the hotel industry. Private Ivorian interests
account for 50 percent of the ownership in the subprojects for which Bank
finance is already committed. International financial agencies and companies
provide the balance. A number of foreign management companies have been
attracted to the sub-projects and induced to hold equity participations.
Credit de la Cote d'Ivoire 1/ (CCI)
34.       CCI is a multipurpose development bank established in 1955 in Abidjan.
It finances housing, industry, trade, artisans, hotels, consumer durables and
1/   This subsection is substantially identical with the one included in
President's Report P-2408-IVC dated February 12, 1979 for an artisans,
small- and medium-scale enterprises project.



- 11 -
automobiles. It provides short-term (up to 2 years), medium-term (2-10 years),
and long-term (over 10 years) loans, makes equity participation and gives
guarantees to private or public corporations and individuals. CCI's initial
share capital of CFAF 200 million was gradually increased to CFAF 2 billion by
flay 1975. The Government is the major shareholder (82 percent). The Caisse
Centrale de Cooperation Economique (CCCE) holds 9 percent and the Banque
Centrale (BCEAO) the remaining 9 percent.
35.       CCI's present organization comprises a General Directorate and three
major departments (Investment, Finance and Administration). Project promotion,
appraisal and supervision are handled by the Investment Department which is
also in charge of arrears collection. CCI currently has five branch offices
in Bouake, Korhogo, Abengourou, Daloa and Man. The present Director-General
has been at CCI almost since its conception. He is assisted by a Deputy
Director General. As of June 1978, the total staff of CCI including the
branch offices amounted to 214 of which 33 are professionals. The profes-
sional staff is generally well trained academically, but has limited experience
and is thinly spread. At present, there are eight expatriates employed by
CCI, including three working in computing activities and an advisor to the
Director-General financed under the first tourism development project.
36.       CCI's operating guidelines were revised in May 1975 to incorporate
modifications regarding appraisal criteria, exposure limits, financial policy
and staff development which were suggested during appraisal of the first SEE
project. Equity investments are limited to 25 percent of a company's share
capital or 25 percent of CCI's net worth, whichever is lower. CCI's net worth
or 80 percent of project cost. Exceptions can be made for loans guaranteed by
the Government. These limits are satisfactory.
37.       In accordance with BCEAO guidelines, CCI's interest rates on medium-
and long-term loans now range from 6.5 to 13.0 percent and from 8.5 to 13.0
percent on short-term credits. Rates on the existing portfolio range from 5.5
percent to 13.0 percent. Deposit rates range from 2 percent to 9.0 percent.
38.       The bulk of CCI's resources have come from BCEAO rediscounts, term
borrowings from CAA and CCCE and term deposits from Caisse Nationale de
Prevoyance Sociele (CNPS) and Caise de Stabilisation des Prix des Productions
Agricoles (CSPPA). CCI has also received financing from USAID through the
USAID/Conseil de l'Entente African Enterprise Program and three lines of
credit from the Bank; one for tourism (US$9.7 million in 1975) and the other
two for SME (US$5.6 million in 1975 and US$12.6 million in 1979).
39.       The level of CCI's operations increased from CFAF 5.4 billion in
FY1973 to CFAF 16.0 billion in FY1977. Over the last ten years lending for
housing has been decreasing somewhat while credits to industrial enterprises
and hotels have increased significantly. Lending for consumer durables has
been irregular while vehicle financing has increased sharply, including in
particular credit to small Ivorian trucking firms.



- 12 -
40.       At the end of FY77, CFAF 2.1 billion (US$9.5 million) of principal
and interest due was in arrears. Of this amount CFAF 1.2 billion, or 4.8
percent of the outstanding portfolio, was due for over six months. The
largest part of accounts in arrears (80 percent) affects housing loans,
for which security is good. There are no arrears on industrial loans, and
very few on automobile and consumer durable loans. It is clear, nonethe-
less, that CCI's record management system for arrears requires extensive
improvement. CCI's management is well aware of this, as are CCI's auditors,
and both have agreed to work towards the implementation of a new system
which will, inter alia, distinguish between principal and interest in arrears
and by age of arrears.
41.       Provisions against doubtful loans amounted to CFAF 730 million at
the end of FY1977 and CFAF 7.0 million for equity investments. Specific
provisions covered over 60 percent of loans in arrears in excess of six
months. In addition, there are three separate internal guarantee funds
totalling CFAF 911 million which provide additional amounts to cover possible
loan losses for automobiles, consumer durables and small-scale enterprises.
Finally, a provision for general risks is made each year (see para. 56 below).
This account amounted to CFAF 921 million in 1977. Based on this, and a
review of selected accounts outstanding, CCI's auditors concluded that the
level of provisions is adequate. The Bank concurs with this view.
42.       CCI's financial position is sound.  Assets reached CFAF 29.7 billion
as of December 31, 1979, over a two-fold increase since 1973. The term debt
ratio stood at about 5.1:1 as of end 1977, well below the 8 1/3:1 ratio agreed
to under the first SSE line of credit. As a public institution which is not
expected to pay dividends, CCI is not concerned to show a profit after pro-
visions but tries to maintain a solid balance sheet; thus gross profit in
excess of a nominal level is transferred to a tax-free general reserve account.
43.       In order to meet its total projected operations, CCI will have to
mobilize about CFAF 18 billion (US$81 million) in the next five years.  CCI's
pipeline of hotel projects consists of 7-8 projects requiring a total of about
US$10-12 million in financing from CCI. The proposed loan would cover about
13 percent of CCI's total needs, and the balance would continue to be provided
by the second loan for SMEs and advances from BCEAO, CAA and CCCE, plus an
anticipated increase in CCI's capital.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
44.       The proposed project represents a continuation of the Bank's
involvement in the tourism sector begun under the first tourism project.
It has been prepared by CCI with the assistance of the Bank in the course of
the first project supervision, as far as the line of credit is concerned,
and by the Government and GTZ (German Technical Assistance Program) with
respect to the wildlife component. The project was appraised in July 1978,
with a follow-up mission in December 1978. Loan negotiations took place in



- 13 -
Washington, D.C. on March 26-30, 1979. The Ivorian delegation was led by
Mr. Leon Naka, Director General of the Caisse Autonome d'Amortissement, and
included representatives of the Ministries of Tourism and Water and Forests,
SIETHO, and CCI. The project is described in detail in Staff Appraisal
Report No. 2371-IVC dated May 2, 1979 and summarized at the beginning of this
report.
Concept and Objectives
45.       The proposed project aims at fostering tourism development in the
Ivory Coast as a means of helping the diversification of foreign exchange
earnings and creating employment. It would also continue and expand the
institution building effort started with the first project. The proposed Bank
loan of US$14.2 million would provide for:
(i) a line of credit to CCI for hotel financing (US$12.0 million);
(ii) financing for a wildlife program (US$1.0 million); and
(iii) financing for a technical assistance program for tourism
sector institutions (US$1.2 million).
Description of the Project
Line of credit
46.         US$12.0 million would be onlent to CCI on the same terms as the
Bank loan to provide long-term debt financing for a portion of the foreign
exchange costs of hotel construction. A total of about 1,300 hotel rooms
would be financed under this part of the project in the period 1979-84. About
1,100 of these rooms are expected to be located in Abidjan, and the remainder
elsewhere in the country. Unlike the first project, which financed mostly
four- and five-star hotels (where the shortage of rooms was most acute) the
proposed loan would finance hotels in the three-star and lower categories,
where presently the shortage is most acute.
Wildlife program
47.       US$1.0 million of the loan would be used to finance the foreign
exchange component of a program aimed at realizing the tourism potential of
the Azagny National Reserve by preserving its wildlife and delicate ecological
balance while oyening up the area to tourists. Azagny is a relatively small
reserve (193 km ) located 90 km to the west of Abidjan surrounded by water on
three sides. Due to its relative isolation and difficult terrain (nearly half
the area is permanent wet land), Azagny has preserved several forms of West
African wildlife and flora which make it ideally suited for offering even to a
hurried visitor a glimpse of African wildlife. Moreover, the investment
necessary to open it up to the public is relatively modest. The proposed
program, which is based on the recommendations of a study conducted by German
technical assistance, consists of clear demarkation of the area, construction
of facilities and civil works to make the park accessible and entertaining to
tourists, and equipment and facilities for an effective surveillance of the
park.



- 14 -
Technical Assistance
48.       The loan would finance 156 man-months of technical assistance to
ONT, SIETHO, the Ministry of Water and Forests and CCI. The technical assis-
tance program for ONT would consist of two consultants, each for a two-year
period. One of them, already in place under the first project, is an expert
to assist ONT in the technical review of hotel projects. The other would be
an adviser on hotel investment promotion who would assist investors in organ-
izing their projects, obtain the necessary approvals and secure financing.
Assistance to SIETHO would consist of a financial expert responsible for
advising SIETHO at the corporate level, and an operations expert to advise on
the prepraparation of appropriate management systems, procedures and manuals
at the operating unit (hotel) level.  The need for this technical assistance
and the detailed terms of reference for the two experts would be confirmed
after the reports on audit and management studies, currently underway at the
Government's initiative, are completed (Section 3.03(b) of the draft Loan
Agreement). The Ministry of Water and Forests would appoint an engineer to
the project unit (see para. 51 below) for the wildlife component who would
coordinate implementation of the infrastruture and buildings in Azagny,
prepare tenders and supervise the works. Finally, the position of adviser to
CCI, created under the first project, would be maintained under the proposed
project for a two-year period.
Implementation
49.       CCI would implement through its hotel division, created under the
first project, the line of credit for hotel financing. All hotel subprojects
would be subject to CCI appraisal. CCI has agreed to calculate an economic
rate of return for all subprojects to be financed under the proposed loan
(Section 2.03(b) of the draft Project Agreement). The free limit for any
subloan would be US$500,000 up to an aggregate of US$3.0 million, i.e. 25
percent of the credit line. The hotel division of CCI would coordinate its
promotion effort with ONT, and a representative of the division would sit on
the interministerial committee which considers all applications for incentives
and would advise the committee on the financial aspects of all subprojects
submitted for award of incentives.
50.       CCI's performance under the first project indicates that with the
limited technical assistance provided for under the proposed project, it
would be able to use the credit line efficiently. The line of credit is
expected to be fully committed by the end of 1982 and the project to be
completed by the end of 1984. CCI would be required to submit to the Bank
regular operational and financial reports and, as under the first project,
to have its accounts audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank
(Section 3.02 of the draft Project Agreement).
51.       The Ministry of Water and Forests would implement the wildlife
component through a unit to be created for this purpose. This unit would be
responsible for project execution (civil works being carried out by the
Ministry of Public Works) and for coordination with other institutions



- 15 -
involved. The project unit would work closely with the Ministry's Depart-
ments of National Parks and of Conservation for surveillance of Azagny
and efftctive control of poaching. Operation of the park after completion of
the project would be the responsibility of the Department of National Parks.
For tourism management aspects, the project unit would work at a technical
level with the Department of Studies and Planning in ONT, and with CCI's Hotel
Department which would assist in finding private individuals or companies to
manage the concessions in the park.
52.       GTZ has just signed a three-year contract with the Ministry of Water
and Forests to continue providing technical assistance in park management and
has agreed to help with the implementation of the Azagny component. The leader
of the GTZ team, who is the same expert responsible for preparing the Azagny
feasibility study, would thus serve as director of the project unit, ensuring
continuity throughout project execution. GTZ assistance includes two scholar-
ships for training at the wildlife institute at Garoa, Cameroon (for the two
chefs de brigade), and short-term internships to visit other national park
systems. In addition GTZ would provide funds for training local residents and
boat owners as tourist guides.
53.       Prior to implementation of the wildlife component, and as a condition
of loan disbursements for this purpose, the legal status of the reserve of
Azagny would have to be changed by decree to that of a National Park to
provide full protection from farming and certain other uses in the area
(para. 4 of Schedule 1 to the draft Loan Agreement).
Project Costs and Financing
54.       Total project costs, including $0.1 million taxes applicable to the
wildlife component, is estimated at US$63.6 million of which US$39.4 million
would be foreign exchange. Hotel investments are exempted from customs
duties and value added taxes by the Investment Code. Costs have been esti-
mated on the basis of current construction prices for hotels and on the basis
of the GTZ report on Azagny and on data from the Ministries of Public Works
and Water and Forests for the wildlife component. The average cost per
manmonth of technical assistance has been estimated at US$8,600 (including
salary, travel and overhead costs when applicable).
55.       The line of credit of $12.0 million would finance 20 percent of
hotel construction costs. The remainder is expected to be financed by
financial intermediaries (US$26.9 million or 45 percent) and private investors
in the form of equity contributions (US$21 million or 35 percent). The loan
would also finance the foreign exchange component of the wildlife component
(US$1.0 million) and of the technical assistance costs (US$1.2 million). The
Government would finance the balance of the costs of these two last components
($1.5 million). The contracts for the incumbents of two technical assistance
positions to be maintained under the proposed project, expired in November and
December 1978. To assure continuity it is proposed to finance retroactively
the foreign exchange cost of these experts between expiry of their contracts
and the signing of the proposed loan (about US$100,000).



- 16 -
Relending Arrangements
56.       US$12 million of the proposed loan would be relent to CCI on the
same terms and conditions as the Bank loan. These proceeds would in turn be
relent to private enterpreneurs to finance hotel projects. CCI's onlending
rate would be 12 percent per annum, including 1 percent to the Caisse Autonome
d'Amortissement (CAA) to cover the foreign exchange risk which would be borne
by the Government, as under the first project (Section 4.03 of the draft Loan
Agreement). This interest rate is within the range of CCI's rates (see
paragraph 37 above) and would leave a satisfactory spread to CCI. Domestic
inflation has averaged about 10 percent in the past three years in the Ivory
Coast but is expected to drop to an annual rate of 7 percent over the life of
the subloans. Maturities of CCI subloans would not exceed 17 years and grace
periods would be equal to the construction period plus up to two years,
totalling in no case more than four years.
Procurement
57.       Procurement under the line of credit would be carried out following
CCI's procurement procedures which are adequate to ensure that goods and
services are suitable and reasonably priced. For the wildlife component,
buildings and infrastructure works would be contracted on the basis of local
competitive bidding; because of the size and nature of some works, such as
clearance of canals and construction of floating boardwalks, they would be
carried out by the park management on force account; equipment would be
procured through comparative shopping or local competitive bidding. Experts
financed under the technical assistance component of the project would be
employed under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
Disbursement
58.       Disbursements would be made on the following basis:
(a) 100 percent CCI disbursements under the line of credit
(US$12.0 million);
(b) 25 percent of expenditures in infrastructure works
(US$0.1 million);
(c) 65 percent of expenditures in buildings (US$0.5 million);
(d) 100 percent of the c.i.f. cost of imported equipment and
furniture (US$0.4 million); and
(e) 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost of technical
assistance (US$1.2 million).
Disbursement applications would be fully documented except for items under
(a) above where disbursements would be made on the basis of certification of
expenditures by CCI who would keep the documentation and make it available to
Bank supervision missions.



- 17 -
Benefits, Justification and Risks
59.       The hotel investment program to be financed under the project would
have a significant impact on employment, on the balance of payments and on
government revenues. During the construction period about 5,000 manyears of
employment would be generated and once the project would be completed about
1,500 permanent jobs would have been created in the hotels and as many jobs in
activities outside the hotels. Further incremental employment would be
created in sectors which supply part of their output to the tourism industry.
Foreign exchange receipts when all hotels would be in full operation in 1985,
are estimated at US$31 million per year, of which about 65 percent, or US$20
million, would represent the net annual inflow.  Public sector revenues from
the tourism development tax, income taxes on hotel corporate income and
salaries of hotel employees, sales taxes and import duties generated by the
hotels financed under the project, are estimated at US$8 million per year from
1992 onwards, when all exonerations provided by the tourism incentives law
expire.
60.       The financial analysis of a typical three-star hotel, to which the
bulk (85 percent) of the line of credit would be applied, shows a financial
rate of return of 6.7 percent on investment and 6.0 percent on equity, in
constant prices, with cash flow sufficient to provide an adequate debt service
and interest coverage. The economic analysis of hotel investments in Abidjan
(85 percent of the line of credit) shows a 14 percent rate of return on the
marginal unit of hotel capacity of the investment program financed under the
proposed project. This economic rate of return for the program, as it is
reasonably close to the opportunity cost of capital, suggests that the size of
the proposed program is optimal. The risk of overinvestment that would result
from a shortfall in demand would be minimized by the investment decisions of
the private entrepreneurs who would time their investments as required by the
market. The economic rate of return for the investment in Azagny Park (about
3.3 percent of project total cost) is estimated at 16.5 percent.
61.       The project does not face special risks.  Environmental consider-
ations of hotel locations and aesthetic aspects of the structures would be
routinely monitored by the Office National du Tourisme in the process of
approval of individual hotels.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of the Ivory Coast
and the Bank and the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and Credit de
la Cote d'Ivoire and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4(iii), of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.



- 18 -
63.       The draft Agreements conform generally to the normal pattern for
loans for tourism development projects. Special conditions of the draft
Loan and Project Agreements are listed in Section III of Annex III.
64.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
65.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 2, 1979



-19-                                         ANNEX 1
IVORY COAST - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
IVORY COAST                                           la
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                               - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL           332.0                                                  SAME       SAME    NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL    171.2                                MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME      INCOME
1960 Lb    1970 Lb ESTIMATE /b      REGION /c  GROUP /d   GROUP La
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                190.0       380.0    710.0            223.6      867.2      1796.4
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     76.0       228.0    366.0             86.7      578.3      1525.0
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                        3.9         5.4       7.3
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 21.8 If    28.0      34.3            13.6       46.2        52.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                      12.0        16.0      22.0            18.4       50.8        27.6
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    23.0        32.0      43.0            53.6       93.3       116.4
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                        42.7 LI     42.5      43.1            44.4       42.9        34.8
15-64 YRS.                        53.7 /gh   54.8       54.0            52.7       53.5        56.0
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  3.6 La,h    2.7       2.9             2.8        3.5         5.7
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             2.4         3.4 4t    4.2 Li          2.6        2.5         1.6
URBAN                            10.6 L]      8.7 Ak    9.9             5.8        4.7         3.4
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    46.0        46.1      45.6            46.9       37.8        27.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    26.4        23.3      20.6            20.6       10.8         9.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             3.2 LR.1   3.1        3.1             3.1        2.5         1.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..          ..        ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..          ..        ..             2.5       20.0        19.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)            59.5       100.0    113.7             94.2      107.3       103.8
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                  94.0       114.0    113.0             90.1      105.3       110.4
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         52.0        60.0      64.5            55.2       63.0        77.7
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE        ..        18.0 ft   21.4            17.1       21.7        22.2
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      ..          ..        ..              ..        8.0         1.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    35.9       41.0      43.5            43.7       57.2        63.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                         138.0 ft       ..        ..           138.4       53.9        38.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        44.0        ..            22.4       56.8        67.7
URBAN                              ..        98.0        ..            66.3       79.0        83.5
RURAL                              ..        29.0        ..            10.4       31.8        41.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..         5.0        ..            23.9       30.9        70.3
URBAN                              ..        23.0        ..            70.3       45.4        90.7
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..            14.2       16.1        38.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        25480.0/n  15320.0  15760.0           21757.5    2706.8       1310.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    2210.OfLno  2830.0Oft  1970.0         3473.8    1462.0        849.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              ..      1150.0   1240.0            645.4      493.9       275.4
URBAN                              ..       250.0        ..           172.9      229.6       129.9
RURAL                              ..      1650.0        ..          1292.6    2947.9        965.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..          ..        ..            19.2       22.1        18.9
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              ..          ..        ..             4.9        5.2         3.9
URBAN                              ..          ..        ..             5.0        5.0
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..             4.7        5.4
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROON
TOTAL                              ..          ..        ..              ..        2.0         0.9
URBAN                             2.5 ft       ..        ..              ..        1.5         0.8
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..              ..        2.7         1.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                             1.0/a        ..        ..              ..       64.1        59.2
URBAN                              ..          ..        ..              ..       67.8        78.0
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..              ..       34.1        12.5



-20-                                      ANNEX 1
IVORY COAST - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
IVORY COAST 
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGRH
lDST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960 Lb     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 46.0        76.0       63.0            52.1        99.8        97.6
FEMALE               24.0         55.0      48.0             37.6       93.3         87.4
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                   2.0        11.0       17.0             8.0        33.8        47.8
FEMALE                 1.0         5.0       8.0              5.0        29.8        42.6
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 13.0          7.0        6.0              7.2       12.8        22.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            41.0        45.0       44.0            43.2        34.9        25.4
SECONDARY                            ..        21.0       23.0            22.8        22.2        24.9
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         9.0 If      20.0        *-             20.3       71.8         96.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.0        10.0         ..             3.9        12.4        32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         17.0        17.0         ..            40.1       104.5       201.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..         8.0         ..             2.2        28.1        97.7
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   2.0         10.0       5.0              3.9       45.2         70.9
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..        ..              1.2        4.6          4.4
EMPLOYMENT
MTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       1900.0 /r   2600.0    2900.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   44.0 /r     43.8       43.8            32.6        25.7         17.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              86.0        82.0       80.0             73.3       46.2         38.4
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  2.1         2.6
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                55.6         53.4      51.6             42.0       33.8         33.7
MALE                                 61.4         59.4      57.7             54.8       48.1         50.8
FEMALE                               49.6         47.3      45.5             27.3       17.3         12.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.1          0.9       1.0              1.2        1.4          1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   30.9 1I        ..         ..             25.7       23.6         20.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  51.8 Is         ..      50.0 Is         55.1        52.3         47.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.6 Fs         ..       9.0 714          5.8        4.3          3.2
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   16.5 7s         .-      20.0 1/          14.5       13.1         13.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..            108.8      191.9
RURAL                                ..           ..      96.0             74.1      193.1        157.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     203.0            124.4      319.8        448.8
RURAL                                ..           ..     134.0             59.6      197.7        313.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                *            .-      20.0             26.8       19.8         23.2
RURAL                                *-           *-      30.0             47.6       35.1         54.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for eacb indicator are population-weighted geometric mans, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, date for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c  Africa South of Sahara;  *d  Intermediate Middle Income ($551-1135 per capita, 1976);   La  Upper
Middle Income ($1136-2500 per capita, 1976);  /f  1965;  LI  1957-58;   /h  Age 15-59 years and 60 and
over respectively;   /i  Due to immigration population growth rate is higher than the rate of natural
increase;  /:I  1955-65;  /k  1965-70;  LI  African Population only;   /n  1964-66;   /a  1963;   lo In-
cluding midwives and assistant midwives;  /D  Government only, including midwives;   /    1956-57;
1r   1964;   /s   Population.
September, 1978



-21-                                                                ANNEX 1
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS
tOQ:  The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme values of the indicator and the most
populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform. Due to lack of data,
group averages for Capital Surplus Oil Exporters and indicators of access to water and excrete disposal, housing, income distribution and poverty are
simple population-weighted geometric means without the exclusion of extreme values.
LAND AREA (thousand sq. km)                                                               Population per hospital bed - total, urban, and rural - Population (total,
Total - Total aurface area comprising land area and inland waters.                         urban, and rura1) divided by their respective number of hospital beds
Agricultural - Most recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily                  available in public and privace general and specialised hospital and re-
or permanently for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                     habilitation centers.  Hospitals are establishments permanently staffed by
lie fallow.                                                                              at least one physician.   Establishments providing principally custodial
care are nor included. Rural hospitals, however, include health and medi-
GNP PER CAPITA (US$) - GNP per capita estimates at current market prices,                   cal centers not permanently staffed by a physician (but by a medical as-
calculated by same conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);                sistant, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient accommodation and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                               p-ovide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions per hospital bed - Total number of admissions to or discharges
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of commercial energy                      from hospitals divided by the number of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                    HOIUSING
Average size of household (persons per household) - total, urban, and rural-
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                             A household consists of a group of individuals who share living quarters
Total population, mid-year (millions) - As of July 1; if not available,                    and their main meals,   A boarder or lodger may or nay not be included in
average of two end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                            the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of house-
Urban population (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                      hold vary.
tion; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability                    Average number of persons per room - total, urban, and rural - Average num-
of data among countries.                                                                 ber of persons per room in all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
Population density                                                                         dwellings, respactively.  Dwellings exclude non-pet s.ent str-ctunes and
Pet  us. km.  - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                   unoccupied parts.
of total area.                                                                         Access to electricity (percento   wllns    tota, urban, sod rural -
Per sq. km. agriculture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                    Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as-percentage
only.                                                                                    of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Population age structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percen.t.ga of mid-               EDUCATION
year population.                                                                      Adjusted enrollment ratios
Population growth rate (percent) - total, and urban - Compound annual                    Primary school - total, and female - Total and femal*e enrollment of all ages
growth rates of total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                        at the primary level as percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                    populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years bht adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                       different lengths of primary education; for countries with universal edu-
mid-year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                     cation enrollment may exceed 100 percent since some pupils are below or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                      above the official school age.
Crude death rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                     Secondary school - total, and female - Computed as above; secondary educa-
year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 aed 1970                    tion requires at least four years of approved primary instruction; pro-
and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                           vides general vocational, or teacher training instructions for pupils
Gross reproduction rate - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                    usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
in her normal reproductive period if she experiences present age-                        excluded.
specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,                   Vocational enrollment (percent of secondary) - Vocational institutions in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                          clude technical, industrial, or other programs which operate independently
Family planning - acceptors, annual (thousands) - Annual number of                         or as departments of secondary ixstitutions.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family                  Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total students enrolled in
planning program.                                                                        primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the corre-
Family planning - users (percent of married women) - Percentage of                         sponding levels.
married women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control                Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) an
devices to all married women in same age group.                                          a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                      CONSUMPTION
Index of food production per capita (1970=100) - Index number of per                    Passenger cars (per thousand population) - Passenger cars comprise motor cars
capita annual production of all food commodities.                                      seating less than eight persons; excludes ambulances, hearses and military
Per capita supply of calories (percent of requirements) - Computed from                  vehicles.
energy equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita                Radio receivers (per thousand population) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.  Available supplies comprise domestic production, imports less                broadcasts to general public per thousand of population; excludes unlicensed
exports, and changes in stock.  Net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,               receivers in countries and in years when registration of radio sets was in
quantities used in food processing, and losses in distribution.  Re-                   effect; data for recent years may not be comparable since most countries
quirements were estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for nor-                 abolished licensing.
=al activity and health considering environmental temperature, body                   TV receivers (per thousand population) - TV receivers for broadcast to genera
weights, age and sex distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                   public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers in coun-
cent for waste at household level.                                                       tries and in years when registra-ion of TV sets was in effect.
Per capita supply of protein (grams per day) - Protein content of per                   Newspaper circulation (per thousand population) - Shows the average circula-
capita net supply of food per day.  Net supply of food is defined as                     tion of "daily general interest newspaper", defined as a periodical publi-
above.  Requirements for all countries established by USDA provide for                   cation devoted primarily to recording general news.  It is considered to
a minimum allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 grave                    be "daily" if it appears at least four times a week.
of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal protein.              Cinema annual attendance per capita per year - Based on the number of tickets
These standards are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and                    sold during the year, including admissions to drive-in cineman end mobile
23 grams of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by                      units.
FAO in the Third World Food Survey.
Per capita protein supply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of food               EMPLOYMENT
derived from animals and pulses in grams per day.                                     Total labor force (thousands) - Ecenexically active persons, including creed
Child (ages 1-4) mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-                  forces and unemployed but excluding housewives, students, etc.  Defini-
and in age group 1-4 years, to children in this age group.                               tions in various countries are not comparable.
Female (percent) - Female labor force as percentage of total labor force.
HEALTH                                                                                   Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting and fishing
Life expectancy at birth (years) - Average number of years of life                         as percentage of total labor force.
remaining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,                  Industry (percent) - Labor force in  ioning, construction, =anufacturing and
and 1975.                                                                                electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor force.
Infant mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                   Participation rate (peocent) - total, male, sod female - Total, male, and
one year of age per thousand live birhts.                                                female labor force as percentages of their respective populations.
Access to safe water (percent of population) - total, urban, and rural -                    These are ILO's adjusted participation rates reflecting age-set
Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable access to                     utructcre of the population, end loog tine trend.
safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or untreated but                   Econo=ic dep.edency ratio - Ratio of population coder 15 a-d 65 and over to
uncontaminated water such as that from protected boreholes, springs,                     the labor force in age group of 15-64 years.
and sanitary wells) as percentages of their respective populations.
In an urban area a public fountain or standpost located not more                     INCOME DISTRIBUTION
than 200 meters from a house may be considered as being within rea-                   Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind) received by richest 5
sonable access of that house.  In rural areas reasonable access would                    percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, and poorest 40 percent
imply that the housewife or members of the household do not have to                      of houeholds.
spend a disproportionate part of the day in fetching the family's
water needs.                                                                         POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Access to e.creta disposal (percent of population) - total, urban, and                  Estimated absolute poverty income level (US$ per capita) - urban and rural -
rural - Number of people (total, urban, and rural) served by excrete                       Absolute poverty income level is that income level below which a  inimcal
disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  Excreta                        nutritionally adequate diet plus essential non-food requirements is not
disposal may include the collection and disposal, with or without                        affordable.
treatment, of human emcreta and waste-water by water-borne systems                    Estimated relative poverty income level (US$ per capita) - urban and rural -
or the use of pit privies and similar installations.                                     Relative poverty income level is that income level less than one-third
Population per physician - Population divided by nueber of practicing                       per capita personal income of the country.
physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.                       Estimated population below poverty income level (percent) - urban and rural -
Population per nursing person - Population divided by number of                             Percent of population (urban and rural) who are either "absolute poor" or
practicing ele and female graduate nurses, practical nurses, and                          "relative poor" whichever is greater.
assistant nurses.
Economic and Social Data Division
Ecrnomic Analysis and Projections Department



ANNEX I
-22-
UJOOlIfiCC WVEIOWlORDDITDaT 
(AmountT inmi        Lo    .dollars)
Actual                      Proiected            198-   1976 -  1978 -  1985-
1965     1970     197        1970       te 222 12         L.             1985     199        96S     2z    2f
NATIONAL ACCOWUTS
3-Year Average at 1967- 1969 Prices &     ang Rates       Average Annual Grovth Rates        As Percent of GDY
Gross Domestic Product           1041     1479     2245       2622     3984 5404          7.2     8.1      6.2       6.3   105.9  103.6  109.4
Gains from Terms of Trade (+)     _s               fl0         -28     -341                .6 -5.4
Gross Domestic Income             933     1509                2 5.,                               94 
1509  dISH  pana      354                7:      9:       5.0      5.9            fiJ.   1.
Import (incl. uFS)               348       570      826        974     1210    1472       8.2     8.6      3.1       4.0     35.4   38.1    33.2
Exports      (import capacity)            _        -810       979 -Z          -15         7.6     9.9       3.0      5.6      6      37.4    33.1
Resource Gap                     -14       -1                   -5        5    -113        .        .        .        .               07      0.1
Consumption Expenditures          785     1162     1661       1795     2440    3098       7.1     4.0       4.5      4.9    79.9   76.6   67.0
Investment   "  (inol. stocks)   184       329      522        795     1208    1638      10.0   23.4       6.2       6.3     18.7   24.1    33.2
Domestic Savings                  198      347      506        799     1203    1751       8.9    25.6       6.o      7.8    20.1    23.3    33.0
National Savings                  138      271      406        672     1005    1527      10.3   28.7        5.9      8.7    14.0    18.7   27.6
MEECNARDISE TRADE                         Annual Data at Current Prices                                                      As Percent of Total
Imports
Capital goods                    61      in      417        870     1643    1933      21.1    44.0       9.5      3.2     23.9    28.1   41.8
Intermediate goods 6%cLfuels)    41       85      250        347      588    1727      17.8    17.6       7.8    14.0    16   I 14.2   15.0
Fuels and related materials      13       lo      168        186      210     617      29.5     5.4       1.7    19.2       5.1    11.3     5.4
of which: Petroleum             4       14      142        170      190     580      43.0     9.4       3.4     19.0      1.6     9.6     4.8
Consuntion .goods             21          8 64qf )                                              _ 2 17.2  2.3    12.0  11.9  S  s 4  !1 J4A
EtalMerchi. Dnports (cif)       255      432    1484        2073    3P23    6872       19.2    18.                11.9   100.0  100.0  loo.0
Exports
Primary produtcts hcl. fuels)    246     394     1365       1918     2525    3984      16.8   18.6        4.5      8.6     86.o    78.4   64.9
Fuels and related materials      -         3       63         70       79    113         *      5.6      1.7       7.5      -       3.6     2.0
of which: Petroleum            _         3       63         70       79    113         *      5.6       1.7      7.5      -      (3.6)   (2.0)
an41a9tDred goods   _ 40 7QQ  _3L4  414     iRT7   23t  22.8   14.4    17.7    12.1    1.0   J&  .312
Total Merch.xports (fob)         S         497    -64                                  !       1754 Yi 7           9.9      100.0  100.0   100.0
Merchandise Trade Indices                   Average 1957-69 -  100
Export Price Index               79      104      218        276      338    448       10.7   12.3       3.4      5.8
Import Price Index              91       99       239        284      434    605       10.1     8.7      6.2      6.9
Terms of Trade Index            86      105        91         97       78      74       o.6     3.6    -2.8    -1.1
Exports Volume Index            89      114       181        206      316     437       7.3     6.7      6.3      6.8
VAlJE AIDED BY SECTOR          A4nual Data at 1967- 69 Prices and Exchange Rates           Average Annual Growth Rates      As Percent of Total
Agriculture                    365      426       550        600      753    881        4.2     4.6      3.6      3.2     35.1   25.0    18.9
Industry and Mining            173      287      465        535       841    1156      10.4     7.4      6.7      6.5     16.6   21.3      21.1
Service                          3     3 766 1   0         1487      2390   367       9.322             7.0      7.1    48. 53           60.1
Total                          1041    14        245       2622      39.0                       8.1   6 7        g2    100.0  100.0   100.0
PUBLIC FI17ANCEB                                                                                                              As Percent of GDP
(C`entrsai Go-vernment )
Current Receipts               213      297      587        606      970    1226        7.6     1.6      7.0      6.2    21.6   27.1    26.6
Current4yenditures             1$55     73       373         k       680   1027         9.2     6.3      7.0      6.2    15.8    17.2    18.7
ji8dEt1Savings                  589              214        181      290     199      13.9   -8.7        7.0    -7.0       5.9     9.9      8.0
Other Public Sector             24       75      154        605      382     655      20.0  100.0       -6.8     11.4      2.4     7.1     10.5
Public Sector Investment        90      158      368        786      672     854      15.1   47.0    -2.3         5.0      9.2   17.0    18.4
US $ million
CURRENT EXPENDITURE DETAILS                 Actual       Prelim.  Est.   Proj.         DETAIL ON                            At end 1975  P and ER
As % Total Current Expend.)           1965   1976       197      1       l93n        PUBLIC SECTOR
Education                             17.9    37.7      37.0     37.0   37.0         INVESTMENT PROGRAM                          (1976-8o)
Other Social Services                 10.4   13.0       11.5    10.8   10.5          Social Sectors                       1716           26
Agriculture                            4.6     2.9       3.3      3.0    3.0         Agriculture                          2046           31
Otber Economic Services               16.5    19.0      20.5    17.2   17.0          Industry and Mining                   330            5
Administration and Defense            37.0   21.6       21.0    20.2   19.5          Power                                 726           11
Other                                 13 6     5.8       6.7    11 8   13 0          Transport and communications         1518          23
Total Current Expenditures           100.0  100.0    100.0   100.0  100.0            Other           I'6k
Total Expenditures                  6600          100.0
SELECTED INDICATORS                             1960-    1965-   1970-  1973-          FINANCING
(Calculated from 3-year averaged data)          1965      1970     1975   1978
Average ICON              1.8       2.6      3.7    3.5            P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ublic Sector Savings  3894        59
Imnport Elasticity                              o.8       1.4      0.9     1.0Foeg Progrm         eidcoterArt               -764
Marginal Domestic Savings Rate                  0.18      0.22     0.30    0.25           Foreign Project Aid               2706         10.
Marginal National Savings Rate                  0.12      0.16      0.24    0.20          TtlFnnig60                                      0,
LABOR FORCE AND                              Total Labor Force                              Value Added Per pWorer -1 67 -6o   Prices & Exc. Rates)
OUTPUT PER WORKER              In Killions         % of Total         1965-73          In U.S.Dollars     Perc n     Averge        1965 - 73
1965      ~19 73   1965      1973    Growth Rate         196       19 a       126s      19 73     Growth Rate
Agriculture                  1743        2093    85.7       32.9         3.2            209       215        40.4      30.6         0.3
Industry                      143         234     7.6       9.2         6.4            1210      1513      234.0    215.2         -1.0
Service                       127         201     6.7       8.0          .9            393         4835    764.6    687.8          2.6
Total                        2013        2528   100.0    100.0          3.7             517       703      100.0    1000            39
not applicable       - nil or negligible
not available       -- less than half the
smallest unit sbown



4NNEV I
BAW  0F P             WII V= B7lEAL ASS3ITANCE AND DST
(aecunt. in elmll a of U.S.  dijars at current prAe.)
Avg.  mua
19t1                           Setlated V VbVd              .7Prolestit ad 1rVwth  Rate
lZfl    im           222     ~                Ul.           1fl           2222jt                               1M22          f         1977-1980
SURf BALANCI OF PAlTS
Eports (icl. HFS)                         987        i42e         1480        1935          2529          2831         2978        3293         3627        4011         4467           10.0
nrts icl. Nfl)                                                                        4                                                                                            4 5.9
M esourcgl e bkli-M)                                - 11122 -ll3 4-273cn5
Tnterest (net)                            -33         .38          -56         -50           -84          -116         -155        -190         -226        -263         -307          24.0
Direct Ivestment boon.                    -64         -53          _83         -60          -215          -120         -100        -120         -134        -151         -169            7.4
Wb rkers- Remit tanc a                   -123         -139        -163        -170          -347          -290         -290        -290         -308         -333        -349            5.4
turrert 7ransfers (rt)                     54          47             21        40                                                                34          38           42            9.1
- P   anr -Z 4 -:& _4   5b7 -bb -U
Private Direct Investment                  48           28          29          50            50            60           70          80           90          100         112           14.4
Officialt apitlt Orants                    17           15          19          17            20            20           20          20           20           20          20              0
Public 011.1    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 22                218         326          355          785            897         967         1078          8          12          138i.
.26         -81i        -90         -109         -243           -189        -403         -524        -607         -677        -778           31.0
Bet                   _                              i84 141              2         4   542    7W   5T    55 553    54 
Other MiLT Laoan/
Disburseaerts
-Recayolct.31........                    -            -                        -           --
Actual                      eatimted
Capital Transactios n.e.i.                -21          28           51          -3          -170                                          E        -                    19     r    n 1977
Chooge in Net Resrves                      10          -87         178          -38         -199 8            AND DEar SBTVEICE
NflIFS tE     t.liitTT abUrSed    579      736        963      1183         1969
GRANT AND IOAN M   MaN?2
Official tronto & Grant-like               15           19          17          20                         rterest rn Public Debt          28        38         56        66          104
Repayments on Public Debt       44        77         Bi       l0g          187
iblieP MiLT loans                                                                                          Total Public Debt Sereicj       72       115        137       175          290
ronD                                      8          28          134          48            88          Other Debt Service (noet)         3         4          9         0           0
IDA                                       8           0        - 0             0             0          Total Debtlervice(cet)           75       119        i.46      175          290
Other
Other Multilateral                       37           34           6          28            30        Tihrden on Rxport Earning. (s)
Governments                              21           47          51         121           170
Suppliers                                73            9         169          169          420           Public Debt Service              e         8         10         9           11
Filaccial b-titutions                   119          131          87         484          1192          Total Debt Service                8         8         10         9           11
2n.d                                      9            0           0           0             0          TDS+Direot Invat. Inc.           14        12         it        12           1
Fublic Loans n.e.i.                       0            0           0            0            0
Tota1 Public MhLT Loons                   275        3-2bwr      -'4r        -900                       Average Terms  of Public Debt
Actual Debt Outstwsdin  en De.  31  M77                      Int. a- S Prior Ytar DOcD       4.8       5.2        5.8       5.6          0.8
~M-i%TmAL  1EDT                                 Aitsbx d                     Preneu                          imort. as S Prior Tear D0D&D   7.7       10.5       8.4        9.2        15.9
World Back                                        120.3                      T
TDA                                                 6.7                      0.3                        Ih9D Debt Out. & Disbursed
Othbr MIltilateral                                104.6                      5.3                            sa  5 Pablic Debt O&D         5.0       6.7        1.7        7.5         6.4
Governments                                       378.1                     19.2                              as S Public Debt Service   3.2        2.8        4.2        4.8         3.6
ta-nliorn                                         397.3                     20.2
Financial InT-itutions                            94f.3                     47.9                        IDA Debt Out. & Disbursed
EODd9                                              19.2                      1.0                         " as S Public Debt O1D            -          -        0.2       0.3          0.2
Public Oebts n.e.i                                  0.0                      0.0                            as S Public Debt Service       -                             0.1          --
Tntal Public 144T Debt                           1968.5 j
Other M1LT Debto
Short-t-r  Debt (disb. cnI;)
net applicable                                                      staff  etiat.                         inocluded in Public MiLT Loans
-ot available                                                    - nil or nmgligible
-nt available separtely                                         - I lees tban half the
but included in total                                               smallet umit sheen                                                                              September 1978



- 24-
ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANhK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE IVORY COAST
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits
(As of February 28, 1979)
US$ 21illions
Loan or      Fiscal                                         (less cancellations)
Credit No.   Year   Borrower            Purpose          Bank      IDA      Undisbursed
One           Credit Fully Disbursed                               7.5
Twelve        Loans  Fully Disbursed                     64.7
686-IVC       1970   Ivory Coast        Cocoa             5.3                   0.5
761-IVC       1971   Ivory Coast        Highways II      20.5                   0.2
837-IVC       1972   Ivory Coast        Highways III    17.5                    0.9
981-IVC       1974   Ivory Coast        Telecom-         17.4                  14.9
munications
1069-IVC      1975   Ivory Coast        Cocoa II         20.0                  11.4
1076-IVC      1975   Ivory Coast       Abidjan            9.0                   1.7
Sewerage
1077-IVC      1975   Ivory Coast        Cotton           31.0                  21.3
1124-IVC      1975   Ivory Coast        Tourism           9.7                   7.0
1125-IVC      1975   Ivory Coast        Education II      5.0                   1.0
1161-IVC      1976   Ivory Coast        Highways V       43.0                   9.4
1162-IVC      1976   CCI                DFC               5.6                   4.7
1177-IVC      1976   BIDI               DFC               8.0                   6.4
1347-IVC      1977   Ivory Coast        Urban Dev.       30.0                  21.4
1348-T-IVC   1977   Ivory Coast         Urban Dev.       14.0                   9.9
1382-IVC/1   1977   SODEPALM            Oil Palm &
Coconut          20.0                  20.0
1484-IVC      1978   Ivory Coast        Water Supply    16.0                   15.0
1490-IVC      1978   RAN                Railway          23.0                  23.0
1501-IVC      1978   Ivory Coast        Feeder Roads    29.0                   29.0
1575-IVC/1   1978   Ivory Coast        Rubber II         20.0                  20.0
1577-IVC/1   1978   Ivory Coast        Abidjan
Sewerage II      33.0                  33.0
1633-IVC/1   1979   Ivory Coast        Rubber III         7.6                   7.6
TOTAL                                        449.3      7.5        256.1
of which has been repaid                16.0       -
TOTAL now outstanding                        433.3      7.5
Amount sold                           5.1
of which has been repaid        3.0       2.1       -
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA               431.2      7.5
.TOTAL UNDISBURSED                            256.1      0.0        256.1
/I   Not yet effective.



- 25 -                       ANNEX II
B. Statement of IFC Investments
(As of February 28, 1979)
Type of                US Dollars
Year     Obligor                        Business        Loan      Equity    Total
1965     Banque Ivoirienne              Industrial        -       204,000   204,000
de Developpement            Development
Industriel                  Bank
1978     do.                            do.                       219,500   219,500
1977     Ets R. Gonfreville, S.A.       Textiles                  884,700   884,700
Total gross commitments                          -    1,308,200 1,308,200
Less cancellation, sold
or repaid                                     -          -          -
Total commitments now
held by IFC                                   -    1,308,200 1,308,200
C. Projects in Execution 1/
Ln. No. 761           Second Highway Project:  US$20.5 million Loan of June 22,
1971; Effectiveness Date: January 31, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
Execution of the project was satisfactorily completed in September 1975. The
funds remaining under the loan are being used to finance the supplementary
urban studies for Abidjan, initiated under the Third Highway Project.
Ln. No. 837           Third Highway Project:  US$17.5 million Loan of June 23,
1972; Effectiveness Date: May 4, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
The project was the first Bank's involvement in highway maintenance in the
Ivory Coast. The maintenance and betterment programs were successfully
completed in May 1977. The training and technical assistance programs were
being carried out under the Feeder Roads and Maintenance Project (Loan No.
1501), which continues the maintenance program undertaken under this project.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of the projects in execution and, in particular, to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



-26-
ANNEX II
Ln. No. 981           Telecommunications Project:  US$25.0 million Loan of
May 3, 1974; Effectiveness Date: January 31, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The project has experienced a two-year slippage due mainly to management
and organizational changes and delays in appointing engineering consultants.
After the Government awarded the contract for switching equipment to other
than the lowest evaluated bidder, the amount earmarked under the loan to
finance the equipment (US$7.6 million, including contingencies) was can-
celled as of March 31, 1977 (R77-128). A 50 percent tariff increase for
telecommunication services, effective January 1, 1978, is expected to generate
the cash necessary for the Postal and Telecommunication Office to carry out
its expanded investment program.
Ln. No. 1069          Second Cocoa Project:  US$20.0 million Loan of January 10,
1975; Effectiveness Date: September 30, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
The project includes: establishing of 26,500 ha of high yielding cocoa planta-
tion, of which 9,500 ha would be planted in 76 blocks composed of individual
plots; providing technical assistance and credit to farmers; constructing
wells; constructing or rehabilitating access roads; and strengthening the
management. The project physical target has been met and SATMACI management
is satisfactory. The problem of quality of cocoa has been closely followed
and decisive progress in fermentation and drying techniques of cocoa have been
achieved. Repayment of loans to farmers under the project will start in 1978.
However, as repayment performance of farmers' loans under the first project
has been unsatisfactory, a study to propose improvements in the existing
credit system is under consideration. Since 1976, the financial situation
of SATMACI has been unsatisfactory as a result of administrative delays in
the payment of Government's contributions. The situation is being monitored
closely by RMWA.
Ln. No. 1076          Abidjan Sewerage and Drainage Project:  US$9.0 million
Loan of January 17, 1975; Effectiveness Date:  January 19,
1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Although construction works have already started, project execution is expected
to be delayed by about one year due to delays in procurement decisions. Work
is now progressing satisfactorily. Project costs are expected to be close to
appraisal estimates. The Abidjan sewerage and drainage sector's financial
situation is satisfactory.



-27-
ANNEX II
Ln. No. 1077          Cotton Areas Rural Development Project:  US$31.0 million
Loan of January 17, 1975; Effectiveness Date: June 4,
1975; Closing Date: March 31, 1982.
Initial delays in starting the feeder roads and the village water supply
programs have been made up. The development of cotton production is far ahead
of the appraisal estimates (36 percent). Improved food crop production is,
however, stagnating because of marketing problems. Some financial difficulties
are experienced this year because of depressed world market prices for cotton
and inadequate price input policy. Disbursements are behind schedule due to
the re-organization of CIDT's accounting system and the administration's
slowness in processing the withdrawal applications. Discussions between the
Government and RMWA on these various issues are underway.
Ln. No. 1124          Tourism Development Project:  US$9.7 million Loan of
June 11, 1975; Effectiveness Date: January 19, 1976;
Closing Date: September 30, 1981.
Project execution is progressing satisfactorily. The line of credit is expected
to be fully committed by mid-1979.
Ln. No. 1125          Second Education Project:  US$5.0 million Loan of June 11,
1975; Effectiveness Date: September 9, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
The project is almost completed. The two primary teacher training institututes
which were constructed under the project are in use and most of the improvements
to urban vocational training centers have been made. Studies have been completed
on regional education needs, educational T.V., personnel management, and secondary
school inventories; other studies to be financed under the project are under way.
Ln. No. 1161          Fifth Highway Project:  US$43 million Loan of September 5,
1975; Effectiveness Date: November 4, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
The pavement strengthening program was completed mid-1978 on schedule.
Construction work has been substantially delayed because of technical and
management difficulties. Consultants have started the engineering studies
provided for under the project. UNDP was originally to finance the updating
of the transport survey but cannot do so due to lack of funds. The Government
has agreed to amend the Loan Agreement to include financing of the survey in
this loan.
Ln. No. 1162          Small-Scale Enterprises Project:  US$5.6 million Loan of
September 5, 1975; Effectiveness Date: February 2, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Initial commitments by Credit de la Cote d'Ivoire, the project's financial
intermediary, have been slow. However, the line of credit is now 75 percent
committed. Project execution is now satisfactory.



-28-
ANNEX II
Ln. No. 1177          BIDI DFC Project:  US$8.0 million Loan of December 12,
1975; Effectiveness Date: September 10, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980.
Three sub-projects have been approved; others are being prepared.
Ln. No. 1347          Urban Development Project:  US$44.0 million.  Loans
and 1348-T            (US$30.0 million and US$14.0 million on Bank and Third
Window terms respectively) of December 15, 1976;
Effectiveness Date:  March 9, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Effectiveness was delayed until March 9, 1978 mostly due to slow administra-
tive procedures. Now the execution of the project is progressing satisfac-
torily with regard to the urban transport and sites components. The shelter
component is still delayed mostly because of slow administrative procedures
regarding the on-lenting of the proceeds of the loan to the executing agencies.
Ln. No. 1382 1/       Fourth Oil Palm Project:  US$20 million Loan of March 30,
1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Ln. No. 1484          Secondary Centers Water Supply Project:  US$16 million
Loan of September 9, 1977; Effectiveness Date: June 9,
1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1981.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily on schedule.
Ln. No. 1490          Regional Railway Project:  US$23 million Loan of
November 14, 1977; Effectiveness Date: December 20, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Although effectiveness of the loan was delayed, procurement is well advanced
and the project is expected to be completed on schedule.
Ln. No. 1501          Feeder Roads and Highway Maintenance Project:  US$29
million Loan of December 22, 1977; Effectiveness Date:
October 17, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1575 I/       Second Grand Bereby Rubber Project:  US$20 million
Loan of June 9, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1985.
Ln. No. 1577 1/       Second Abidjan Sewerage and Drainage Project:  US$33
million Loan of June 9, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
1/   Not yet effective.



-29-
ANNEX II
Ln. No. 1633 1/        SAPH Rubber Project:  US$7.6 million loan of November 30,
1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
Ln. No.       1/ 2/   Artisans. Small and Medium Scale Enterprises Project:
US$12.6 million loan approved on March 6, 1979; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984.
1/   Not yet effective.
2/   Not yet signed.



-30-
ANNEX III
SECOND TOURISM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTAL PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I
Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Project identification                   Late 1977
(b)  Preparation mission                      December 1977
(c)  Appraisal mission                        June-July 1978
(d)  Post-Appraisal mission                   December 1978
(e)  Negotiations                             March 26-30, 1979
(f)  Loan effectiveness planned               August 1979
Section II
Special implementation actions
None
Section III
1.   Special conditions of the Loan Agreement are:
(a) The foreign exchange risk of subloans would be borne by
Government for a fee of one percent (para. 56);
(b) The promulgation of a decree declaring the Reserve of Azagny
as a National Park would be a condition of Loan disbursements
for the wildlife component (para. 53);
(c) A representative of CCI would sit on the "Counseil Restraint des
Investissements Touristiques" (para. 49);
(d) A project unit would be created in the Ministry of Water and
Forests, and a director appointed by January 1, 1980 (para. 52);
and
(e) By December 31, 1981, the Government would remove the current
hotel price ceilings system and would institute a system of
freedom of prices supervised by the competent ministries. Until
such change takes place the Government would review price ceil-
ings annually to take into account general movement of prices
(para. 30).
2.   Special conditions of the Project Agreement are:
(a) Subprojects would be hotels in the three-star category or lower
(para. 46);



- 31 -                       ANNEX III
(b) CCI would calculate economic rates of return for all subprojects
financed under the loan (para. 49);
(c) The free limit for subprojects would be $500,000 with an aggre-
gate limit of $3,000,000 (para. 49); and
(d) Financial plans for subprojects would conform to those set out
in para. 55.



