Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15466-CE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
November 21, 1996
Population and Human Resources Division
Country Department I
South Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Rupees (LKR)
LKRI.00 = US$.018
US$1.00 = LKR55.6
(October 11, 1996)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACRONYMS
ADB        Asian Development Bank
AIDS       Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome
AMC        Anti-Malaria Campaign
DDHS       Divisional Director of Health Services
FHB        Family Health Bureau
GDP        Gross Domestic Product
GHC        Gramodaya Health Center
HEB        Health Education Bureau
HESP       Health Economics Study Program (University of Colombo)
HIV        Human Immunodeficiency Virus
IEC        Information Education and Communication
MCH        Maternal and Child Health
MDPU       Management Development & Planning Unit
MOH        Ministry of Health
MRI        Medical Research Institute
NCD        Non-Communicable Disease
NDTF       National Development Trust Fund
NGO        Non-Governmental Organization
NSACP      National STD/AIDS Control Program
PHC        Primary Health Care
PHI        Public Health Inspector
PHM        Public Health Midwife
PHNS       Public Health Nursing Sister
PMI        Planning & Management Information
PMU        Project Management Unit
SLMA       Sri Lanka Medical Association
STD        Sexually Transmitted Disease
UNDP       United Nations Development Programme
UNFPA      United Nations Population Fund
UNICEF    United Nations Children's Fund
WHO        World Health Organization
Vice President            Mr. D. Joseph Wood
Director                  Ms. Mieko Nishimizu
Division Chief/Manager:   Ms. Barbara Herz
Task Manager              Ms. Frances Plunkett



DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Credit and Project Summary  .......................................                  iii
I.  SECTOR BACKGROUND, ISSUES AND CONSTRAINTS                                        I
A. Introduction .1
B. Background                                                                   I
C. Population, Health and Nutrition Sector Status .2
D. Sector Issues and Constraints                                                4
E. Sector Development Strategy .8
II. THE PROJECT    ..11
A. Objectives and Summary Description .11
B. Detailed Project Description .12
C. Environmental Considerations .28
III. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT,
DISBURSEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION                     .        .29
A. Project Costs .       ..                                                     29
B. Financing Plan .31
C. Procurement .31
D. Disbursement .34
E. Accounts and Audits  ....                                                    35
F. Project Management and Implementation .35
IV. BENEFITS, ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS                  ................     38
A. Benefits .........................                                           38
B. Economic Justification  .....................................                39
C.  Risks  .................................................                    42
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .............                   ..        43
ANNEXES
1. Basic Sector Data and Key Statistics .45
2.   Organization of the Family Health Program                                       47
3.   Malaria Component                                                               51
4. STD/AIDS Component .61
5. Nutrition Component .73
6.   Health Policy Component: Proposed Link Program Between the
Health Economics Study Program, University of Colombo, and
the Ministry of Health .88
7. Management Information Systems Component .102



- 11 -
8.    Burden of Disease Study  .......................................                                     108
9.    Health Financing  . .. ..................... ........... . .                        ..........       112
10.   Cost-Effectiveness of Project Components ...........................                                  115
11.   Project Implementation Plan .......................................                                   118
Implementation Arrangements .119
Implementation Schedules .122
Detailed Project Costs .130
Monitoring and Reporting .142
12. Disbursements .146
13.  Selected Documents Available in the Project File .148
CHART ..........................................                                                            150
MAP: IBRD 28019 .151
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Sri Lanka in October 1995. Mission
members were Ms. Frances Plunkett (Task Manager); Mr. Christopher Walker (Senior Public Health Specialist,
EXCQA); Mr. Peter Heywood (Nutrition Specialist, HDD); Mr. James Herm (IEC Specialist, Consultant);
Mr. Bruce Geisert (MIS Specialist, Consultant); Mr. Jay Satia (Management Specialist, Consultant); and
Mr. Mark Spohr (Health Specialist, Consultant). Peer reviewers for the project were Ms. Judith McGuire
(Nutrition specialist, HDD); Mr. Michael Porter (Public Health Specialist, Consultant); and Mr. Jeffrey
Hammer (Economist, PRDPE). Mission support was provided by Ms. Homira Nassery and production of the
report was supported by Ms. Lydia Maningas. Mr. Paul Blay (Principal Operations Officer, SAIPH) assisted
with processing; Ms. Mieko Nishimizu (Director, SA1DR) and Ms. Barbara Herz (Chief, SAlPH) have
endorsed the project.



- iii -
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
Credit and Project Summay
Borrower:             Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
Inplementing Agency:   Ministry of Health, Highways and Social Services
Beneficiary:          Not applicable
Poverty:              Not applicable
Amount:               SDR 13.0 million (US$18.8 million equivalent)
Terms:                Standard, with 40 years maturity
Commitment Fee:       Standard (a variable rate between 0 and 0.5%  of the undisbursed credit
balance set annually by the Executive Directors of IDA)
Lending Terms:        Not applicable
Financing Plan:       See para. 3.4
Net Present Value:    Not applicable
Staff Appraisal
Report:               15466-CE
Map:                  IBRD 28019
Project
Identification
Number:               LK-PA-10526






SRI LANKA
HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
I. SECTOR BACKGROUND, ISSUES, AND STRATEGY
A. Introduction -- Project Context
1.1        Sri Lanka is different. Although the country is poor, public health achievements stand
out as an impressive success story: life expectancy of more than 72 years, infant mortality below 20
per thousand births, fertility near replacement level, and a population growth rate of less than 1% per
annum and falling. Additionally, literacy is almost universal, for females as well as males. Such
demographic, health and education indicators are usually associated with much wealthier, developed
countries.
1.2        Nevertheless, several public health issues typical of developing countries remain. There
has been a resurgence of malaria in recent years, and a third of children under five are malnourished.
And, as in the rest of Asia, HIV/AIDS poses the threat of epidemic spread. Programs to address these
three public health priorities comprise essential elements of any package of basic health services.
1.3        Additionally, the aging of the population is associated with major changes in the disease
pattern of the population as non-communicable chronic and degenerative diseases of adults become
dominant. Thus, Sri Lanka has a unique dual morbidity profile that includes both persistent
developing country MCH morbidity problems and adult disease patterns that reflect a well-advanced
epidemiological transition.
1.4        The Government of Sri Lanka has requested IDA to finance a Health Services Project, to
consolidate and expand assistance provided through the IDA-supported Health & Family Planning
project that closed in September 1995, as well as to move ahead to new issues and challenges.
Specifically, the Government has requested assistance for its malaria, nutrition, and HIV/AIDS
programs that address the country's priority public health issues. The project will also help the
Government to identify the dimensions of the expanding burden of non-communicable diseases of
adults and will support a pilot effort to develop cost-effective approaches to their prevention and
treatment.
1.5        Sri Lanka's health services developed when the focus was on prevention of infectious
and communicable diseases. The changing disease pattern resulting from the success of these efforts,
combined with increasingly constrained public resources and the growth of the private health sector,
have raised basic questions of health policy, particularly in the areas of resource allocation in the
sector, resource mobilization, and the role of the private sector. The Government recognizes that such
policy issues must be addressed. The project will provide a framework that will facilitate the
Government's efforts to approach policy concerns systematically, through improved planning capacity,
studies, pilot initiatives and a continuing dialogue.
B. Background -- Economic and Social Setting
1.6        Sri Lanka has made progress in reducing the incidence of poverty, reflected in
improvements in human development indicators as well as in consumption. This progress is due to a
combination of three factors: (i) public provision of basic preventive and curative health services as



-2-
well as education services, which have achieved excellent results; (ii) income transfer programs that
have enabled higher consumption by the poor; and (iii) a relatively good long-term growth
performance, with real per capita GDP growth of about 2.5% per year on average for the period 1950-
93.1/
1.7        However, Sri Lanka is still a low-income economy. Although its long-term growth rate
in per capita terms compares favorably with most of the developing world, it falls well short of the
growth rate achieved in the last three decades by the high-performing East Asian economies. The
main reason for this lag is that Sri Lanka's policies have been less supportive of economic growth.
Problems with macroeconomic management have constrained domestic saving and investment and
fueled inflation; export growth has been constrained by inward looking trade policies, interventions in
the labor market, and, at times in the past, exchange rate overvaluation; and the agriculture sector's
performance has been constrained by pervasive controls on land ownership and use, marketing and
pricing. Civil strife in the northern and eastern regions has also constrained economic growth.
1.8        In household and individual terms, substantial poverty remains. A recent World Bank
Poverty Assessment for Sri Lanka estimated that the proportion of individuals with consumption
expenditure below the poverty line was about 22% in 1990. Poverty is still widespread in Sri Lanka,
with the proportion of total consumption expenditure accounted for by food, excluding consumer
durables, declining steadily from about 80% for the poorest group to about 40% for the richest. The
poor devote more than three-quarters of their total budget to food, with rice, the most important item,
accounting for about one fourth of their total expenditure.
C. Population, Health and Nutrition Sector Status
Population
1.9        The demographic transition in Sri Lanka, now virtually complete, followed the classic
pattern of initial mortality decline and subsequent fertility decline. From a life expectancy of about 43
years in 1945, death rates have fallen rapidly to developed country levels as the result of the near
eradication of malaria, extension of effective health services in the rural areas, and improved nutrition.
The excess female mortality characteristic of South Asia has been reversed, and female life expectancy
is now about five years higher than male, as is typical of developed countries. Maternal mortality has
also been reduced to developed country levels. The decline in fertility to replacement level (total
fertility rate of about 2.2 in 1995) has been due in some measure to rising age at marriage but largely
reflects declines in marital fertility due to a vigorous family planning program, widespread female
education, and improved child health. Significantly, prevalence of modern contraceptive measures in
1993 was only 44%, with traditional methods accounting for another 22%. This indicates the high
demand for family limitation that has been generated as well as impressive ability to use traditional
contraception effectively, both of which are linked to the high educational levels. The present
population of about 18 million is expected to stabilize at approximately 25 million in about 2025.
1/ World Bank, Sri Lanka Poverty Assessment, Report No. 13431-CE, January 1995.



-3-
Health
1.10       Mortality declines, led by the reduction of infant mortality to developed country levels,
have been achieved through good implementation of immunization programs and an effective primary
health care system. Sri Lanka has made excellent progress in the prevention and control of infectious
and communicable diseases including tuberculosis and leprosy. However, preventable morbidity in
young children, due to diarrheal and respiratory diseases linked to malnutrition, has not been
completely eliminated. The major remaining communicable disease is the age-old scourge of malaria.
HIV/AIDS has recently emerged as a new threat, although HIV prevalence is still low.
1.11       DDT spraying virtually eliminated malaria in Sri Lanka in the early 1960s. However,
after use of DDT was curtailed there were several resurgences, most recently in 1987 and 1991, when
the number of cases was probably at least as high as 1.3 million and 800,000, respectively, and
malaria was declared to be Sri Lanka's major public health problem. It is particularly acute in the dry
zone, where most of the country's agriculture is concentrated. Rates are highest in children but are
also high for adults, so that epidemic outbreaks disrupt both schooling and agricultural activities. By
1995, the epidemic levels of 1991 had been reduced by about a third. This can be attributed in large
measure to the introduction of a revised malaria control strategy in 1993, but it is likely that variations
in rainfall and the natural progression of the epidemic cycle were also factors.
1.12       The first case of AIDS was identified in Sri Lanka in 1987. As of January 1996, a total
of 171 HIV-positive individuals had been identified, 146 Sri Lankans and 25 foreigners. Of these, 58
cases had progressed to AIDS and there had been 49 deaths. It is estimated that by 2000 transmission
will be almost entirely heterosexual. The true prevalence of HIV is not known; current estimates vary
from 500 to 5,000. However, it is generally agreed that, as in a number of other Asian countries,
epidemic spread of HIV has not begun in Sri Lanka. In fact, there are a number of factors which
suggest that, given the cultural setting and the high educational levels, if present preventive and
educational efforts are continued and strengthened, epidemic spread of the virus in Sri Lanka may be
prevented. While complacency must be avoided, Sri Lanka's prospects for avoiding an epidemic
appear to be encouraging if appropriate steps are taken now.
1.13       Fertility decline coupled with increasing life expectancy means that the population of Sri
Lanka is aging: while the number of children under five is declining, the number of adults over 60 is
expected to increase from 1.6 million in 1995 to 2.0 million in 2005. This is resulting in an
epidemiological transition, that is, a major shift in the disease pattern of the population as non-
communicable diseases of adults become dominant. Communicable diseases now contribute only a
small part of the total disease burden, a reflection of the good job that Sri Lanka has done in
providing health care and controlling these diseases, for example through immunization. Currently,
most of the disease burden comes from non-communicable and degenerative diseases of adults
(cardiovascular, cerebrovascular and respiratory conditions; diabetes; cancers). However, the
prevalence of non-communicable diseases and associated risk factors in the population at present is in
many instances uncertain.
Nutrition
1.14       Recent data on nutritional status in Sri Lanka indicate that about a third of children under
age 5 are malnourished, that is, underweight in terms of weight for age, a surprising level of



- 4 -
malnourishment in a country where literacy rates are high and infant mortality and fertility have been
reduced to developed country levels. While to some extent, malnutrition reflects the persistence of
poverty in Sri Lanka, there are also significant levels of malnourishment at higher socio-economic
levels where food availability is clearly not a constraint. Linked to malnutrition at all socio-economic
levels are socio-cultural factors resulting in inappropriate breast-feeding and weaning practices that in
turn lead to the failure of a child to thrive. Once growth begins to falter, it becomes progressively
more difficult for the child to return to the right track, particularly because the child becomes
increasingly vulnerable to diarrheal and respiratory infections. However, due to Sri Lanka's excellent
health system, these diseases are no longer a significant cause of mortality.
I.15       Micronutrient deficiencies are also present in Sri Lanka. A goiter survey in 1987
indicated that iodine deficiency is a public health problem throughout the wet zone, and it is estimated
that more than 60% of the total population may be at risk of iodine deficiency. Iron deficiency
anemia is also prevalent in Sri Lanka, particularly among pregnant women and pre-school children.
D. Sector Issues and Constraints
Program and Policy Development
1.16       At the direction of the present Government, the Ministry of Health has prepared a
'Perspective Plan for Health Development in Sri Lanka 1995-2000.' The Plan draws on the 'National
Health Policy Sri Lanka' (1992) of the previous government, and the two documents have many
similarities. However, the previous govemment took few steps to implement the recommendations of
the 1992 Health Policy. The present Government also intends to issue a new statement of its health
policy, although it is not expected to differ greatly from that of the previous government.
1.17       The Perspective Plan specifies five major goals for Sri Lanka's health policy in the next
decade: (i) prevention and control of communicable and non-communicable diseases; (ii) promotion of
health and fostering of healthy life styles; (iii) human resource development in the public and private
sectors; (iv) improvement of availability and quality of health services; and (v) decentralization of
health administration. Like many such policy documents, the Perspective Plan covers all areas of
concern to the Ministry of Health and enumerates many policies to be implemented, but it indicates
neither priorities nor, in most instances, mechanisms for moving from policy to planning and
implementation. The Ministry's ability to carry out policy development and planning have benefitted
from assistance provided through the recent IDA-financed Health & Family Planning Project but
requires additional strengthening. Weaknesses in these areas, and additionally in health economics and
financing, where the Ministry has virtually no capacity, remain issues of concern.
Organization and Management
1.18       The Public Sector. The Government of Sri Lanka provides free health care services to
all citizens through well-developed primary health care and hospital systems. With the implementation
of the Provincial Councils Act in 1989, the health services were decentralized and responsibility for
most health facilities and provision of most health services was devolved to the provincial Departments
of Health. The Ministry of Health remains responsible for policy, relations with UN and bilateral
agencies, medical and para-medical education, teaching hospitals, medical institutions providing special
care, and the bulk purchase of pharmaceuticals, medical supplies, and equipment.



- 5 -
1.19        With the creation of divisional secretariats and the post of Divisional Director of Health
Services (DDHS) in 1992, the health services were further decentralized. Under the decentralized
scheme, responsibility for comprehensive health care at community and divisional levels as well as
administrative authority over the curative institutions in the division was devolved to the DDHS. The
DDHS is therefore responsible for all promotional and preventive health activities in a division, which
has a population on average of 60,000-80,000, and must coordinate the functioning of the preventive
and curative services, which have developed separately.
1.20        Decentralization was implemented and expanded without adequate planning or resources,
and the financial and administrative implications are still in the process of being worked out.
Decentralization to the DDHS level, in particular devolution of financial powers, has not been fully
implemented. It is intended that ultimately the provinces will support their health services through
their own revenues, but in practice the provincial Health Departments have been financed largely
through block grants from the central Ministry of Health. These funds are not earmarked for
particular purposes or programs. The provinces have not been consistent about reporting on their
utilization to the Ministry, and there is a question as to whether they are under any constitutional
obligation to do so.
1.21        While in theory decentralization could make significant contributions to the efficiency
and effectiveness of the health services, the actual consequences are still far from clear. Planning and
management capacities in the provincial Health Departments are weak, nor do they have the resources
to support needed staff and infrastructure for the divisional directorates; what has been done in this
regard has been supported largely by extemal assistance. The provision of the resources required to
support effective functioning of the decentralized health services is a major issue for the Government.
1.22        An additional unresolved issue concerns the provision of health services to
underprivileged estate populations.2/ The Ministry of Health has indicated that it intends to take
direct control of estate medical facilities and integrate their management and staff into the existing
system, a measure recommended by the World Bank's recent poverty assessment for Sri Lanka.
However, a plan of action has not yet been developed.
1.23        The Private Sector--for Profit. Although most hospital facilities in Sri Lanka are public,
the provision of private outpatient care has expanded rapidly in recent years. In 1986/87, private
expenditures for health-related goods and services represented close to 40% of overall national health
expenditures, and by 1992 the private sector provided over 50% of outpatient care. These trends,
combined with current public sector resource constraints and changing epidemiological patterns,
suggest that the public sector should focus on preventive care, support of services for the poor, health
education, and communicable disease control, leaving to the private sector the curative services that
are of most interest to them. A number of key steps are needed to further facilitate expanded private
sector participation. These include provision of a regulatory framework and a supportive climate for
private investment, both domestic and external, in health services. Additionally, efforts to encourage
the private sector should be linked to exploration of health insurance options. While these points are
2/ Workers on tea estates, most of whom are of south Indian origin, comprise approximately 5% of
the population of Sri Lanka.



-6 -
included in recent policy documents, concerted measures by Government to implement them are
needed.
1.24       The Private Sector--Non-Profit. Sri Lanka has a strong NGO sector that plays an
important role in a variety of development and community-oriented programs, which often include
health and nutrition activities. There are several large organizations, notably the Sarvodaya Rural
Enterprise Program and the Woman's Development Federation, which are island-wide in terms of their
coverage, but most NGOs are locally based and active only in their own areas. The extent of NGO
activity and potential in Sri Lanka is illustrated by the large number of NGOs, probably more than a
hundred, that are active in AIDS work or were interested in becoming so. Coordination between
government health programs and NGO activities at local levels is often weak, although when it does
occur both public and NGO programs are strengthened at minimal cost. The Ministry of Health could
assist the situation by clarifying its intention to improve NGO coordination and cooperation and
systematically reviewing the situation of individual programs.
Service Provision
1.25       Provision of services through effective hospital and primary health care systems has been
the strength of public health care in Sri Lanka. Both systems, however, have come under increasing
stress in recent years, and sustaining their capacity to provide quality services will require adequate
resources and policy initiatives to respond to changing circumstances. Major issues include the
overcrowding of tertiary hospitals, insufficient community outreach, and the erosion of the service
ethic that has sustained the public provision of health care in Sri Lanka for many years.
1.26       The hospital system faces substantial efficiency problems, most clearly reflected in the
"by-passing" phenomenon, that is, tertiary care hospitals are overcrowded while secondary and primary
facilities are underutilized, reflecting the more experienced staff and better availability of drugs at
major hospitals. Local maternity homes in particular go virtually unutilized, because women prefer to
deliver at facilities where a doctor is available.
1.27       Primary health care achievements have been based on the availability of facility care at
divisional level, referral to higher level hospitals, and twice monthly maternal-child health (MCH)
clinics organized in the community at the most convenient location available (Annex 2). MCH clinics
are conducted by several public health midwives (PHMs) from the area and the divisional-level doctor
(DDHS). Although community outreach (that is, visiting households in the community, particularly
those with pregnant women, newborns and young children) is part of the job description of PHMs,
outreach is often inadequate, because PHMs are unable to find housing in the communities to which
they are assigned and transportation is difficult. To improve this situation, a strengthened model for
primary health care has been adopted which calls for the construction of village (gramodaya) health
centers (GHCs) that combine living quarters for PHMs and clinic space. Where GHCs have been
constructed, the resident PHMs report that their coverage and general effectiveness have improved
many fold. Preventive and promotive health services provided by paramedical workers resident in the
community is a more cost-effective service delivery strategy than reliance on health facilities, and it
will become increasingly so as life expectancy continues to rise and care for the elderly at home
becomes widespread. However, the GHC model requires considerable resources, and thus far only
about 20% of PHMs have purpose-built facilities, mostly financed by external assistance.



1.28       There is remarkable consensus that the basic challenge to sustaining Sri Lanka's public
health achievements stems from erosion of the "ethic of service" that has supported the public health
system for many years. Typically, medical officers and field staff have worked conscientiously in
poor, often appalling, conditions, and yet have managed to achieve excellent results. It is unrealistic
to expect that, given rising expectations and increasing economic pressures, the quality of the system
can be maintained indefinitely without additional resources.
Staffing and Training
1.29       A shortage of physicians in the late 1980s resulting from unsettled conditions in several
areas of the country and consequent disruption of medical education has been rectified. However, the
creation of the post of Divisional Director of Health Services (DDHS) as part of the decentralization
of the health services, which substantially increased the number of government postings in rural areas,
has raised several related issues.
1.30       DDHS posts are being filled to a large extent by new medical graduates, who lack
requisite administrative and MCH experience and are often dissatisfied with rural postings. It is
reported that it has now become common for DDHS doctors to conduct an after-hours private practice
as well. It is generally recognized that new graduates appointed to DDHS posts should receive MCH
and management training before being allowed to take up their posts. The IDA-assisted Health &
Family Planning Project supported the development of a management training course for DDHSs,
which the Ministry is continuing. However, there has been too little effort to relate course content to
the actual problems faced by DDHS doctors or to evaluate the effectiveness of the training. Informal
feedback indicates a high level of frustration because of the difficulty of applying what is taught given
the resource constraints that confront most DDHS doctors, as well as a need for more technical MCH
training.
Expenditure and Financing
1.31       Public sector health expenditure for 1990-94 was about 1.6% of GNP (Annex 9). This is
about average for most south and east Asian countries. In real terms, health expenditure has risen
about 135% over the last 15 years. The increase is due primarily to substantial capital investment in
tertiary hospitals at several points over the period. While the growth of investment undoubtedly
reflects changing epidemiological patterns, it has been based on little systematic analysis of needs. As
could be expected under such circumstances, expenditure on recurrent costs, although also rising over
the period, has not kept pace with investment. New tertiary facilities have tended to absorb increased
recurrent expenditures, while recurrent budgets for primary and secondary facilities have become
increasingly inadequate.
1.32       The epidemiological transition underway in Sri Lanka has major implications for health
expenditure. The pressures for additional spending on health care are likely to increase as chronic and
degenerative diseases become more important, because these diseases cost more to treat and require
longer term care than the relatively simple diseases of childhood. The complexity of health care
services required will increase considerably; health personnel will need to be more highly qualified
and more specialized, and the technology for diagnosis and treatment will become more sophisticated.
The greatest effect will be seen in increased demand for hospital bed capacity. In sum, the more
expensive mix of interventions implied by the epidemiological transition will put increasing pressure



- 8 -
on government health resources, and the cost of providing for the health care needs of the population
will rise. If the enhanced needs for health services are translated into effective demand, total health
expenditure (public plus private) would rise considerably in real terms and as a percentage of GDP, as
has happened in developed countries. The prospects, therefore, are that public sector health
expenditure as a percentage of GDP is likely to rise, unless the private sector assumes greater
responsibility. Financial sustainability is thus emerging as a key issue.
E. Sector Development Strategy
Government Strategy
1.33       As reflected in the new Perspective Plan (para 1.16), the Government is aware that
measures to address increasingly constrained public resources and the changing disease burden
resulting from the epidemiological transition are now required. Five key strategies have been
identified: (i) improving equity through concentrating on underprivileged and underserved groups; (ii)
making better use of existing resources through improvements in the efficiency of services and
accountability of management; (iii) strengthening community participation; (iv) developing managerial
and information systems; and (v) promoting private sector (both for-profit and NGO) involvement in
service delivery. These steps would promote efficiency and help limit demands for public financing of
health care. But more needs to be done, and the Government is exploring possibilities.
1.34       In the politically sensitive area of cost recovery, the Government is extremely cautious.
This must be seen in the light of the strong public health sector in Sri Lanka and the belief, strongly
held by many, that the state has a moral obligation to provide free health and education services.
Consistent with this context, the Government's current proposals for cost recovery are limited.
Nevertheless, the Government intends to expand pay wards in tertiary and secondary hospitals and to
study other possible cost recovery measures.
1.35       The Government's private sector strategy is much broader. To protect the public interest,
a regulatory framework for private medical practitioners is in the process of enactment. To encourage
private sector growth, Government proposes, among other steps, to: make provision for concessional
loans for establishment of private practices, especially in rural areas; lease available spare capacity in
public sector facilities to private practitioners; permit foreign providers of private medical care to
operate in Sri Lanka; and encourage the development of private health insurance.
IDA's Strategy and Role
1.36       The project is fully consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Sri Lanka,
discussed by the Board on June 13, 1996, which indicates that IDA expects to respond to Government
requests for assistance in addressing key public health issues through the project. IDA's health sector
strategy in Sri Lanka has two complementary goals: to support Government's efforts to sustain
present achievements; and to assist Government to move beyond the undoubted accomplishments of
the health services to address "second generation" issues concerning resource allocation in the public
health sector, efficiency and effectiveness of the health services, financial sustainability, and the
private sector. These concerns must be given priority in view of the well-advanced epidemiological
transition in Sri Lanka as well as increasing pressures on scarce public resources.



9-
1.37       IDA's comparative advantage is based on the ability to bring to bear relevant cross-
country experience in the health sector, particularly in the areas of helping Government to assess
priorities within the sector, develop more cost-effective ways of providing health care, and explore
issues relating to sustainability and non-government options for delivering health care. In anticipation
of the need for data and analysis addressing health policy questions, the recently completed IDA-
supported Health & Family Planning Project included a major Health Strategy and Financing Study.
Drawing on the study's recommendations, which are by and large consistent with those of the
Government's Perspective Plan (para. 1.16), IDA has initiated policy discussions with the Ministry of
Health as part of project preparation. The result has been an agreed program of studies and initiatives
to be carried out as part of the project, supported by an annual review to carry the process forward
(para. 2.66; Annex 6). Improved quality and efficiency of the health services, generation of additional
resources for tertiary care, and achievement of an appropriate public-private mix in the health sector
are among the first areas that will be addressed.
External Support
1.38       WHO has a long-standing relationship with the Ministry of Health and provides technical
assistance and other support to many of the Ministry's programs. UNICEF and UNFPA provide
assistance to the Ministry's MCH and family planning programs, respectively. These donors, together
with UNDP, USAID, and NORAD, have sustained the AIDS control program since its inception.
However, assistance from UN and bilateral sources is expected to be substantially reduced in the
coming years, and these agencies have cooperated fully in project preparation. In addition to IDA, the
Asian Development Bank (ADB) is also a major source of loan support for the health sector. ADB
currently supports a health project that concentrates on health facilities at primary and secondary
levels. The content of the IDA-supported project has been discussed with ADB, and care has been
taken to ensure that the two are complementary. IDA is therefore in a favorable position to assist
Government with donor coordination and to act as the lender of last resort.
Lessons Learned
1.39       The only IDA-assisted social sector project that has been completed in Sri Lanka is the
Health & Family Project (Cr. 1903-LK), which closed on September 30, 1995. This project
experienced major implementation difficulties in its early phases, due primarily to lack of "ownership"
by the implementing ministry and poor project management. After a very critical mid-term review by
the Borrower, project management was modified and implementation improved substantially. On the
basis of this and other country experience in the social sectors, the following lessons can be drawn:
(i) the politically sensitive nature of many aspects of health policy, given the widely held view that the
state has a moral obligation to provide free health and education services to all citizens; (ii) the
importance of "ownership" of a project by the ministry responsible for implementation; (iii) the need
to ensure that senior program managers understand and support the strategies underlying project
assistance to specific programs; (iv) the crucial role of project management in coordinating project
activities and monitoring progress; (v) the useful role that a thorough mid-term review carried out by
the Borrower can play; (vi) the need to ensure that Bank practices and procedures are understood by
those responsible for project management by the time the project becomes effective; and (vii) the
importance of drawing on regional and international experience to strengthen project and program
design. The preparation team drew on experience in other countries to help the



- 10 -
Government identify cost-effective strategies in the nutrition and STD/AIDS areas, and the pilot NCD
effort is expected to make extensive use of developed country experience in developing NCD options.



- 11 -
II. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives and Summary Description
Project Objectives
2.1        The objectives of the project are to strengthen Government's ability to address (i)
remaining major public health problems (malaria, malnutrition and HIV/AIDS); (ii) new challenges
raised by the epidemiological transition and the increasing importance of non-communicable diseases
of adults; and (iii) key health policy and financing issues.
Summary Description
2.2        To achieve these objectives, the project will comprise the components described in the
following paragraphs.
2.3        The malaria component will support expanded implementation of WHO's revised
malaria strategy, focusing on six high-prevalence districts. The revised strategy emphasizes the cost-
effective options of personal protection through use of insecticide-impregnated bed nets, prompt
diagnosis and treatment for suspected cases, and the substitution of selected residual spraying for
widespread spraying. Mobile clinics for immediate diagnosis and treatment will be phased out when
prevalence falls below specified thresholds. Initial implementation of the revised strategy, which has
reduced the amount of insecticide used by some 65%, appears to have achieved good results. The
annual incidence of malaria cases in the six high-prevalence districts is expected to fall from more
than 40 detected cases per thousand population in 1994 to less than 10 per thousand by 2001; this
would mean 125,000 fewer detected cases in 2001 as compared to 1994.
2.4        The STD/AIDS component will support the -efforts of the National STD/AIDS Control
Program (NSACP) to prevent the epidemic spread of HIV in Sri Lanka. The program has moved
promptly to take the medical and educational steps necessary to contain HIV. A major focus will be
improvement in the diagnosis and treatment of STDs in both public and private sectors, since STD
cases are a major HIV risk group. Education/communication efforts to promote knowledge of STDs
and HIV/AIDS and avoidance of high-risk behaviors will continue to be carried out by NGOs with
external support parallel to the project. If present efforts are expanded and strengthened, it may be
possible for Sri Lanka to avoid an AIDS epidemic and remain a low HIV-prevalence country.
2.5        The nutrition component will support the reorientation of the Health Ministry's existing
clinic-based growth monitoring program to a community-based growth promotion program utilizing
NGOs and community volunteers. This shift results from examination of altemative approaches in Sri
Lanka and elsewhere. Since inappropriate breast-feeding, weaning and feeding practices rather than
food availability constraints underlie much of infant and young child malnutrition, the program will
focus on reaching pregnant women and mothers to promote behavior change. Micronutrient
deficiencies (iron and iodine) will also be addressed. The percentage of malnourished children below
age 5, which was about one third, or more than 500,000 infants and children, in 1993, is expected to
be reduced to less than 20% by 2001, The percentage of low-weight births, which was about 20%, or
roughly 80,000 newboms, in 1993, is expected to be reduced to less than 15% by 2001. Iodine



- 12 -
deficiency is expected to be virtually eliminated and iron-deficiency anemia significantly reduced by
2001.
2.6        The pilot non-communicable diseases component will support an effort to identify the
dimensions of non-communicable diseases in Sri Lanka and develop cost-effective strategies for
prevention and treatment.
2.7        The program support component comprises three subcomponents. A health policy
component will support strengthening and institutionalization of Government's currently weak capacity
for policy analysis and planning in the health sector. It will assist Government to address issues
conceming efficiency and effectiveness of health services; resource mobilization; financial
sustainability; and the role of the private sector. It will include an agreed program of policy-related
studies and linked pilot initiatives. A management information systems component will support
increased capacity of MOH to organize, analyze and utilize information for management and planning
purposes. A health education component will support enhanced quality, effectiveness and coverage
of health education activities coordinated by the Ministry's Health Education Bureau (HEB) as well as
improved ability of the HEB to carry out an expanded program of training in interpersonal
communication.
B. Detailed Project Description
COMMUNICABLE DISEASES AND NUTRITION
Malaria Component (US$3.6 million; 17% of base costs)
2.8        Background. In the aftermath of the recent resurgence of malaria in 1991 (para. 1.11,
Annex 3), in order to strengthen the Ministry of Health's Anti-Malaria Campaign (AMC) a decision
was taken to adopt WHO's revised Global Malaria Control Strategy. Funds from the IDA-supported
Health and Family Planning Project (Cr 1903-CE) were made available from 1993 to support the
revised strategy in four of six high-prevalence districts (Matale, Polunnaruwa, Kurunegala and
Anuradhapura). By 1994, the epidemic levels of 1991 had been reduced by about a third and
continued to decline through 1995. The decline in the incidence of malaria since the introduction of
the new strategy is encouraging. However, it is likely that variations in rainfall and the natural
epidemic cycle have also been factors.
2.9        Objectives. The objective of the Anti-Malaria Campaign is to sustain and increase
recent reductions in the incidence of malaria in an environmentally acceptable manner. Specifically,
the goal is to reduce the annual incidence of malaria in the high-prevalence districts from more than
40 detected cases per thousand population in 1994 to less than 10 per thousand by the end of the
project period. Once this level is achieved, the program can be sustained on a maintenance basis and
resource requirements will be considerably reduced.
2.10       Strategies. The revised WHO strategy adopted in 1993 includes: (i) early detection and
prompt treatment of malaria cases; (ii) selective application of sustainable malaria control measures
including vector control; (iii) development of mechanisms to forecast/prevent malaria epidemics and
outbreaks; and (iv) regular assessment of the implementation and impact of the program. In
consequence, the focus of the program has shifted: there is now much less emphasis on spraying with



- 13 -
insecticides and more stress on protective measures and treatment through insecticide-impregnated bed
nets, mobile clinics, and better diagnosis and treatment at health facilities. The change in the spraying
program has been dramatic. Since 1993, two new insecticides have been introduced in addition to the
malathion previously used in order to minimize development of resistance, and the amount of
insecticide used has been reduced by 65%. Coverage of targeted houses has improved, since the new
insecticides are more acceptable than malathion.
2.11       Content. The project will provide continued support of the revised AMC program
nationally as well as expansion of support to the two remaining high-prevalence districts (Puttalam and
Moneragala). Program content that will be supported by the project is summarized below; details are
given in Annex 3.
(a)   Program management--improved coordination among regional (district) malaria offices
and the AMC Directorate; preparation of annual district plans incorporating annual
targets; computerization of data collation and analysis at district level supported by
training and improved data reporting to the AMC.
(b)   Early diagnosis and prompt treatment of malaria cases--mobile clinics to take blood films
from all fever cases in a local area, diagnose malaria on the spot and provide immediate
treatment; recruitment and training of microscopists to be posted to medical facilities,
thus reducing the level of presumptive treatment; improved identification and follow up
of drug-resistant cases; training of field health staff to enable their expanded participation
in malaria control activities at the community level. Project support for ambulances for
transport of falciparum malaria cases and other medical emergencies would be
conditional on a review of transport aspects of the health system that would indicate the
justification in cost-effectiveness terms for the type and number of vehicles needed and
address sustainability issues.
(c)   Selected and sustainable malaria control methods--strengthening of entomological and
parasitological surveillance; improved targeting of house spraying through better
parasitological and entomological parameters; expansion of the impregnated bed net
program.
(d)   Regular assessment of malaria status and prevention of epidemics--improved tracking of
drug resistance; regular prevalence surveys; establishment of an early warning system for
potential malaria epidemics based on entomological, parasitological, epidemiological and
climatic data.
(e)   Community awareness and particivation--program orientation for NGO/community
volunteers; educational activities focused at the community level emphasizing use of
impregnated bed nets and the importance of seeking diagnosis and treatment for fever, to
be coordinated by the Ministry of Health's Health Education Bureau and the provincial
health education units.
(f)   Operational research--small-scale trials of additional physical and biological controls to
expand vector control while minimizing environmental risk; other applied research as
appropriate.



- 14 -
2.12       The AMC program receives limited support from WHO in the form of technical
assistance. Project support for the activities indicated above will allow the AMC to complete
introduction of the revised WHO strategy nationally and especially in the high-prevalence districts.
2.13       lnputs. The project will support equipment, computers, vehicles, in-service training,
information, education and communication (IEC) activities and materials, and incremental operating
costs including insecticide for the treatment of bed nets.
2.14       Monitoring. The AMC monitors a set of program indicators on a monthly and annual
basis, including the number and results of blood slides, malaria treatment provided by mobile clinics
and at health facilities, and hospitalization and mortality figures from health facilities. Program impact
will be monitoring through the trends in slide results as verified by baseline and follow-up prevalence
surveys (Annex 1 1).
STD/AIDS Component (US$8.2 million; 43% of base costs)
2.15       Background. Following the first diagnosis of an AIDS case in Sri Lanka in 1986 (para.
1.12; Annex 4), GOSL moved promptly on a number of fronts to deal with the threat of an HIV/AIDS
epidemic. It was recognized early on that AIDS prevention and control was a behavioral as much as a
medical concem and would require a national focus. Consequently, a multi-sectoral, multi-disciplinary
National AIDS Committee reporting to the National Health Council, chaired by the Prime Minister,
was established and now meets quarterly. With support from WHO and other donors, a first Medium
Term Plan for HlV/AIDS control and prevention was adopted in 1991 and a second developed in
1994. Primary responsibility for HIV/AIDS control has been assigned to the STD Control Program of
the Ministry of Health, which has been redesignated the National STD/AIDS Control Program
(NSACP). To date, with donor support NSACP staffing, management and capacities have been
strengthened and the security of the blood supply has been enhanced. Additionally, donors have
channeled substantial support for educational and counseling activities to NGOs, which have succeeded
in greatly increasing knowledge about HIV/AIDs in the general population, although corresponding
understanding of other STDs is still low. A national secretariat for NGOs has been established in the
Ministry of Social Services. However, much remains to be done, particularly in terms of the diagnosis
and treatment of other STDs, which is especially important because persons with STD infections are at
higher risk of HIV infection than any other group.
2.16       Objectives. Although there is uncertainty about the current level of both HIV prevalence
and STD incidence in Sri Lanka, it is generally agreed that at present HIV prevalence is relatively low
and that epidemic spread has not yet begun. Given that avoidance of HIV infection is at present the
only way to prevent AIDS, the NSACP has recognized the urgency of taking cost-effective measures
while the prevalence of HIV is still low, to prevent the epidemic spread of HIV infection. The
objective of the program, therefore, isto -ensure that Sri Lanka remains a low HIV prevalence country.
2.17       Strategies. To achieve this objective five key strategies have been adopted. The spread
of HIV is being addressed through: (i) improvement of the capacity of the public and private health
sectors to diagnose and treat other STDs; (ii) ensuring the safety of the blood supply; (iii) promotion
of knowledge about HIV/AIDS and avoidance of high-risk behaviors through targeted educational
efforts; (iv) increased emphasis on multi-sectoral and inter-ministerial involvement and strengthening



- 15 -
of the institutional capacity to deal with HIV/AIDS and other STDs; and (v) monitoring of HIV
prevalence through annual sentinel surveys as well as other behavioral and epidemiological studies.
2.18       Content. The project will support aspects of the expanded National STD/AIDS Control
Program not supported from other external and government sources (para. 2.30). The content of this
support is summarized below; details of the program are given in Annex 4.
2.19       Improved capacity of public and private health sectors to diagnose and treat other STDs.
At present, the National STD/AIDS Control Program functions from three separate buildings in
Colombo, including clinic and laboratory facilities that are dilapidated and completely inadequate for
current needs. Support will therefore be provided for construction of a new headquarters for the
NSACP in Colombo that will: (i) serve as the headquarters for the national program; (ii) serve as a
training center; and (iii) provide clinical and laboratory services and function as a national referral
center. The new facility will allow much more satisfactory examination, treatment and counseling of
both male and female patients and will strengthen laboratory services for diagnosis, surveillance
systems and testing programs. STD and HIV/AIDS data will be computerized, thus facilitating
tracking of STD, HIV and AIDS cases reported by other STD clinics and the private sector. Provision
is made for the supply of equipment, computers, furniture, supplies, and a vehicle. The Govemment
has provided to the Association confirmation that it has title to the site designated for construction of a
headquarters facility of the STD/AIDS Control Program in Colombo. and that plans for the facility
have been approved by an architect acceptable to the Association (para. 5.2(a)). together with
approved bidding documents for construction of a headquarters facility for the STD/AIDS Control
(para. 5.3(a)).
2.20       The capacity of existing STD clinics in the nine provincial hospitals to diagnose and treat
patients, including laboratory work, will be strengthened through modest inputs including physical
improvements, provision of equipment, furniture, supplies, training, and a vehicle. In ten base
hospitals located in appropriate areas, STD clinics will be established. These will be supported
through upgrading of existing hospital space and provision of equipment, furniture, supplies, and
training. Improved reporting of STD cases to the NSACP in Colombo from both provincial and base
hospital STD clinics will be emphasized.
2.21       The NSACP, in cooperation with the Family Health Bureau (FHB), will undertake an
extensive in-service training program (Annex 4, Attachment 1). Since even with the expansion and
improvement of public sector STD facilities, it is expected that a majority of STD patients will
continue to use the private sector, the training program includes STD/HIV/AIDS orientation for private
sector physicians, who see most of the STD cases. Also provided is management, technical and
counseling training for NGO members.
2.22       Since the target populations of the STD/AIDS and family health programs both include
women in the reproductive age groups (ages 15-49), coordination between the two programs in order
to enhance reproductive health care is a goal of the NSACP. All staff of facilities that provide care to
women will be trained in the NSACP/FHB training program, which will cover female reproductive
health including increased used of modem contraception, linking of condom distribution for family
planning and STD prevention purposes as appropriate, infection control at delivery, and early
identification of congenital STD infection in newborns through symptoms such as eye discharge. In



- 16 -
cooperation with NGOs active in AIDS work, joint FHB and NSACP programs for at-risk groups such
as out of school youth and youth in tourist resort areas will be organized.
2.23       Security of the blood supply. Support will be provided to the National Blood
Transfusion Service for continued improvement of blood screening security. At the present time, there
is an unknown number of unregulated private blood banks. The Govemment has provided assurances
to the Association that by December 31. 1997 private blood banks will be required to follow Ministry
of Health standards for the safetW of the blood supply (para. 5.2(fl).
2.24       Improved AIDS awareness and increased avoidance of high-risk behaviors. Continued
efforts to improve levels of AIDS awareness and knowledge and to promote avoidance of high-risk
behaviors by means of targeted education and communication efforts as well as condom promotion
and distribution are essential to the effort to prevent the epidemic spread of HIV. AIDS awareness
also needs to be linked to information about other STDs to the extent possible. NGOs, which will
continue to take the lead in contacting at-risk population groups, are also active in the establishment of
counseling programs and caretaking procedures for HIV positive and AIDS individuals. Some 50
NGOs are currently working in these areas, and others have expressed interest in participating.
Adequate extemal support for NGO activities is considered to be available (para. 2.30). The project
will support a mass media program coordinated by the Health Education Bureau that will supplement
interpersonal communication efforts being undertaken by NGOs. Condom vending machines to be
placed by NGOs working with high-risk groups to further their efforts to promote behavioral change
will also be supported.
2.25       Strengthening of program management capacity. WHO will support additional technical
staff to improve the capacity of the NSACP to plan and implement the program as well as
management training for program staff. The project will support computerization of the program's
record keeping, which should greatly improve the recording of all HIV/AIDS and other STD cases
reported from both public and private sectors and the analysis of program data.
2.26       Research. monitoriny and evaluation. Three HIV sentinel surveys have been carried out
using WHO methodology, which identifies female commercial sex workers and STD patients as high-
risk groups (Annex 4). The forthcoming 1996 survey will cover additional risk groups including
armed forces members, prisoners, and injecting drug users. Support will be provided for technical
assistance to review survey sampling design and procedures and to carry out annual surveys.
2.27       Additionally, provision is made for other epidemiological and behavioral research as
needed. STD surveys linked to HIV surveillance will be supported, and parallel behavioral surveys to
monitor progress in promoting behavioral change will be introduced. The Sri Lanka Medical
Association will cooperate in following up the STD orientation training provided to private sector
physicians and developing further approaches to strengthening their contribution to the diagnosis and
treatment of STDs. The extent of injecting drug use in Sri Lanka and its potential role in the spread
of HIV is a topic that needs to be explored.
2.28       Inputs. The project provides support for civil works, equipment, computers, supplies,
vehicles, in-service training, technical assistance, IEC activities and materials, pharnaceuticals,
contraceptives, salaries and other incremental operating costs.



- 17 -
2.29       Monitoring. The impact of the STD/AIDS Control Program will be monitored through
the results of annual HIV and behavioral sentinel surveys, which will indicate whether the goals of
preventing epidemic spread of HI-V and reducing the occurrence of high-risk behavior are being
achieved. However, given the difficulty of ascertaining current prevalence/incidence rates of HIV and
other STDs, process monitoring including improved reporting of STD cases from both government
facilities and the private sector will be emphasized (Annex 11).
2.30       External support. A large proportion of the expanded STD/AIDS Control Program has
been funded by donors (UNDP, NORAD, UNICEF, UNFPA and WHO). In 1995 donor assistance
provided about 70% of the program's funding; in addition USAID provided substantial funding
directly to NGOs. However, this level of donor support will not be available in the coming years.
UNDP plans to continue to support the program to some extent, primarily through NGOs. WHO plans
to provide some funding, at least through 1997, for office rental, technical assistance and management
training. UJNAIDS will also provide limited support for 1997. The project will therefore provide
support for that portion of the program that is funded by neither Govemment nor donors. It is
anticipated that, at least for the first half of the project, adequate NGO support will be available from
UNDP and other sources. Funding requirements for NGOs in the latter half of the project will be
reviewed carefully as part of the mid-term review.
Nutrition Component (US$2.8 million; 14% of base costs)
2.31       Background. The potentially harmful effects of low birth weight, malnutrition, and
micronutrient deficiencies in infants and young children on their health and future productivity are
well documented. The persistence of high levels of these problems in Sri Lanka (paras. 1.14-15;
Annex 5), despite very low infant mortality, good control of most communicable diseases, and high
literacy rates, has received considerable attention from the Government in recent years. Recognizing
that malnutrition is a multifaceted problem that cuts across sectors and that a number of government as
well as NGO programs are concerned to improve nutritional status, in 1992 the Government
established a high-level National Steering Committee for nutrition as well as coordinating committees
at provincial, district and divisional levels.
2.32       Lead responsibility for implementation of programs to improve nutritional status has been
assigned to the Ministry of Health. For more than two decades, MOH has attempted to deal with child
malnutrition, iron-deficiency anemia and low birth weights through a programn that is in principle a
growth promotion program incorporating growth monitoring by public health midwives (PHMs), a
food supplement (thriposha), and nutrition education. In practice, however, the program has become a
limited growth monitoring effort linked to thriposha distribution. The training of many PHMs in
growth promotion is deficient, and the inclusion of growth monitoring in crowded MCH clinics, where
a variety of other activities must also be carried out, has constrained the quality of services and made
nutrition education activities difficult if not impossible. Community outreach, which is also essential
to a growth promotion program, is not adequate in many areas. Additionally, there is no evidence
from any of several studies that the expensive and poorly implemented thriposha program (Annex 5)
has had any sustained impact on the nutritional status of intended beneficiaries. The Government has
provided assurances that by June 30. 1998. the Ministry of Health will carry out, under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Association, an evaluation of the impact of the thriposha supplementary
feeding program and furnish to the Association the findings and recommendations of the evaluation:
and (ii) the Ministrv of Health will carry out agreed recommendations of the study (para. 5.2(g)).



- 18 -
2.33       Community-based nutrition and integrated rural development programs are supported by
UNICEF, UNDP, a number of bilateral donors, and NGOs such as Sarvodaya. The most extensive of
these is the nutrition component of the IDA-supported Poverty Alleviation (National Development
Trust Fund) project (Annex 5).3/ The objective of the NDTF nutrition component is to reduce
malnutrition among young children and low weight births, with emphasis on reaching the poorest and
most deprived populations. Initial indications are that the 'In-Depth Approach' of the NDTF nutrition
component is achieving significant reductions in malnutrition. These results have been achieved
without any food supplementation. The failure of the thriposha program to achieve results, and the
demonstrated effectiveness of the alternative approach being utilized in the NDTF nutrition
component, together suggest that the Family Health Bureau's current approach to malnutrition should
be reoriented.
2.34       UNICEF has taken the lead in supporting the iodization of salt in Sri Lanka, primarily
through the supply of equipment to salt producers and promotion of legislation. Legislation mandating
iodization of salt became effective from July 1, 1995, but experience elsewhere indicates that a purely
legal strategy is inadequate to eliminate production and sale of non-iodized salt. The low quality of
most salt produced in Sri Lanka makes it more difficult to iodize and also makes more likely a
substantial price differential between iodized and non-iodized salt.
2.35       Objectives. The objectives of the Ministry of Health's nutrition programs are, by the
end of the project period, to reduce protein-energy malnutrition among infants and young children
under five to less than 20%, or roughly half of current levels, and virtually eliminate severe
malnutrition; reduce the proportion of low-weight births to less than 15%; reduce levels of iron-
deficiency anemia among pregnant women and children substantially; and essentially eliminate iodine
deficiency diseases.
2.36       Strategies. Recognizing that inappropriate breast-feeding, weaning and feeding practices,
rather than household food shortages, underlie much of infant and young child malnutrition in Sri
Lanka, the Family Health Bureau will reorient and broaden its growth promotion program to
emphasize maternal nutrition, anemia prophylaxis, and prevention of growth faltering by infants and
young children rather than cure (i.e. food supplementation) after faltering has begun. The present
clinic-based focus will shift to a community-based, interpersonal communication approach, which is
expected to be more cost-effective in Sri Lanka's circumstances where literacy rates are high and
weaning foods are relatively available. The growth promotion effort will be supplemented by mass
media campaigns, which provide an essential complement to interpersonal communication; pilot efforts
to revitalize the health and nutrition education program in the schools; and broadening of the
UNICEF-supported salt iodization program.
2.37       Content. Project support for Ministry of Health nutrition programs is summarized
below; details are given in Annex 5.
2.38       Institutional strengthening. The project will support strengthening of the Maternal-Child
Health (MCH) unit of the Ministry of Health (also called the Family Health Bureau), whose
3/ The Poverty Alleviation Project (Cr. 2231-CD) became effective in September 1991, and the credit
is scheduled to close in December 1996.



- 19 -
responsibilities include nutrition. A post of Director Nutrition will be created and supporting office
establishment provided. The Government has confirmed that a post of Director Nutrition (Ministrv of
Health) has been created (para. 5.2(b)); and that by March 31. 1997 a candidate whose gualifications
and experience are acceptable to the Association will be appointed to the post of Director Nutrition
(Ministry of Health) (para. 5.2(h).
2.39       Divisional Health & Nutrition Committees. Divisional Health & Nutrition Committees
have been nominally organized in all divisions but are reported to be effectively functioning in only
some. With project support and monitoring, these committees are expected to become fully functional
and to take an active role in the implementation and coordination of nutrition activities in their
respective divisions. Participation in the committees will be widened to include more of the field
officers of various govemrnent departments working in the division as well as representatives of the
NDTF, other development programs and NGOs active in the division, and the new national
development (Samurdhi) program.
2.40       Program/project orientation. Provision is made for program/project orientation in the
first project year for all FHB and provincial staff concerned with nutrition programs, including senior
officers of the Health Ministry and provincial Departments of Health and members of the divisional
Health & Nutrition Committees. The orientation will cover current nutrition problems in Sri Lanka,
the strategies being adopted to address these problems, especially the reorientation of the growth
promotion program, and coordination with other govemment departments and nutrition programs.
2.41       Growth promotion program. Experience indicates that successful and cost-effective
growth promotion programs emphasize interpersonal communication and community participation. A
national growth promotion program focusing on infants, young children and pregnant women and
reoriented along these lines will be implemented through existing infrastructure and staff of the Family
Health Bureau and the provincial Health Departments. It will aim to reduce growth faltering in infants
and young children through promotion of behavior change, particularly concerning breast-feeding and
weaning practices. Low birth weight will be addressed through promotion of better maternal nutrition
and anemia prophylaxis. However, for some women whose short stature is a reflection of childhood
and adolescent undernutrition, underweight births are difficult to avoid; this problem can be overcome
only in the next generation through ensuring that daughters receive the adequate nutrition that their
mothers were lacking. To achieve reorientation of the growth promotion program, the project will
support in-service training of all PHMs and supervisors in program strategies, technical nutrition
knowledge and interpersonal communication skills.
2.42       To move away from the current over-emphasis on growth monitoring, growth promotion
will be shifted from crowded MCH clinics to community centers, where growth promotion, nutrition
counseling, and community nutrition activities will be carried out by local volunteers with the support
and guidance of PHMs. In those areas where community-based nutrition programs, for example the
NDTF in-depth nutrition component, are currently being implemented, the focus will be on
coordination between such efforts and the MOH growth promotion program. Where there is no such
program, once supervisors and PHMs have completed in-service training they will utilize local health
committees (or organize such committees if they do not already exist) to establish community nutrition
centers and recruit local volunteers, preferably village mothers, who will be given training. The
resources and experience of existing NGOs will be utilized in identifying community volunteers, and
their cooperation will be solicited in setting up community centers and carrying out community-based



- 20 -
nutrition activities. The training of health staff and community volunteers will draw on the experience
and materials of the NDTF in-depth nutrition component and other community-based nutrition
programs to the extent possible. Similarly, the growth promotion, nutrition counseling and community
nutrition activities of the community centers will draw on the NDTF experience. In view of questions
concerning roles and capacities of NGO and other community workers that have been raised by health
staff, it is necessary to clarify the potential participation of community workers in the growth
promotion program. The Government has provided assurances to the Association that growth
monitoring and other growth promotion activities may be carried out by trained community volunteers
under the general guidance of health workers (para. 5.2(i)).
2.43       A parallel growth promotion program will be carried out in the estate sector, focusing on
the creches provided for infant and child care while mothers are working. The creches make nutrition
education for mothers and on-site nutrition supplementation, when required, considerably more
practical on the estates than in other areas.
2.44       The communications strategy for the growth promotion program, which will be
coordinated by the Health Education Bureau (Ministry of Health) and the provincial health education
units, will focus on basic pregnancy, breast-feeding, weaning and micronutrient messages. To the
extent possible it will draw on nutrition communications already developed, particularly by UNICEF
with the support of the IDA-assisted Health & Family Planning project, and by the nutrition
component of the IDA-assisted Poverty Alleviation project. Interpersonal communication by PHMs
and volunteers to convey key messages concerning pregnancy, breast-feeding, weaning and
micronutrients and associated nutrition counseling will be the core of the growth promotion effort.
Mass media campaigns will provide an essential complement to interpersonal communication. In Sri
Lanka, where literacy is almost universal and the reach of the mass media is extensive, mass media
efforts are a cost-effective way of conveying and reinforcing key messages to the general population
as well as specific audiences. Health staff will be inforned about the content and media for upcoming
campaigns, so that they are able to reinforce and validate local interpersonal efforts. Provision is
made for technical assistance to support the development of the program's communications strategy.
Coordination to ensure that the various nutrition programs convey consistent messages is the
responsibility of the national Nutrition Steering Committee, which will convene workshops as needed.
2.45       Health and nutrition education program in the schools. The Ministry of Health has a
nutrition education program in the schools, but it is largely inactive. The Divisional Health &
Nutrition Committees will be asked to adopt one elementary and one secondary school in their
respective divisions for the development of model school health and nutrition programs, including
school medical inspection and follow up as well as health, nutrition and environmental education.
School gardens will be included. The secondary school programs will be directed particularly at
health and nutrition education needs of adolescent girls. These model programs will provide the basis
for the expansion of health and nutrition education activities in the schools at a later stage. An
experimental health and nutrition education scheme in schools in Kurunegala district will be evaluated
and expanded with project operational research support if warranted (Annex 5).
2.46       Basic (Pre-Service) Training. Basic training for public health staff is undertaken at the
National Institute of Health Sciences (NIHS) Kalutara and at nine other Public Health Training Centers
(PHTCs). The NIHS takes the lead role in the preparation of curricula for basic training of public
health staff and will be closely associated with the development of curricula for in-service nutrition



- 21 -
training of health staff. The content developed for in-service training will also be incorporated into
the basic (pre-service) training curricula for all categories of public health staff. Of the nine PHTCs,
four have been strengthened by the current Asian Development Bank (ADB) project. The project will
support IEC and office equipment as well as upgrading of library facilities for the other five.
2.47        lodization of salt. lodization of salt is widely accepted to be the most cost-effective way
to prevent iodine deficiency disorders (IDD). To broaden the UNICEF-assisted salt iodization
program, the project will support technical and financial planning assistance to the salt industry, which
will permit the industry to produce better quality salt. Such salt is easier to iodize, and its more
efficient production will make possible reduction of the price differential between iodized and non-
iodized salt. This supply-side assistance will be complemented by support for social marketing to
enhance the demand for iodized salt. Provision is also made for baseline and follow-up surveys of
household use of iodized salt and IDD status, and for training of health staff responsible for
monitoring compliance with the legislation mandating iodization of salt.
2.48        Research. Coordination of a program of operational and technical research will be the
responsibility of the Nutrition Division of the Medical Research Institute. The Nutrition Division has
adequate staff for this purpose; provision is made for support of office and computer facilities and a
vehicle. The Nutrition Working Group (para. 2.51) will develop a list of research proposals and
establish priorities for implementation. Additionally, the Nutrition Division will establish a screening
and technical review process and will invite proposals from outside the Ministry of Health; these could
be submitted by individuals, academic or other research organizations, NGOs, etc. A number of
operational research proposals have already been made (Annex 5).
2.49        Inputs. The project will support equipment, vehicles, computers, technical assistance, in-
service training, IEC activities and materials, and incremental operating costs.
2.50        Monitoring. Growth monitoring results and other growth promotion activities will be
routinely monitored through a system of monthly reports. The impact of the program will be specially
monitored through the designation of at least one sentinel division in each province, where baseline
surveys and special efforts to ensure completeness of growth monitoring and program reporting will
make it possible to track program progress continuously. Baseline surveys will also be carried out in
matched divisions for control purposes. Overall program impact will be monitored through project
support for continuation of the series of national nutrition surveys that extends back for more than 20
years.
2.51        Management. A Nutrition Working Group in the Ministry of Health, chaired by the
Director Nutrition and including representatives from the Health Education Bureau and the Medical
Research Institute, will be constituted to provide policy and implementation guidance. The Director
Nutrition will invite the participation of others working in the nutrition field from within government,
academic institutions and other organization. The Working Group will meet at least once a quarter to
review the progress of the component. Two long-term national consultants will be supported for the
duration of the project to assist the development and implementation of the growth promotion
program.



- 22 -
NON-COMMUNICABLE DISEASES AND EPIDEMIOLOGICAL TRANSITION
Pilot Non-Communicable Diseases Component (US$0.4 million; 2% of base costs)
2.52       Background. The health services in Sri Lanka have developed in circumstances in
which the clear priority has been control of communicable diseases. However, Sri Lanka is now well
advanced in the epidemiological transition, that is, communicable diseases have been largely controlled
and the burden of non-communicable diseases (NCDs) is increasing as life expectancy rises and the
population ages. This situation has been well documented by a burden of disease study (Annex 8).
Although recent Ministry of Health policy documents call for increased attention to NCDs, in practice
little attention has been given to systematic efforts to address these diseases. Particularly at primary
care levels, health professionals are inadequately prepared for effective patient care, nor at community
level is there any provision for preventive and promotive NCD strategies linked to health and nutrition
education efforts.
2.53       Over the last 15 years, there has been a very substantial increase in investment in hospital
facilities (para. 1.31), undoubtedly driven in good measure by the increasing burden imposed by
NCDs. However, it is clear from international experience that preventive and promotive measures that
prevent or reduce morbidity, disability and mortality are far more socially desirable as well as cost-
effective than subsequent hospital-based efforts to treat disease and disability. For example, it is
known that: appropriate control can prevent or delay the onset of diabetic complications; early
recognition and appropriate control of hypertension will prevent cardiovascular disease and
cerebrovascular disease (stroke); regular physical exercise and appropriate nutrition will reduce the
incidence of cardiovascular disease; and avoidance of smoking will reduce the incidence of
cardiovascular disease, stroke and several cancers.
2.54       Objectives/Strategies. To assist Sri Lanka to effectively address increasing NCD
concerns, the project will support a small pilot NCD component. The objectives of the component
will be to develop an NCD strategy for Sri Lanka, based on compilation of an NCD data base,
development of recommendations in NCD-related areas of food and tobacco policy, and, on a pilot
basis, development of cost-effective programs for the prevention and control of selected NCDs.
Implementation will draw largely on the existing infrastructure and staff of the Ministry of Health but
will also utilize resources available in the universities, the NGO sector and the private for-profit sector.
The knowledge and experience gained from implementation of the pilot component are expected to
provide the basis for subsequent expansion of cost-effective NCD programs nationally.
2.55       Content. The component will undertake the following activities on a national basis:
(a)   assessment of the prevalence of diabetes, hypertension, cardiovascular disease,
cerebrovascular disease, cancers, and other NCDs as well as obesity, smoking and other
predisposing conditions and behavior through a National Risk Factor Prevalence survey;
(b)   assessment of the care and treatment currently provided for NCDs in the public and
private sectors;



- 23 -
(c)   development of best practice NCD guidelines for health care professionals and health
educators reflecting cost-effective approaches. The resulting manuals will be presented to
health care professionals in the public and private sectors at a series of workshops;
(d)   development of national communication strategies for NCD prevention including national
mass media campaigns. Such campaigns will be coordinated by the Health Education
Bureau of MOH;
(e)  establishment of an NCD data registry in cooperation with the epidemiological unit of
MOH; and
(f)   development of recommendations linked to NCDs in the areas of food and tobacco
policy. Expertise available with the Sri Lanka Medical Association (SLMA), the
universities and the NGO community will be utilized in this regard.
2.56       The project will also support a pilot program to address prevention and control of
diabetes, which, on the basis of existing experience, has been recommended by the SLMA as the first
priority for a pilot program. The Government has provided assurances that by June 30. 1997 an
operational plan for a pilot diabetes program acceptable to the Association will be prepared and
furnished to the Association for its concurrence, and that the plan will be carried out taking into
account the Association's comments (para. 5.2(i)). The pilot program will include:
(a)   establishment of a core team including a physician, nurse-educator and dietician at a
selected medical facility to develop and test approaches to diabetes prevention, treatment
and control, including communications and outreach aspects;
(b)   establishment of a network of specialists in a variety of fields (e.g. endocrinology,
ophthalmology, neurology, nephrology, etc.) to provide specialized advice and support to
the core diabetes team as needed;
(c)   development of an outreach program through the primary health care system to train
PHC staff and orient community members conceming prevention and control of diabetes
and other NCDs, including the development of educational materials;
(d)   organization of a workshop in the latter half of the project to present the experience and
recommendations of the pilot diabetes program.
2.57       If the experience of the pilot diabetes program is good, a second NCD program may be
implemented in the second half of the project.
2.58       Provision is made for support of operational research on prevention and control of NCDs,
as assessed by the Standing Committee on NCDs of the SLMA. NGOs, academic centers, etc. will be
encouraged to submit proposals for support.
2.59       Inputs. The project will support equipment, computers, vehicles, training, technical
assistance, IEC activities and materials, and incremental operating costs.



- 24 -
2.60       Evaluation. Evaluation of the impact, cost benefit, cost effectiveness, and replicability
of all interventions supported by the component will be carried out in cooperation with the
Management Development & Planning Unit (MDPU) of the Ministry of Health, drawing on assistance
available to the MDPU from the Health Economics Study Program (HIESP) of the Department of
Economics, University of Colombo (para. 2.69).
2.61       Management. The component will be managed by the Research and Training Unit,
under the Deputy Director General, Research and Training, of the Ministry of Health. The DDG will
seek the assistance of the Standing Committee on Non-Communicable Diseases of the Sri Lanka
Medical Association and the NCD interest group at the University of Colombo Medical School which
already has experience in the prevention and management of NCDs. A long-term national consultant
will be contracted to manage implementation of the component.
PROGRAM SUPPORT
Health Policy Development Component (US$1.3 million; 6% of base costs)
2.62       Background. The earlier IDA-assisted Health & Family Planning project (para. 1.37)
financed a Health Strategy and Financing Study (HSFS) to identify health sector issues and provide
guidance on policy development and planning in the sector. The study documented the expanding role
of the private sector in the provision of health care and identified as issues, among others, the need to
improve the quality and efficiency of services through strengthening the referral system, determining
altemative uses for types of facilities known to be ineffective, and addressing inefficiencies in the
pharmaceutical sector, and the need to provide additional resources through expansion of cost recovery
in the tertiary hospital sector.
2.63       The Prospective Plan for Health Development (1995-2004) recently published by the
Ministry of Health is comprehensive in scope and constructively addresses, among others, most of the
issues identified by the HSFS. The Plan recognizes that while Sri Lanka has made notable public
health achievements, in view of changing demographic and epidemiological circumstances combined
with increasingly constrained resources, efforts to deal with efficiency, effectiveness and financing
issues in the sector are now required. However, the means to move from identification of policy
requirements to effective planning and implementation need to be strengthened. The Government has
provided a Letter of Health Development Policy acceptable to the Association. The Letter
summarized the Government's intentions with reference to future policies. strategies and priorities for
the overall development of the health sector. including specific steps which the Government intends to
take in the areas of pharmaceutical policy, improvement of the efficiency and effectiveness of the
health system. and resource generation in tertiarv health facilities (para. 5.1). The Letter is included in
Annex 6.
2.64       Objectives. The objectives of the component are to support strengthening and
institutionalization of Government's currently weak capacity for policy analysis and planning in the
health sector; and to support further research and analysis of health policy and financing issues linked
to implementation of associated pilot activities.
2.65       Strategies. To accomplish these objectives, the project will support (i) an agreed
program of policy-related studies and pilot activities; (ii) a process of health planning and capacity



- 25 -
development; and (iii) strengthening of analytic and planning capacity in the Ministry of Health and
the Ministry of Finance & Planning.
2.66       Content. The development of an agreed program of policy-related studies (Annex 6)
was begun as a part of project preparation. Five major areas for policy-related studies were agreed:
(i) improved quality and efficiency of the health services; (ii) generation of additional resources for
tertiary care; (iii) appropriate public-private mix in the health sector; (iv) addressing NCD morbidity
and disability; and (v) other significant health policy areas, including mental health, violence against
women, and environmental health. Prior to the end of each project year, IDA and the Ministry of
Health will review the status of the studies program and jointly agree on the program for the
subsequent year. The Government has provided assurances to the Association that under terms of
reference and in accordance with a time schedule agreed with the Association, a program of policv-
related studies will be carried out: that the results and findings of the studies will be reviewed annually
with the Association: and that the recommendations will be timely implemented. taking into account
the Association's comments (para 5.2(k)).
2.67       To strengthen understanding of the significance of health economics and financing issues
and their role in health planning, the project will support a process of health planning and capacitv
development conceming various health economics and financing issues and options. The process will
comprise one-day orientation seminars for senior managers; one-week workshops for managers at
provincial, divisional and medical institution levels; and orientation meetings for consultants, matrons
and nursing sisters at major hospitals. The program will be managed by the Director Training.
2.68       To strengthen the development of analytic and planning capacity for the health sector
within the Govemment, the project will support (i) three masters level fellowships in the Planning unit
of the Ministry of Health; and (ii) one masters level and one short-term fellowship in the Ministry of
Finance & Planning.
2.69       To provide access to additional analytical and planning resources to the Ministry of
Health, the project will support a link program between the Ministry and the Health Economics Study
Program (HESP) of the Center for Economic Research and Analysis at the University of Colombo.
The link program will include development of policy and analysis capacity at HESP, close
involvement of HESP in agreed programs of research and training for the Ministry of Health, and
direct advisory support to the Ministry in health economics, financing and evaluation of programs.
The link program will be established through a contract between the Ministry of Health and HESP
(Annex 6), which will include provision for computers and other equipment and supplies as well as
one masters level and one short-term fellowship to strengthen the capacity of the HESP. Additionally,
support will be provided to the Department of Census and Statistics to include a health costs module
in one or more of the periodic national surveys undertaken by the Department.
2.70       The Ministry of Health recognizes that there is a need to strengthen planning capacity at
the provincial level, particularly in the areas of cost-effective health interventions based on
epidemiological and burden of disease analysis, as well as quality and efficiency improvement. The
project will therefore support development of such planning capacity in selected provinces through: (i)
training of provincial health staff with planning responsibilities and staff of the district health teams;
(ii) development of planning methodologies appropriate for provincial-level planning; and (iii)



- 26 -
assistance for two cycles of annual planning including provision of computers, software and training
required for the purpose.
2.71       Inputs. The project will support equipment, computers, technical assistance, in-service
training, and incremental operating costs.
2.72       Management. The component will be managed by the Deputy Director General
Planning.
Management Information Systems (MIS) Component (US$1.6 million; 8% of base costs)
2.73       Background. More accurate information on health status and services, as well as
improved availability of information, are both essential to increased effectiveness of the health services
provided by MOH. Data collection and reporting systems are basically in place in the Ministry, but
compliance with reporting requirements and availability of data in useful and usable forms both need
to be improved.
2.74       Objectives. The objective of the component is to support increased capacity of the
Management Planning and Development Unit (MDPU) of MOH to organize and utilize information for
management and planning purposes.
2.75       Strategies. The project will support the development of a management information unit
under the Director Planning & Management Information (PMI) as a part of the MDPU. This unit will
be the integrating unit for management information in the Ministry and will review and coordinate all
information-related activities. Through training and information technology inputs, some support to
provincial and district levels will also be provided.
2.76       Content. The PMI unit will be responsible for:
(a)   coordination of all information technology within the Ministry of Health;
(b)   development of plans for improvement of the use of information in the Ministry;
(c)  support for the development of inter-office connections within the Ministry (LANs) as
well as e-mail connections to allow interministry communications and to provide a
gateway to internet communications in support of MOH activities;
(d)  support for the development of existing information systems such as that used by the
Family Health Bureau for collection of information from the provinces and review of all
plans for MIS systems at provincial, district and DDHS levels; and
(e)   development of training courses in the use of information for management purposes.
The necessary software and related requirements will by developed through local consultancy in the
first two years of the project (Annex 7).



- 27 -
2.77       The current ADB-assisted project includes support for pilot development of information
management at divisional and district levels which is complementary to the MIS development
supported by the project. The project will also provide support to the Human Resources Information
System (HRIS) developed with support from the IDA-assisted Health & Family Planning project.
2.78       Inputs. The project will support equipment, computers, technical assistance, in-service
training, salaries and incremental operating costs.
2.79       Management. The component will be managed by the Director Planning &
Management Information.
Health Education Bureau Component (US$2.5 million; 12% of base costs)
2.80       Background. For more than half of the goals of national health policy as identified in
recent MOH policy documents, the primary determinant of improvement is individual and/or
household health behavior, underlining the key role played by health education in achieving health
objectives. Promoting behavior change through health education plays a major role in all programs
supported by the project.
2.81       The effectiveness of communication efforts that have been undertaken in Sri Lanka, both
interpersonal and through the mass media, is reflected by, for example, the successful promotion of
contraception, resulting in the virtual achievement of replacement fertility, and the very high
proportion of births in health facilities; recently, a mass media campaign concerning leprosy was
considered to have reached a wide audience and effectively communicated the intended messages. It
is generally agreed that both the high level of literacy in Sri Lanka as well as the capacity of the
Health Education Bureau have contributed to the significant impact of health education efforts.
2.82       Objectives. The objectives of the component are to (i) support enhanced quality,
effectiveness, and coverage of the health education activities of the Health Education Bureau; and (ii)
improve the ability of HEB to carry out an expanded program of training in interpersonal
communication. In contrast to the situation in some developing countries, the demonstrated
competence of HEB makes it realistic to support expansion of its scope and activities.
2.83       Strategies. HEB will adopt a new approach emphasizing in-service training of primary
health care staff in interpersonal communication skills. In other countries where similar training
strategies have been adopted, the results in terms of improved primary health care performance have
been both evident and cost-effective. To achieve improved quality and coverage of health education
activities, the Bureau's planning, management and technical capacities, health education (HE) capacity
at health facilities, and HE staffing at divisional level will all be strengthened.
2.84       Content. Management and technical skills of HEB headquarters staff will be upgraded
through national and international training. Planning and management systems will be strengthened
through the acquisition of computer capacity supported by systems analysis and data entry capability.
Actual production of materials and development of media campaigns will continue to be largely
contracted to the private sector, taking advantage of good private sector capacity in the advertising and
related fields in Sri Lanka.



- 28 -
2.85       The coverage of HEB activities will be expanded through the provision of HE technology
to upgrade existing hospital HE units, whose ability to function has been constrained by lack of
equipment and materials. Feedback from those HE units which were assisted in three districts under
the IDA-supported Health & Family Planning project indicates that inputs have been put to effective
use. Additionally, MOH will support the appointment of 50 Health Education Officers a year at
divisional level over the next five years from its own resources, with the goal of ultimately providing
a Health Education Officer at each of the 259 divisional headquarters (DDHS). Existing Public Health
Inspectors (PHIs) and Public Health Nurses (PHNs) are eligible for promotion to these posts; promotee
training for those selected will be supported by the project.
2.86       HEB will provide in-service interpersonal communication training to all field staff as a
part of the training for the nutrition component. Training to be provided under the malaria and
STD/AIDS components will provide additional opportunities for review of communication skills as
well. To enhance the capacity of HEB to provide training at headquarters, including training of
trainers, the project will support the construction of an HEB hostel in Colombo. The Government has
confirmed to the Association that it has title to the site designated for a Health Education Bureau
hostel in Colombo. and that the plans for the building have been approved by an architect acceptable
to the Association (para 5.2(d)). It has provided to the Association approved bidding documents for
construction of a Health Education Bureau hostel in Colombo (para. 5.3 (b)).
2.87       Inputs. A long-term consultant will be contracted to assist HEB with the management
and implementation of the greatly increased training and activities load that the project will entail. To
strengthen HEB, the project will support civil works, furniture, equipment, computers, vehicles,
technical assistance, in-service training, incremental staff, and incremental operating costs. The health
education activities and materials in support of individual programs are included as part of those
programs.
C. Environmental Considerations
2.88       The proposed project was determined to be in screening Category C, which includes
projects that are expected to have no significant negative environmental impact. No environmental
analysis has been prepared for this project. A positive environmental impact is expected from the
revised malaria control strategy that the project will support, since the amount of insecticide used
annually for spraying has been reduced by 65%.



- 29 -
III. PROJECT COST, FINANCING, PROCUREMENT,
DISBURSEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Project Cost
3.1             The total cost of the Project is estimated at LKRI,4890 million or US$22.6
million equivalent, including contingencies (Table 3.1). Project costs at appraisal were
estimated at October 1995 price levels. Physical contingencies of 10% for civil works,
equipment, furniture, materials and drugs and 5% for vehicles are included in the total project
cost; price contingencies that vary from 2.4% to 3.4% per year for foreign expenditures and from
6.5% to 11.0% per year for local expenditures during the implementation period are also
included. Price contingencies are estimated at US$0.56 million, or 3% of base costs; physical
contingencies are estimated at US$1.33 million, or 6% of base costs. Total contingencies add
about 9% to total base costs. The foreign exchange component is estimated at US$8.23 million
including contingencies, or about 36% of the total project cost. The total project cost includes
taxes and duties of about LKR130.4 million (US$2.0 million).
Table 3.1
Project Costs - Summary by Component
(LKR Million)            (USS Million)
Total
Foreign   Base
Local  Foreign    Total    Local Foreign  Total  Exchange Costs
A. Malaria                            153.33    47.87    201.20    2.70    0.84    3.55       24    17
B. STDIHIVIAIDS                      265.12   196.79     461.91    4.68    3.47    8.15       43    39
C. Nutrition                         113.97    47.17     161.15    2.01    0.83    2.84       29    14
D. Non-Communicable Diseases          16.30     8.38      24.68    0.29    0.15    0.44       34     2
E. Program Support
Health Policy Development           43.31    30.42      73.72    0.76    0.54    1.30       41     6
Management Information Systems       65.25    25.43     90.67    1.15    0.45    1.60       28     8
Health Education IEC                89.28    54.76     144.03    1.57    0.97    2.54       38    12
Subtotal Program Support             197.83   110.60     308.43    3.49    1.95    5.44       36    26
F. Project Management                 13.72     2.89      16.62    0.24    0.05    0.29       17     1
Total BASELINE COSTS                  760.28   413.70   1,173.98   13.41    7.30   20.71      35   100
Physical Contingencies              42.54    33.13      75.67    0.75    0.58    1.33       44     6
Price Contingencies                 149.31    90.96    240.27    0.21    0.35    0.56       63     3
Total PROJECT COSTS                   952.13   537.78   1,489.91   14.37    8.23   22.60      36   109
3.2             Table 3.2 provides an estimate of the total project costs, investment costs and
recurrent costs including taxes and duties. The project investment base costs of US$13.6 million
include support for civil works, office equipment and furniture, computers, laboratory
equipment, vehicles, technical assistance, training and fellowships. Estimated recurrent base



- 30 -
costs of US$7.1 million cover incremental operating costs directly attributable to the project
during the five-year implementation period. These include salaries, operational and maintenance
expenditures for facilities, laboratory supplies, drugs and medical supplies as well as operational
allowances for staff. Drugs, medical supplies and laboratory supplies will be financed through
the IDA credit.
Table 3.2
Project Costs - Summary by Expenditure Category
(LKR Million)         (USS Million)
Total
Foreign   Base
Local  Foreign    Total    Local Foreign  Total  Exchange Costs
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                      66.84    66.35     133.19    1.18    1.17    2.35        50    11
B. Equipment                        18.75    56.13      74.88    0.33    0.99    1.32       75      6
C. Comp. Hardware & Software         9.24    27.68      36.92    0.16    0.49    0.65        75     3
D. Furniture                         1.61     4.84       6.46    0.03    0.09    0.11       75      1
E. Vehicles                         68.86    68.50     137.35    1.21    1.21    2.42       50    12
F. Materials                         3.24     9.67      12.91    0.06    0.17    0.23       75      1
G. Activities                      102.97     5.38     108.35    1.82    0.09    1.91         5     9
H. National Training                74.96        -      74.96    1.32       -    1.32         -     6
I. International Training               -   24.40       24.40       -    0.43    0.43       100     2
J. TA - National                    49.46        -     49.46    0.87        -    0.87         -     4
K. TA - International                3.12    17.53     20.65    0.05    0.31    0.36        85      2
L. RM & E                           56.74    35.73      92.47    1.00    0.63    1.63       39      8
Total Investment Costs              455.79   316.20     771.99    8.04    5.58   13.62        41    66
11. Recurrent Costs
A. Salaries                         11.72        -      11.72    0.21       -    0.21         -      1
B. 0 & M                           264.69    13.80     278.49    4.67    0.24    4.91         5    24
C. Drugs                            28.08    83.69     111.77    0.50    1.48    1.97       75    10
Total Recurrent Costs               304.49    97.49     401.98    5.37    1.72    7.09        24    34
Total BASELINE COSTS                 760.28   413.70    1,173.98   13.41    7.30   20.71       35   100
Physical Contingencies              42.54    33.13     75.67    0.75    0.58    1.33        44      6
Price Contingencies                149.31    90.96    240.27    0.21    0.35    0.56        63      3
Total PROJECT COSTS                  952.13   537.78   1,489.91   14.37    8.23   22.60        36   109
3.3.            Sustainability. Successive governments in Sri Lanka have been fully and firmly
committed to support public health services. Continued priority support for the programs that
address major public health problems--malnutrition, malaria control, STD/AIDS--can be
expected. The recurrent cost implications of the project are modest, reaching about 1.8 % by the
final project year (Annex 9). Of the incremental recurrent costs, the project will finance only
drugs, medical supplies and laboratory supplies. For the malaria and nutrition components, with
the completion of project-assisted intensive phases of these programs it is anticipated that after
completion of the project the resources required to sustain progress will be significantly lower
than the level of project inputs. STD/AIDS requirements, however, are likely to continue to
increase for the foreseeable future. Altogether, it is estimated that in the first post-project year,
project-related recurrent costs would decline to about 1.6% of the projected recurrent budget for
Health (Annex 9), a necessary and sustainable public health outlay.



- 31 -
B. Financing Plan
3.4.           The proposed IDA credit of US$18.76 million equivalent will finance about 83%
of total project costs, comprising 100% of total foreign exchange costs and about 85% of total
local costs. Government is expected to finance about US$3.84 million equivalent of total project
costs, including US$2.02 million of taxes and duties. Table 3.3 shows the financing plan.
Table 3.3
Financing Plan
LocallForeign/Taxes by Financiers                        (US$ million)
IDA             Government      Total
Amount   %   Amount   %         Amount    %
I. Foreign                                  8.23  100.0    0.0      0.0      8.23    36.4
II. Local (Excl. Taxes)                    10.52  85.2    1.83     14.8    12.35    54.6
Ill. Taxes                                     -     -    2.02    100.0      2.02    8.9
Total Project                               18.76  83.0    3.84    17.0    22.60   100.0
3.5.           Retroactive Financing. Provision for retroactive financing estimated at
US$500,000 has been included. These funds will be used for support of the Project Management
Unit office, baseline surveys in the Malaria and Nutrition components of the project, support for
district (regional) malaria control offices and other activities that will facilitate start-up prior to
project effectiveness.
C. Procurement
3.6.           The procurement of all items funded from the IDA credit will be governed by
the World Bank Guidelines of January 1995 (revised January and August 1996). For
International Competitive Bidding (ICB), IDA's standard bidding documents will be used. For
National Competitive Bidding (NCB) bidding documents acceptable to IDA will be used.
Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 3.4, and details of the procurement plan are
given in Annex 11. The General Procurement Notice has been issued.
3.7.           All procurement will be carried out by the Project Management Unit in the
Ministry of Health (para. 3.19), except for procurement of condoms, condom vending machines
and contraceptives, which is expected to be carried out by UNFPA. Procurement information
will be collected and recorded as follows: (a) prompt report to IDA of contract award
information by the Borrower; and (b) comprehensive semi-annual reports to IDA by the
Borrower indicating: (i) revised cost estimates for individual contracts; (ii) revised timing of
procurement actions, including advertising, bidding, contract award, and completion time for
individual contracts; and (iii) compliance with aggregate limits on specific methods of
procurement.



- 32 -
Table 3.4
Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Intemational   National
Competitive  Competitive   Other      N.l.F.     Total
Bidding      Bidding
A. Works
AIDS/STD Complex                                      0.86           -          -         -       0.86
(0.80)                                      (0.80)
Hostel Construction                                      -        0.28          -         -       0.28
(0.26)                         (0.26)
Minor Civil Works (diff. locations)                      -        1.47         -          -       1.47
(1.37)                         (1.37)
B. Goods
Fumiture                                                             -     0.13           -       0.13
(0.10)              (0.10)
Computer Hard- and Software                           0.64           -      0.11          -       0.75
(0.51)                (0.091               (0.60)
Misc. Equipment and Materials                         0.92        0.30     0.32           -       1.54
(0.74)      (0.28)    (0.29)               (1.31)
Lab/Med Equipment/Consumables                         0.45           -          -         -       0.45
(0.36)                                      (0.36)
Medical Supplies, Drugs and Contraceptives            4.00           -     0.38           -       4.38
(3.80)                (0.36)                (4.16)
C. Vehicles                                            2.55           -          -          -      2.55
(1.91)                     -(1.91)
D. Consultancies
Intemational TA                                                      -      0.39          -       0.39
(0.39l               (0.39)
National TA                                                                               -       0.88
(0.84)               (0.84)
E. Training
National Training                                                    -       1.40         -       1.40
(1.33)               (1.33)
Fellowships & Study Tours                                -           -      0.47          -       0.47
(0.47)              (0.47)
F. Miscellaneous
RM & E                                                   -           -       1.97         -       1.97
(1.88)               (1.88)
Health Education Programs                                -           -       1.83         -       1.83
(1.74)               (1.74)
Incremental Salaries                                     -           -          -      0.22       0.22
Operation & Maintenance                                  -           -      1.355      1.65       3.00
(1.24)         -     (1.24)
Total                                                   9.42        2.05       9.25      1.87      22.60
(8.12)      (1.91)    (8.73)         -    (18.76)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the respective amounts financed by IDA.
N.I.F. - Non-IDA financed
/ Furniture will be procured through NS; small computer items and special supplies will be procured through NS.
/ Small office equipment and other items (US$0.24 million), except for condom vending machines, will be procured through NS;
condom vending machines (USS0.08 million) will be procured through UNFPA.
/ Small amounts of drugs and medical supplies (USSO. 10 million) will be procured through NS. Condoms and contraceptives
(US$0.28 million) will be procured through UNFPA.
/ TA for Health Policy Development (US$0.35 million) is expected to be contracted to an academic institute; MIS Development
and Architectural Design (USS0.42 million) are expected to be contracted to firns; the remaining TA is expected to be
contracted to individuals.
/ Spare parts and small maintenance equipment for vehicles, medical lab equipment, and computer hardware.



- 33 -
3.8.         The civil works included under the project (estimated cost of US$2.6 million)
comprise: (i) construction of an STD/AIDS complex; (ii) construction of a hostel for the Health
Education Bureau; (iii) construction of five incinerators at urban health care centers in Colombo;
and (iv) minor refurbishment and upgrading of provincial and base hospital STD clinics. These
construction activities will be undertaken during the first, second and third project years. The
civil works contract for the STD/AIDS complex (estimated cost of US$0.86 million) will be
procured through ICB. All other civil works contracts will be for less than US$400,000 and will
be contracted using NCB procedures. With the exception of the HEB hostel (estimated cost of
US$300,000), the other contracts are expected to be for less than US$60,000 each, in scattered
locations. Because of the low value of these contracts and/or the remote location of the
construction sites, it is not expected that they will attract international bidders.
3.9.         The gooda to be financed from the IDA credit include office and laboratory
equipment, furniture, consumables, computer hardware and software, medical supplies, drugs
and contraceptives. To the extent possible, these items will be grouped into several procurement
packages. For two packages of computer hardware and software of US$0.32 million and above,
procurement will be through International Competitive Bidding (ICB). One package of
specialized laboratory equipment, furniture and consumables totaling US$0.45 million will be
procured through ICB. Drugs and medical supplies with a value of US$4.0 million will be
grouped into suitable procurement packages and procured through ICB. Condoms, condom
vending machines and contraceptives totaling about US$0.36 million will be procured through
UJNFPA. Miscellaneous equipment and supplies with a total value of US$0.92 million will be
grouped into two packages and procured through ICB. About US$0.30 million of miscellaneous
equipment and supplies will be grouped into suitable contracts and procured through NCB. The
balance covering furniture, miscellaneous small office equipment, small computer hardware
items and office items, and small amounts of medical supplies, not to exceed a total value of
US$0.58 million, will be procured through National Shopping (NS). Spare parts and small
maintenance equipment items for vehicles, medical lab equipment, and computer hardware
totaling US$1.35 million will be procured through NS.
3.10.        All vehicles totaling about US$2.55 million will be procured through ICB and
will be grouped into suitable procurement packages. Procurement of ambulances for transport of
falciparum malaria cases and other medical emergencies would be conditional on a review of
transport aspects of the health system that would indicate the justification in cost-effectiveness
terms for the type and number of vehicles needed and address sustainability issues.
3.11.        All consultants for technical assistance (TA) will be selected in accordance with
the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by the World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency" (August 1981). Contracts for architectural design and supervision for the
STD/AIDS complex and the Health Education Bureau hostel, which will require an estimated 12
person-months, and the TA for the design and implementation of management information
systems, which will require an estimated 156 person-months, are expected to be awarded to
firms. Additionally, a contract with the Health Economics Study Program, Department of
Economics, University of Colombo, for support to the Ministry of Health in the areas of health
economics and financing is expected to provide for approximately 30 person-months over five
years. Technical support to be provided by individuals to the STD/AIDS, Nutrition, NCD, HEB
and project management components for the duration of the project is expected to result in
approximately 700 person-months of individual TA. International training in the form of
international fellowships and training courses, which will total an estimated 100 person-months,



- 34 -
will be provided by academic institutions or training institutes. These will be contracted on the
basis of Direct Contracting. Production of health education materials will be procured by NCB or
NS, depending on the value of the package. In-service training of Ministry of Health staff,
including development and production of course materials and travel and subsistence costs for
trainers and trainees, will be carried out departmentally by the Ministry of Health. Surveys and
studies will be carried out departmentally by the Ministry of Health with some technical
assistance from other government departments.
3.12.        All bidding packages procured through ICB and other packages for civil works
and goods estimated to cost US$200,000 or more will be subject to prior IDA review. In
addition, there will be a prior IDA review process for the first package of each procurement
category (civil works, goods, etc.) procured through NCB. International fellowships and study
tours will be reviewed by IDA to ensure that they are in accordance with Association guidelines.
Terms of reference (TOR) for consultant contracts will be subject to prior review by IDA,
regardless of value. In addition IDA will review short lists, letters of invitation, and consultant
contracts higher than US$100,000 for firms and US$50,000 for individuals. The Government has
provided to the Association confirmation that acceptable sample procurement documents for
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) and National Competitive Bidding (NCB) are available
(para. 5.2(e)).
D. Disbursement
3.13.        Preparation of disbursement applications will be the responsibility of the
Ministry of Health. The Project Management Unit (para. 3.19) will be responsible for preparing
and maintaining all documentation.
3.14.        The Project is expected to be completed in five years, by December 31, 2001,
and the Credit is scheduled to close on June 30, 2002. Expected disbursement from the IDA
credit over a five-year period and disbursement against specific categories are given in Annex
12. Care has been taken to plan procurement of virtually all civil works, vehicles, and
equipment in the first half of the project.
3.15.        Disbursements will finance: (i) 85% of the costs for civil works; (ii) for goods
100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local expenditures ex-factory cost and 85% of local
expenditures for other items procured locally; (iii) 100% of the cost for foreign and local
consultancies and training; (iv) 100% of the health and nutrition and research, monitoring and
evaluation activities; and (v) 100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local expenditures ex-
factory cost and 85% of local expenditures for other items procured locally for health and
nutrition education materials.
3.16.        To facilitate project implementation, the Borrower will establish a Special
Account on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA to cover IDA's share of expenditures. The
Authorized Allocation will be US$500,000, representing about four months of average
expenditures made through the Special Account. During the early stages of the project, the
initial allocation to the Special Account will be limited to US$250,000. However, when
aggregate disbursements under the Credit have reached the level of SDR3,500,000 equivalent,
the initial allocation may be increased up to the Authorized Allocation of US$500,000 by
submission of the relevant withdrawal applications. Applications for replenishment of the
Special Account will be submitted monthly but not less than quarterly or when one third of the



- 35 -
amount has been withdrawn, whichever occurs sooner. Documentation requirements for
replenishment will follow standard IDA procedures as described in the Disbursement Handbook,
Chapter 6. Monthly bank statements of the Special Account which have been reconciled by the
Borrower should accompany all replenishment requests.
3.17.        Disbursement for civil works contracts valued at more than US$200,000 and
goods at more than US$200,000 will be made against full documentation. Similarly,
disbursement for contracts to consultancy firms valued at more than US$100,000 and for
individual consultants valued at more than US$50,000 will also be made against full
documentation. Disbursement for contracts for civil works, goods and consultancy services
valued below these thresholds may be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures (SOE).
Supporting documentation for SOEs will be retained by the implementing agency for at least two
years after disbursement. Direct payment applications will be accepted for minimum amounts of
US$50,000 when the initial deposit is US$250,000 and US$100,000 when the initial deposit is
increased to US$500,000.
E. Accounts and Audits
3.18.        Procedures for accounts and audits will follow the Bank's "Guidelines for
Financial Reporting and Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank." The Project
Management Unit will maintain a consolidated account of all expenditures under the project.
The Borrower will provide to IDA within six months of the end of each fiscal year an audit
report. The project accounts will be audited annually by auditors satisfactory to IDA in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles, with terms of reference approved by IDA. The
audit reports should include a separate opinion on the adequacy of SOEs and on the Special
Account. Govemment has provided assurances that: (i) independent auditors acceptable to IDA
will be appointed in a timely manner to undertake annual audits and to prepare audit reports of
the Pro_ject Accounts. Special Accounts and SOE : and (ii) certified copies of the audited project
accounts and the Special Account statements. together with the auditor's report and opinion
thereon. and a copy of the auditor's report and opinion on SOEs will be provided to IDA within
six months of the end of each fiscal year.
3.19         Overall guidance for the project will be provided by a Project Steering
Committee. The Steering Committee will be chaired by the Secretary Health, with the project
coordinator as secretary. Members will include project component managers and
representatives of the Economic Resources Department, the National Planning Department and
the Department of Budget.
F. Project Management and Implementation
3.20.        Overall project management and coordination will be the responsibility of a
Project Management Unit (PMU). The PMU will be headed by a full-time project coordinator,
who will report to the Secretary of the Ministry of Health. The Project Coordinator will be
assisted by a computer analyst, a project accountant and office staff. The PMU will be
responsible for coordination of annual project reviews, preparation and submission of semi-
annual project reports, procurement for the project, and preparation of disbursement applications.
Since the PMU will carry over from the previous IDA-supported Health & Family Planning



- 36 -
Project, the unit will have practical experience in IDA procurement, disbursement, supervision
and reporting procedures from the start.
3.21.        The components of the project will be implemented as part of ongoing programs
by the unit of the Ministry of Health concerned, as indicated in the table below. The organization
chart of the Ministry, which shows these units, is at Chart 1. The ability of these units to
successfully implement the project components for which they will be responsible is indicated
generally by the excellent achievements of the health services in Sri Lanka and specifically by
the effectiveness to date of the AMC, NSACP, and Family Health programs. The MDPU was
created with assistance from the IDA-supported Health & Family Planning project and is now
functioning along the lines envisioned in the project. The Health Policy and Management
Information Systems components will further strengthen and expand the capacities of the
MDPU.
Component                          Ministry of Health Unit
Malaria                            Anti-Malaria Campaign (AMC)
STD/AIDS                           National STD/AIDS Control Program (NSACP)
Nutrition                          Family Health Bureau (FHB)
Non-Communicable Diseases          Research and Training Unit
Health Policy                      Management Development and Planning Unit (MDPU)
Management Information Systems     Planning & Management Information Unit (PMI Unit)
Health Education                   Health Education Bureau (HEB)
3.22         Monitoring and impact indicators for the respective project components are
summarized in Annex 11. The PMU will be responsible for ensuring that baseline and other
studies that will be required for impact assessment are carried out. The implementing units of
the Ministry of Health will be responsible for ensuring that input and program monitoring data
are obtained and submitted to the PMU on a regular basis. The Government has provided
assurances that it will maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with benchmarks and indicators satisfactory to the
Association. the implementation of the project and the achievement of the project obiectives.
3.23         The PMU will submit to IDA for review and comment not later than one month
following the period under review semi-annual reports summarizing project progress and
problems for the period under review and cumulatively. Government will carry out a mid-term
review of the project, and additionally Government will submit a project completion report to
the Association within six months of the Credit Closing Date. The Government has provided
assurances to the Association that (i) a Project Management Unit (PMU) within MOH. which
will be headed by a Project Coordinator with qualifications and experience acceptable to the
Association and responsible for the overall management and coordination of the project. will be
maintained; (ii) by November 30, 1997 and each November 30 thereafter. an annual action plan
for the project will be prepared and furnished to the Association for review and comment: (iii) by
April 30. 1999 a mid-term review of the project will be carried out by Government. and by June
30. 1999 the recommendations of the review will be discussed with the Association: and (iV) on
the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association. a plan for the future operation of the project
will be furnished to the Association by the Government within six months of the Credit Closing
Date (para. 5.2(f)).



- 37 -
3.24         IDA Supervision. A supervision plan for the project is given in Annex 11. It is
anticipated that the annual IDA supervision requirement will be approximately 10 staff weeks.



- 38 -
IV. BENEFITS, ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
A. Benefits
4.1        The expected benefits of project assistance as well as the negative consequences of non-
availability of support are as follows.
(a)   Lack of support for the revised malaria control strategy would mean curtailment of the
mobile clinic and impregnated bed net strategies that have proved effective.
Additionally, project resources would make possible improvements in surveillance, early
warning and management aspects of the program, all of which are expected to make
significant contributions to sustaining and accelerating current declines in prevalence.
Without continued support for the revised strategy, malaria prevalence could again be
expected to rise.
(b)   The importance of taking measures to control transmission of HIV before epidemic
spread begins is evident. Support is required for key strategies to improve diagnosis and
treatment of STDs and to reduce high-risk behaviors through education/ communication
efforts. Implementation of these measures would mean reasonable prospects for
prevention of an AIDS epidemic in Sri Lanka in a cost-effective manner; without these
measures, the chances that epidemic spread could be avoided are poor.
(c)   Without reorientation of the Ministry of Health's ineffective growth promotion program,
there are no prospects for significant national reduction of malnutrition levels in the
shorter tern. The nutrition component of the project would provide the framework and
the resources necessary to accomplish the needed reorientation and improve nutritional
status through program interventions.
(d) It is clear that the disease pattern in Sri Lanka has shifted from childhood communicable
diseases to non-communicable diseases (NCDs) of adults and that the resulting burden
on the health system is distorting resource allocation. The pilot NCD component would
assist the Ministry to systematically define the issues, identify policy measures, and
develop cost-effective prevention and treatment programs, steps which the Ministry
would be unlikely to undertake without project initiative and resources.
(e)   The project support components would enhance the ability of the Ministry of Health to
plan, manage and implement its programs, thus benefiting the entire public health system.
The health policy component would support development of policy measures that would
enable the health system to maintain and improve its good performance under changing
circumstances. The management information systems component would strengthen the
capacity of the Ministry to analyze and utilize data for planning and monitoring purposes.
Through strengthening of the Health Education Bureau, the effectiveness of
education/communication aspects of all health programs would be improved.
4.2        For the strengthened malaria and nutrition programs, it is possible to estimate improved
program impact by the end of the project period. The annual incidence of malaria cases in the six
high-prevalence districts is expected to fall from more than 40 detected cases per thousand population
in 1994 to less than 10 per thousand by 2001; this would mean 125,000 fewer detected cases in 2001



- 39 -
as compared to 1994. As a result of the reorientation of the growth promotion program, the
percentage of underweight infants and young children below age five (i.e. below two standard
deviations of the weight-for-age standard), which was about one third, or more than 500,000 infants
and children, in 1993, is expected to be reduced to less than 20% by 2001. The percentage of low-
weight births, which was about 20%, or roughly 80,000 newborns, in 1993, is expected to be reduced
to less than 15% by 2001. Iodine deficiency is expected to be virtually eliminated and iron-deficiency
anemia significantly reduced by 2001. The goal of the STD/AIDS program is to reduce the incidence
of STDs other than AIDS and to ensure than Sri Lanka remains a low HIV-prevalence country.
B. Economic Justification
Justification for Public Sector Involvement
4.3        There is a clear economic justification for public sector involvement in all of the
programmatic areas supported by the project. For the malaria program, there are positive externalities
from the early detection and prompt treatment of malaria cases, which reduces transmission.
Moreover, in the terminology of welfare economics, malaria vector control is in the nature of a public
good. Interventions to prevent and treat STDs also have positive externalities, as is the case with
measures to prevent the spread of HIV/AIDS. The nutrition component addresses imperfect
information on the part of households which leads to inadequate maternal nutrition and inappropriate
breast-feeding, weaning and feeding of young children. Such information deficiencies cannot be
addressed through market mechanisms, since there is no effective demand for this type of information
services. Similarly, the health education component would strengthen the public sector's ability to
convey important health-related information to households on a wide variety of topics. And health
policy development is of course an important public sector function.
4.4        The case of the NCD component is more complex. To the extent that prevention is an
important, cost-effective means of reducing the prevalence of some of these diseases (e.g., those which
are tobacco-related), there would be a clear rationale for public sector intervention in the form of
health education, and related policy measures, such as taxation, may also be in order. Since the public
health services presently provide care and treatment for NCDs, and in the short term will continue to
do so, there is also justification for support for cost-effective improvements in such services. The
NCD component in the proposed project would focus on the development and dissemination of best
practice guidelines for the treatment of NCDs, which would address an important information gap for
both public and, increasingly, private health care providers. The proper role of the public sector
conceming the treatment of NCDs in the longer term is a complex issue which would need to be
examined as part of the ongoing policy dialogue.
Cost-Effectiveness Aspects 1/
4.5        Malaria. The revised WHO malaria control strategy introduced in 1993, which the
project would support, was adopted to improve the cost-effectiveness of malaria control in Sri Lanka
following resurgences in 1987 and again in 1991. The revised strategy emphasizes selective residual
spraying using several insecticides in rotation as opposed to the old strategy of blanket spraying with
one insecticide, malathion. It also uses mobile clinics for early detection and treatment in high-
prevalence districts and promotes the use of insecticide-impregnated beds by households.
1/ For further details, see Annex 10.



- 40 -
4.6        It is likely that the revised strategy is averting a significantly higher number of malaria
cases per year than the old strategy. The number of cases detected was about 400,000/year in 1991
and 1992, declined in 1993 to 363,000, still basically under the old strategy, and declined further in
1994 to 274,000 under the revised strategy; from January through June 1995, only 106,000 cases were
detected. While other factors such as weather and the natural malaria cycle may have been partly
responsible for the sharp decline in cases, the switch to the revised strategy is likely to have been the
major factor. In addition, the new strategy has a lower cost. In the aggregate, total annual program
costs nationwide declined by about 17% in real terms following the change in strategy. Moreover, the
new strategy imposes lower costs in terns of environmental degradation, because the amount of
insecticide required has been reduced by about 65%.
4.7        STD/AIDS. Calculations of cost-effectiveness of the STD/AIDS control program (e.g.,
cost per disability-adjusted life year saved) are difficult because current levels of STD and H1V
incidence and prevalence are not known with any precision; estimates vary widely. The balance of the
evidence suggests that HIV transmission in Sri Lanka has been fairly limited so far. However,
complacency must be avoided.
4.8        The Government's program for prevention of epidemic spread of HI in Sri Lanka was
developed with technical inputs from WHO and other donors and draws on accumulated international
experience to identify the most technically appropriate as well as cost-effective strategies. It
emphasizes: (i) diagnosis and treatment of other STDs, since STD patients are a major HIV risk
group; (ii) orientation of private sector physicians, who see a large proportion of STD cases; and (iii)
information, education and communications (IEC) efforts directed at appropriate target groups to
promote avoidance of high-risk behaviors. IEC activities in the program are carried out by NGOs,
which is believed to be more cost-effective than implementation by public sector agencies.
4.9        Nutrition. At present, Government's efforts to reduce malnutrition among pregnant
women and young children center on the thriposha program, a supplementary feeding program
(thriposha is the name of a food supplement; for further details, see Annex 5). Expenditure on the
program is currently about US$4.5 million a year. None of the studies of the program that have been
carried out indicate that the program has been consistently successful in improving the nutritional
status of beneficiaries. Possible reasons are that the supplement may be consumed by the entire family
rather than the target beneficiary; that the mother may reduce the child's regular food when the child
is given the supplement, resulting in no net increase in nutrient intake; and that mothers fail to obtain
the supplement with enough regularity to have an impact. Since there is apparently no significant
impact on the nutritional status of intended beneficiaries, it can be concluded that the thriosha
program has a very low degree of cost-effectiveness (i.e., a very high cost per case of malnutrition
averted).
4.10       The nutrition component of the project would support a shift to a more cost-effective
strategy to reduce malnutrition among pregnant women and young children. Available data strongly
suggest that inappropriate breast-feeding, weaning and feeding practices are responsible for much of
the malnutrition. This, in tum, suggests that the focus of the nutrition program needs to shift from the
present emphasis on the supply of thriposha to a growth promotion program promoting good
nutritional practices for pregnant women and young children. Such a program should be particularly
cost-effective among Sri Lanka's population, where primary education levels are high. This shift
would be supported by the proposed project. The marginal cost of the growth promotion program
would be low. No incremental staff would be required. Public health midwives (PHMs) would lead
the growth promotion efforts in their communities but would rely heavily on NGOs and community
volunteers to assist in these efforts. Total incremental cost of the growth promotion program over five



- 41 -
years, largely for training, IEC materials and activities, and surveys/studies, is estimated to be US$3.5
million. The subsequent annual incremental costs of the program would be about US$100,000 in 1995
prices. Based on these cost figures, and the projected increase in the number of cases of malnutrition
in young children averted (para. 5.2), the cost per case averted under the new strategy in the period
1996-2000 would be about US$5. (The cost per case averted would be lower if a longer period were
considered.) This unit cost estimate does not take into account any additional food costs borne by
households, however.
4.11       As part of the proposed project, an impact evaluation of the thripos  program would be
carried out (para. 2.32), and a special effort would be made to monitor the ongoing progress and the
impact of the reoriented growth promotion program (para. 2.50). It is hoped that positive results of
the new approach will provide additional evidence to support phasing out of the thriposha program.
4.12       Non-Communicable Diseases. The NCD component is a pilot component, and only the
broad principles of its design have been specified so far. Hence, it is not possible to be specific about
cost-effectiveness aspects, except to save that cost-effectiveness of any prevention, control and/or
treatment strategies supported would be carefully assessed and would be a key factor in any
recommendations based on the results of the pilot.
Fiscal Impact and Cost Recovery
4.13       The fiscal impact of the project would be very small. Incremental recurrent costs arising
from the project would represent about 2% of the total health recurrent budget by the year 2000. This
projection assumes that the total health recurrent budget would increase in real terms at the same
annual rate as projected GDP (about 5%; see Annex 9).
4.14       There would be no cost recovery associated with interventions supported by the project.
Most households would not be willing to pay for various types of health/nutrition education services,
and some of these services are also in the nature of public goods (e.g. use of mass media), which
would make user fees infeasible in any case. Interventions addressing malaria and STD/AIDS have
strong positive extemalities, and it is in the public interest to encourage individual households to take
fill advantage of existing services; the imposition of user fees might contribute to higher prevalence of
these communicable diseases. However, it may be desirable for the Govemment to impose user fees
for treatment of NCDs in public facilities This is an important issue for future policy discussions with
the Govemment.
Poverty Impact
4.15       The poverty impact of the interventions supported by the project is difficult to establish
because of the lack of data relating disease prevalence rates to household income or consumption. For
malnutrition, there is evidence from household surveys indicating that the proportion of malnourished
children under 5 years of age declines as per capita household consumption increases. For example, in
the early 1980s, it was found that the proportion of children who were stunted declined from 49% for
children in the lowest quintile of the household expenditure distribution to 22% in the highest quintile.
For wasting, the decline was from 15% to about 9%. Hence, it can be expected that nutrition
interventions supported by the project would benefit a greater proportion of children in the lowest
quintile of the household expenditure distribution than in higher quintiles. For malaria and STDs,
however, the benefits of program interventions are likely to be more uniformly spread out among all
income classes.



- 42 -
C. Risks
4.16       The chief risks associated with project implementation concern the following.
(a)   The unsatisfactory experience of the first half of the IDA-assisted Health & Family
Planning project raises questions about the implementation capacity of the Ministry of
Health. In developing the project, care has been taken to avoid the lack of 'ownership'
and the project management problems (para. 1.39) which led to previous difficulties.
The Ministry has taken the lead in project development, thus enhancing their sense of
ownership. Care has been taken to strengthen the Project Management Unit and to
provide national technical assistance for project-supported programs, in order to ensure
that adequate support for both project management and program implementation will be
available. Good performnance in the second half of the Health & Family Planning project
provides grounds for expecting continued good performance.
(b)   Provincialization of the health services raises the possibility that previous levels of
support for services would not be maintained. It is not yet possible to assess this risk,
because decentralization is an ongoing process and the central Ministry of Health still
provides most funds. Thus far, the quality of services does not appear to have suffered,
and some examples of excellent provincial initiatives can be cited. The implications of
decentralization are being examined as a part of a comparative WHO study (Annex 6),
and issues that may emerge would be addressed in any future lending.
(c)   The nutrition and the STD/AIDS components of the project depend to a significant extent
on the involvement of NGOs. Although the NGO sector in Sri Lanka has substantial
capacity, the Ministry of Health's record of cooperation with NGOs is not strong. For
the STD/AIDS program, this issue has been and will continue to be addressed by
channelling donor assistance to NGOs directly. Additionally, a unified donor community
has represented strongly to the Ministry that coordination and cooperation between the
medical and the behavioral aspects of the national AIDS control program is essential to
its success. For the nutrition program, the focus will be on organizing cooperation
between the health system and available NGO resources at the divisional and community
levels to achieve common health and nutrition objectives. Progress in achieving locally
effectively NGO coordination will be monitored by the project.
4.17       The project's health policy dialogue must contend generally with complacency
concerning the need for policy changes in the health sector on the part of some senior managers in the
Ministry, who cite Sri Lanka's outstanding public health achievements, and specifically with the
Government's reluctance to consider wide-scale introduction of politically sensitive cost-recovery
measures. These difficulties will be addressed through a continuing dialogue linked to an agreed
program of studies and pilot initiatives. The recent publication by the Govemment of a ten-year
Prospective Plan for Health 1995-2000 that addresses many of IDA's concerns in a positive fashion
will support the dialogue. However, some of the more controversial policy and financing issues may
have to be deferred to any future lending.
4.18       Civil unrest in the northem and eastern regions of the country continue to disrupt
provision of services in those areas and to pose the threat of other disruptions as well. The
Government has coped with these difficulties well over more than a decade. Given the Government's
excellent primary health care achievements, sustained support for the project-supported programs that
address major public health problems is not considered to be a potential issue.



- 43 -
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.1        A letter of Health Development Policy, acceptable to IDA has been received. The letter
summarizes the Government's intentions with reference to future policies, strategies and priorities for
the overall development of the health sector, including specific steps which the Government intends to
take in the areas of pharmaceutical policy, improvement of the efficiency and effectiveness of the
health system, and resource generation in tertiary health facilities (para. 2.63).
5.2        The Government has confirmed to the Association:
(a)  that the Government has title to the site designated for construction of a headquarters
facility of the STD/AIDS Control Program in Colombo, and that plans for the facility
have been approved by an architect acceptable to the Association (para. 2.19);
(b)  that a post of Director Nutrition (Ministry of Health) has been created (para. 2.38);
(c)  confirmation that the post of Director Planning & Management Information (Ministry of
Health) has been filled (para. 2.79);
(d)  that the Govemment has title to the site designated for the Health Education Bureau
hostel in Colombo, and that the plans for the building have been approved by an
architect acceptable to the Association (para. 2.86); and
(e)  that acceptable sample bidding documents for Intemational Competitive Bidding (ICB)
and National Competitive Bidding (NCB) are available (para. 3.12).
(f)  that by December 31, 1997, private blood banks will be required to follow Ministry of
Health standards for the safety of the blood supply (para. 2.23);
(g)  that: (i) by June 30, 1998, the Ministry of Health will carry out, under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Association, an evaluation of the impact of the thriposha
supplementary feeding program and fumish to the Association the findings and
recommendations of the evaluation; and (ii) the Ministry of Health will carry out agreed
recommendations of the study (para. 2.33);
(h)  that by March 31, 1997 a candidate whose qualifications and experience are acceptable to
the Association will be appointed to the post of Director Nutrition (Ministry of Health
(para. 2.38);
(i)  that growth monitoring and other growth promotion activities may be carried out by
trained community volunteers under the general guidance of health workers (para. 2.42);
(j)  that by June 30, 1997 an operational plan for a pilot diabetes prevention and treatment
program acceptable to the Association will be prepared and fumished to the Association
for its concurrence; and that the plan would be carried out taking into account the
Association's comments (para. 2.56);



- 44 -
(k)  that under terms of reference and in accordance with a time schedule agreed with the
Association, a program of policy-related studies will be carried out; that the results and
findings of the studies would be reviewed annually with the Association; and that the
recommendations will be timely implemented taking into account the Association's
comments (para. 2.66);
(1)  that: (i) a Project Management Unit (PMU) within MOH which will be headed by a
Project Coordinator with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Association and
responsible for the overall management and coordination of the project, will be
maintained; (ii) by November 30, 1997 and each November 30 thereafter, an annual
action plan for the project will be prepared and fumished to the Association for review
and comment; (iii) by April 30, 1999 a mid-term review of the project would be carried
out by Govemment, and by June 30, 1999 the recommendations of the review will be
discussed with the Association; and (iv) on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Association, a plan for the future operation of the project will be furnished to the
Association by the Govemment within six months of the Credit Closing Date (para.
3.23).
5.3        The Govenument has provided to the Association:
(a)  approved bidding documents for construction of a headquarters facility for the
STD/AIDS Control Program in Colombo (para. 2.19); and
(b)  approved bidding documents for construction of a Health Education Bureau hostel in
Colombo (para. 2.86).
5.4        Subject to the above conditions, the project provides a suitable basis for an IDA Credit of
SDR 13.0 million equivalent on standard IDA terms, with a maturity of 40 years, to the Government
of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.



- 45 -                                Annex.I
Page 1 of 2
SRI LANKA
HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
A. Basic Population. Health and Nutrition Data*
Population (est.)                                        17.6 million
Crude Birth Rate per 1000 Population                     19.9
Crude Death Rate per 1000 Population                    5.3
Rate of Natural Increase                                 1.5 % per annum
Contraceptive Prevalence Rate                           66.1 %
Modern Methods                                   43.7 %
Traditional Methods                              22.4 %
Total Fertility Rate                                    2.3
Life expectancy at Birth                                72 years
Infant Mortality Rate per 1000 Live Births               18
Maternal Mortality Rate per 1000 Live Births            0.3
Under-5 Mortality Rate per 1000 Live Births              19
Low-weight Births (under 2,500 grams)                    19 %
Under-5 malnourished (weight for age)                   38 %
Under-5 DPT coverage                                    87 %
Under-5 Measles coverage                                80%
*Data for 1993
Sources: Annual Health Bulletin Sri Lanka 1994.
Demographic and Health Survey Sri Lanka 1993



- 46 -                               Annex I
Page 2 of 2
B. Key Statistics for the Public Health Sector
Number of Beds                                             No         No. of Beds
Teaching Hospitals                                      12           10,882
Provincial Hospitals                                    8            6,313
Base Hospitals                                          22           6,571
District Hospitals                                     133           12,704
Peripheral Hospitals                                   116           5,264
Rural Hospitals                                        123           2,979
Central Dispensary and Maternity Homes                  80            807
Other Hospitals                                         16           4571
Total                                                  510           50091
Number of Beds per 1,000 population                               2.8
Number of Inpatients per 1,000 Population                        179.3
Daily Average Occupancy                                          37132
Bed Occupancy Rate                                                75%
Average Duration of Stay (days)                                   4.2
Number of Maternity Beds                                          8696
Bed Ratio per 1,000 population                                    2.8
Average Duration of Stay (days)                                   4.7
Number of Hospital Midwifes per 100,000 Population                12.4
Number of Pharmacists per 100,000 Population                      3.5
Number of Dispensers per 100,000 Population                       3.6
Number of Medical Technologists per 100,000 Population            3.5
Number of Radiographers per 100,000 Population                    1.4
Number of Physiotherapists per 100,000 Population                 0.9
Number of E.C.G. Recordists per 100,000 Population                0.5
Number of E.E.G. Recordists per 100,000 Population                0.1
Source: Annual Health Bulletin Sri Lanka 1994.



- 47 -
Annex 2
Page 1 of 4
SRI LANKA
HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
Organization of the Family Health Program
1.         The matemal and child health (MCH) program is the major health and nutrition
intervention strategy of the Ministry of Health. An organized effort to provide MCH services dates
back to 1906 with the introduction for trained midwifery services in the Municipality of Colombo.
In 1926 the Department of Health initiated a broad scheme for the provision of Public Health
Services at Kalutara with the establishment of the first Health Unit. The main activities of the
health unit included collection of vital statistical data related to the area, delivery of MCH services,
prevention and control of communicable diseases, environmental sanitation, health education and
school health activities. By 1950 91 health units had been established and the number was further
increased to 104 by 1982. In 1989, the country's administration was decentralized with certain
powers devolved to nine Provincial Councils. Each provincial council has a Provincial Director of
Health Services assisted by 2 or 3 Deputy Provincial Directors of Health. The latter are supported
by a technical teams, comprising of a Medical Officer (MCH), Regional Epidemiologist, Regional
technical teams, comprising of a Medical Officer (MCH), Regional Epidemiologist, Regional SPHN,
2-3 Health Education Officers, a Survey Statistical Assistant and a Planning Officer.
2.         After the devolution process and the establishment of a system of Provincial
administration, the number of health unit areas have increased to 252 and are contiguous with the
administrative sub-districts or divisions within the province. This massive increase in the number of
health unit (MOH) areas has created a pressing need for providing additional MOH/DDHS offices,
in the newly carved out areas. It is from these offices that the management of the entire public
services are effected. In addition some of the existing offices are in a very unsatisfactory condition
which hardly bears out the practice of public health or the message of preventive health. Each
Health Unit is in charge of a Medical Officer of Health, now also referred as a Divisional Director
of Health Services (DDHS) who is responsible for all promotional and preventive health activities
within the area, as well as the overall supervision of health institutions, ranging from a district
hospital, peripheral unit and rural hospital to the central dispensary and maternity home.
3.         The DDHS/MOH is supported by a team comprising of Public Health Nurses (PHN),
Public Health Inspectors (PHI), and Public Health Midwives (PHM). The Health Unit Area is sub-
divided into PHI ranges and still further into PHM areas. Each health unit area has a network of
medical institutions and health centers which provide institutional and clinic based MCH services.
The estate sector in also serviced by MCH clinics, conducted on estates either by visiting medical
officers or by estate health staff. The basic cornerstone of the system rests on the Public Health
Midwife, who not only provides services at the level of the home, but also links the mother and
child to the next level of health care, namely that provided at the "health center" (field MCH clinic)
or at the medical institution. The PHM serves a population ranging from 3,000-5,000, within a
clearly defined area, which is the smallest working unit within the health system and the first point
of contact between the health system and the households. Having an intimate knowledge of her
area and the families she serves, the PHM through a systematic scheme of home-visits provides the
necessary domiciliary contact and services to mothers and children. This activity is supported by as



- 48 -
Annex 2
Page 2 of 4
system of record keeping that helps her to plan and monitor her activities, as well as report on her
performance and the vital events that have occurred in her area, to the MOH/DDHS.
4.         Mobility has always been a problem for MCH field staff, who have to rely very often
on public transport which can be very time consuming and unreliable. Strategies to overcome this
problem will need to be considered if the coverage and quality of the domiciliary services are to be
improved.
5.         Trained for a period of 18 months, the midwife spends the first year in a school of
nursing where she receives an intensive training in midwifery and basic nursing. The next six
months of her training is spent at the National Institute of Health Science in Kalutara or in selected
public health training centers, where she applies her knowledge and develops her skills in an actual
working situation within the community. On successful completion of her training she could be
appointed either as Public Health Midwife attached to a health unit or as an institutional midwife.
6.         As a consequence of the greater utilization of institutional facilities for confinement
(today 98% or more of the deliveries take place in health institutions), the PHM's role in the health
system gradually changed from a focus on pregnancy and confinement, to a much broader view of
maternal and child care.
7.         The present functions of the PHM consists of:
(a)   Prenatal and natal care which emphasizes early registration of all pregnant mothers in
her area, regular home visits and prenatal examination with identification of high risk
mothers and referral where needed; linking mothers to clinics conducted in her area at
which she also participates; immunization of mothers with tetanus toxoid and ensuring
that all mothers receive trained assistance at delivery.
(b)   Postnatal care - regular follow-up visits during the postnatal period for care of the
mother and the newborn.
(c)  Infant and young child care - Registration of all infants with a view to ensuring that all
infants under her care are followed up. Proper advice on infant feeding, weaning and
child nutrition (including growth monitoring of infants and preschool children).
Immunization of all infants and preschool children.
(d)   Family Planning motivation, instruction and provision of contraceptives (condoms and
oral pills) and facilitating the provision of the other methods of contraception as
required and assisting at FP clinics in her area.
(e)   Health education in the other elements of primary health care, particularly the control
of diarrheal disease with emphasis on oral rehydration therapy (and maintaining
nutrition during episodes of diarrhoea) and Acute Respiratory Infection.
8.         The Public Health Nursing Sister (PHNS):



- 49 -
Annex 2
Page 3 of 4
(a)  is responsible to the DDHS/MOH for the management of the MCH/FP (Family Health)
program and the delivery of the services;
(b)   provides technical support and performs specific functions as assigned to her at
MCH/Fp clinics;
(c)   assists at school health activities;
(d)   monitors and appraises the performance of PHM's in the Health Unit/DDHS area;
(e)   conducts family planning clinics in the area;
(f)   assists the DDHS/MOH in collecting MCH/FP performance data in the area;
(g) is a source of advice on maternal health, child health and family planning in the
community.
9.         The Public Health Inspector:
(a)  is responsible for the control of communicable diseases, vector control activities, food
safety, environmental health and sanitation, and the implementation of legislative
enactments regarding food and sanitation;
(b)   participates in school health activities and the immunization program;
(c)   conducts health education programs;
(d)   provides family planning advice and motivation, particularly to males in the
community.
10.        At the National level (Ministry of Health), the Family Health Bureau (FHB) is the
central organization responsible for planning, coordination, direction, monitoring and evaluation of
the MCH/FP program within the country. The FHB works in close collaboration with the
Epidemiology Unit, Health Education Bureau and Population Division of the Ministry of Health and
also with several UN, International and Non-Governmental organizations. The Family Health
(MCHIFP) program covers a wide spectrum of services comprising:
(a) maternal care - Antenatal, Natal and Post Natal;
(b)  infant and child care - including immunization, growth monitoring, with appropriate
nutrition interventions, child mental health, control of diarrhoeal diseases and acute
respiratory inspections;
(c)   nutrition;
(d)   school health;
(e)   family planning.
11.        Another important category of health worker is the Health Education Officer (HEO),
attached to the Office of the Deputy Provincial Director of Health Services and to certain Health
Divisions. These officers assist the public health staff in improving their communication skills and
organizing the community for carrying out health work. They are also responsible for publicity and
other IEC activities within the region. The need to equip these HEO's to perform their functional
effectively will be an important factor in growth promotion and nutrition related actions in the
community.
12.        An important aspect of MCH service delivery has been the establishment of health
centers or "field" MCH clinics, which serve as first level referral centers in the delivery of MCH
services. These centers/clinics are conducted once a fortnight and provide, antenatal care; screening



- 50 -
Annex 2
Page 4 of 4
of infants and preschool children; immunization; family planning; growth monitoring and nutritional
supplementation (Thriposha) to pregnant and lactating mothers, infants 6-11 months and preschool
children on a medically selected basis; and general health education activities. On an average one
center serves two PI-IM areas. The PHM herself personally assists at these centers thereby
providing a personal link between her people and the health center. The services provided at these
centers are provided by the DDHSIMOH or other area Medical Officers. The Public Health Nursing
Sister is responsible for the overall management of the clinic and other relevant clinic activities.
13.        The health center or field MCH clinics could be held in the smaller medical
institutions, local government facilities, newly constructed gramodaya health centers (PH-M quarters
plus clinic) or in private buildings. The location of these centers is usually determined by its
accessibility to the largest numbers that could be served. Higher levels of care are provided by the
larger hospitals that provide in-patient care and specialist services.
14.        These health centers in certain situation are in need of some basic fumiture, service
items and equipment in order to improve the quality of services. It is at these health centers or field
MCH clinics that growth monitoring is carried out together with all the other activities that are
conducted at these centers, including the distribution of Thriposha. It may be for this reason that
the coverage and quality of growth monitoring has not been what it ought to be, since the other
activities such as clinical examinations and immunization may take priority. A mother bringing her
child for growth monitoring could well be discouraged sans the inducement of triposha. As aptly
described. "A mother brings her child to the clinic, often having walked a long distance, waits for
the child to be weighed, picks up her packet of Thriposha and goes home as soon as possible.
There is little time for the PHM or PHNS to speak to the mothers. There is little supervision by the
MOH/DDHS. Health and nutrition education at the clinic is minimal, if at all." While improving
the existing physical needs of these clinics there is also a strong justification to look for alternatives
vis-a-vis growth monitoring activities, such as Village/Community based "Weighing Posts" or
"Nutrition Centers". This should be feasible if actively pursued, since the growth monitoring cards
(CHDR) are with the mothers and the duplicate section with the PHM, which is identified by
village. The only problem is the issue of Thriposha for which a scheme would need to be devised.
15.        The M/PPI survey of 1993 reported that "50% of mothers are visited regularly (once or
twice a month) by the PHM at home during their pregnancy, but close to 25% are never visited by a
midwife."" (Including other surveys the range would be 15-25%.) While this calls for closer
supervision of home visits, the availability of clinic services in urban areas and PHM vacancies may
also contribute to this percentage. The importance of home visits is that the personal family contact
provides an ideal opportunity for discussion, advice and encouragement on individual problems as
well as on matters pertaining to health.
16.        An aspect of matemal care at "health centers"/clinics that needs to be reiterated is the
lack of focus on weight gain during pregnancy, which is an important aspect of matemal nutrition.
The M/PPI survey of 1993 revealed that "over two thirds of mothers do not know how much weight
they gained during their last pregnancy. This was because scales were either not available at clinics
or, even when they were, there is no regular monitoring of weight gain during pregnancy." The FH
Bureau has now included a basic "weight gain chart" in the "Mothers record", but the focus on
weight gain in pregnancy still leaves much to be desired.



- 51 -
Annex 3
Page 1 of 10
SRI LANKA
HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
Malaria Component
A. Background - Malaria in Sri Lanka
EvidemioloMy
1.         Malaria is a serious public health problem in Sri Lanka. In 1987, the peak year of a
recent epidemic, it was the leading cause of hospitalization in the country. In each of the subsequent
six years 1988 to 1993, it has been either the fourth or fifth leading cause of hospitalization, and the
cause of an average 110 hospital deaths per year. The in-patient admission rate and death rate for the
country as a whole have remained relatively constant over the last few years at approximately seven
admissions per 1,000 population and 0.05 deaths per 10,000 population. In 1993, 5% of hospital
admissions were due to malaria. The low case fatality rate for malaria (currently less than 0.1%) is a
tribute to the quality of the Sri Lankan health care system.
2.         Malaria transmission is not uniform over the island of Sri Lanka. Incidence is higher in
the provinces which are situated in the dry and intermediate climatic zones of the country.
Approximately 4 million people live in the malarious part of the country. In six high incidence
districts within these provinces, hospital admission rates were all higher than for the country as a
whole.
Parasitology
3.         Data from hospital admissions do not indicate the number of persons infected with
malaria in the country, since they do not include all the persons treated as outpatients or those who do
not receive any treatment. In theory, all persons who present with fever to medical institutions have a
blood slide taken for confirmation of malaria parasites, and the blood slide results are the basis of the
statistics collected by the Anti-Malaria Campaign (AMC). However, this procedure may not be
followed consistently depending on the clinic workload. In addition, some medical institutions at the
periphery do not have blood slide facilities; nor do private physicians who serve an increasing
proportion of the out-patient population (currently estimated to be about 50%). It is thought that
because of these undocumented cases, the incidence of malaria is underestimated by 2 to 6 times,
depending on the district.
4.         In Sri Lanka as a whole, the data show that there have been two separate malaria
epidemics since 1986 (Table 1). The highest epidemic peak was in 1987 at 42.0 cases/l,000 persons,
followed by a smaller epidemic peaking at 23.2 cases/I,000 persons in 1991. During the years 1988
and 1989, civil strife in the country caused a disruption in the health services as well as malaria
control operations which is reflected in a decline in the number of blood slides examined during those
years. However, it appears that there was a true decline in cases in those years because the slide
positivity rate was also lower than in 1987 and 1991. The incidence remained stable at over 20 per
1,000 persons through 1992 and 1993 but appears to have commenced a slow decline in 1994. In



- 52 -
Annex 3
Page 2 of 10
both 1987 and 1991, P.vivax predominated over Pfalciparum, particularly in the more recent
epidemic, in which P.falciparum was also slower to gain momentum, peaking in 1992 rather than in
1991. At the peak in 1987, the number of cases/1,000 was similar to the numbers experienced in
previous epidemics in 1968-70 and 1973, but an order of magnitude lower than the annual incidence
of 100-400/1,000 typically seen in the 1930s and 1940s prior to initiation of DDT spraying in 1945.
Table 1: MALARIA MORBIDITY DATA
Year     Population    No. Slides  No. Slides    Total SPR    ABER         Total
Exam.        Pos.         %            %        API/1,000
1986     16,127,000    1,469,737    412,521      28.1          9.1         25.6
1987     16,361,000    1,973,320    687,599      34.8         12.1         42.0
1988     16,586,000    1,333,846    383,294      28.7          8.0         23.1
1989     16,806,000    1,124,400    258,727      23.0          6.7         15.4
1990     16,993,000    1,175,123    279,172      23.8          6.9         16.4
1991     17,247,000    1,398,002    400,263      28.6          8.1         23.2
1992     17,405,000    1,558,660    399,349      25.6          9.0         22.9
1993     17,619,000    1,503,902    363,197      24.2          8.5         20.6
1994     17,829,000    1,307,831    273,502      20.9          7.3         15.3
Population per district from Annual Health Bulletin, projected from 1981 census.
SPR: Slide positivity rate (percent of slides which were positive for any malaria species).
ABER: Annual blood examination rate (number of slides examined per year divided by total
population).
API: Annual parasite incidence (number of positive slides per thousand persons per year).
5.         Basing conclusions about malaria on the average annual incidence can be somewhat
deceptive, because in fact transmission is highly seasonal in Sri Lanka. There are usually two peak
periods of incidence, the largest one corresponding to the North East Monsoon (November to January)
and a smaller peak after the South West Monsoon (April to June). The second peak may be absent
altogether, as happened in several districts in 1994.
Age/Sex Distribution
6.         Since Sri Lanka is an area of unstable malaria, adults do not have high levels of
immunity and often suffer from symptoms when infected, unlike the situation in highly endemic areas.
However, the highest incidence rates are in children. Over the last nine years the pattern of age-
specific incidence in the country as a whole has changed. In 1986 through 1990, incidence rates were
lowest in infants <1 year-old, increased sharply to 20-30 per 1,000 in the 1-4 year olds, and then
showed a gradual slight decline through the older age groups. In 1992-1994, the flat curve has



- 53 -
Annex 3
Page 3 of 10
changed to a bimodal curve with highest incidence rates in the I to 4 year olds and the 10 to 14 year
olds. Given the greater likelihood of mosquito exposure in adults (who are more likely to be sitting
outside or guarding crops at night) higher incidence rates in children indicate a possible significant
role of protective immunity in the Sri Lankan population. It is possible that the recent decreased
incidence in 5 to 9 year olds is a result of their having been infected as younger children in the 1987
epidemic. However, differences between age-groups in their (or their parents') tendency to seek
medical treatment must also be taken into account.
7.         It has long been known that the incidence of malaria is higher in males than females in
Sri Lanka, and the explanations proposed for this phenomenon range from greater exposure in males
to lower health-seeking behavior in women. While there have been more cases in males than females
in the last nine years, the excess has been decreasing since 1987 (when the ratio of cases in
men:women was 1.37:1) to a ratio of 1.13:1 in 1994. In the particular districts reviewed in this report,
the ratios in the last three years have been close to 1: 1, with the exception of Polonnaruwa where the
ratio has increased from 1.32:1 in 1992 to 1.59:1 in 1994.
Entomology
8.         The intensity of malaria transmission varies within the country and within the year
according to the distribution and density of the anopheline vectors which in turn depends on the
rainfall. The country is divided into three zones according to rainfall: wet (>2,500 mm per year),
intermediate (2,000-2,500 mm per year) and dry (<2,000 mm per year) and conditions are most
favorable for anopheline breeding in the dry and intermediate zones. The highest densities of vectors
occur towards the end of and after the two monsoon seasons (November-January and April-June),
because the river-bed pools which form as the volume of flow decreases are favored breeding sites.
9.         There are 22 species of anopheline mosquitoes in Sri Lanka, of which 13 have been
shown to be possible vectors of malaria. Only three of these species are thought to play an important
role in malaria transmission. Anopheles culicifacies has long been known to be major vector of
malaria in Sri Lanka, but recently An. subpictus and An. annularis have been recognized as significant
vectors in some seasons and districts. Ecological changes occurring due to major irrigation schemes
such as that in the Mahaweli river basin apparently favor the breeding of the latter two species. All
sectors in Sri Lanka have relatively low human biting rates (usually less than 10 bites per person per
night, although numbers approaching 100 have been recorded) compared to highly endemic areas such
as Africa and Papua New Guinea. None of the Sri Lankan vectors shows a high preference for
feeding on human rather than animal blood; even the most important vector An. culicifacies takes
about half of its blood meals from cattle or other animals. All vectors also prefer to bite outdoors
rather than indoors. Where sporozoite rates in mosquitoes have been examined, they have generally
have been found to be quite low (less than 1%), but in certain situations very high rates up to 9.6%
have been reported.
10.        The entomological inoculation rate (EIR) is the key parameter which indicates the risk of
malaria infection in humans. It is the number of potentially infectious bites which each person
receives per night, and is derived from the product of the sporozoite rate (mosquito infection rate) and
the bites per person per night. The generally low biting rate of Sri Lankan vectors means that
entomological inoculation rates are also usually low; thus accounting for the marginal and unstable
nature of malaria transmission in the country. However, if sporozoite rates in mosquitoes rise to levels



- 54 -
Annex 3
Page 4 of 10
of over 1%, then even if a person only receives 10 bites per night he or she will still receive an
infectious bite once in every 10 days. Entomological inoculation rates as high as I infectious bite per
person per night have been reported in some studies in recent years. This aspect of malaria
epidemiology in Sri Lanka deserves much further study.
B. The Anti-Malaria Campaign
11.         At the level of the Ministry of Health, all preventive health programs including malaria
control activities are the responsibility of the Deputy Director General-Public Health Services
(DDGPHS). From the time of establishment in 1910 until the introduction of Provincial Councils in
1989, the AMC has been responsible for the planning, implementation and evaluation of all malaria
control activities. The network available for the provision of primary health care services did not have
any responsibilities for malaria control. For purposes of implementing malaria control activities, the
island was divided into 17 "regions", depending on the endemicity and population. Each region had a
Regional Malaria Officer (RMO) who was responsible for all malaria control activities of the region,
to the Director, AMC. A "region" identified for malaria control usually corresponds with a "district"
(administrative unit), with a few exceptions.
12.         Provision of health services, including malaria control, became the responsibility of the
Provincial Council effective March 1989. Following this major change in the organization of the
health services, the responsibilities of the AMC and the staff at provincial/regional level were
demarcated, with the bulk of technical and monitoring activities assigned to the Directorate and the
majority of implementation/administration and training activities assigned to the provinces.
Staffing
13.         At present, the staff for malaria control activities are available at:
(a)   National Level: The staff at the AMC Directorate include: Director, Deputy Director,
Medical Officers (3), Entomologists (2) and other technical and non-technical support
staff.
(b)   Regional Level: At regional level, the RMO coordinates malaria control activities and
has the following categories of staff to assist in his or her activities: field assistants
(FA); microscopists at the Regional laboratory; entomological teams - I entomological
assistant, 2 FAs, 5 spray machine operators (SMO) and 1 driver; mobil teams - each
team includes I FA, 1 Microscopist, I SMO and I driver.
(c)   Divisional Level: The DDHS and his staff are responsible to the DPDHS and PD for the
implementation of malaria control activities within the health area. The role of the RMO
is to coordinate, monitor and provide technical guidance to the malaria control activities
in the region which includes a varying number of DDHS areas.
14.        In a DDHS area, the Public Health Inspector (PHI) is the person who is responsible for
the control of communicable diseases, so the malaria control activities come under his purview.
However, in most of the DDHS areas, a separate PHI for malaria control activities is available. The
other categories of field staff in a DDHS area, namely Public Health Nursing Sisters (PHNSs) and



- 55 -
Annex 3
Page 5 of 10
Public Health Midwives (PHMs) also contribute to malaria control activities through their participation
in health educational activities and supplying chemoprophylaxis to pregnant women, in clinics and at
field level. The field assistants responsible for activated passive case detection and the microscopists
working in the institutions of the DDHS area also come under the supervision of the DDHS. A
varying number of spray teams, each of which includes I FA and 4 SMOs, are also attached to a
DDHS area.
Implementation of the Global Malaria Control Strategy
15.        In June 1993, the AMC made a policy decision to implement the WHO "Global Malaria
Control Strategy," which includes the following:
(a)   early detection and prompt treatment of malaria cases;
(b)   selective application of sustainable malaria control measures including vector control;
(c)   development of mechanisms to forecast/prevent malaria epidemics and outbreaks;
(d)  regular assessment of the country's malaria control program.
The supervision an coordination of the malaria control activities are presently being carried out in the
following manner.
16.        Case detection and treatment. These are being performed via Activated Passive Case
Detection, done by FA/APCD at different levels of medical institutions; Active Case Detection, done
by fever surveys and mass blood examinations; and mobile clinics. Case detection program other than
APCD are organized and supervised by the RMO, in collaboration with the DDHS. The "incidence"
data available from these sources are made available to the DDHS and to the RMO, for monitoring
purposes.
17.        A treatment schedule has been drawn up by the AMC directorate taking into account the
species distribution of malaria cases and other practical considerations. Officers at all medical
institutions are informed of the need to adhere to this treatment schedule. With the emergence of drug
resistance, it is the AMC policy to prescribe the second line drug, sulphadoxine-pyrimethamine
(Fansidar) only to those patients who were shown to have drug resistance. The issue of this drug is
presently being "controlled" by the AMC. The RMO has the responsibility of issuing this drug to
institutions on request. There appears to have been a marked increase in the level of chloroquine
resistance in 1992, and now approximately 40-50% of tested isolates were resistant in vitro, and 16-
17% showed the highest level of resistance in vivo. Resistance to Fansidar, mefloquine and quinine
does not seem to have appeared yet.
18.        Insecticide spraying. Indoor house spraying with residual insecticides has been the
mainstay of malaria control in Sri Lanka for almost 50 years. Spraying with DDT was started in 1945
and continued for 12 years, by which time malaria had fallen to almost non-existent levels. It was
restarted in 1968 during a P. vivax epidemic but was phased out after the appearance of DDT resistance
and then replaced by malathion by 1978. Selective spraying of insecticides was introduced in mid-
1993. Using the data available, the RMO (in consultation with the DDHS of the area) is expected to
identify areas that require perennial spraying, seasonal spraying and focal spraying. The present policy
of the AMCs to use different insecticides "in rotation," to minimize development of resistance. Spray
teams are a part of the DDHS staff, hence the supervision of spraying activities is the direct



- 56 -
Annex 3
Page 6 of 10
responsibility of the PHI (malaria control) or PHI of the area, with DDHS having an overall
responsibility. All workers who are involved in spraying of insecticides are provided with protective
clothing including caps, masks, etc. Their health is regularly monitored and periodic blood
examinations are undertaken.
19.        Since the implementation of selective spraying, the amount of malathion used in the
country as a whole has declined from over 1,000,000 kg in 1989 to 274,311 kg in 1994, while the
coverage of houses targeted to receive malathion has improved from 54% to 63.5%. In 1994,
fenitrothion and ICON were used. These insecticides are more expensive than malathion, but
acceptance is much greater: 69.7% and 74.2% of houses targeted for fenitrothion and ICON
respectively were fully sprayed. Monitoring of insecticide resistance is done on a regular basis by
entomological teams who conduct standardized susceptibility tests with different anopheline species to
detect the evolution of insecticide resistance. They also conduct bioassay tests in which mortality of
mosquitoes exposed to walls in sprayed houses is measured; these tests are designed to monitor the
operational activities of the spray teams.
20.        Larval control measures. In selected areas especially where there is a seasonal increase
in the breeding places, larval control measures are undertaken, the commonest being the use of
"Abate" (temephos). The decision to undertake larval control measures is taken by the RMO at the
request of the DDHS.
21.        Entomological surveillance. The entomological teams based at regional level are
responsible for the activities of monitoring the vector density, perfornance of the spraying teams,
resistance to insecticides and identifying possible changes in the vector species composition or habits.
The teams are supervised and monitored on a day-to-day basis by the RMO. The senior entomologist
and his staff at the AMC are responsible for the technical monitoring of the entomological surveillance
data, at national level.
22.        Promoting personal protective measures through health education and community
participation. The activities include: promotion of use of permethrin impregnated bed nets and
programs aimed at reduction of breeding places. The PHI is responsible for organization of these
programs in collaboration with the other health staff of the area and is supervised by the DDHS.
However, in practice the RMO also acts in a supervisory capacity for such programs.
Finances of the Anti-Malaria Campaign
23.        Malaria control activities always receive priority over all other community health
programs in making budgetary decisions. In 1989, the Ministry of Health allocated 62.2% of the total
expenditure on community health services and 11.6% of the total health budget for the AMC. From
1990 onwards, however, with the decentralization, a proportion of allocations which were previously
made to the AMC is diverted to Provincial Health Ministries. Malaria control activities are now
integrated with other community health programs, but the provincial health authorities have not yet
been able to develop an accounting system to distinguish expenditure on malaria control from other
health activities. Until decentralization, AMC used to spend about 60% of its total expenditure for the
purchase of malathion alone. Personal emoluments and traveling accounted for another 20%.



- 57 -
Annex 3
Page 7 of 10
C. Project Content
24.        With the adoption of the WHO revised malaria strategy in 1993, the Anti-Malaria
Campaign (AMC) is moving towards an approach to the malaria problem in Sri Lanka that will utilize
all suitable techniques in a coordinated manner to (i) reduce the vector population while protecting the
environment; and (ii) improve treatment and promote personal protection. Details of the program to
be implemented over the project period are given below. The recommendations of the expert team
that carried out a review of the AMC program in July 1995 have been taken into account.
1. Program Management
Coordination. To improve coordination and exchange of information and experiences
among the regional (district) level malaria programs as well as the flow of data to the
central AMC, a meeting of all Regional Malaria Officers (RMOs) will be held twice a
year at the AMC Directorate. In addition, a review meeting with the participation of
AMC officers and the RMOs of the six high-prevalence districts will be held once a
quarter in one of districts, on a rotating basis.
Planning. The RMOs have received training, with WHO participation, in the formulation
of annual regional (district) plans of action for malaria control. These plans will
incorporate annual district targets.
Reporting. The regional (district) malaria offices will be provided with computer
facilities to facilitate collection, collation and analysis of data. Provision of data to the
AMC on a prompt and regular basis will be emphasized.
2. Early Diagnosis and Prompt Treatment of Malaria Cases
Mobile clinics. Mobile clinics have already been introduced in four of the six high-
prevalence districts (Matale, Polunnaruwa, Kurunegala and Anuradhapura) and with
project support will be extended to the two remaining districts (Puttalam and
Moneragala). Using suitably equipped vans, mobile teams that include a microscopist
cover outlying rural areas systematically. Blood slides are taken from all fever cases in a
local area, examined on the spot, and if the results are positive the appropriate drugs are
given and the treatment regime explained. The importance of seeking diagnosis for any
future occurrences of fever is emphasized. Two mobile teams per district for the
remaining high-prevalence districts will be provided.
When an annual parasite incidence of 8 cases per thousand population is achieved in a
given district, one of the mobile clinics assigned to the district will be reassigned. The
remaining mobile clinics will be withdrawn when the annual parasite incidence declines
to 4 cases per thousand. However, mobile clinics will continue to function in localities
where the P. falciparum percentage is recorded to be more than 10% of the total number
of malaria cases and in localities which are identified to be foci of P. falciparum.
Support for ambulances for transport of falciparum cases and other medical emergencies
would be conditional on a review of transport aspects of the health system that would



- 58 -
Annex 3
Page 8 of 10
indicate the justification in cost-effectiveness terms for the type and number of vehicles
needed and address sustainability issues.
Treatment at health facilities. The program will put increasing emphasis on expanding
and improving the treatment available at health facilities. An improved treatment
schedule has been provided to all health facilities. Provision for microscopic examination
of blood films of suspected malaria cases will be expanded by the recruitment and
training of 100 microscopists over the project period, all of whom will be assigned to
health facilities rather than regional laboratories. As the number of microscopists
increases, it will be possible to work towards the goal of taking blood films from all
suspected cases, thus reducing the level of presumptive treatment. During the off-season,
when microscopists will have less facility work, they will be utilized to examine blood
films taken during special parasite surveys.
Identification and follow-up of drug-resistant cases. Monitoring of drug resistance will
be increased and organized more effectively. This will be done by designating sentinel
facilities to do intensified surveillance of treatment failures and report them to the DDHS
and the regional (district) malaria office. The RMOs will be given responsible for
monitoring drug resistance in their areas.
Quality control. To ensure quality in the case detection system, the cross-checking
system will be reintroduced at the regional (district) level, under the technical guidance
of the AMC. High-quality binocular microscopes will be supplied for the purpose.
Small-scale cross-checking will also be introduced at the AMC Directorate.
Role of PHMs. Malaria prophylaxis for pregnant women is already one of the
responsibilities of PHMs. Their role in local detection and treatment of malaria cases
will be expanded, although it is recognized that they have many duties and that they
should not be expected to take on a curative role. Training will be provided to PHMs
and their supervisors in the high-prevalence districts to ensure that their knowledge about
malaria and the drug treatment regime is up to date and to involve them in promoting the
use of impregnated bed nets and community malaria prevention measures. Existing
community/NGO health volunteers will also be oriented.
3. Selected and Sustainable Malaria Control Methods
Targeting of spraving. With the introduction of the revised WHO strategy, the
insecticide spraying program has been drastically modified. With the introduction of
targeted rather than blanket spraying, the total amount of insecticide used has been
significantly reduced, and this decline is expected to continue as spraying becomes more
selective. Additional insecticides have been introduced to supplement malathion, both to
reduce the risk of the development of resistance and because the new insecticides are less
toxic than malathion.
Bed net program. Insecticide-impregnated bed nets are an effective, cost-effective and
sustainable method of personal protection that can be promoted with community support.
With project support, the program will be expanded and implemented in all six high-



- 59 -
Annex 3
Page 9 of 10
prevalence districts. NGO support will be sought for a pilot effort to provide net
material at cost and pay community organizations for making the nets.
4. Regular Assessment of Malaria Status and Prevention of Epidemics
Entomological surveillance. To enable increased and strengthened entomological
surveillance, larger vehicles, capable of transporting at least nine people, will be
obtained. At present, the work of the entomological teams is focused on assessing the
effectiveness of spraying and the level of insecticide resistance. These activities will
continue to be important, but with the reduction in spraying, the time and resources
required for them will be reduced. More effort will be given to the use of the
entomology teams as part of the early waming system and to gather useful
epidemiological information related to incidence data. To accomplish this, the following
will be done:
* better methods for assessing the biting risk to humans will be developed;
* capacity for determining sporozoite rates by ELISA will be established at regional
(district) level;
* better use of data that is collected will be made, so that the time between data
collection and response can be shortened.
Early waming system. At present, the system reacts to the incidence of infection, e.g. by
sending mobile clinics and entomology teams when an area reports a large number of
cases, rather than trying to preempt a potential epidemic. To enable the program to
move from cure to prevention, an early warning system for potential outbreaks of malaria
will be developed, based on parasitological, clinical and other epidemiological data taken
in conjunction with entomological data. The focus for the system will be at regional
(district) level, based on inputs from the divisional level. Training at both levels and the
hardware and software to handle the volume of data involved will be supported (see
above under Management). It is expected that the number of cases will continue to fall
for the foreseeable future. However, Sri Lanka will always be at high risk for malaria
epidemics, and in fact the risk level will increase as prevalence, and therefore immunity,
wanes. Therefore, the early warning system must be developed and sustained even when
prevalence is low.
Prevalence surveys. Baseline prevalence surveys will be carried out in the six high-
prevalence districts in early 1996. Subsequent follow-up surveys will be carried out at
two-year intervals.
5. Community Awareness and Participation. As noted above, NGO/community volunteers will
receive program orientation as part of the training to be undertaken for the program with project
support. IEC efforts will focus on promotion of the importance of personal protection, especially the
use of impregnated bed nets, and of seeking diagnosis and treatment as soon as possible for any fever
that might be malaria. Promotion of these messages will be particular important as mobile clinics are
withdrawn.



- 60 -
Annex 3
Page 10 of 10
6. ORerational Research. It may be desirable to incorporate additional physical and biological
controls into the program after their usefulness has been tested on a small scale. The project will
support such research, which has already been initiated by malaria officers in Matale and Kurunegala
districts. Some measures that have proven useful elsewhere may not be particularly suitable for Sri
Lanka. For example, larval control using fish is not likely to play a major role because of the large
number of temporary breeding sites that develop after the rainy seasons but subsequently dry up.
However, the use of BTI (bacillus thuringiensis israelensis) and nematodes for vector control in
situations such as gem pits in Matale and Ratnapura districts, will be tested.



- 61 -
Annex 4
Page 1 of 12
SRI LANKA
HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
STD/AIDS Component
A. Background
1.         Reports of HIV seropositivity among five prostitutes in Madras in 1985 first alerted the
Ministry of Health to the danger of HIV/AIDS in Sri Lanka. The first case of AIDS was detected
in a foreign visitor to Sri Lanka in November 1986, and the first Sri Lankan with AIDS was
diagnosed in April 1987. As of January 1996, 171 WHV-positive individuals had been identified. Of
these, 58 had developed AIDS and 49 had died. The first few detections were mainly homosexuals
or bisexuals, but by 1989 it had become increasingly evident that the predominant mode of
transmission was heterosexual. Indigenous transmission was first documented in December 1989
and since then has been increased steadily.
2.         HIV/AIDS prevention and control were integrated into the existing STD Control
Programme in 1985. An AIDS Task Force was established in May 1986 chaired by the Director
General of Health Services, comprising mainly Ministry of Health staff with representation from
the Tourist Board, the Police and the Ministry of Education. The Task Force was expanded to form
the multi-disciplinary multi-sectoral National AIDS Committee in February 1988.
3.         HIV/AIDS prevention and control activities commenced in earnest with the assistance
of WHO consultants, who developed a Short-Term Plan (STP) of Action in July 1987. Baseline
serological surveys were conducted among the high risk groups, and a knowledge, attitude, behavior
and practices (KAP) survey was carried out. The blood supply was secured and the laboratory
services were strengthened. A first Medium-Term Plan (MTP I) was developed, funded primarily
by UNDP. An external review of the program was conducted in November/December 1993,
followed by a National Consensus Workshop.
4.         The report of the Presidential Task Force on Formulation of a National Health Policy
for Sri Lanka (July 1992) specifically identified WHV/AIDS as a major health problem and made
recommendations on policies to be adopted to address the potential medical, social and economic
impacts. The policies reflect the Government's non-discriminatory attitude and its commitment to a
multi-sectoral approach.
B. Epidemiology of STDs
5.         In 1991 WHO estimated that there are more than 200,000 new STD cases each year,
but in fact the incidence of STDs in Sri Lanka is not known. In recent years, the Central Clinic in
Colombo has seen about 5,000 new cases of STDs a year and about 18,000 total visits. The
provincial clinics, mostly located in provincial hospitals, are thought to see another 5,000 new cases
annually, although since the provincialization of the health services in 1989 reporting from the
provincial clinics has become irregular and unreliable. If the WHO estimate is accepted, then the



- 62 -
Annex 4
Page 2 of 12
government clinics are seeing only about 5% of total cases.
6.         Gonococcal infections and chlamydia have shown a downward trend in recent years.
Syphilis, herpes simplex infections and genital warts, however, have shown a rise as a percentage of
diagnosed cases, as have chlamydia and trichomoniasis. For ante-natal clinic (ANC) attendees in
Colombo, the VDRL positivity rate was less than 2%. However, ANC syphilis serology coverage is
incomplete.
7.         Lower socio-economic groups, such as unskilled workers and street hawkers in
Colombo and drivers, sailors, military and police in the provinces, account for a significant number
of STD cases. Usually these are unmarried males and females. Female sex workers are about a
third of clinic attendees in Colombo. More than 70% of male patients reported female sex workers
as the source of infection. About 30% of patients are treated for repeat infections. More than 70%
of female sex workers tested had an STD infection, and more than 45% of the them had more than
one infection.
B. Status of HIV/AIDs
8.         Although there is a consensus that HIV prevalence is still quite low in Sri Lanka and
that major epidemic spread of HIV has not yet occurred, the true prevalence of HIV is not known.
Estimates range up to as high as 5,000. The situation has not been clarified by the sentinel surveys
that have been undertaken. Surveys have been carried out in 1991, 1994 and 1995. The results
from the 1994 and 1995 surveys are summarized below:
1994                  1995
No.       No. 1-fV    No.        No. HIV
Tested    Positives   Tested     Positives
High Risk
Female commercial sex
workers                       453         -        1,208        1
STD patients                   817         -        1,315        1
Medium Risk
TB patients                    385         -          737        -
Low Risk
Ante-natal women                600        -        3,711
Blood donors                 12,957        -        3,000        -
Total              5,212        0        9,971        2
9.         The results of the first two surveys reported so few HIV positives that the results were
not considered credible, and particular care was therefore taken with the third survey. The low
numbers of HIV positives for female commercial sex workers and for STD patients, the two major
risk categories in Sri Lanka, do not support high estimates for HIV prevalence. As in other Asian



- 63 -
Annex 4
Page 3 of 12
countries where the numbers of persons at high risk of HIV infection are relatively small at present,
the sentinel surveys carried out in Sri Lanka have included many individuals not at high risk, and
the results have reported only small numbers of HIV positives. In retrospect, it is unfortunate that
the survey design was not modified to concentrate on high and highest risk groups. Prior to the 1996
sentinel survey, the survey design will be reviewed, and testing for other STDs as feasible will also
be incorporated.
10.        It is generally agreed that in Sri Lanka heterosexual transmission, is currently, and will
continue to be, the primary mode of the spread of HIV. Other sources of transmission that have
played significant roles in HIV epidemics elsewhere include contaminated syringes and needles used
by injecting drug users; contaminated blood products; perinatal transmission; and accidental
infection of health workers during clinical procedures with HIV-infected patients. However, none of
these factors is important in Sri Lanka at present: there is little injecting drug use, the blood supply
has been carefully secured, and there are too few HIV-infected individuals to bring the latter two
into play.
11.        The critical determinant of the spread of HIV and other STDs, therefore, is the sexual
practices among the heterosexual community. If only a very small percentage of the population
have multiple sex partners, then the at-risk population groups will also be very small and spread of
the epidemic will be limited even if the multiple sex partner group is substantially infected. Within
the at-risk group, the secondary determinant is "safe sex" practices, primarily use of condoms.
12.        The evidence currently available suggests that in fact the proportion of persons with
multiple sex partners in Sri Lanka is quite low. A recent studyl/ reached the following
conclusions about potential high-risk groups.
(a)   Free trade zone workers (75,000): not a high-risk group; little evidence of promiscuous
sexual behavior; none of the respondents had casual sexual partners; all respondents
had heard of AIDS and were generally well informed about different modes of HIV
transmission, although much less well informed about other STDs.
(b)   Overseas retumees (288,000, or about 3% of the potential work force): small but non-
trivial risk for HIV infections, primarily because of possible sexual exploitation by
employers; 20% reported sexual harassment, a smaller percentage casual partnerships;
also well informed about HIV/AIDS and transmission, much less so about other STDs.
(c)   Commercial sex workers (12,000): high risk of infection and therefore of transmitting
it to clients; very few male sex workers or low-class female sex workers reported using
condoms regularly; by contrast, nearly 87% of high-class female sex workers reported
that they did.
(d)   Prison populations (20,000): high-risk group because of relatively high level of casual
sexual activity, including commercially available sex and homosexual contacts;
1/ David Bloom, Socio-economic Implications of HIV/AIDS in Sri Lanka, Harvard Institute for
International Development 1995.



- 64 -
Annex 4
Page 4 of 12
condoms generally unavailable.
(e)   Tourist inflows: unlikely to contribute significantly to transmission of HIV among Sri
Lankan nationals.
13.        Other behavioral research on STD and AIDs risk-related behaviors in Sri Lanka2/ has
concluded that unemployed, unmarried youth are a risk group that should be given additional
attention.
14.        Although it is not known why HIV has not yet spread extensively in many Asian
countries including Sri Lanka, while in others (Thailand, Myanmar, India, Cambodia and perhaps
Vietnam) spread is now exponential. However, the relative intensity of high-risk behaviors is
clearly a major factor. If multiple partner sexual contacts are low and condom use is promoted, as
appears to be the case in Sri Lanka, then the potential for rapid spread of HIV is also low.
However, since the opposite is also the case, Sri Lanka must make maintenance and improvement of
this situation an immediate and continuing priority. To support this priority, patterns of relevant
behavior in the population will be monitored by systematic and routine sentinel behavioral surveys
similar to sentinel HIV surveys.
C. The National STD/AIDS Control Program
15.        The National STD/AIDS Control Program (NSACP) employs three major prevention
strategies in its efforts to prevent the spread of HIV infection: (i) prevention of sexual transmission;
(ii) prevention of transmission through blood; and (iii) prevention of perinatal transmission, as
follows.
I. PREVENTION OF SEXUAL TRANSMISSION
16.       Interventions increasing awareness and knowledge of STD/HIV and safer sex.
General public awareness of HIV/AIDS in 1989 was 14%; since then it has increased dramatically
to over 80%. Interventions to increase awareness and knowledge will focus on:
(a)  increasing the proportion of the knowledgeable population;
(b)  increasing depth of knowledge;
(c)  correcting misconceptions about STD/WilV;
(d)  making available information about all safer sex options;
(e)   desensitizing sex-related topics, including STD/AIDS and condoms;
(f)  eliminating any stigma attached to people with STD/HIV infections.
17.        The approaches to be adopted will be a mix of mass media communications reinforced
by support materials and interpersonal communications methods such as peer education, group
discussions, and one-on-one interactions including counselling. Traditional media such as street
plays and puppet shows will also be used as appropriate. Determining how and where to
communicate which messages will be based on audience research with respective target groups. In
2/ Center for Intersectoral Community Health Studies, University of Peradeniya, Kandy, Sri Lanka.



- 65 -
Annex 4
Page 5 of 12
light of past experience, it is critical that communications campaigns be sustained and followed up
in order to maximize their effectiveness. Interpersonal communication efforts and counseling will
be carried out primarily by NGOs, and mass media campaigns will be the responsibility primarily of
the Health Education Bureau (HEB) of the Ministry of Health. The NSACP with the assistance of
the HEB will coordinate the implementation and evaluation of STD/AIDS communication efforts
which, in addition to NGOs, will also involved several other govemnment ministries and the private
sector.
18.        Education of in-school youth through use of curricula that are honest, explicit and
comprehensive about the options available for preventing STD/HIV transmission is planned. The
curricula have been developed for grades 5-12 by the Health Education Bureau and the National
Institute of Education, MOE. NGOs such as the FPA have developed sexuality modules targeted at
grade 10 and above that have already been used in several districts. In addition, UNICEF will
support a project focusing on education of primary school children, youth and adolescents including
university students.
19.        Education of out-of-school youth, implemented through a collaborative effort between
the HEB, MOH and NYSC, will be continued to reach members of more than 5,000 youth clubs. In
addition, UNICEF will focus on girls working in Free Trade Zones, youth in the armed forces, and
sexually exploited children in "tourist areas".
20.        Messages to be pretested include the following:
(a)   What is an STD and how does it affect the individual?
(b)  What is HIV/AIDS and how does it affect the individual?
(c)   Behaviors not/leading to infection
(d)   Barriers to safer sexual behaviors
21.        Interventions promoting safer sexual behaviors. including condom use. As the number
of HIV-infected individuals continues to increase, more effort will be required to focus on the
adoption of safer sexual practices. This will include communication activities that motivate and
sustain behavior changes. These interventions will build on those outlined above relating to
strengthening awareness and knowledge.
22.        Of those who know that AIDS is transmitted sexually, only 5% report that they intend
to change their behavior (or have already done so), and in addition, only 5% report using condoms.
23.        Development of interventions will be guided by lessons learned from MTP I, including
taking existing lifestyles into account; bringing benefit and pleasure to the individual; linking
individual behavior change to changing social norms in the community, and findings about the
needs of each target group. A mix of the communication approaches will be employed.
Interventions will cover the following areas:
(a)   providing skills for correct condom use;
(b)   providing skills for increasing assertiveness and negotiating condom use and/or other
safer sexual practices;
(c)  increasing availability of good quality, low-cost condoms through expanding condom



- 66 -
Annex 4
Page 6 of 12
social marketing and work place programs;
(d)  improving demand for and access to good quality, low-cost integrated STD/HIV
services that are acceptable to clients;
(e)  improving demand for and access to good quality, low-cost reproductive health services
(integration of FP/MCH and STD/HIV services).
24.        The primary message to be adapted to the needs of the different target groups on the
basis of qualitative research is the need to try and sustain safer sexual practices, including condom
use, mutual fidelity, non-penetrative sex, and abstinence.
25.        During MTP 1, the NSACP and some NGOs implemented pilot interventions to
motivate behavior change among male and female sex workers, and condom social marketing
undertaken by the FPA has increased condom availability to the general public. The NSACP will
now coordinate systematic efforts to increase adoption of safer sex which will be implemented by
numerous government and non-government agencies and the corporate sector.
26.        Interventions promoting STD care-seeking behavior. Sexual transmission has been
identified as the major factor in IfV spread . In Asia, including Sri Lanka, heterosexual
vaginal/anal intercourse seems to be the most dominant form of transmission. Available studies
indicate that sex workers account for nearly 70% of the infection and that about 70% of sex workers
are infected with STDs. Interventions promoting STD care-seeking behavior will on IEC efforts to
identify potential clients and inform them about STD care, it importance, and where to obtain
quality care. Other interventions will be formulated through a workshop. Methods of promoting
appropriate care-seeking behavior include among others, community initiatives, national and local
media campaigns, and education targeted at populations with risk behaviors. Since only 5-10% of
STD-infected individuals attend public clinics, it is essential that private facilities and physicians be
involved in these efforts.
27.        Interventions strengthening STD diagnosis and treatment. An effective HIV/AIDS
Control Program requires a well-established STD/AIDS care service supported by a well-organized
laboratory service. The Central Laboratory in Colombo is capable of performing several diagnostic
tests for STDs and HIV infections. The tests available outside Colombo are the venereal disease
research laboratory (VDRL) tests and microscopy.
28.        To strengthen quality of care and maximize coverage, the following interventions,
including provision of care at the primary health care level through syndromic approaches, will be
adopted:
(a)   Strenathening diagnostic facilities
(i) The Medical Research Institute of the Ministry of Health will provide the
services to the NSACP in the form of laboratory support for clinical management
of HIV infected persons. The services will include:
-  HIV culture capability;
- viral diagnostic service such as herpes, cytomegalo virus and hepatitis B;
-  bacteriological service for the detection of opportunistic infections;
-  diagnosis of parasitic and fungal infections;



- 67 -
Annex 4
Page 7 of 12
-  PCR on a selective basis;
-  automated CD4 cell counting with appropriate equipment and training;
-  establishment of an effective and comprehensive quality assessment scheme to
ensure standardized testing at all levels.
(ii) The existing facilities and capabilities in the Central Clinic will be improved
through the construction of a new facility. Expanded capacities and services will
include:
-  antigen testing for HIV on a selective basis;
-  confirmatory test for HIV 2;
-  cervical cytology;
-  MICs of N. gonorrhoea to be performed on a routine basis;
-  routine diagnosis of chlamydial infections;
-  urgent requirement to train a laboratory staff member as a maintenance officer
with the assurance that he/she will continue to work in the NSACP after the
training.
(iii)  STD/AIDS diagnostic facilities at the nine provincial hospitals will be
strengthened so that they will be capable of performing VDRL, TPHA,
gonococcal culture, HIV screening and microscopy. An internal quality
assurance scheme for the diagnostic laboratories will be established.
(b)   Undertaking clinical and laboratory studies focusing on the following
- asymptomatic women;
- rectal gonorrhoea among persons with STD/HIV, both males and females;
- serofast for syphilis;
- upper reproductive tract infections and foetal wastage due to STDs;
- MIC levels;
- plasmid analysis;
- HIV and HPV PCR studies.
(c)  Increasing expertise at all levels to improve counseling, contact tracing, partner
notification and where appropriate, provision of treatment.
29.        Interventions promoting reproductive health (RH). The definition of reproductive
health is broader than STD/AIDS control and prevention. A healthy genital tract is usually required
for pregnancy and delivery. Since a diseased genital tract either from AIDS, STD or the
complications of these conditions can prevent pregnancy and the reproductive function, the aims of
maintaining RH coincide with those of STD/AIDS control.
30.        Promotion of RH services will among the areas included in IEC efforts. Potential
clients will be informed of what RH care consists of, its importance, and where to obtain quality
care. Other interventions will be formulated through a workshop. Methods of promoting
appropriate RH care will include community initiatives, national and local media campaigns and
education targeted at sexually active women.



- 68 -
Annex 4
Page 8 of 12
31.        Coordination of RH activities will be undertaken by the NSACP and the FHB, with the
support of agencies such as UNFPA, UNICEF and UNDP. Practices such as laboratory examination
of cervical smears taken from women having IUDs inserted should be made standard. In addition,
the NSACP will support expansion of condom social marketing, especially in rral areas.
II. PREVENTION OF TRANSMISSION THROUGH BLOOD
32.        Interventions ensuring safe blood. There are 46 outstation blood banks in the
country. The Central Blood Bank in Colombo is attached to the National Blood Transfusion Service
(NBTS). In addition, there are a few private blood banks operating as part of private hospitals or
separately collecting blood for sale. NBTS does not have any control over the activities of the
private blood banks. The exact number of these blood banks is not known.
33.        No cases of HIV infections have been reported following transfusions. One case of
transfusion-associated HIV infection has been reported after transfusion abroad. Strategies adopted
by the NBTS for "HlV-safe" blood are:
(a)   Safer donors
- voluntary non-remunerated donors
- donor selection, including self-deferral
- donor examination
(b)   Safer blood (and blood components)
- confidential unit exclusion
- screening blood for HIV antibodies
According to the statistics of the NBTS, 99.99% of the blood units donated in the country are
screened for WIV antibodies and HBs antigen.
34.        About 50% of the blood donations in the country are screened for HIV 1 and 2 in the
NSACP Central Laboratory using the ELISA technique. All outstation blood banks perform the
Serodia test for HIV 1 only. All HV antibody positive samples are confirmed by Westem Blot in
the Central Laboratory of the STD/AIDS Control Program for statistical reasons.
35.        Every effort will be taken to sustain and strengthen the existing activities of the NBTS
to prevent transmission of HIV infection through blood transfusion and transfusion of blood
components. Sustainability of the existing scheme will be ensured by providing training to all
categories of staff in the NBTS and continuous supply of sterile and disposable items used for blood
collection. Test reagents necessary for the continuous testing of all blood units for WHV 1 and 2
antibodies will be made available. Licensing procedures will be established for all private blood
banks to ensure safe practices and blood quality control.
36.        The following interventions have been identified:
- creating awareness among the medical staff about the risks of transfusion associated
infections in order to reduce the need for blood transfusion;
- preparing and distributing guidelines for blood transfusion practices to all medical



- 69 -
Annex 4
Page 9 of 12
officers;
- continuing donor selection strategies, blood testing procedures and training programs
at their fullest capacity.
37.         The policy for providing clotting factor products to hemophiliacs is satisfactory and
will be continued in its present form.
38.        Interventions preventing nosocomial transmission and other skin piercing
procedures. As an initial step to promote infection control, "Infection Control Guidelines" in the
health care setting have been prepared and circulated throughout the country. A total of 120
infection control nurses have been trained in groups and has been posted to all parts of the country.
As a result every General Hospital and many base hospitals have one or more trained infection
control nurses on their staff. These nurses are responsible for all infection control activities in the
hospital. The General Hospital in Colombo has an infection control team headed by the clinical
microbiologist in the hospital. No cases of HIV transmission have been reported from patient to
health care workers, from patient to patient or from health care workers to patient.
39.         Conditions, equipment, reagents and guidelines necessary for the practice of universal
safety precautions will be made available to all levels of health care workers. HCWs should be
continually made aware that any patient admitted to hospital has the potential to be infected with
HIV or any other blood-borne pathogen, irrespective of an HIV test result. Interventions foreseen
include the following: adequate supervision, awareness, continuous supply of necessary items, clear
guidelines and training available for the practice of universal safety precautions; and guidelines on
proper sterilization of endoscopes and other invasive instruments to be made available to all medical
officers. While emphasizing the need to manage HIV positive patients in the general wards,
isolation facilities for those with TB, severe diarrhea and mental disorders, should be made available
when necessary. Facilities for incineration or other method of safe waste disposal will be available.
A standard protocol will be developed on the plan of action to be followed in the event of an
accidental needle stick or any other injury to a health care women.
40.        Interventions promoting adoption of safer injecting drug use (IDU) practices.
During the MTP I there were no activities directed towards people injecting illicit drugs. However,
it is estimated that there are some 30,000 people in Sri Lanka who use illicit drugs, mainly via
inhalation, and there are reports of increased experimentation with injection.
41.         The NSACP will:
- monitor the situation and encourage research to identify existing or emerging IDU
activity and patterns;
- begin to include information about IDU as a means of HIV transmission in general
HIV/AIDS/STD programs and in drug information and control programs;
- initiate dialogue with key government and non-government agencies about
appropriate intervention strategies if required including:
* abstinence from drug use
* harm minimization models
* provision of sterile injecting equipment via pharmacies, needle exchange, informal



- 70 -
Annex 4
Page 10 of 12
networks
* provision of information to IDU about how to sterilize equipment
* encourage non-sharing of equipment
* collect information about successful IDU, HIV/AIDS/STD programs from other
countries (Asian and non-Asian)
III. PREVENTION OF PERINATAL TRANSMISSION
42.        Perinatal transmission from HIV positive mother to child has not been a problem in Sri
Lanka. To prevent future difficulties, the NSACP will take the following steps:
(a)   upgrade the infection control facilities of the hospitals and matemity homes;
(b) emphasize the risk of perinatal transmission in all HIV/AIDS awareness programs,
particularly in ANCs;
(c)   provide counseling services for HILV seropositive women and women at risk;
(d)   offer voluntary confidential HIV testing service to pregnant women.
43.        The policy of medical termination of pregnancy in HIV seropositive women may have
to be addressed in the future.
D. Project Inputs
Incinerators
44.        The project will support the construction of five incinerators for medical wastes
adjacent to but not attached to medical facilities in Colombo, including the new NSACP
headquarters building. For each site, a one cc foot incinerator will be constructed, which will be
sufficient to dispose of plastic syringes, some linen and gloves, etc. Firing will be by LPG gas
supplemented by air blowers. A 50-foot chimney will carry away exhaust gases, although it is
anticipated that due to the high combustion temperature there will be very little smoke.
DruRs
45.        The project will support drugs for the syndromic treatment of STDs. The following
drugs will be procured:
Erythromycin
Ciprofloxacin
Doxycycline
Caftriaxone
Cotrimoxazole
It is estimated that it will cost approximately Rs. 250 to treat an STD case syndromically and that
by the end of the project period approximately 10,000 cases a year will be treated syndromically
46.        AZT is intended to be used only in those few cases of HIV infection of health staff as
the result of needle sticks.



- 71 -
Annex 4
Page 11 of 12
Condom Vending Machines
47.        Provision is made for procurement of 75 condom vending machines through UNFPA.
These machines will be placed at the disposal of and serviced by NGOs active in AIDS education
efforts who feel that when installed in appropriate locations the machines would be utilized by
groups with which they are working. It is expected that most machines would be located in areas of
high tourist interest, urban and industrial areas, and perhaps university areas.



TRAINING PROGRAM FOR NSACP
1996      1997       1998       1999      2000              Funding Agency         Key Responsibility
Program Managemiient
Orientation of program managers at provincial level           2          2          2                            World Bank             NSACP/PD
(PDs, DPDs, Heads of Institutions). 6 programs.
STD Prevention & Care
Preparation of guidelines for training of GPs in              x          x                                       World Bank             NSACP
comprehensive STD care, total number 500.
TOT workshops for 20 trainers.                                x          x          x          x                 World Bank             NSACP/College of GPs/lMPA
Training of medical graduates, total numbet to be             x          x          x          x                 World Bank             NSACP/College of GUPs
trained 800.
Training of MLTs in VDRL testing - 10 base hospitals.                                                            UNFPA
Training ol' I'll field stal:t                                x          x          x                            UNFIPA
Training of trainers.                                         x          x          x                            UNFPA
TOT for training of nursing personnel.                        2          2          2          2                 World Bank             D/Nursing & Public Health
Training of 400 ward sisters (20 workshops).                   5         5          5          5                 World Bank             D/Nursing & Public Health
Care & Counselling                                                                                               Ministry of Health
Orientation of ward staff in general hospitals.                                                                  Ministry of Health
Regional training of health education officers and core       x          x                                       World Bank             HEB
group members.
Training of NGOs in counselling at provincial and              10        10         20         20                World Bank             NSACP
district level (60 workshops).
Training of nursing midwif'ery personnel (16                  4          4          4          4                 World Bank             MOHJD/Nursing
workshops).
'Iraining ol'I ield stair in risk areas on condom             x          x                                                              Youth Service Councils/I-lEB
promotion, intfection contrtl.
Training of School Counsellors.                               x          x                                                              NIE/HEB
Training of NGO co-ordinators, managers (2                    x          x                                                              NGO Secretariat/NSACP
workshops)                                                                                                                                                                i 
0.



- 73 -
Annex 5
Page 1 of 15
SRI LANKA
HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
Nutrition Component
A. Nutrition Issues in Sri Lanka
Low Birth Weight
1.         The weight of an infant at birth broadly reflects the quality of its intrauterine
development. Birth weight is an important predictor of the survival of the newbom. Studies have
also shown that low birth weight in full-term infants has a lasting deleterious impact on growth,
which even good diet and environment may not be able to reverse entirely. From a public health
point of view, the mean birth weight in a community may provide a broad indication of the quality
of matemal nutrition and ante-natal care that is available.
2.         The incidence of low birth weight in Sri Lanka, i.e. below 2,500 grains, is significant
and, what is more, does not appear to have declined in recent years. A study of 36,578 pregnant
women done by the Ministry of Health/CARE in 1984 gave the percentage of low birth-weight
births as 19%. Family Health Bureau data indicated an incidence of 23% for the 1986-89 period,
and a fuither study in 1989/90 reported 19% low-weight births, of which three quarters were full
term. The low birth-weight figures from the 1993 Demographic & Health Survey and the 1993
Nutrition & Health Survey were 19% and 20%, respectively. The DHS survey also reported that in
the estate sector, the incidence of low birth weight was close to 30%.
Protein Energy Malnutrition (PEM)
3.         The 1993 Demographic & Health Survey reported the following levels of
malnourishment (below -2 standard deviations from the median of the reference population) for Sri
Lankan children 3-59 months of age: stunted (low weight for age), 23.7%; wasted (low weight for
height), 15.6%; and underweight (low weight for age), 37.6%. The National Health Survey, also
carried out in 1993, measured only underweight and reported 34.7% underweight (6.3% severely
and 28.4% moderately). The results of the two surveys, therefore are reassuringly consistent.
4.         The DHS data can also be compared to similar data from the 1987 DHS survey. The
two DHS and the NHS survey give the following percentages for underweight for children 3-35
months.
DHS1987    38.1%
DHS 1993    32.6%
DHS 1993    32.0%
These estimates suggest, first, that the level of malnutrition has declined somewhat since 1987; and
second, that the current level of malnutrition among children 3-35 months in Sri Lanka is close to a



74-                                      Annex 5
Page 2 of 15
third. The estimated levels for children 3-59 months are slightly higher (35-38%), as indicated
above. This is significantly lower than the comparable level of malnutrition for children 3-59
months in other south Asian countries (e.g. Pakistan 54%, Bangladesh 67% in recent surveys) but is
still strikingly high given the low level of mortality in Sri Lanka.
5.          The 1993 DHS data indicate a somewhat lower level of malnutrition (underweight) in
urban as compared to rural areas and a particularly high percentage among estate populations. The
contrast between wasting on the one hand and stunting/underweight on the other hand (10% vs 53-
54% among the estate populations is far greater than that in urban and other rural populations. The
most probably explanation for this phenomenon is that among estate women, almost all of whom
work, breast feeding and weaning habits are particularly detrimental, resulting for their infants in a
downward nutritional spiral likely to start as early as the second or third month and culminating in
stunting. However, because household cash income on estates does not vary much by season, there
is less likely to be short-term nutritional stress (wasting) than in other areas of the country.
6.          The monotonic decline in the percent of children underweight by increasing educational
level of the mother in the 1993 DHS data suggests a clear relationship between malnutrition and
poverty, and the same association emerges from analysis of the NHS data. However, the relatively
high level of malnutrition among the children of even quite educated women (25% for mothers with
more than secondary education in the DHS data) is unexpected and suggests that traditional beliefs
and practices and other cultural factors are also likely to play a large role in the persistence of high
levels of malnutrition in Sri Lanka.
7.          The pattern of increasing malnutrition, which becomes evident soon after birth and
becomes progressively greater until it starts to level off at about 18 months, as well as other
available evidence, suggests that infant and child feeding practices are in fact far from optimal in Sri
Lanka. Studies indicate that nearly 30% of infants are fed complementary liquids and solids within
the first four months of life, rather than being exclusively breast feed. But although many infants
receive complementary foods too early, 30% of infants over the age of six months are not receiving
any complementary foods at all. A related problem arises because for traditional reasons the first
complementary food given may be rice water, which is not sufficiently nutritious and is often not
taken readily by infants.
Micronutrient Deficiencies
8.         Iron Deficiency. Iron-deficiency anemia is a serious problem in most developing
countries. It leads to impaired capacity for physical work, increased maternal and fetal morbidity
and mortality and increased risk of low birth weight. It is due mainly to low dietary intake and
absorption of iron and folate and is exacerbated by the increased needs of pregnancy. Most of the
iron in Sri Lankan diets is derived from plant sources that contain non-heme (inorganic) iron, which
is less well absorbed by the body than iron from organic sources. Absorption of non-heme iron is
decreased by consumption of tea, a standard of the Sri Lankan diet.
9.          The few available studies indicate that anemia is a major nutritional problem in Sri
Lanka as well. Two studies conducted by the Medical Research Institute (MRI), involving 129 and
692 pregnant women, found that 78% and 60% of the women, respectively were anemic, that is, had
a hemoglobin level of less than I lg/dl. The results of a national iron deficiency survey are expected



- 75 -
Annex 5
Page 3 of 15
to be available shortly. Iron-folate supplements are given to pregnant mothers attending ante-natal
clinics, although because of poor compliance due to side effects, the impact of this intervention may
be limited. Modification of diet may be an alternative approach, since consumption of ascorbic
acid-rich foods and meat or fish, even in small quantities, can significantly enhance iron absorption.
10.        Iodine Deficiency Disease (IDD). Iodine is an essential component of hormones
secreted by the thyroid gland. A wide spectrum of disorders due to iodine deficiency can occur at
all ages, but it is particularly serious for a pregnant women since iodine deficiency during pregnancy
can cause stillbirth, congenital abnormalities or cretinism in her child. Goiter, the most common
manifestation of iodine deficiency, was not documented as a public health problem in Sri Lanka
until the late 1940s, when the Medical Research Institute reported that it was prevalent in the wet
zone with areas of high endemicity (more than 10% of the population affected) in Kalutara, Kandy,
and Matale districts. Subsequently, a survey in 1987 confirmed that iodine deficiency is a public
health problem throughout the wet zone. Based on the current population of the provinces surveyed,
over 60% of the Sri Lanka is at risk of iodine deficiency.
11.        Legislation mandating the iodization of salt was passed in 1993, but only became
effective in July 1995 in order to give the salt industry and the government time to prepare for its
implementation. In conjunction with this legislation, UNICEF, the multilateral agency most
involved to date in strengthening efforts at control of iodine deficiency, has provided iodization
plants for two saltems and has collaborated with the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Industry
to increase capacity to monitor the iodine content of salt through the provision of laboratory
equipment and training laboratory staff in various areas of the country. However, the proportion of
salt fortified with iodine to date is limited, largely due to problems in the salt industry and low
demand for iodized salt by the public. Low consumer demand for iodized salt is largely because the
public is unaware of iodine deficiency and its effects, or the efficacy of iodized salt in control of
IDD. A substantial price differential between iodized and non-iodized salt is also a potential
constraint to increasing demand for iodized salt.
12.        Vitamin A Deficiency. Vitamin A is required for normal growth and development of
the fetus and the infant. The vitamin A status of pregnant and lactating women is crucial, since
severe vitamin A deficiency during pregnancy may lead to miscarriage or birth defects and to
vitamin A deficiency in breast feeding infants. During weaning, the child is at risk of developing
clinical deficiencies if breast milk is replaced with foods low in vitamin A. The prevalence of
vitamin A deficiency in Sri Lanka is not known. The only national survey, carried out in 1975/76,
reported the existence of pockets of high prevalence in various parts of the country, the worst
affected parts being in the districts of Kegale, Matara, and Ratnapura. The results of a national
vitamin A survey are expected to be available shortly.
B. The Thriposha Program
13.        The Thriposha program was initiated in 1973 by the Ministry of Health, with the
assistance of CARE, to combat the high incidence of child malnutrition, low birth weight, and iron
deficiency anemia in Sri Lanka. The principal target groups are malnourished children under five
and pregnant and lactating women. The program is based on provision a take-home dry food
supplement. Beneficiaries are entitled to a packet of Thriposha once every two weeks, which
translates into a daily food supplement of 50 grarns. The supplement provides energy, protein, and



- 76 -                                     Annex 5
Page 4 of 15
food supplement of 50 grams. The supplement provides energy, protein, and micronutrients as a pre-
cooked, ready-to-eat, cereal and legume-based food--hence the name "Thriposha" (triple nutrient).
14.        At the inception of the program, the raw materials were entirely imported, but since then
the Thriposha formula has undergone considerable modification. Between 1973 and 1990, the bulk of
the raw materials were supplied by USAID through a PL 480 Title II Grant Agreement. The formula
currently consists of maize (66%), soybean (30%), full-cream milk powder (3%), and a vitamin-
mineral premix (2%). The soybean and milk powder are procured locally, while the other components
are imported. Although maize is grown locally, it cannot be utilized by the program due to high
levels of aflatoxin. The manufacture of Thriposha is centralized so as to maintain high standards of
hygiene and quality control.
15.        The cumulative cost of the program has been $US 39.3 million, at an average of $US 1.9
million per annum. In recent years, however, actual expenditure has averaged over $US 3.5 million
per annum. The program is funded, managed and implemented by the Ministry of Health, and the
bulk of the annual expenditure goes towards production of Thriposha. Up until 1990, CARE played a
key supporting role in the implementation of the program, and it is generally agreed that overall
program performance was better prior to that date than it has been since.
16.        The program currently has about 580,000 'approved' beneficiaries, of which roughly one
third are pregnant and nursing women and two thirds are children aged 6-59 months. Children are
considered eligible if their weights, as recorded on growth cards, indicate that they are underweight for
age, that is, 'below the red line.' Over the years there have been significant fluctuations in the ability
of the program to supply beneficiaries on a regular basis. in 1994 and 1995, the production of
Thriposha declined sharply due to difficulty in securing raw materials.
17.        A number of issues have been raised conceming the program's impact and sustainability,
including the following.
(a)   sharing--the supplement may be consumed by the entire family rather than the target
beneficiary;
(b)   substitution--when the supplement is given for the under-five child, the mother may
reduce the child's regular food, resulting in no increase in nutrient intake;
(c)   distortion of growth monitoring--since Thriposha eligibility is linked to recording of the
child as underweight on the growth card, weights may not be recorded accurately;
(d)   dependency--the free distribution of the food may reinforce a dependent attitude on the
part of the recipient;
(e)   sustainability--the production of Thriposha is dependent on imported commodities and is
quite expensive.
18.  There is no consistent evidence that the Thriposha program has been effective in improving the
nutritional status of beneficiaries. Therefore, the Ministry of Health will carry out an evaluation of the
program by June 30, 1998 and will then implement recommendations agreed with IDA (para. 24).



- 77-                                     Annex 5
Page 5 of 15
C. The Nutrition Component of the National Development Trust Fund Project
19.  A number of community-based nutrition and integrated rural development programs with
nutrition components are currently supported by UNICEF, UNDP, several bilateral donors, and NGOs
such as Sarvodaya. The most extensive of these is the nutrition component of the IDA-supported
Poverty alleviation (National Development Trust Fund--formerly the Janasaviya Trust Fund) Project.
The objective of the NDTF nutrition component is to reduce levels of malnutrition among young
children and the incidence of low birth weight, with emphasis on reaching the poorest and most
deprived populations. An 'In-Depth Approach' is being implemented in 180 of Sri Lanka's 256
administrative divisions, covering about 10% of the total population. Nutrition activities are
implemented by NGOs, known as Partner Organizations (POs), in one village cluster (Grama Niladari
Division--GND) per division. Ten of the most deprived village clusters are selected in each division.
20.        The In-Depth team at the division level consists of four persons: a project coordinator,
nutrition field worker (NFW), accounts clerk, and field assistant. These workers are trained by the
NDTF with the NFW receiving 3 weeks training in nutrition and related fields, while the others have a
3-day orientation. Each village cluster also has 7 volunteers, three in basic nutrition (trained for 3
days), and four "scholars" who receive training in their particular specialty--agriculture/animal
husbandry (13 days' training), health/sanitation (10 days), preschool teacher (30 days) and child
care/family planning (10 days).
21.        The In-Depth approach is implemented in stages:
(a)   Volunteer Nutrition Workers (VNWs) trained -- 3 per GND
(b)  All children weighed
(c)   Train VNWs in survey methodology
Conduct household poverty survey
(d)   Meeting with GND elders (if required)
Meeting with the 35 most deprived households to discuss problems and identify/develop
proposals
Finalize community development proposals
(e)  Implement community action proposals
While all under-five children and pregnant/lactating mothers are included in the program, "special
care" is provided to those identified as the poorest in the community survey. The same group
develops the community work proposals which address the immediate causes of malnutrition in that
village.
22.        In general, implementation of the nutrition component of the project has gone well. POs
had been selected and project-supported activities were underway in by POs in all 180 targeted
divisions by 1955. There have been problems conceming monitoring and reporting of project output
and impact indicators. Initial indications are that the component is achieving improvements in



- 78 -                                     Annex 5
Page 6 of 15
nutritional levels of children, although rigorous demonstration of impact is not yet possible. Project
impact on low birth weight has not been tracked.
23.        The component originally included Thriposha, but due to recent unavailability combined
with questionable sustainability, Thriposha has now been eliminated from the project design. Instead,
the project will support production of a local, low-technology food supplement as an income-
generating activity. However, it is important to note that the results that have been achieved thus far
have been accomplished without any food supplementation.
D. Nutrition Component of the Project
24.        The Nutrition component of the Health Services Project will support the programs of the
Ministry of Health to improve the nutritional status of the most vulnerable groups in the population:
infants, young children and pregnant women. These programs will utilize primarily the existing
resources available in the Ministry of Health. The focus will be on reorientation and revitalization of
the existing growth promotion program of the Ministry's Family Health Bureau (i.e. the MCH unit
under the Director MCH). Since there is no consistent evidence that the Thriposha program has been
effective in improving the nutritional status of beneficiaries, MOH will carry out an impact evaluation
of the program by June 30, 1998, will discuss the findings with IDA, and will then implement agreed
recommendations. This section of the annex provides details about most aspects of the nutrition
component, which is summarized in the main text of the Staff Appraisal Report.
Institutional Strengthening
25.        To provide an organizational focus for nutrition programs and activities in the Ministry
of Health and to strengthen the ability of the Family Health Bureau and the health system to plan,
manage and implement a national growth promotion program, the project will support the following:
26.        Ministry of Health. Administrative and other logistical support will be provided to the
Family Health Bureau, which is the focal point for nutrition activities within the Ministry. A nutrition
unit will be set up as part of the FHB, and a post of Deputy Director MCH (Nutrition) will be
established to specifically be responsible for nutrition activities. A clerk and a statistical assistant with
computer training will be appointed to assist the Deputy Director, and office equipment and supplies
will be supported. Two national consultants will also be engaged for the duration of the project to
assist with project implementation. Two vehicles, for the Deputy Director and for the consultants, will
be provided.
27.        The Medical Research Institute (MRI) is the technical arm of the Ministry of Health. To
enable the Nutrition Division of the Medical Research Institute to take the leading role in the
implementation and coordination of survey and operational research work for the project, the project
will support strengthening of the Division. Data processing capability will be strengthened through
provision of computer facilities and office equipment. In addition, the field capacity of the Division
will be strengthened through the provision of a vehicle.
28.        Divisional Health & Nutrition Committees. In order to coordinate, promote and
strengthen health and nutrition activities at divisional level, Divisional Health and Nutrition
Committees will be established if they do not already exist. Members of these committees include the



- 79 -
Annex 5
Page 7 of 15
divisional Secretary, the Divisional director of Health Services (DDHS), the Divisional director of
Education, the Agricultural Extension Officer, the Assistant Director of Planning, and representatives
of NGOs working in the division. Other relevant individuals are invited to join as appropriate. The
functioning of these committees has been uneven, but it is clear that they can make a major
contribution if they are adequately motivated, supported and mobilized. The project will provide
operational support for committee meetings and activities and will monitor their progress. Minutes of
committee meetings will be forwarded to the FHB. One of the consultants' major responsibilities will
be to coordinate with the Committees and promote their support for project activities.
Nutrition Working Group
29.        A Nutrition Working Group in the Ministry of Health, chaired by the Director MCH and
including the Deputy Director MCH (Nutrition) and representatives of the Health Education Bureau
and the Medical Research Institute, will be constituted to provide policy and implementation guidance
for the Nutrition component. The Director MCH will invite the participation of others working in the
nutrition field from within government, academic institutions and other organizations as appropriate.
The Working Group will meet at least once a quarter to review the progress of the component.
Program and Project Orientation
30.        Orientation to the Health Ministry's nutrition programs and to the project will be
provided for all Health staff concerned with nutrition programs. There will be a one-day workshop for
senior staff in the first year of the project. This will include the Health Secretary, the Director
General Health Services, the Deputy Director General Public Health Services, the Director, National
Institute of Health Services, the provincial Health Secretaries, the provincial Directors of Health
Services, and the provincial Deputy Directors of Health Services. There will be additional orientation
workshops for district and divisional level staff including the members of divisional Health &
Nutrition Committees. The orientation will cover current nutrition problems in Sri Lanka, the
strategies being adopted to address these problems, especially the reorientation of the growth
promotion program and the key nutrition messages to be conveyed, the roles of the various
government departments concerned, and coordination with other nutrition programs.
National Growth Promotion Program
31.        Growth promotion can be defined as activities that promote either normal growth of a
normal child or catch-up growth of a malnourished child, including low birth weight infants. Growth
monitoring refers to the measurement and recording of a child's weight on the card provided to
mothers by the FHB for the purpose. Growth monitoring should be seen as one aspect of growth
promotion that serves as an entry point for other aspects of growth promotion, particularly nutrition
education. It must be delinked, in the minds of health workers and the general public, from its present
close association with thriposha eligibility. Growth promotion, rather than detection of malnutrition,
should be understood by all concerned as the basic purpose of growth monitoring.
32.        The public health midwife (PHM) is responsible for growth promotion activities.
However, given her many other tasks, one of the goals of the re-oriented growth promotion program
will be to make growth promotion a community-based program and to utilize NGO workers and/or
community volunteers to carry out growth promotion activities to the extent possible. The PHM,



- 80 -
Annex 5
Page 8 of 15
together with NGO workers and/or community volunteers, will be responsible for the following
activities involving pregnant women, the mothers of infants and young children and their children,
and the community, as follows.
Pregnant Women
Provide general pregnancy counseling, including diet and weight gain advice
Provide iron-folate supplementation and motivate to consume
Monitor weight gain
Motivate to give colostrum to newborn
Infants/Mothers
Motivate to breast feed exclusively for 4-6 months
Provide general lactation counseling
Counsel about importance of steady growth in infant and role of growth monitoring
Monitor growth of infant
Ensure referral if initial faltering of growth continues
Provide iron-folate supplementation for at least six weeks postpartum and motivate to
consume
Counsel about treatment of diarrhea
Counsel about benefits of iodized salt
Young Children/Mothers
Counsel about important of steady growth of child
Counsel about start of weaning at 4-6 months, appropriate weaning foods and feeding
frequency
Demonstrate preparation of simple local weaning foods
Monitor growth of young child
Ensure referral if initial faltering of growth continues
Counsel about spacing and family planning as appropriate
Counsel about treatment of diarrhea
Counsel about benefits of iodized salt
Community
Promote community awareness of importance of good matemal, infant, and young child
nutrition
33.        Introduction of the reoriented growth promotion program will follow completion of in-
service training of PHMs and supervisors, which will be phased over the first three years of the
project. In those areas where the NDTF nutrition component or other community-based programs
that include nutrition activities are being implemented, the emphasis will be on coordination
between the PHM and NGO workers and/or volunteers who are already active. In those areas
where there is only the FHB program, after completing her nutrition training, the PHM, with the
assistance of local leaders, local NGOs, her supervisor, the DDHS and the Divisional Health &
Nutrition Committee will organize a local Health & Nutrition Committee if one does not already
exist. She will discuss with local leaders, local NGOs, and the local Committee the importance of
growth promotion and will seek their assistance in recruiting local volunteers (most probably
married women). The DDHS will be responsible for providing training to volunteers. The PHM



- 31 -                                  Annex 5
Page 9 of 15
will also seek the agreement of local leaders concerning a location (or locations) for establishment
of a community nutrition center as a focus for growth promotion activities in her area. Growth
monitoring and nutrition counseling will be carried out at the community nutrition centers,
separately from MCH clinics, on a fixed day at a specified time each month. The volunteers will be
instrumental in ensuring that children are brought for weighing, and to the extent possible they will
carry out growth monitoring and counseling under the supervision of the PHM. They will also
make household visits to pregnant women and mothers with infants and young children.
Communications Strategy
34.        The communications strategy for the growth promotion program will include both
interpersonal communications and mass media campaigns. It will be coordinated by the Health
Education Bureau (HEB) of the Ministry of Health and to the extent possible will draw on nutrition
communications development already accomplished, particularly by UNICEF with the support of the
IDA-assisted Health & Family Planning project and by the nutrition component of the IDA-assisted
Poverty Alleviation project. Interpersonal communication by PHMs and volunteers to convey key
messages concerning pregnancy, breast feeding, weaning and micronutrients and associated nutrition
counseling drawing on the information supplied by growth monitoring will be the core of the growth
promotion effort. The communications strategy will encompass message development, pretesting,
development and testing of materials and media, and modifications of messages, materials and
media based on experience as the project progresses. It will be important that the key messages are
understood at all levels of the program. Mass media campaiRns will provide an essential
complement to the interpersonal communication efforts. The messages featured will also focus on
pregnancy, breast feeding, weaning and micronutrients. HEB will ensure that health staff are
informed about the media to be utilized and content of upcoming campaigns, so that they can be
used to reinforce and validate local interpersonal efforts. Coordination to ensure that the various
nutrition programs convey consistent messages is the responsibility of the national Nutrition Steering
Committee, which will request the Nutrition Working Group to convene workshops for the purpose
as needed.
Role of NGOs
35.        NGOs would be involved in the growth promotion program, directly and indirectly, in
the following ways:
(a)   Reorientation of the growth promotion program and associated in-service training of
health staff as well as training of community volunteers would draw to the extent
possible on the experience and materials of the NDTF in-depth nutrition component,
which is implemented by NGOs under contract to the Tmst Fund.
(b)  In those areas where community-based nutrition programs are already being
implemented, e.g. the areas covered by the NDTF nutrition component, the reoriented
MOH growth promotion program would coordinate and cooperate with ongoing
activities rather than trying to replace them or compete with them; thus, in such NDTF
areas the program is already being implemented by NGOs.



82 -Annex 5
Page 10 of 15
(c)  In other areas, the resources and experience of existing NGOs will be utilized to the
extent possible to identify community volunteers, and their cooperation would be
solicited in setting up community nutrition centers and community-based nutrition
education efforts.
Rapid Assessment of Growth Monitoring Activities
36.        Prior to undertaking in-service training for FHB staff, a rapid assessment of how
growth monitoring activities are currently carried out will be undertaken. The exercise will be
coordinated by one of the long-term consultants for the nutrition component, who will report on the
results of the exercise. The sample of sites to be visited will include areas where the In-Depth
program of the National Development Trust Fund (NDTF) is operating, where other nutrition
programs are ongoing, and where only the current FHB program is being carried out.
37.        The assessment will elicit through observation and discussion with health workers,
volunteers, mothers, etc. knowledge and practice in respect of:
(a)   General principles of growth monitoring. For example, are mothers and workers aware
that the growth chart allows for comparison of a child's growth with that of a reference
population; that as long as the child's weight gain is parallel to the reference line the
child is gaining weight at the appropriate rate and is not in need of immediate
intervention; that a growth curve that is flat or decreasing is a waming signal; that it is
also a diagnostic tool to identify the undemourished or those needing
nutritional/medical intervention.
(b)   Carrving out of growth monitoring. Is the weighing being done reliably and
accurately; what type of scale is being used; condition of the scale--is it zeroed
routinely and checked periodically against standard weights; are weighing
pants/trousers in good condition; is the child handled properly during the weighing; is
the child's age verified; is the weight read, recorded and plotted on the chart correctly;
is the information on the chart being interpreted correctly by the health worker, the
mother, and others involved and related to other health information; is the chart used to
primarily identify beneficiaries for thriposha: is the information appropriately used for
weaning advice; are weights for a given child being recording regularly. The
assessment should also try to ascertain what percentage of children in the area covered
are being weighted.
Development of a Nutrition Guide for Health Workers
38.        Also prior to the program of in-service training, a Nutrition Guide for training and
reference purposes will be developed. The Guide should be concise and limited to important
information and practical instruction. The Nutrition Working Group will appoint a nutrition
curricula working group to compile the Guide that will include content specialists from the MRI,
FHB, HEB and NIHS, and outside experts, e.g. a sociologist and a home science expert, who will
seek the collaboration with the College of Obstetricians and the College of Pediatricians. The
findings of the rapid assessment of growth monitoring would also be used in the preparation of this
document. After the text is reviewed and finalized, it will be translated into Sinhala and Tamil.



- 83-                                    Annex 5
Page 11 of 15
The Health Education Bureau will be consulted on design and printing. Initial requirements are
anticipated to be 2,500 copies in English, 15,000 in Sinhala and 3,500 in Tamil. Development and
production of the Guide should be completed in 3-4 months.
39.        The nutrition needs and problems of the following groups should be covered by the
Guide.
(a)   Adolescents and Young Women
The special concerns and requirements of non-pregnant adolescents and young women.
(b)   Pregnant and Lactating Women
General principles of health and nutrition during pregnancy, including energy
requirements, relevant to pregnancy and lactation. (The special concerns of non-
pregnant adolescents and young women should also need to be included.)
Issues relating to weight gain in pregnancy. Use of the weight gain chart and
relevance of regular weight measurement during pregnancy and its interpretation.
Dietary advice and instruction with specific reference to locally available nutritious
food. (Examples of nutritious diets during pregnancy will assist the health staff to
confidently advise mothers.)
Prevention and control of anemia in pregnanCv. A comprehensive strategy has already
been formulated at a National Consultation on the Prevention and Control of Anaemia
in Pregnancy. The sections on dietary modification, iron folate supplementation, and
screening for anemia in pregnancy, as well as guidelines for referral of problem cases,
should be included. The issues related to poor compliance with iron-folate supplements
should be highlighted and stress given to ways and means to deal with this problem.
(c)  Infants and Young Children
General principles of growth and development in infants, young children (1-3 years)
and preschool children (3-5 years).
Breast feeding: importance of early initiation of breast feeding, feeding of colostrum,
exclusive breast feeding through first 4-6 months; common problems and how to deal
with them.
Weaning: appropriate timing of weaning; appropriate weaning foods that can be
prepared inexpensively in the household; feeding requirements of infants and young
children; common infant feeding problems and how to deal with them.
Nutrition reguirements of different are groups: use of nutritious foods available locally;
recommended daily dietary schedules for different age groups, with quantities, etc.



- 84 -                                     Annex 
Page 12 of 1i
Principles of growth monitoring including average weight gain at different ages; uses
and limitations of growth charts.
Development of Curricula for In-Service Training
40.         As an extension of the development of the Nutrition Guide, the nutrition curricula
working group will oversee the development of curricula for the in-service training of health staff.
Curricula would need to be developed for the following categories of staff to be trained.
(a)   Public health (MCH) staff viz. PHNs, SPHIMs, PHMs. The Health Education Officers
(HEOs) would also be included in this category. Duration of training: four days. This
is the crucial category of health worker that would really take growth promotion
activities into the community.
(b)   Public Health Inspeectors (PHIs). As a member of the public health team, this category
will be given an orientation with regard to growth promotion activities that are
proposed and their role in supporting such efforts. Duration of training: one day.
(c)   Nursing/midwifery staff attached to matemity and pediatric wards of hospitals. The
training would concentrate on particularly relevant areas such as maternal nutrition,
exclusive breast feeding, principles of infant and young child nutrition, and appropriate
weaning practices, which would help to enlist the support of hospital staff for growth
promotion activities. Duration of training: one day.
(d)   Estate health staff, including medical assistants (RMPs, AMPs, EMAs) and midwives.
The curricula for training would be similar to that for MCH staff.
41.        In addition to technical curricula, curricula for training in interpersonal communication,
to be carried out primarily by staff of the Health Education Bureau, will be developed. As a part of
this task, the training methods, materials and experience already being used by the NDTF nutrition
component and other nutrition programs will be reviewed and utilized to the extent possible.
Training of Trainers (TOT)
42.         Once curricula are finalized, training of trainers (TOT) will be undertaken. The first
three categories above will be trained by district training teams comprising five selected trainers
from each district, which will be trained centrally for six days. TOT will be undertaken in three
phases, spread out over the first three years of the project. For estate health staff, core trainers will
be selected and trained from within the estates. On the last day of the training course, the
respective Deputy Provincial Directors would be invited as resource persons to assist in the planning
process for implementation of training in their respective regions. Duration of TOT: six days.
Numbers and phasing are indicated in the following table.



- 85 -
Annex 5
Page 13 of 15
Trainers
No. of Central
No. of Trainer      No. to be      Level Training
Project Year    No. of Districts      Teams             Trained          Programs
1                4                 4                 20                1
2                12                12                60                3
3                8                 8                 40                2
43.        A total of 110 core-trainers will be trained in the seven estate regions, namely: Galle
20, Ratnapura 14, Badulla 16, Kegalle 16, Kandy 12, Hatton 12 and Nuwara Eliya 20. Ratnapura
14, Badulla 16, Kegalle 16, Kandy 12, Hatton 12 and Nuwara Eliya 20. The total number of health
staff involved in the training would be approximately 630. Duration of training four days.
In-Service Training of Staff
a.      Public health field staff (MCH staff and PHIs). Number to be trained is based on the
assumption that each Divisional Directorate of Health Services (DDHS) area has on
average 20 FHB staff (PHNs, SPHMs and PHMs) and eight PHI's; 254 DDHS areas
are assumed. Duration of training: four days for FHB staff and one day for PHIs.
Numbers to be trained and phasing are indicated in the following table.
Public Health Field Staff
Project    No. of        DDHS         MCH
Year       Districts     Areas       Staff       PHI's     MCH Staff       PHI's*
1            4            45         900          360        45            15
2            12          125        2,500        1,000       125           42
3            8            85        1,700         680        85            28
* PMI training of one day's duration will follow immediately after MCH staff training. PHls
from three DDHS areas will be trained together at one central location.
b.     Institutional staff. Ten institutional training programs will be undertaken per district, in
selected institutions. Fifteen nurses and midwives attached to obstetric and pediatric
wards will participate in each training program. This training will be undertaken by
the respective DDHSs, supported by the Regional MO (MCH) and other resource
persons as appropriate, up to a maximum of four persons. Duration of training: one
day. Numbers to be trained and phasing are indicated in the following table.



- 86 -                                    Annex 5
Page 14 of 15
Institutional Staff
No. of Institutional   No. of Staff to be
Project Year         No. of Districts      Training Program           Trained
2                     4                      40                    600
3                     12                     120                  1,800
4                     8                      80                   1,200
c.      Estate health staff. Training of estate health staff comprising medical assistants
(Registered and Assistant Medical Practitioners and Estate Medical Assistants), Junior
Medical Assistants, and midwives will be undertaken. The seven estate sector regions
will have teams of core trainers to undertake the training of other staff. A category of
community mobilizer on the estates, called the plantation family welfare supervisor
(PFWS), as well as creche attendants will also be trained for two days using a modified
curriculum. The numbers to be trained will be approximately 380 PFWSs and 1,510
creche attendants. The training of estate staff would be coordinated by the Health and
Women's Division of the Plantation Housing and Social Welfare Trust, which is the
central organization involved in health and welfare activities on estates.
Monitoring
44.        One of the initial activities to be undertaken will be finalization of a monitoring
scheme for the growth promotion program, so that it can be incorporated into the in-service training
of health workers. A routine monthly reporting system for growth monitoring that gives the
percentage of underweight children at a given point in time and the percentage whose growth is
faltering, as well as infonnation on household visiting and other growth promotion activities
undertaken, needs to be developed.
45.        While the overall impact of the component will be evaluated through national surveys
of nutritional status, a special effort will be made to monitor the ongoing progress and impact of the
growth promotion program. However, reporting of growth monitoring is open to the objection that
it is always incomplete, that is, it is not certain that those children weighed one month are the same
as those weighed the previous month, or even that those linked over two months are again picked up
the following month. This will be dealt with through the designation of at least one division in each
province as a sentinel division. Several of the sentinel divisions should be NDTF divisions. It will
be necessary, first, to carry out baseline surveys in selected divisions. Special efforts will then be
made in the sentinel divisions to achieve high reporting rates. The functioning of the sentinel
monitoring scheme will be carefully observed in the first phase of implementation and adjustments
made as experience indicates. Baseline surveys will also be carried out in matched divisions, where
the program will not be introduced until the last phase, for control purposes.



- 87 -                                      Annex 5
Page 15 of 15
Basic (Pre-Service) Training
46.         Basic training for public health staff is undertaken at the National Institute of Health
Sciences (NIHS) Kalutara and at 9 other Public Health Training Centers. The NIHS takes the lead
role in the preparation of curricula for basic training of public health staff and will be closely
associated with the development of curricula for in-service training under the nutrition component of
the project. Therefore, the content developed for in-service training will also be incorporated into the
basic (pre-service) training curricula for all categories of public health staff. The project will support
a meeting of public health trainers from the training institutes to effect the necessary changes.
47.         Of the 9 Public Health Training Centers, 4 (at Galle, Kadugannawa, Kurunegala and
Tellipalai) have been upgraded to Regional Training Centers (RTCs) and will in addition take on the
training of other categories of paramedical workers, for which adequate support has been provided
under ADB project assistance. The other 5 training centers (at Panadura, Homagama, Moratuwa,
Werallagama and Batticaloa) are in urgent need of support for IEC and office equipment, which will
be provided under the project. Provision will also be made to upgrade the library facilities at these
training institutions.
Operational Research
48.         Operational research will be the responsibility of the Nutrition Division of the Medical
Research Institute (MRI) of the Ministry of Health. The Nutrition Division will develop a list of
research proposals which will be reviewed by the Nutrition Working Group. Additionally, the
Nutrition Division will establish a screening and technical review process and will invite proposals
from outside the Ministry of Health. Proposals could be submitted by individuals, academic or other
research organizations, NGOs, etc.
49.         A number of proposals for operational research have already been identified, including
the following.
On estates, most of the growth monitoring activities are conducted in creches. It is
proposed that a pilot program be undertaken involving 10-20 estate creches, where
intensive follow-up with parents of children whose growth is faltering would be
undertaken by creche and plantation health staff.
In Kurunegala district, an experimental scheme has been introduced to use measurement
of their height and weight by students as a method of helping to sensitive them to
nutritional issues affecting their growth and development. It is proposed that this scheme
be evaluated and, if warranted, expanded to areas.
It is proposed to evaluate the use of school health cards to improve nutritional status of
students.



- 88 -                                    Annex 6
Page 1 of 6
SRILANKA
HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
Health Policy Component: Proposed Link Program Between the
Health Economics Study Program. University of Colombo and the Ministry of Health
Introduction
1.         Health policy development, through research into issues central to the provision and
financing of health care services and the sensitizing of decision makers, has become an urgent
necessity with the tightening of resource constraints that require prioritization and the introduction of
altemative strategies.
2.         Health economics has grown in stature as a subject of policy importance and relevance.
It is an essential tool in the management of limited health care resources to satisfy social objectives,
particularly with regard to the provision of adequate health care for the needy and disadvantaged. A
knowledge of health economics is also extremely valuable to sensitize health sector decision makers, at
both the micro and macro levels, on the complex issues that arise in decision making with regard to
efficiency, equity and sustainability in the face of necessary trade-offs and externalities. Further, it
can have considerable power to create awareness among officials in other ministries, members of NGO
bodies and the general public regarding health issues, altemative funding sources and service provision
facilities, and their role in contributing to the development of health care services in the country.
3.         The proposed link between the Health Economics Study Program (HESP) and the
Ministry of Health can play an important role in such a context by facilitating research and providing
training programs that inform and educate a range of personnel, from parliamentarians and policy
makers through medical administrators and medical students to grassroot level health workers.
4.         HESP, which has been chosen as the link organization, is headed by a Health Economist
trained at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine. He will be supported by other staff
members who are currently actively engaged in research and training activities on health related
economic issues. The members of HESP are:
a. Dr. Nimal Attanayake (Ph.D. London)   Sr. Lecturer in Economics/Heal of HESP
b. Dr. Harsha Aturupane (Ph.D. Cambridge)  Sr. Lecturer in Economics
c. Dr. Amala de Silva (D.Phil. Sussex)   Sr. Lecturer in Economics
d. Mr. Sarath Vidanagama (M.Sc. Stirling)   Sr. Lecturer in Eco., Head, Dept. of Eco.
5.         Health Economics is already being taught as part of the B.A. Economics Honors Degree
at the Department of Economics, University of Colombo. Members of HESP are conducting the
Health Economics course in the M.Sc. program in Health Administration. A workshop on Matemal
and Child Health Care, for senior officials of the health and finance ministries, was organized under
the auspices of UNICEF and the Ministry of Health in February 1995. A session on economic
evaluation was also conducted in a workshop on Health and Financing Issues conducted under the
IDA/World Bank sector project.



- 89 -                                   Annex 6
Page 2 of 6
6.         Research on health sector issues have been conducted primarily by Dr. Attanayake,
starting with a study of health sector resource flows in Gampaha district conducted for the Ministry of
Health with WHO funding in 1987, followed by one of the earliest HSR studies on resource utilization
at medical institutions in the same district and later policy related research funded by WHO/TDR.
Other areas of current research by members of HESP include health sector financing, malaria. PHC,
hospital autonomy, public-private mix, AIDS and addiction.
7.         Dr. Attanayake has been a long-standing member of the HSR committee. Members of
the Study Program have attended HSR seminars, as well as other recent seminars on issues such as
malaria, public-private mix, health sector financing, AIDS and medical ethics. Members of HESP
have also attended inter-country consultative meetings on behalf of the Ministry of Health. Such
activities have fostered a close link between the members of HESP and the Ministry of Health. These
links are likely to prove helpful in future collaboration.
Objectives of the Program
8.         The Program envisages the achievement of the following objectives.
(a)   Creating an appreciation for Health Economics, and awareness of financing issues among
senior policy and decision makers;
(b)   Enhancing the skills for Health Economics, particularly cost and financial analysis,
among operating level managers;
(c)   Sensitizing service providers to cost and financing issues;
(d)   Developing institutional capacity in the field of Health Economics;
(e)   Carrying out research programs in the area of health policy development on issues jointly
agreed between the Ministry of Health and HESP.
9.         In order to achieve these objectives the following strategy will be pursued:
(a)   The Health Economics Study Program and the Ministry of Health will enter into a long-
term agreement in order to establish an efficient and firm foundation for their
collaboration.
(b)   The capacity of the HESP will be developed through the provision of fellowships and
training opportunities.
(c)   A close organizational relationship will be maintained through interactions between the
Deputy Director General (Planning) in the Ministry of Health and the Head of HESP.
10.        The plans with regard to the programn will be made by two representatives of the
Ministry of Health and HESP. A meeting of these representatives will be held at least once every
quarter. Three policy advisors will be appointed to advice on this program. A three-week review of
the program will be conducted by a local consultant at the end of each year.



90-                                     Annex 6
Page 3 of 6
l.         Institutional capacity building will involve the provision of one two-year M.Sc./M.Phil
fellowship or two one-year M.Sc. fellowships. Four short-term fellowships are also envisaged.
Equipment, hardware, software and supplies will be provided for the maintenance of this link program.
Envisared Activities
Training and Dissemination
-          Training programs to be conducted for provincial, district and divisional health staff with
the objective of providing planning, management and evaluation;
-          Workshops to be conducted for groups such as medical consultants, matrons, politicians
and hospital development committee members with the objective of sensitizing them to
issues related to provision of health services;
-          Other training and workshops as appropriate.
12.        In addition to conducting such training programs for the benefit of the participants, the
material prepared and the resource persons trained will be of great benefit in the future. Studies will
be undertaken with a view to creating course material and case studies to be used in these
dissemination and training programs. The findings of such studies will be disseminated through
workshops and briefing of Ministry of Health officials.
Curriculum Preparation
A curriculum will be prepared in conjunction with the Department of Community
Medicine, to be used in undergraduate teaching at the Medical Faculty of the University
of Colombo.
Research
Research will be undertaken in the following areas in the first two years of this program.
First Year - Research will involve evaluating policy options for strengthening the
financial capability of the tertiary sector - this will involve in-depth analyses of such
schemes as paybeds, autonomous hospitals with subsidies, user fees for specific services,
cooperative systems within hospitals and other options.
Research programs for the subsequent years will be developed in collaboration with the
Ministry of Health, taking into account the changing health sector environment and the
needs of the Ministry. Postgraduate students and ministry officials could be involved in
these research activities on the request of the Ministry of Health. Tentatively, for the
second year, a research study is planned on the area of public-private mix in health
services.



- 91 -                                    Annex 6
Page 4 of 6
Research findings will be disseminated through reports prepared for the Ministry of
Health and seminars conducted for policy makers since the research issues chosen reflect
important current policy concerns.
An annual workshop will also be organized to disseminate research findings to an
audience of important policy and decision makers.
Other Support
HESP will undertake to build and maintain databases in costs and health sector behavior
that can support policy-related decision making.
A newsletter will be prepared and circulated (bi-annually in the first year of the program
and quarterly thereafter) among health sector policy makers and administrators, and
others involved in decision making on the financing and provision of health care services
at a central and provincial level. The newsletter will include reports on the ongoing
activities of the link program, including summarized reports of research findings as well
as news of activities organized by the Ministry of Health and other organizations in the
field of Health Economics.
HESP will also provide advisory support to the Ministry of Health in the form of an
average of seven-person days per month on an agreed time schedule.



- 92 -
Annex 6
Page 5 of 6
Policy-Related Studies and Initiatives*
Topic                                        Status
1. Improved Quality and Efficiency
of the Health Services
Efficient utilization of health facilities (by-  To be developed in first year of project.
passing problem)
Drug costs and availability                  Study completed. MOH wishes to continue
with a study of drug leakages and improved
control systems.
Consequences of decentralization of the health    WHO-supported multi-country study on
services.                                    decentralization is in progress.
Relocation of outpatient operations out of major  To be developed as follow-up to by-passing
tertiary care hospitals to reduce over-crowding.   study.
Differential criteria for direct admission to  To be developed as follow-up to by-passing
facilities to encourage systematic use of referral  study.
system.
2. Generation of Additional Resources
for Tertiary Care
Increase in the number of paybeds to enhance    To be carried out in first year of project.
financial resource availability at facilities.
Detailed study of the resource generation    Several studies in progress: Autonomy and
experience of the Sri Jayawardenapura Hospital   Management Structure, by Colombo University
in order to assess the desirability and feasibility   Economics Department; Revenue Generation
of expanding resource generation in the tertiary   and Cost Control, by consultants appointed by
sector.                                     the hospital; cost recovery as a part of an
Assessment of Resource Mobilization in the
Health Sector of Sri Lanka, carried out in late
1995 by the Harvard School of Public Health.
Policy options for generating additional     Various policy options--paybeds, revenue
resources for tertiary care.                 generation, cooperative hospitals, autonomous
hospitals--to be examined during the first
project year.



- 93 -
Annex 6
Page 6 of 6
Topic                                      Status
3. Appropriate Public-Private
Mix in the Health Sector
Leasing of sophisticated medical equipment  Feasibility study to be completed in first project
from private sector for public medical     year.
institutions.
Leasing of under-utilized space in public  To be developed.
facilities to private doctors for outpatient
services.
Support for development of private sector in-    To be developed.
patient facilities in rural areas.
4. NCD Morbidity & Disability
Assessment of NCD prevalence.              NCD National Risk Factor Prevalence Survey
to be carried out starting in first project year.
Development of capacity for burden of disease   Supplementary survey and analysis to be
(BOD) analysis                             undertaken as needed in second half of project.
5. Other Health Policy-related Areas
Status of Mental Health                    Study to be undertaken; policy
recommendations to be considered by MOH
Assessment of violence against women       Study to be undertaken; policy
recommendations to be considered by MOH.
Coordination between health and other sectors    Small project on improved information for
(e.g., agriculture, irrigation, industry,  managing environmental health involving the
environment, municipal government).        Ministries of Environment and Health and
Colombo Municipal Government, with possible
technical assistance from the Environmental
Health Project of USAID, to be carried out.
* Status as of project negotiations.



Teleph#loneJs  9: 194 -                   543I762       v           CA/IDA/HC:'/C
.. -; _Annex 6
K..,~20436 -:    .     Attachment
MF- va-,e Secrctary   9  our  . J P     1 of 83
tr)(..->.  Once  4 z  3 7, 4 3 S 8 6 0, 4 2 1I 7 S 
2 ! 4 0 9 CE    ..      449823
Tele    J               Fax   J
t|@  ;5 '3be<:t (;89@z;ltfi,'~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~1    September  1996
MINS3TRY OF FINANCE AND PLANNING        The Secretariat, Colombo 1.
Attention: Ms. Barbara Herz
Mr. D. Joseph Wood,
Vice President,
South Asia Region,
The World Bank,
Washington DC 20433,
U.S.A.
Dear Mr. Vice President,
LETT-ER OF HEALTH DEVELOPMENT POLICY
I am writng to you in connection with the proposed Sri Lanka Health Services Project to inform
you officially about policy measures that the Govemment has recently taken, or is about to take,
to reach Sri Lanka's objectves for the furither development of the health sector.
As you aware, Sri Lanka has a long and worthy tradition of an effective health policy and system
which has resulted in the country now enjoying health indicators which are among the best in the
world for a country at our level of overall development. This is a remarkable achievement and one
of which the country is rightly proud. However, the Government is not complacent about the
situation and is actively pursumag a number of policies and strategies on a wide front which are
designed to improve the health status of the populaion even further, and to do it an efficient and
cost - effective manner using the strengths of both the public and prvate sectors to the fullest.
The Health Policy document prepared in 1992 is now being revised by the Health
Advisory   Committee appointed by  the Ministry.  In addition,  the Ministry  has
directed the Health Advisory Committee to look into the ten year perspective plan
prepared by the Management Development and planning Unit and to recommend



Annex 6
- 95 -                           Attachment
Page 2 of 8
priority areas for implementation. The National Advisory Committee will now look at both these documents
and in keeping with the new Government policy, i.e. Peoples Alliance's policy, they will re-submit a revised
Health Policy Statement for the present Government within the next three months and also a developmental
activity design. The preliminary indications from this body are that the policy stated and the plans submitted
are in keeping with the present policy of the Government, but needs a little refining and strengthening in the
areas for where the present Government has pledged special emphasis.
Key aspects of the health policy include emphasis on health promotion and prevention of both communicable
and non-communicable diseases; fostering healthy life styles; human resource development in both the public
and private sectors; improving service quality; and decentralisation. Important strategies to be followed within
this framework include priority for Improving equity through concentrating on underprivileged and under-served
groups; making better use of exisdng resources through improved efficiency and greater accountability;
strengthening community participation in services; managerial and associated information systems development;
and the promotion of the private sector in service delivery, especially the commercial sector, and NGO
involvement generally.
As is well known, Sri Lanka has largely passed through the epidemiological transition. The pattern of disease
which we now face is of a radically different nature to that faced only twenty or thirty years ago. While we will
continue to be on our guard against the traditional enemies of infectious and communicable diseases and while
we will continue to ensure that they are reduced to a low level, we are seeking to make the substantial
adjustment - through this new policy - towards more seriously addressing non-communicable diseases. This
adjustment will take time, but we recognise that these diseases now account for over half of our total disease
incidence and therefore merit significantly higher priority than they were previously given.
In this respect priority is now given to address the problem of non-communicable diseases. An Advisory
Committee under the Chairmanship of the Director General of Health Services with representations from
NGOO agencies has been set up and they are in the process of developing acdvides for the next five years. In
addition a Director to look after these activities will be appointed under the Deputy Director General of Health
Services(PHS) in 1996.
Some of the more traditional aspects of the sector with which the Government has been involved continue to
be high priority areas for Government intervention. A particular concern is malnutrition, and I note that this
project includes a separate package of assistance on this, which we enthusiastically welcome. This is a particular
and probably the most important aspect of the Government's concern to improve cross-sectoral collaboration -
2



Annex 6
- 96 -                           Attachment
Page 3 of 8
especially In the areas of nutrition, and water and sanitation- and in the Inter-relationships generally of the
environment and health sectors.
As you will appreciate from the foregoing, we are anxious to incorporate and promote change where that would
be beneficial. But we are equally anxious to protect the very substantial gains which we have made in this sector.
Thus, radical changes are likely to be neither desirable nor justified. A steady evoludon of policies and their
implementation are most likely to bear fruit. Moreover, Sri lanka is, I submit, probably in a unique position
among developing countries - there is probably no other country in the world which has an epidemiological
profile similar to ours with our modest level of income. Thus, we must also be aware of pre-packaged
"solutions" to our problems based on other country experiences which may be of limited relevance. We
welcome exchange of experience of course, and we are eager to learn from other successes and mistakes, but
standard regional or International prescriptions are unlikely to work In Sri Lanka. Thus, I would stress the need
for careful study and analysis In Sri Lanka before making policy and strategy change.
Turning to more specific matters, I am aware from discussions with visiting World Bank missions that the Bank
has special Interests In particular key aspects of health policy. Naturally, and appropriately, these include the
flnancial aspects but also spill over into other crucial areas. A brief word on financing - as you are probably
aware, Sri Lanka has a long history of free social services provided by the Government. This has served us well
to-date, but we realie that the dme Is now appropriate to review the position. It is a subject which has
substantial public and political interest, and we must therefore proceed with care to ensure that what is being
proposed Is sound, thoroughly researched and publicly acceptable.
The present Government policy of Public-Private mix will be acively pursued where the private medical sector
will be developed. New legiladon will be enacted to Improve the Private Medical Insttutions of this country.
A Director, Private Medical Sector Development, will also be appointed to look into these aspects. Further,
the possibility of Health Insurance development will also be looked Into during the coming years.
As regards resource generadon in tertiary care health facilides we are in an exploratory state, collecting
informadon in order to analyze feasible options. Two studies relevant to this issue planned to be undertaken
are,
a.     Assessment of the prospects of paying wards In government hospitas as complementary financing for
hospitals.
b.     Health Sector reform Initdative in Sri Lanka.
3



Annex 6
- 97 -                           Attachment
Page 4 of 8
The first study is already under way and the second one is still in the conceptual stage.
As the exchanges have developed over the past several years, flve important areas of policy interest of the
World Bank have evolved many stemming from the original 1995 Health Strategy and Financing Study.
Considering each of these areas in turn:
1.    Inuovnmg Quaity and Effkiency in Health Services
Many of the planned changes will contribute to improved quality; In particular through human resource
development, better organisation and management and acive community Involvement in health activities.
Government of Sri Lanka has explicitly declared that the government will improve health facilities in relativety
disadvantaged parts of the country. The resources and expertise will be made available to upgrade one district
hospital in each district every year. Each divisional hospital will be provided with basic investigative equipment
and an ambulance will be made available to each divisional hospital. These initiatives will enhance the efficiency,
effectiveness, accessibility and quality of health services.
Quality Improvement Is an Important theme running through the new policy document. Many of the planned
changes will contribute to Improved quality, especially human resource development, better organsation and
management, and greater community Involvement. But we also realise, of course, that everything has a cost and
that resources are very limited. We must therefore Improve service efficiency to ensure better value for the
resources which we already have. We will also examine new initiadves to ensure that they will not only be
effective in providing the planned technical improvement but also that this Is done at an acceptable cost. This
means that macro planning decisions will be based on objective service needs and that technology improvement
will be integrated Into services after examination of both need and cost effectiveness.
Specific areas which we will be taking up during the early part of the project period Include: decentralisation -
following the completion of the study of decentralisation, which is currently well In-hand, we will discuss the
study findings with the World Bank with a view to agreeing implementable steps to Improve the functioning
of the provincial and district managers. We accept that decentralisation has proceeded very rapidly and that
the real benefits especially In terms of exercise of delegated power, proper budgeting, and involvement with
the local community, have yet to be realised. To ensure effectiveness, the decentralisaton programme will also
be linked with a program of management training and development. More efficient use of health facilities - by-
passing of lower level facilities is a serious problem and one which leads to much inefficiency in the system. The
4



Annex 6
Attachment
-98 -                             Page 5 of 8
present experiments to institute a referral system linked to "back referral" will continue and be extended to two
other districts. Of more general applicability, we will investigate, and introduce where jusdfied, alternative
schemes for ensuring that the referral system functions and is enforced.
2.     Phanaceudcals - Although the financial allocadon for pharmaceutdcals has been increasing annually
from Rs.3 18 million In 1990 to Rs.962 million in 1994 it is about one US dollar per person annually. Sri
Lanka has developed clearly defined explicit and appropriate policies, strategies, legislative enactments and
administrative mechanisms to promote accountability in the efficient management and ratdonal use of
pharmaceutcals. However, it is important to monitor and evaluate the implementation of these strategies.
Particular focus will be on up-dating and enforcing the essential drug list, encouraging generic prescribing,
enfordng exisdng drug regulations, discouraging irrational drug promotdonal activities, strengthening human
resource development and minimising drug wastage.
The Peoples' Alliance Government has emphasised the need to identify 50 essendal drugs for widespread use
and wide availability in the state hospital sector. Further, any drug prescibed by a consultant at the Cancer
Hospital, Maharagama will be provided, free of charge by the State.
3.     Publc - Prtvate Mbi In die Heald Sector
The private health sector in Sri Lanka Is largely urban based, and curadve biased In outiook. There are over 800
general practitioners, 85 private hospitals with over 1800 beds and over 650 retail pharmacies and a few
diagnostic laboratories in Sri Lanka. It Is estimated that the private sector caters to nearly 50 per cent of the
patient load.
The Health Policy has declared that the private sector should be developed to complement and supplement the
public sector. For this organizadonal and regulatory procedures need to be idendfled and developed and
strengthened. The government is in the process of establishing a Joint Public/Private Sectors committee to plan
the essendals. Incendves for establishing private practice in less prestigious areas, encouraging health insurance,
encouraging the establishment of private training instdtutions and promodng the private operation of hospital
auxiliary services on contract are some measures to enhance public-private mix in health care.
5



Annex 6
Attachment
~ 99             ~             Page 6 of 8
There are three specific areas for focussed attendon.
*      Leasing spare public hospital space to private practitioners - a study i about to begin.
*      Lease of medical equipment from the private sector - a new area for which a feasibility study would be
essential; and
*      Supporting the development of private inpatient facilities in rural areas - this too needs a feasibility
study.
The Government will pursue studies In each of these subjects over the coming year and, as elsewhere, will
discuss the recommendations with the World Bank and Implement agreed steps.
Preven Mae
In Sri Lanka a number of areas need more attention. Some persisting health problems are:
I)     About 34% of children under five are malnourished.
1i)    About 65% of pregnant and lactating women have Iron deficiency anaemia.
ilt)    Food and Water borne bowel diseases are widely prevalent.
Iv)    Malaria continues to be a major health problem. Over four million people In six ditricts are at the risk
of contracting malaria.
v)     Mental diorders have Increased from 176.8/100,000 population In 1970 to 247.4 in 1994.
Among the emerging health problems are:
I)     Addictions, accidents, suicides and poisoning are emerging serious health problems. Traumatic injuries
Is the second leading cause for hospitalization In 1994. Pesticide poisoning was the leading cause of
hospital death in five districts In 1994. There are over 40,000 heroin dependents. Drug trafficking
is a serious socio-economic problem.
6



Annex 6
- 100 -                       Attachment
Page 7 of 3
ii)    Ischaemic heart disease is the leading cause of hospital deaths in Sri Lanka and that in eight districts.
Cerebrovascular disease the second leading cause of death. There is increased occurrence of both these
conditions.
ili)    By the end of 1994 a cumulative total of 145 persons were proved to be positive for Human Immuno
deficiency Virus(HIV) and 38 AIDS patients have died.
iv)    Hepatitis B is an emerging health problem among the health workers. The incidence of Hepatitis B
among blood donors is one per 1000 donors.
All these problems are preventable. In October 1995 the burden of disease analysis for Sri Lanka was
completed. This was found to be extremely useful as a key input for further strategic planning in the health
sector and we are keen to instittionalize it within the ministry. An annual update will be undertaken in future.
Inter-Secaol Healt, Pocldes
Inter sectoral collaboration is one of the pillars of the Primary health Care approach. The health sector will work
closely with other sectors In contributing to health development. Multiple factors contribute to health and
disease. Education, housing, water and sanitation, social work, community development and agrkulture etc.
have a considerable impact on health.
The new health policy directive is that intersectoral collaboration should be strengthened specially in nutrition,
water and sanitation. A modest beginning will be made in Colombo with a small project designed to improve
the information system for environmental health projects. More ambitious activities will follow.
7



- 101 -                     Annex 6
Attachment
Page 8 of 8
Conclusion
Sri Lanka is committed to the three pMar approach of Primary Health Care (PHC): Participation,
Intersectoral Collaboration and Equitr. The Unit costs of PHC are low and it is a form of cost
effective health care. The equity dimension of PHC concerns those differences in health status and
access to health care which are vwthin human control.
Emphasis will be placed on the capacity of health promotion to meet the most pressing health needs
of our people. Political commitment at the highest evel has been expressed by signing the Charter
for Health Development for achieving the goal of Health for All by the year 2000. The present
govemment has indicated measures for health development in its policy statement. We acknowledge
the importance of intersectoral collaboration, peoples participation and the equity dimension of
health care provision. The solutions suggested are largely complementary.
Through pre-project consultation and consensus building among al concerned are vital to
conceptualize the strategy of the project plan as a unified and integrated policy instrument, so that
timely and appropriate actons can be taken to implement the necessary interventons for achieving
the desired objectives.
Kind regards,
Yours sincerely,
J4_4
B. C. Perera,
Secretary,
Ministry of Finance & Planning.
8



- 102 -
Annex 7
Page 1 of 6
SRI LANKA
HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
Management Information Systems Component
1.         The Ministry of Health has identified the timely availability of accurate health statistics
and other management information as essential to increasing the effectiveness of the health services in
Sri Lanka. At present, the limitations are not in the overall reporting systems but are related to the type
of information available and completeness of reporting. Given this, the project will, through training
and Information Technology (IT) inputs, provide support to the health system at central, provincial and
district levels. The goal will be to increase the resources and capacity for production and utilization
of planning and management information at all these levels, starting at the central (Ministry of Health)
level.
Ministry of Health
2.         Coordination & Information. Considerable information for management is available within
the Ministry. Typically, such information is collected for specific decisions but is not available for
general planning and management purposes. This limitation is due partly to the division of activities
and partly to a lack of resources and procedures for processing and sharing information. Increased use
of information by MOH requires computerized record keeping systems which will allow access to a
wide range of information and development of more advanced planning and decision-making systems.
3.         Planning and Management Information Unit. The project will support an expanded
centralized information office, the Planning & Management Information (P&MI) unit under the Director
P&MI in the Management Development and Planning (MDPU) of the Ministry of Health. The activities
of the P&MI unit will allow new systems to be developed as part of an integrated whole and ensure
that all information needs are met. The development of the P&MI unit allows for a "critical mass" of
staff talent to be developed early in the project period. New systems developed over the project period
will provide the foundation for an eventual evolution of the Ministry's MIS systems to the point where
all offices of the Ministry will have independent but linked information systems.
Provincial Level
4.         Development of the use of information systems at the provincial level is a major goal of
the Ministry. The project will provide assistance in the design and development of new systems and
will support the necessary hardware, software and training.
5.         The first goal is to improve provincial design and use of information systems. Since the
provinces do not have the necessary resources or expertise to develop new software programs, the
P&MI Unit, assisted by technical consultancy as needed, will support systems development and
implementation efforts as well as development of provincial software design capacity.
6.    The second goal is to improve centralized system design, which will be directed at activities that
are beyond the capacity of the provinces to design effectively, and where the information and systems
should be tightly linked to the national level.  The Human Resources Information System (HRIS) is



- 103 -
Annex 7
Page 2 of 6
one example of this type of system. Others include: drug supply and materials ordering (structured
systems), and financial management systems (complex accounting and accuracy requirements).
District Level
7.         The ADB Project is supporting information system pilot tests at the DDHS level. Under
the project, support will be provided to expand these pilot tests to the district level by designing
software in conjunction with the Family Health Bureau (FHB) to increase the collection and use of
information for management, planning and monitoring purposes. Computers and software will be
provided on a pilot basis in selected districts. Implementation of the software systems will be a joint
effort between the FHB and the P&MI Unit, with consultant assistance if needed.
Functions of the Planning & Management Information Unit
8.         The Ministry of Health recognizes the need for a single office responsible for the overall
oversight and implementation of information systems. The new P&MI Unit in the MDPU will be
responsible for all MIS policy and information-related decisions within the MOH. The P&MI Unit will
develop integrated plans for increasing the availability and use of information. Health statistics and
management information will be supported by the Unit through the development of new computer
systems and programs and through staff training. The Unit will provide support in integrating
information gathered by other offices, including the Medical Statistics, Family Health Bureau, and IRIS
units, for use in policy and management decisions. Additionally, the office will provide technical
support for the provinces in developing appropriate software and systems for increasing the use of
information for management decisions. An annual report on the progress of MIS in the Ministry will
be prepared.
9.         The responsibilities of the P&MI Unit are summarized in the following table.
Responsibilities of the P&MI Unit
Area               Responsibilities
Policy             *  Develop overall MOH policy guidelines for MIS
Development        *  Convene MIS workshops as necessary
Planning           *  Prepare annual MIS implementation plan
* Prepare annual MIS training plan
Implementation/O    *  Oversee implementation of technical systems
versight           *  Implement database activities
* Develop sharing of data with other ministries (i.e. Dept. of
Census)
* Prepare annual report on progress of MIS
Technical Support  *  Develop standards for MOH Systems
* Assist in purchasing, installation and support of hardware
* Prepare technical support and training materials for MOH
computer systems
* Provide technical support to provincial and district levels as
needed



- 104 -
Annex 7
Page 3 of 6
The first two years of the project will be targeted to technical development of the new MIS systems and
linked training programs. The latter three years of the project will focus on utilization of the systems
for purposes of improving planning and management at central, provincial and district levels.
Software Development
10.        The new software systems to be developed during the project are intended to strengthen
the overall management capacity of the Ministry, based on increasing the range and quality of
information available for management decisions. By focusing on a decision support system (DSS)
model, the P&MI systems will increase overall capacity to effectively utilize information at all levels
of the health system.
11.        A study to identify overall Ministry needs for information and information systems is
currently underway. This study is part of an overall MIS design effort being carried out as part of
project preparation. The following are areas that have been initially identified as priority information
systems for development.
System                 Type of Information
Facility information   Location
Type
Infrastructure
Current Status
Medical Supplies/      Logistics; Inventory
Equipment; Drugs
Personnel/Human        National HRIS based on complete, updated
Resources              personnel data from all medical facilities
covered
Demographic            Mapping/GIS of population data
Service Delivery       Complete, current service statistics from all
levels of health system
Financial Planning &   Central and provincial budget and
Prioritization         expenditure data
Technical Assistance
12.        Technical assistance will provided during the first phase of the project to support software
development efforts. Four main areas will be covered by the TA:
(a)   development of the overall MOH software systems design;
(b)   programming by the P&MI Unit to implement the required information systems within the
overall design;
(c)   design and programming of needed information systems at provincial level;
(d)   design and programming of needed information systems at district level.



- 105 -
Annex 7
Page 4 of 6
Core Systems Baseline Data
13.        Baseline data for a number of purposes will be developed in tandem with software
development. The first baseline to be developed will be for the health facilities database. The current
facilities database in the MDPU will be expanded and coding will be standardized. Data will be
collected concerning the facilities themselves, as well as associated land, equipment, furniture and
vehicles and the value of these will be assessed. Spatial data will be included to allow the application
of geographical information systems (GIS) analysis and monitoring techniques. Baseline data collection
will be a coordinated effort between the MOH (DDG Planning, Director P&MI, DDG Logistics, Project
Coordinator) and a representative of the Department of National Planning. Initial collection of data will
be the responsibility of the P&MI Unit. Data will be collected through written questionnaires and
follow-up on-site surveys. After the initial database is established, information for certain portion of
facilities will be verified and updated every year. The updating of information should utilize both annual
reports and operational data such as purchase/delivery data available from the Ministry.
Equipment
14.        Ministry of Health. A key responsibility of the P&MI Unit will be the development of
a linked system connecting MOH offices. This will be accomplished through a Local Area Network
(LAN). The LAN will allow the Ministry to easily access related information and each functional unit
to have direct access to information from other units. The system will also meet E-mail and
communication requirements. Within the MOH building this should not be difficult to implement,
although there are additional requirements over longer distances (i.e. to link the Ministry to the Family
Health Bureau building). Provision is made for the following equipment:
(a)   LAN Network System (Server)
(b)   System Software
(c)   Database/Statistical Software
(d)   Eight PC Computers (P&MI Unit, MDPU, Etc.)
(e)   Thirty-Four PC Computers (Support of Project Components)
(f)   Two Laser Printers
(g)   Two Dot Matrix Printers
(h)   Miscellaneous Equipment
15.        Provincial Level. Each province will have a complete installation capable of operating
the software and systems developed for health statistics and management information. At a minimum
the system should include:
(a)   PC Computer
(b)   Laser Printer
(c)   Dot Matrix Printer
(d)   System Software/Applications
(e)   Power Supplies, etc.
16.        District Level. Similarly, each district will have a complete computer installation capable
of operating the software and systems developed for health statistics and management information. At
a minimum the system should include:



- 106 -
Annex 7
Page 5 of 6
(a)   PC Computer(s)
(b)   Laser Printer
(c)   Dot Matrix Printer
(d)   System Software/Applications
(e)   Power Supplies, etc.
Training
15.        Provision is made for technical training of staff and for training of managers in the use of
information systems for management and decision-making purposes. Experience shows that such training
is needed to development skills in using available statistical information for more than compilation of health
indicators. The training to be provided is summarized in the table below.
Summary of MIS-Related Training
Title/Subject         Trainees         No.    Content                  Trainers
of
Courses                   _
Health Management    Director PMI       I      Study and review of     Intl Course in
Information           Unit                    health information       Health
==________________    ____________    =______  systems                M anagement
Health Management    Director PMI       I      Study and review of     Intl Study
Information           Unit                    health information       Tour
systems
Systems Analysis/     PMI Systems       1     Course on development   Intl Systems
Design                Analyst                 of systems designs for    Design Course
distributed applications;
Study of design tools for
software development
Programming Training  PMI               1     Course in programming,  Local private
Programmer              documentation, and       sector
development of software
in selected database
system
1     Course in setting up and
programming LAN and
operating system
software to run
distributed network
Statistical Analysis  PMI Systems       2     Course on use of         Local private
Analyst/Other           databases and statistical  sector
Analysts in             tools for data analysis
MOH



- 107 -                                     Annex 7
Page 6 of 6
Title/Subject        Trainees         No.    Content                  Trainers
of
Courses
Equipment Installation  PMI             1     Installation, maintenance  Local private
& Maintenance        Technical                & support of MOH        sector
Support                 LAN, and provincial
hardware systems
Data Entry & Word    PMI Staff         13    Basic computer skills    Course
Processing           MOH Staff               training in use of MOH    developed for
systems and software   MOH by local
private sector
Health Information   Provincial       2 per   Course on use of        Local private
Analysis              Statistics or    province  databases and statistical  sector
Planning       (total of tools for data mining and
Officer          18)    analysis
Basic Computer Skills  Provincial     2 per   Basic computer skills   PMI Staff
Staff         province  training
(total of
18)
Data Entry/Word      Provincial       4 per   Advance training in use   PMI Staff
Processing/Statistics    Staff      province  of software
(total of
36)
MOH Software         Provincial       2 per   Training in use of MOH-  PMI Staff
Training             Officers       province  developed systems
(total of
18)_
Health Information   District         1 per   Methods for collection,   PMI Staff
Analysis             Statistics      district  validation and analysis
Officers      (total of  of data
24)
Use of Information for  District      2 per   Course on use of        PMI Staff
Management           Health          district  information for
Officers      (total of  management decisions
48)_                             _ _ _ _ _ _



- 108 -
Annex 8
Page 1 of 4
SRI LANKA
HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
Burden of Disease Study
A. Background
Purpose
1.         Burden of disease (BOD) analysis is useful for the following purposes:
(a)  to assist in setting health service priorities, both preventive and curative;
(b)  to assist in setting health research priorities;
(c)  to assist in identifying disadvantaged groups and targeting health interventions;
(d)  to provide a comparable measure of output for interventions, program and sector
evaluation, and planning.
2.         These objectives are important in establishing a cost-effective basis for allocation of
resources among individuals and communities. In any country, there is always a competing demand
from different sectors for available resources. Generally, the demand for health care is more than
the available resources, particularly in developing countries where the disease burden is high and
resources are low. Even in developed countries, it is not possible to address all possible health
problems with the resources available. Hence, health planners and policy makers need to prioritize
the available resources to prevent, control and/or treat the diseases which cause maximum burden.
3.         It should be understood that the BOD results only have value if they are used in actual
health planning decision making. With the addition of costs to treat and prevent illnesses, the health
planning computer software is capable of optimizing resource allocation. Together, the BOD
measure and the cost optimization model can greatly improve the health planning process.
However, the health planning software with its BOD calculations and optimization models need to
be placed in the proper context in the health planning process. In order to do this, the health
planning process needs to be defined and individuals need to be trained in health planning and in the
use of these measures in the planning process.
4.         Another benefit of BOD analysis is the opportunity to study health pattems and trends
over time. If the analysis is set up as a continuing project with annual reviews and updates, it will
be ideally suited to give health planners valuable insights into disease pattems and trends which can
guide health resources to emerging problems in a timely manner. In addition, BOD can be used to
evaluate existing programs to ensure that they focus directly on the most significant health
problems.



- 109 -
Annex 8
Page 2 of 4
Methodologv
5.          The cost-effectiveness approach focuses on choosing between mutually exclusive
interventions. The basic assumption of cost-effectiveness analysis is that health outcomes can be
measured quantitatively. This allows comparison across the health sector, even if inter-sectoral
comparisons still remain unfeasible. One possible unit for assessing cost-effectiveness is the
Disability Adjusted Life Year (DALY), which measures both the burden of disease and the
effectiveness of health interventions as indicated by reductions in the disease burden. Specifically,
the DALY is the present value of the future years of disability-free life that are lost as the result of
premature deaths or cases of disability occurring in a particular year. Premature death is the actual
age at death minus the life expectancy at that age in a low-mortality population. The number of
years of healthy life lost are obtained by multiplying the expected duration of the condition (to
remission or death) by the severity weight that measures the severity of the disability with loss of
life. The death and disability losses are then combined, and an allowance is made for a discount
rate of 3% so that the future years of life are valued at progressively low levels. Allowances are
made for age weights so that the years of life lost at different ages are given different relative
values.
Limitations
6.          The disease burden is never the sole basis for health planning decisions, which must be
made in a social and political context. There are clear limitation to looking only at the disease
burden. Some diseases with a large burden are not amenable to prevention or treatment, and the
costs for these diseases may be very high. In addition, since the current disease burden reflects the
effects of existing programs, diseases may have a low burden because there is an effective control
program in place.
B. Sri Lanka Burden of Disease Study
Data
7.         A preliminary burden of disease study was carried out in Sri Lanka in October 1995.
During the first part of the study, approximately 100 disease categories were defined which reflected
disease pattems in Sri Lanka. Sources of information on disease incidence were identified in Sri
Lanka for each of these disease categories, and initial estimates of the incidence of disease in each
of these categories were made. Data was taken from the Sri Lanka 1994 Hospital Morbidity and
Mortality report recording hospital admissions and deaths for all public sector hospitals in Sri
Lanka. Since these did not include private hospitals, the Ministry of Health estimated that public
sector hospitals provide about two thirds of hospital care for most diseases, with the exception of
some long term care such as bums and mental health services. In addition, approximately 1/6 of the
hospital admissions were classified as "un-coded" or "unknown". These two factors were combined
and all of the hospital statistics were treated as incidences. The disability weight, YLD maximum,
and average age of onset were derived from medical literature references and reviewed and adjusted
after discussion with the local consultant to better reflect Sri Lankan disease pattems. The computer
model that was used automates the calculation of the DALY, organizes the data, presents the results,
and incorporates the ability to optimize resources and to model annual changes in health.
8.          The data that were collected had some limitations which when adjusted, changed the



- 110 -
Annex 8
Page 3 of 4
rank order of most of the diseases by a small amount but did not affect the major disease patterns
identified. Many of the incidence numbers were taken from public hospital discharge records.
However, at least a third of health care is provided in the private sector. The numbers have been
adjusted to reflect this by assuming that for most diseases the private hospital cases are
proportionally the same as the public. In addition, the quality of the diagnosis coding from hospitals
is highly variable. Incidences of diseases that are usually treated on an out-patient basis are
primarily derived from limited community surveys.
Results
9.          The results are not definitive, since they are based also entirely on hospital data.
Additionally, neither sex nor age was taken into consideration; these would have had an impact on
the DALYs had they been incorporated. Only the disease category factors, disability weight, length
of disease, and age of onset were compared with intemational norms. The incidence numbers were
verified and validated by local experts and additional sources of statistics.
10.        The three leading causes of disease in Sri Lanka according to DALYs are injuries,
ischemic heart disease, and asthma. Injuries and bums constitute 19.8% of the disease burden, but it
must be noted that rapid industrialization, an increase in motor vehicle use, and most significantly,
the civil war in the north and east of the country contributed heavily to this high presence. The
bulk of the disease burden in Sri Lanka is due to non-communicable diseases. Ischemic heart
disease, diseases of the pulmonary circulation, and other forms of heart disease, which are the
second and third causes of the disease burden, were the leading causes of hospital deaths in 1993.
The tropical cluster is an insignificant part of the disease burden (Fig. 1).
II.        It must be noted that because of their relatively lower durations and lower degrees of
disability that they cause, most of the communicable diseases do not cause the type of long-term
disability that is measured by DALYs . For example, relatively common diseases with high
incidences such as respiratory infections (highest incidence in the country, but duration usually only
3-4 days) and malaria, did not result in high DALYs, whereas hypertension did.
12.        Injuries were the second most common cause for hospitalization, but that high
incidence is primarily due to the current civil war in the north and eastern areas of the country as
well as rapid industrialization and an increase in motor vehicles in the country at large. The leading
causes of hospital deaths were cardiac and pulmonary diseases, followed closely by gastrointestinal
tract diseases and pesticide poisoning.
Next Steps
13.        Health Surveys. No further BOD analysis should be attempted until the data base can
be expanded beyond hospital sources; hospital data are not representative of the burden of disease in
the general population. For purposes of calculating the burden of disease, household health surveys
give very high quality information, since they capture all disease, even disease that is treated in a
non-traditional method, self-treated, or untreated. It is recommended that an annual health survey be
conducted to measure disease in a statistically significant manner in all areas of the country. Using
the proper sampling techniques, this need not be a huge undertaking.



- 111 -
Annex 8
Page 4 of 4
14.        Improved Statistics. The quality of the infonnation that is currently available in many
disease categories could be improved greatly. Efforts to improve the quality of these numbers
would include improved reporting, automation of reporting, and refinement of the type of
information that is reported. Additional sources of infomiation such as private practitioners, NGOs,
and universities should be included. There are many groups that collect quality information for their
own purposes, and such infomiation could provide valuable data for burden of disease calculation
purposes. The disability, age of onset, and length of disability factors that go into the DALY
calculation would benefit from evaluation by experts familiar with local disease pattems. There
should be an ongoing effort to review these factors with experts.
15.        Incorporation of Costs. The health planning software used for this study also has the
capability to use cost factors (costs to prevent and costs to treat diseases) in an optimization model
which provides valuable insights to health planners for the utilization of health resources. These
costs have not yet been determined for Sri Lanka, and this task will be one of the next steps in
future activities. Local experts need to review the health planning software, which contains costs
taken from the literature, and derive estimates that are better approximations for Sri Lanka.



- 112 -                                              Annex 9
Page 1 of 3
SRI LANKA
HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
Health Financing
Expenditure on Health 1981 to 1994
(Rs million)
PM
Incease
Year                                             1981-
1981      1983      1985      1987       1989       1991       1993      1994   1994
GovemT=t EApenditure                  931      1,990     1,996    3,711       5,038      5,438      7,160      8,273
on Health (Actual)
Recuret Expenditure                   832      1,277     1,731    2,393       3,447      4,379      6,407     6,863
Capital EVpenditue                    100        713       235     1,318      1,591      1,059      1,497      1,410
HeIalthExpenditWeas                    3.2       4.8       4.1       5.5        6.5        5.0        4.5       4.2
Peretage of Govwernmt
Expenditu
GNP                                49,542    110,664   144,921   173,395    222,399    330,032    447,335   515,272
Health Expenditure as                  1.9       1.8       1.4       2.1        2.3        1.6         1.6       1.6
Pfctage of GNP
PerCapitaExpenditure on              63.6      131.4    173.6    226.8        229.3      315.3      448.6    463.1
Hath (Rs)
Govmenint ExpMditure                 1,023     1,736     1,463    2,421       2,688      2192       2,269     Z413       135.9
on Health (Constant)
Recurrent Expenditure                 914      1,114     1,269     1,561      1,839      1,765      2,030     Z002        119.0
CEpital Expendiure                    110        622       172      860        849        427         474       411      274.3
Source: Ministry of Health, Annual Health Bulletin, 1994, Table 5.22; constant figures
calculated from previous figures; base year = 1982 (Central Bank of Sri Lanka)



- 113 -                                     Annex 9
Page 2 of 3
Summary of Health Expenditures by ProErams 1994
(Rs million)
Actual lend
Program                                            fi       of Healtb  i %   Povincial Health
Depaxrnent
1. General Administration and Staff Services                 910      25%
2. Patent Care Services                                     2,377     64%
3. Community Health Services                                  355     100/%             3,161
4. hIdigenous Medicine                                         59      2%
Total Recurrent                                             3,701                       3,161
1. General Administration and Staff Services                 334      25%
2. Patent Cam Services                                       754      56%
3. Comununity Health Services                                252      19%                 61
4. idigenous Medicine                                           9       1%
Total Capital                                               1,349                         61
1. General Admnisttion  and Staff Services                  1,244     25%
2. Patient Care Services                                    3,130     62%
3. Conmunity Health Services                                 607      12%               3,223
4. Indigenous Medicine                                         69       1%
Total Ezpenditure                                           5.050                      3.223
Proiected Trends in Health Recurrent Budeet
(Rs million)
Years
1995     1996     1997     1998      1999     2000     2001      2002
Health Recurrent Budget          4,943     5,190    5,450     5,722    6,008    6,309     6,624    6,955
ProjectRecurrentCosts                        26       66        89      103       115      120      112
Project Recurret Cost as a                 0.5%     1.2%      1.5%     1.70/o    1.8%     1.80/o    1.6%
Percentage of Health
Projected Recurrent Budget
NB: Health recurrent budget has been projected on the basis of the projected average real
growth of GDP over the project period (5%/0), taking 1995 as the base. Project recurrent costs
are taken as base costs at appraisal. All numbers in constant 1995 prices.



Annex 9
- 114 -                                                                        Page 3 of 3
Capital Expenditure on Health 1980 - 1994
(Rs million)
1980      19S1      1982      1983      1984      19S5      1986      19S7      1988       1989      1990      1991      1992      1993       1994
CapitalExpenditures-Actual                       98       100       172       713        III      235       319       131S      1394      1592      1366      1059      1909       1497      1410
Capital Expenditures -Constant                  130       110       172       622         83       172      223       860        815       849       608       427       700        474       411
(base year - 1982)
Capital Expenditures - Actual
20ao:3
2160
1400
Iao
400;
200
1980     1981      1982     1903    I294        191S      106      2907      1988     1989      1990     1992      2992      2993      2994
Capital Expenditures - Constant
700
400
23M
00
1990     2982      2982,    1903      2904      1985     2986      2907      2980     2909      1990     2992      1992       993     1994



Annex 10
- 115 -                                 Page I of 3
SRI LANKA
HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
Cost-Effectiveness of Project Components
Malaria
1.           The revised WHO malaria strategy introduced in 1993 was adopted to improve the
effectiveness of malaria control in Sri Lanka following resurgences in 1987 and again in 1991. The
revised strategy emphasizes selective residual spraying using several insecticides as opposed to the
old strategy of blanket spraying with one insecticide, malathion. Rotation of insecticides reduces the
chances of the development of resistance, and the new insecticides are also less toxic than
malathion. The revised strategy also uses mobile clinics for early detection and treatment in high-
prevalence districts and promotes the use of insecticide-impregnated beds by households.
2.            The number of malaria cases detected was about 400,000/year in 1991 and 1992,
declined in 1993 to 363,000, still basically under the old strategy, and declined further in 1994 to
274,000 under the revised strategy); from January through June 1995, there were only 106,000 cases
detected. While other factors such as weather and the natural malaria cycle may have been partly
responsible for the sharp decline in cases, the switch to the revised strategy is likely to have been an
important contributory factor.
3.            The introduction of the revised strategy has resulted in significant savings. The total
amount of insecticide required has been reduced by about 65%, although the cost of insecticides has
only declined by about 10% in real terms, because the new insecticides being used are more
expensive than malathion. The reduction in the amount of spraying under the new strategy has also
resulted in lower labor and other operational expenses for spraying. These savings have been
partially offset by the costs of additional mobile clinics in the high-prevalence districts. However,
in the aggregate, total program costs nationwide declined from Rs. 439 million in 1993 (under the
old strategy) to about Rs. 400 million in 1994, or a decline of about 17% in real terms. Moreover,
the mobile clinics will be phased out as the incidence of malaria falls below designated levels, thus
further reducing program costs.
4.            While precise calculations are difficult, the above discussion suggests that the
revised strategy for malaria control, which the project will support, is more cost--effective than the
old strategy--i.e., the cost per malaria case averted appears to be lower under the new strategy. This
is because, given the sharp decline in cases detected, the total number of malaria cases averted by
the program per year is likely to be higher under the revised strategy than it was under the old
strategy, while total annual program cost is lower.
5.            Additionally, the revised strategy imposes lower costs in terms of environmental
degradation, because of the large reduction in the amount of insecticide required. The
environmental benefits also reinforce the conclusion that the new strategy is more cost-effective.
STD/AIDS
6.            The Government's program for prevention of epidemic spread of HIV in Sri Lanka
was developed with technical inputs from WHO and other donors and draws on accumulated



Annex 10
- 116 -                                 Page 2 of 3
intemational experience to identify the most technically appropriate as well as cost-effective
strategies. It emphasizes:
(a)    diagnosis and treatment of other STDs, since STD patients are a major I-UV risk
group;
(b)    a syndromic approach to STD treatment, which entails recognition and treatment of
STDs at first contact with cases in primary health care facilities;
(c)    orientation of private sector physicians, who see a large proportion of STD cases;
and
(d)   information/education efforts directed at appropriate target groups to promote
avoidance of high-risk behaviors.
7.            Education/communication efforts to promote avoidance of high-risk behaviors, which
are essential to preventing epidemic spread of HIV, are generally agreed to be more cost-effective if
carried out by NGOs. This is likely to be particularly so in Sri Lanka, which has a strong NGO
sector. And, in fact, AIDS education/communication efforts in Sri Lanka have been, and will
continue to be, planned and implemented primarily by NGOs.
8.            Calculations of cost-effectiveness of the STD/AIDS control program (e.g., cost per
disability-adjusted life year saved) are difficult because current levels of STD and HIV incidence
and prevalence are not known with any precision; estimates vary widely. The balance of the
evidence suggests that HIV transmission in Sri Lanka has been fairly limited so far. However,
complacency must be avoided.
Nutrition
9.           At present, Government's efforts to reduce malnutrition among pregnant women and
young children center on the thriposha program, which has been under implementation for more
than 20 years. (Thriposha is the name of a supplementary food; for further details, see Annex 5).
Expenditure on the production and distribution of thriposha is currently about US$4.5 million a year.
All pregnant women may received thriposha children are considered eligible if their weight, as
recorded on growth cards, indicates that they are underweight for age.
10.          Several evaluations of the thriposha program have been conducted. Based on these
evaluations, it appears that there is no consistent evidence that the program has been successful in
improving the nutritional status of beneficiaries. Possible reasons are that the supplement may be
consumed by the entire family rather that the target beneficiary; that the mother may reduce the
child's regular food, resulting in no net increase in nutrient intake; and that mothers fail to obtain
the supplement with enough regularity to have an impact. Since there is apparently no significant
impact on nutritional status of the intended beneficiaries, it can be concluded that the thriposha
program has a very low degree of cost-effectiveness (i.e., a very high cost per case of malnutrition
averted).
11.          The nutrition component of the project will support a shift to a more cost-effective
strategy to reduce malnutrition among pregnant women and young children. Available data strongly
suggest that inappropriate breastfeeding, weaning and feeding practices are responsible for much of
the malnutrition. This, in turn, suggests that the focus of the existing nutrition program needs to



- 117 -                                 Annex 10
Page 3 of 3
shift from the present emphasis on the supply of thriposha to a gzrowth promotion program
promoting good nutritional practices for pregnant women and young children. Interpersonal efforts
should be supplemented by mass media campaigns, taking advantage of the high literacy level of the
Sri Lankan population.
12.          Growth promotion (Annex 5) can be defined as activities that promote either normal
growth of a normal child or catch-up growth of a malnourished child. Growth promotion will be
pursued through growth monitoring--the measurement and recording of a child's weight on the card
provided to mothers for that purpose--and nutrition education. Growth monitoring is already part of
the responsibilities of the public health midwives' (PHMs). However, the present emphasis is on
doing growth monitoring as a means to identifying thriposha beneficiaries. The new approach will
link growth monitoring to nutrition education instead.
13.          Because of the way growth promotion activities will be organized and implemented,
the marginal cost of growth promotion will be low. No incremental staff will be required. The
PHMs will lead the growth promotion efforts in their communities but will rely heavily on NGOs
and community volunteers to assist in these efforts. Thus, growth promotion will essentially
become a community-based program. The public health sector will contribute the necessary training
and IEC materials. Nutrition education training will be imparted to both PHMs and community
volunteers. Total incremental cost of the growth promotion program over five years, 1996-2000,
largely for training, IEC materials and activities, and surveys/studies, is estimated to be US$3.5
million. The subsequent annual incremental costs of the program would be about US$100,000 in
1995 prices.
14.          It is projected that, as a result of the growth promotion program, the number of
underweight infants and young children would decline from about 500,000 currently to about
250,000 by 2000. Based on this projection, and the cost figures given in the previous paragraph, the
cost per case of malnutrition averted under the growth promotion program in the period 1996-2000
would be about US$5 (the cost per case averted would be lower if a longer period is considered).
This unit cost estimate does not take into account any additional food costs borne by households,
however.
15.          As part of the proposed project, a special effort would be made to monitor the
ongoing progress and the impact of the growth promotion program. It is hoped that positive results
of the new approach will provide additional evidence to support phasing out of the thriposha
program. While, as already noted, previous evaluations of the thriposha program have shown poor
results, there is currently no consensus within the Government to curtail the program. In order to
help build such consensus, a condition of the project will be that the Government would conduct an
impact evaluation of the thriposha program in the first project year, discuss the findings with the
Association, and implement agreed modifications of the program's scope and objectives based on
the study's recommendations.






- 118 -AneII
Page I of 28
SRI LANKA
HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
Project Implementation Plan
I.    IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS                                             2
A. Project Implementation Responsibilities                            2
B. Supervision Plan                                                   3
II.    IMPLEMENTATION PLAN                                                    5
A. Implementation Schedules                                           5
B. Procurement Schedules                                              12
III.    DETAILED PROJECT COSTS                                               13
A. Detailed Tables by Component                                       13
B. Expenditure Accounts by Component                                  2 1
C. Expenditure Accounts by Components                                 23
D. Project Components by Year                                         24
IV.   MONITORING AND REPORTING
A. Monitoring Indicators                                              25
B. Progress Reporting                                                 28



Annex I I
- 119 -                                     Page 2 of 28
I.    IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
A.    Project Implementation Responsibilities
Overall guidance for the project will be provided by a Project Steering Committee. The Steering
Committee will be chaired by the Secretary Health, with the project coordinator as secretary. Members will
include project component managers and representatives of the Economic Resources Department, the National
Planning Department and the Department of Budget.
Overall project management and coordination will be the responsibility of a Project Management Unit
(PMU). The PMU will be headed by a full-time project coordinator, who will report to the Secretary of the
Ministry of Health. The Project Coordinator will be assisted by a computer analyst, a project accountant and
office staff. The PMU will be responsible for coordination of annual project reviews, preparation and submission
of semi-annual project reports, procurement for the project, and preparation of disbursement applications.
Project Implementation. With the exception of the Non-Communicable Diseases (NCD) component, the
project component will be implemented as part of ongoing programs by the unit of the Ministry of Health
concerned, as follows:
Component                         Ministry of Health Unit
Malaria                           Anti-Malaria Campaign (AMC)
STD/AIDS                           STD/AIDS Control Program
Nutrition                          Family Health Bureau
Non-Communicable Diseases          Research & Training Unit
Health Policy                     Management Development & Planning Unit (MDPU)
Management Information Systems    Planning & Management Information (PMI) Unit
Health Education                   Health Education Bureau (HEB)
The place of these units in the Ministry of Health is shown in Chart 1.



Annex I I
- 120 -                                      Page 3 of28
B.    Supervision Plan
1 .    IDA's Resident Mission in Sri Lanka will be responsible for monitoring of project progress.
2.     Formal project supervision will be based on regular six-monthly review missions. Before the start of
each mission, the PMU will circulate the six-monthly progress report, which will focus on outstanding issues in
addition to being a concise progress report. Missions will take up disbursement and procurement matters as
necessary.
3.    In about December of each year, there will be a joint annual review by IDA and GOSL as appropriate.
This annual review will, inter alia, review the semi-annual report, assess project progress, propose solutions to
identified problems, and review and agree on annual action plans for the coming project year.
4.    In about June of each year, there will be a technical review mission which will review the semi-annual
reports and focus on substantive technical issues of project implementation for each of the project components.
5.     The first review mission will include a project launch workshop. The workshop will ensure that all
officials concerned are fully familiar with the details of the project including first year implementation and plans
for monitoring and evaluation. IDA procurement, disbursement and other procedures will be reviewed with the
PMU.
6.     A mid-tern review, expected to be carried out prior to June 1999, will evaluate the project thoroughly,
assess to what extent objectives are being met, identify changes needed to improve effectiveness, and modify as
necessary the project design and detailed content.
7.     A supervision plan is given below.



- 121 -                                        Annex lI
Page 4 of 28
SUPERVISION PLAN
Approximate    Activity            Expected skills                 Staff inputs
Date                           required                        (Staff weeks)
(Month/Year)
2/97       Project Launch      Health & Nutrition              7.5
Mission            Health Education/IEC
Procurement/Disbursement
Implementation
6/97       Technical Review    Health & Nutrition              5
Health Education/lEC
Addt'l. Technical Specialist
12/97       First Annual Review  Health & Nutrition             7.5
Health Education/IEC
Training
Health Policy/Economics
6/98       Technical Review    As 12/96                        5
12/98       Mid-term Review    Health & Nutrition               7.5
Health Education/IEC
Training
Health Policy/Economics
STD/AIDS
6/99       Technical Review    As needed                       5
12/99       Third Annual       As needed                        5
Review
6/00       Technical Review    As needed                       5
12/00       Fourth Annual      As needed                        5
Review
6/01       Technical Review    As needed                       5
12/01       Final Review,      As needed                        7.5
Evaluation &
initiation of ICR
Total                                              62.5



36  |1997 i    1i998    1999     2000      200    1 2002  1 20
ID   Task Name                                         Start      Finish   Predecessors  6X1   21314111213141 12]31411 234112131411 1213141112
I   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                               1/11/97    7/31/02 _
2        Project Start                                   1/1/97     1/1/97                      1/1
3        PMU OPERATIONS                                   /11/97    11/11/00 2              .-         .
4            CONTRACT CONSULTANTS                        1/11/97    3125197                                                                                     tl
12           PREQUALIFICATION FOR NCB CW                 1/1/97    5120197
19           1 st YEAR BIDDING PROCESS                   1/11/97    11/1/00.
20                NCB: CIVIL WORKS                      5/21/97   10/14/97 12
21                    Prepare Bidding Documents         5/21/97    6/10/97                        L
22                    Bank Comments                     6/11/97    6/24/97 21
23                    Prepare Bids                      6/25/97    7/22/97 22
24                    Bid Evaluation                    7/23/97    8/19/97 23                 .
25                    Bank Approval                     8/20/97     9/2/97 24               .                                                                              3
26                    Negotiate contract                 9/3/97    9/30/97 25
27                    Sign Contract                     10/1/97   10/14/97 26                 .
28                NCB: LOCAL GOODS                        1/1/97   10121/97 129
29                    Prepare Bidding Documents           1/1/97    2/4/97
30                    Bank Comments                      2/5/97    2/18/97 29
31                    Prepare bid                       2/19/97     4/1/97 30
32                   Invite bids                         4/2/97    4/15/97 31.
33                    Bidder prepares bid               4/16197     5/6/97 32
34                    Open and evaluate bids             5/7/97    7/15/97 33
35                    Review by Bank                    7/16/97    7/29/97 34
Republic of Sri Lanka                Task                                    Summary                                Rolled Up Progress
Health Services Project              Progress                                Rolled Up Task
Date: 10/15/96
Milestone                              Rolled Up Milestone <,'
_   .                                                                                          .~~~~~~~~~~~ I



.6  1 1997  1 1998         g 9991 2000   1 2001    002  1 20
ID   TaskNare                                        Start     Finish   Predecessors  3 1    211411 12|3|411 12|3|411 1213|411 12131411 121314|1|2
36                   Award Contract                   7/30/97    8/12/97 35
37                   Deliver Local Goods              8/13/97   10/21/97 36
38              ICB: CIVIL WORKS                       1/1/97    7/11/97
39                   Prepare Bidding Documents         1/1/97    1/21/97
40                   Bank Comments                    1/22/97    2/4/97 39
41                   Prepare Bids                      2/5/97    3/4/97 40
42                   Bid Evaluation                    3/5/97    5/6/97 41
43                   Bank Approval                     5/7/97    5/20/97 42
44                   Negotiate contract               5/21/97    6/17/97 43
45                   Sign Contract                    6/18/97    7/1/97 44
48              ICB: IMPORTED MATERIAL & EQUIP         1/1/97    11/1/00                     U U                                                .
47                   Prepare Bidding Documents         1/1/97    3/11/97
48                   Bank Comments                    3/12/97    3/25/97 47
49                   Prepare bids                     3126/97    5/6/97 48
50                   Advertise bid                     5/7/97    5/27/97 49
51                  Invite bids                       5/28/97    6/17/97 50
52                   Bidders prepare bid [30-120d]    6/18/97    9/9/97 51
53                   Open and evaluate bid            9/10/97    12/2/97 52
54                   Review by Bank                   12/3/97    1/13/98 53
55                   Award contract                   1/14/98    1/27/98 54
56                   Deliver Goods                    1/28/98    6/16/98 55
57                   2 nd YEAR BIDDING PROCESS         1/1/97    11/1/00              _                         -
00-
Task                                 Summary                               Rolled Up Progress
Republic of Sri Lanka
Health Services Project             Progress                             Rolled Up Task
Date: 10/15/96                 Milestone        *                   Rolled Up Milestone



96  1 1997     1998     1999  1 2000  1 2001  [ 2002  1 20
ID   Task Name                                        Start     Finish   Predecessors  .1411 2 3 4L1f j34111213141112131411121314[1  213 41112
59                       NCB: LOCAL GOODS               1/11/97    1017/97
68                       ICB: IMPORTED MATERIAL         1/1/97    6116198
79                       Prepare semi-annual report     1/1/97    11/1/00 2                 .  I  *
s0
81       MALARIA                                        1/1/97    7/31/02 2                 _         I .    El
82           Prepare TOR for consultants                1/1/97    2/11/97
83           Invite consultants                        2/12/97     3/5/97 82
84           Develop work program                       3/5/97    5/28/97 83
85           National Training                         5/28/97    7/31102 84                       I    U                        I             _
89           Develop survey outline                     3/5/97    4/11/01 83              .       *
93           Deliver Goods                             1/27/98    1/27/98 37,55                          1
94           Implement program                         1/28/98   12/13/00 93              ..
95       STD/AIDS                                       1/1/97     4/4/02 2                   _                                           l.
96           REHABILITATION OF HEALTH FACILITIE         1/11/97    4/4/02                  .          I _               I                   _
97               Prepare 1 st draft of procurement plan  1/1/97    1/28/97                .
9S               Prepare TOR for consultants            1/1/97    2/11/97
99               Invite consultants                    2/12/97    2/12/97 98
100               Develop work program                 2/13/97    2/13/97 99
101               National Training                    2/14/97    8/31/01 100           .             I                 I .
108               Develop survey outline               2/13/97     2/7/02 99                       *  I _
109                   Organize surveys                 2/13/97    4/24/97
110                   Conduct1. round of surveys       4/24/97    11/5/98 109
Republic of Sri Lanka               Task                                   Summary                     O         Rolled Up Progress
Heafth Services Project             Progress                               Rolled Up Task
Date: 10/16/96
Milestone         *Rolled Up Milestone 



36  1 1997  1 1991  1 1999  1 2000  1 2001  1 2002  1 20
ID   Task Namne                                        Start     Finish   Predecessors  314111213 4[          41121314111213141121314111213 41112
111                   Conduct 2 round of surveys        3/25/99     2/7/02 11 OFS+20ew
112               Develop awareness program              1/1/97     4/4/02                     _          _  *
113                   Organize workprogram               1/1/97     1/1/97
114                   Organize distirbution of material  1/2/97    4/23/97 113
115                   Procure condoms UNFPA              1/2/97    8127/97 113
116                   Deliver condoms/materials         8/28/97    11/6/97 115
117                   Distribute Condoms/Material       11/6/97     4/4/02 116                                                          m
113               New STD/AIDS Facility                  7/2/97     8/3/99 4                        *
119                   Procurement for CW (ICB)           7/2/97     7/2/97                           7
120                   Mobilize for CW                    7/2/97     8/1/97
121                   Civil Works                        8/1/97     8/1/98 120
122                   Guarantee Period                   8/3/98     8/3/99 121                                                                                         S
123                   Medical Equipment                  7/2/97    9/14/98
124                       Prepare medical equipment sp   7/2/97    8/31/97
125                       Prepare procurement docume    6/17/98    8/16/98 124,68
126                       Deliver equipment             8/16/98    8/16/98 125,121 FS-24e
127                       Test equipment                8/17/98    9/14/98 126
128               Incinerators                           1/1/97   11/16/99
138
139       NUTRITION                                      1/1/97     4/4/01 2                           1
140           Establish curriculum workgroup             1/1/97    1/22/97
141           Develop workprogram                       1/22/97    2/18/97 140
Republic of Si Lanka                 Task                                   Summary                                Rolled Up Progress
Health Services Project              Progress                               Rolled Up Task
Date: 10/16/96
Milestone         *Rolled Up Milestone X



96  1 1997  1 1998    1999 I     2000  | 2001    2002  | 20
ID   Task Narne                                      Start     Finish   Predecessors  3411 12 341 213141  23141121314112131411 12131411 2
142          National Training                        2/19/97    6115I99
143              Develop training material            2/19/97    4/16/97 141
144              Organize training sessions           2/19/97    4/30/97 141
145              Select trainees                      4/30/97    5/21/97 144
146              Initiate training programs           5/21/97    6/17/97 145,141
147              Conduct 1. set of training sessions  6/18/97    6/16/98 146,143
148              Conduct 2. set of training sessions  6/17/98    6/15/99 147
149          Nutrition Surveys                         1/1/97    4/401                       _                                 _
1S0              Develop survey outline                1/1/97    2/26/97
151              Prepare survey material              2126/97    3/2@97 150
162              Organize surveys                     2/26/97    2/26/97 150
153              Conduct 1. round of surveys          3/2697    5/20/97 152,151
164              Analyse data                         5121/97    6/18/97 153
1SS              Conduct 2. round of surveys          2125/98    4/21/98 153FS+40ew,1
16              Analyse data                         4/22/98    5/20/98 155
157              Conduct and anylse addrl surveys     5/20/98    4/4/01 156             .                       
168
169      NON-COMMUNICABLE DISEASES                     1/1/97    8/24/00 2                             -
160          Establish NCD office                      1/1/97    1/1/97
161          Develop workprogram                       1/2/97    2/27/97 160
162          NCD Mass Media Campaign                  2/27/97    8/24/00
167          NCD Surveys                               1/1/97    5/20/98
Task                                 Summary                              Rolled Up Progress
Republic of Sri Lanka
Health Services Project            Progress                              Rolled Up Task
Date: 10/16/96
Milestone        *Rolled Up MilestoneX



96  | 1997  | 1998  |1999  | 2000  | 2001  | 2002  | 20
ID   Task Name                                        Start     Finish   Predecessors   14|121314|121314|12131411 121314|121314|121314|12
176 
176      HEALTH POLICY DEVELOPMENT                       11/1/97   4U24U01 2                                      -
177           Prepare training outline                   1/1/97    1/29/97
178          National Training                           1/1197    4/24U01                 I          I        I
187           Select participants for fellowship       3/12/97    423/97 177,180
188           Participate in foreign training          4/23/97    2/21/01 177,187                     I        I        I _
189       MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEM                  1/11/97    5/10/00 2
190           Prepare outline for MIS                    1/1/97    3/11/97
191           Select software development team          3/12/97    4/1/97 190
192           Develop software                           4/2/97   12/23/98 191
193          Test software                             12/23/98    9/1/99 192
194           Distribute and install software            9/1/99    5/10/00 193
196
196       HEALTH EDUCATION IEC                           1/11/97    3/27/01 2                         I        I
197           Hostel Construction                        1/1/97    3/27/01                            I        I
198               Architectural Brief                    1/1/97   10/13/97
206               Architectural Design                 10/14/97    1/24/99
207                   Prepare schematic drawings       10/14/97    1/12/98 205
208                   Review functionality              1/12/98    3/13/98 207
209                   Approve schematic drawings        3/13/98    4/12198 208
210                   Prepare prelim. drawings          4/13/98    7/12/98 209             .e
211                   Review drawings                   7/13/98    9/11/98 210
Republic of SH Lanka                Task                                   Summary                               Rolled Up Progress                                 0|
Health Services Project             Progress                               Rolled Up Task
Date: 10/16/96
Milestone                             Rolled Up Milestone



96    1997      1998  ]  1999  [ 2000      2001  1 2002       20
ID   Task Name                                        Start      Finish   Predecessors  314111213411121314112 |2314[12131411121314123412
212                   Approve prelim. drawings          9/11/98   10/11/98 211
213                   Prepare final draft for proc. of CW  10/12/98   10/23/98 212
214                   Contract drawings                10/26/98    1/24/99 213
215               Prepare maintenance manual            1/25/99    2/24/99 214
216               Mobilize for CW                       2/24/99    3/26/99 215
217               Civil Works                           3/26/99    3/25/00 216
218               Guarantee Period                      3127/00    3/27/01 217
219           Training Equipnment                       11/1/97     1/2/98
220               Prepare training equipment specification  1/11/97  3/2/97
221               Prepare procurement documents        10/22/97   12/21/97 220,37
222               Test equipment                       12/22/97     1r2/98 221
'00
Republic of Sri Lanka               Task                                   Summary                               Rolled Up Progress                                 OC
Health Services Project             Progress                               Rolled Up Task
Date: 10/16/96
Milestone         *Rolled Up Milestone 



Annex  11
- 129 -                                              Page 12 of 28
B.       Procurement Schedules
Procurement Packages by Types
Amount                                   Milestone Dates
~$million)
Procurement Packages     :      Base C0ot   MethodE      Tender    Awarding:    Delivery        Completion
WORKS
1. STD/HIV/AIDS Center          0.80        ICB         6/97         2/98         3/99          10/99
2. Hostel for Health Education  0.28        NCB         6/97         2/98         3/99           10/99
Bureau
3. Six Incinerators in urban
health care centers/          0.45      NCB/NS        1/98         6/98         12/98         12/01
Minor rehabilitation of       0.51        NCB          1/98     6/98-1/98     6/97-6/99        8/00
provincial STD clinics (9)
Upgrading of Base Hospital    0.53        NCB         1/98      6/98-6/99    12/97-12/99       6/00
STD Clinins (10)
Goods
1. Furniture                    0.13        NS          12/96        6/97         8/97           2/98
2. Computer Hard- and           0.64        ICB         6/97         6/97         6/97           7/01
Software
Small Hardware items          0.11        NS        4/97-4/01    4/97-4/01    4/97-4/01     4/97-4/01
/Supplies
3. Misc. Equipment and          0.92        ICB          1/97        6/97         9/97           10/01
Materials (2 packagesO
Several small Packages        0.30        NCB       12/96-6/01    7/96-1/01   7/96-1/01     7/96-1/01
Several small Packages        0.32        NS        12/96-6/01    7/96-1/01   7/96-1/01     7/96-1/01
3. Laboratory Equipment/
Consumables
First Package                 0.22        ICB         12/96       10/97         5/98           5/98
Second Package                0.23        ICB         9/97         6/98         10/98         11/98
4. Drugs & Medical Supplies
Drugs and Supplies
First Package             1.40        ICB        12/96        1/97          3/97          7/98
Second Package            1.40        ICB        12/97        1/98          3/98          7/99
Third Package             1.20        ICB         12/98        1/98         399           7/01
Several small Packages        0.10        NS        12/96-6/01   12/96-6/01    12/96-6/01   12/96-6/01
Condoms/Condom Machines       0.36       UNFPA    12/96-7/01   12/96-7/01    12/96-7/01     12/96-7/01
VEHICLES
1. Mobile Vans/ Double-         2.55        ICB         12/96       12/98         11/99         11/99
Cabs/Motor-cycles/
Microbuses
TA/ TRAINING
1. TA Management                0.24         CS         3/97         6/97         6/97           6/98
2. TA - Health Care             0.73         CS         4/97         8/97         12/97          7/01
3. Archit. Design /Supervision  0.40         CS         12/97        3/98      6/98-10/99        6/01
4 Training, Fellowship, Study   0.47         DC          1/97        3/97                        11/01
Tours
5. National Training             1.40        DC         6/97      6/97-6/00    1/97-12/99        11/01
Miscellaneous
RM & E                           1.97       Other       6/97         6/97         6/97           12/01
Health Education Programs        1.74       Other       6/97         6/97         6/97           12/01
/  ICB - Intemational Competitive Bidding  NBC -National Competitive Bidding  DC - Direct Contracting  NS - National
Shopping                    UNFPA - purchased from            CS - Consulting Services



- 130 -                                                         Annex  11
Page 13 of 28
II.   DETAILED PROJECT COSTS
A.    Detailed Tables by Component *
Sri Lanka
The Sri Lanka Health Services Project
Table 1. Malaria
Detailed Costs
Quantities                               Unit Coat -               Base Coat
1997     1998       1999     2000      2001      Total   Negotiation   197    1199    1999    2000   2001    Total
1. Investment Coats
A Equipment
Eqpt Set Mobile Clinics                    8         -         -         -         -          8      54,459    0.44       -       -       -       -     0.44
Microscopes Health Facilities             40        40        40        40        40        200     108,918    4 36    4.36    4.36    4.36    4.36    21.78
Mircoscopes Mobile Clinics                 8         -         -         -         -          8     108,918    0.87       -       -       -       -     0.87
FAX Machine                                1         -         -         -         -          1     408,441    0.41       -       -       -       -     0.41
Photocopbr                                 1         -         -         -         -          1     272,294    0.27       -       -       -       -     0.27
Subtotal Equipment                                                                                               6.34    4.36    4.36    4.36    4.36    23.77
B. Computens a
Epidem Dlv                                 1         -         2         -         -          3     381,211    0.38       -    0.76       -       -     1.14
Entom Dlv                                  1         -         1         -         -          2     272,294    0.27       -    0.27       -       -     0.54
Region Malaria Offices                     5         -         -         -         -          5     272,294    1.36       -       -       -       -     1.36
Subtotal Computers                                                                                               2.01       -    1.03       -       -     3.05
C. Vehilels
Land Cruisers                              1         -         -         -         -          1   3,274,480    3 27       -       -       -       -     3.27
Double Cabs                                8         -         -         -         -          8   1,364,367   10.91       -       -       -       -    10.91
Motorcycles                               90         -         -         -         -         90      76,405    6.88       -       -       -       -     6.88
Ambulances lb                             14          -        -         -         -         14   1,637,240   22.92       -       -       -       -    22.92
Subtotal Vehicles                                                                                               43.99       -       -       -       -    43.99
0. National Tralning
DDHSIMOH                                  12        12        12        12        12         60      54,860    0.66    0.66    0.66    0.66    0.66     3.29
PHI/HEO                                   12        12        12        12        12         60     109,720    1.32    1 32    1.32    1.32    1.32     6.58
Microscopists                             15        15        15        15        15         75      54,860    082    0.82    0.82    0.82    0.82      4.11
EntomAssts                                 4         4         4         4         4         20      41,145    0.16    0.16    0.16    0.16    016      0.82
PHM                                        2         2         2         2         2         10      27,430    0.05    0.05    0.05    0.05    0.05     0.27
Regional Officers                          1         1         1         1         1          5     109,720    0.11    0.11    0.11    0.11    0 11     0 55
Community                                 30        30        30        30        30        150      43,888    1.32    1.32    1.32    1.32    1.32     6.58
Subtotal National Training                                                                                       4.44    4.44    4.44    4.44    4.44    22 22
E. RM & E
Surveys                                    1         -         1                   1          3     437,438    0.44       -    0.44       -    0.44     1.31
F. ACTIVITIES
IEC                                                                                                           11.95    4.44    6.20    4.44    4.44    31.46
Total Investment Coats                                                                                            69.18   13.24   16.48   13.24   13 67   125 80
I1. Recurrent Costs
A. Vehicle 0& M
Vehicles                                   9         9         9         9         9         45     219,350    1.97    1.97    1.97    1.97    1.97     9.87
Ambulances                                14        14        14        14        14         70     219,350    3.07    3.07    3.07    3.07    3.07    15.35
Subtotal Vehicle 0 & M                                                                                           5.05    5.05    5.05    5.05    5.05    25.23
B. ObM
Pubi Health insp Allow.                                                                                        0.99    0.99    0.99    0.99    0.99     4.94
Entom Assts Allow.                                                                                             0.27    0.27    0.27    0 27    0.27     1.37
Mobl Clnc Fid Asst Allow.                                                                                      0.63    0.63    0.63    0.63    0.63     3.13
Entom Tm Fid Ast Allow.                                                                                        0.44    0.44    0.44    0.44    0.44     2.19
Insctde Tm Fid Asst Allow.                                                                                     1.10    1.10    1.10    1.10    1.10     5.48
Spray Mchne Op Allow.                                                                                          4.39    4.39    4.39    4.39    4.39    21.93
insecticde /c                                                                                                  2.23    2.23    2.23    2.23    2.23    11.13
Subtotal 0 a M                                                                                                  10.04   10.04   10.04   10.04   10.04    5018
Total Recurrent Coats                                                                                             15.08   15.08   15.08   15.08   15.08    75.40
Total                                                                                                              84 26   28.32   31.56   28.32   28.75   201.20
ia System price includes workstation, printer, software and furniture.
\b Procurement as indicated by review of transport requirements.
kc For bednet impregnation
* Base costs as of July 1996.



Annex I I
131 -                                                         Page 14 of 28
Srl Lardm
The Sr. Laria Hubth Ser4cs Projct
Table 2. STDtHIVIAJDS
Dtaled Costs
teStes                                  LUnt Cost -            Base Cost- NanStion
In?7      1998       10m      2960      201       Total    Negotiaton    1B97    10s8    190t   200    2001    TotWl
L hIvestment Cots
A. Civi works
Nr STDIAiDS Coirpl                                0.25        0.5     0.25         -         -          1   43,753.14    10.03    21.85   10.90       -       -   43.70
Inclin  tsrFacSls/a                                 3          2         -         -         -         5      540,209     1.84     1.09                             2.73
ProvSTDcltics Lpgrdng(9)                            5          4         -         -         -         9    2731,405    13.8t    10.93                        -    24.58
Bs HospitlSMTDCIrdesLUpgrthg(l0)                    2          5         3         -         -        10    2,022,235     5.24    13.11    7.87       -       -    26.22
Subtdal Ctvi works                                                                                                         31.47    48.91   18.79       -       -   97.24
B. Eedpmnt
Centual Leb                                          -                   1         1         -         2    8,713.400        -        -    8.71    8.71       -    17.43
Prvosicl COts (9)                                   5          4                                       9       474,890     2.37    1.90                             4.27
Bea  Hoepal Clincs(10)                              2          5         3         -         -        10       544,588     1.09    2.72    1.63       -             5.45
Med Research Inst                                                                                                         0.22     0.17    0.10    0.22    0.22     0.93
Colndom Vum*g Machins                              45         30         -         -         -        75        54,459     2.45    1.63                       -     4.08
Eumte forTrekLngi t                                                                                                       0.71     0.35    0.e8    0,35       -     2.10
Subtdas tErq ut                                                                                                             8.84     6.78   11.13    9.29    0.22    34.25
C. Coemputrs lb
Server                                              I          -         -         -         -          1     381,211     0.38        -       -       -       -     0.38
PC Vsorkdatln                                       4          -         -         -         -         4       272.294     1.09       -       -       -       -     1.09
Notebooks                                           3                                                  3       272,204    0.82        -       -       -       -     0.82
*ublt4t Computn r                                                                                                           2.29        -       -       -       -     2.29
D. Funitue
Ceintrs Lab                                          -          -        1         -         -         1    1,139,588        -        -    1.14       -       -     114
Prov*cialClincs                                     5          4         -         -         -         9      175,815     0.89     0.70       -       -       -     1.58
Bse Hospit CirVes                                   2          5         3         -         -        10       10.8884    0.22     0.54    0.33       -       -     1.09
Subtdte Funitn                                                                                                              1.10     1.25    1.47       -       -      0.81
E. VehEiles
Mlcrobuses /c                                       1           -        -                             1    2,401,285     2.40                                      2.40
Doubl Cabs/d                                        5          4         -         -         -         9    1,384,367     882      5.46       -       -       -    12.28
Motlroydls                                        150        I00         -         -         -       250       76,405    11.4t    7.84        -       -       -    19.10
Subtote! Vehkca                                                                                                            20.08    13.10               -       -    33.78
F. Nilei Trurhng
Odotation Progrnm Manages                           2          2         2         -         -          6       71.318    0.14     0.14    0.14                     0.43
TOTSTDPriwntilon&Cam                                 I         I         -         -         -         2       60,34      0.08     0.00       -       -       -     0.12
Nwsing Pawsoru                                      2          2         2         2         -         8        32,918    0.07     0.07    0.07    0.07       -     0.26
Ward S9ters                                         5          5         5         5         -        20       320.160     1.60     1.65    1.00    1.05      -     6.58
NurseMalevns                                        4          4         4         4         -         16       27.430    0.11     0.11    0.11    0.11       -     0.44
NGO staff (Couseling)                              10         10        20        20         -        o0        13.715    0.14     0.14    0.27    0.27       -     0.82
Youtlh Leedsr & School Counseloms                                                                                            -     0.82    0.82       -       -     1.65
NiGO Coeorator                                                                                                               -    0.27    0.27        -       -     0.55
subtad NatiotdTntelng                                                                                                       2.16     3.26    3.24    2.10       -    10.85
G, TA - N tiw
ArtiteSnl Design - STD Cnrsx Is                                                                                           0.61     0.61    0.25    0.16       -     1.76
Trng Coordoat  (Training Unt)                       1          1         1         1         1         5       329,180     0.33    0.33    0.33    0.33    0.33     1.65
Addsor rraibig Likt)                                 1         1         1         1         I          5      184,580     0.16    0.16    0.10    0.10    0.16     0.82
SubtdW TA- Natiuol                                                                                                          1.11     1.11    0.84    0.67    0.49     4.22
H. TA - hsmt llond
SdhtbnlSur.viheseSurvoynn                            1          I        -                              2    1,019,079     1.02     1.02      -       -       -     2.04
Pro"gnSupporlt                                      3          2         2         -         -         7    1,019,079     3.00     2.04    2.04               -     7.13
Subtod TA- ktsrnStlonal                                                                                                     4.08     3.00    2.04       -       -     9.17
L RU 5E
Saurys & Epidem. Studos /g                           I         I         I         I         1         5    1,093596       1.09     1.00    1.09    1.D9    1.09    5.47
Monitoring                                          I          I         I         I         1         5      320,079     0.33     0.33    0.33    0.33    0.33     1.84
Subt4oa RM  E                                                                                                                1.42    1.42    1.42    1.42    1.42     7.11
J. Actlls
IEC                                                  1         1         1         1         1         5    B2W,248        3.29    3.29    3.29    3.29    3.20    16.45
Tdl thnvtms tCosts                                                                                                           74.43    00.25   42.32   18.76    5.42   219.18
L Recuwret Coest
A. Saluins
SniealSmnics Oftlkr                                 2          2         2         2         2         10       92,105    0.18     0.18    0.18    0.18    0.18     0.92
NGO CordNltr                                        1          1         1         I         1          5       921t5     0.0      0.09    0.00    0.00    0.09     0.46
Progum Assistard (Rosaroh)                          2          2         2         2         2        10       197,496    0.39     0.39    0.39    0.39    0.39     1.97
Program Asistats (irragt Urt)                       2          2         2         2         2        10       197,49t    0.39     0.39    0.39    0.30    0.39     1.97
CounselingOlsker (T1re t WA)                        1          1         1         1         I         5       230.995    0.24     0.24    0.24    0.24    0.24     1.16
Oftice Staff (Trsllng ULt)                          2          2         2         2         2        10       105,331    0.21     0.21    0.21    0.21    0.21     1.05
subote  Siua                                                                                                                1.51     1.51    1.51    1.51    1.51     7.57
8. Vehicle 0 & M                                      5         10        100       10       It         45      219,350     1.10     2.19    2.19    2.19    2.19     9.87
C. OM
DutyTns& PitPDiem                                   1          1         1         1         1         5      43e,700     0.44     0.44    0.44    0.44    0.44     2.19
CentralSuppoes                                       I         I         1         I         1          5    2,193,499     2.19     2.19    2.19    2.19    2.19    10.97
Prnwiel Supples                                     5          9         9         9         9        41       548,375    2.74     4.94    4.94    4.94    4.94    22.48
BaseHopitalSupples                                  2          7        10        10        10        30      548,375     1.10     3.84    5.48    5.48    5.48    21.39
slodwlosthgeapples                                  1          1         I         1         1         5   10,967,495    10.97    10.97   10.97   10.97   10.97    54.84
O&M Costs (STDIAIDS complee)                         1         I         1         1         1         5       323,025    0.33     0.33    0.33    0.33    0.33     1.65
Subaots  A M                                                                                                               17.77    22.70   24.35   24.35   24.35   113.51
D. Drugt/Contraceptine.
Ietbles                                                                                                                10.90    21.61   21.81   21.81   21.81    96.14
Condoms                                                                                                                   273      273    2.73    2.73    2.73    13.63
Sub1dt Drugo/Contrcsptlves                                                                                                13.63    2453   24.53   24.53   24.53   111.77
Tota Racunit Costs                                                                                                           3401    5095   52.50   52.59   52.59   242.73
ntel                                                                                                                         108.44   13119   94.91   69.35   56.01   401.91
Ia Construction of hcistor facPifs atS be hnObh oars fetiles.
Ib Systm pilo icekides worlkstaton puttr, sofhwers end fiene.
Ic STD/AIDS Contra CStmbo
Id Prouclel STD cOics
'o 4% of nvsrll cost over 4 ypan (35,35,20 10 X)
I/ 2-week onwhncice
10 Inch.ing HtV, ST  and behovbnl orvsyo/sde



Annexj 11
- 132 -                                               Page 15of28
Sri Lanka
The Sri Lanke Heath Serwices Project
Table 3. Nution
Dddaled Costs
Quantities                            Unit Coa -          Sasm Cot - Negotiatlon
1997    1H       1900    2000     2001      Total   Negotiation   1997    1000    1909    2000    2001    Total
L Inve_bnent Costa
A. Equipment
PHTmgCnires                                         5         -        -        -        -        5      435,670    2.18       -       -       -       -     2.18
Dir Nuitortn                                         1                                             1     326,753    0.33       -       -       -       -     0.33
Weigl*i Scales                                                                                                      0.96    2.88    1.94       -       -     5.77
Subtotal Equipmrnt                                                                                                    3.46    2.88    1.94       -       -     8.28
B Computer la
PH Trairing Centers                                 5         -        -        -                 5      272,294    1.36       -       -       -       -     1.36
DirNutirton                                          I        -                                   1      381,211    0.38       -       -       -       -     0.38
Subtotal Computers                                                                                                    1.74       -       -       -       -     1.74
C. FuriUre Dir Nutrition                                                                                              0.08           -       -           -     0.08
D. Materala (iEC)
HEAidstorPHMs                                                                                                       0.69   11.46           -           -    12.15
E. Vehicles
Double Cab h                                        3         -                                   3    1,364,367    4.09       -               -             4.09
F. Natlonal Training
NutliltiOnel GLde                                                                                                   6.58               -       -       -     6.58
Curlictulm Dvnir                                                                                                    0.05       -       -       -       -     0.05
Oleration MOH                                                                                                       0.02       -       -       -       -     0.02
Orienton Prov/Dist                                                                                                  0.01    0.04       -       -       -     005
Orienttion DDHS                                                                                                     0.05    0,14    0.10                     030
Tranirng of Trainer                                                                                                 0.07    0.19    0.13       -       -     0.38
Training PHNS, PHM. HEO                                                                                             1.60    4.44    3.02       -       -     9.06
Trairing PHII                                                                                                       0.16    0.45    0.31       -       -     092
Trairiig Fadity Staff                                                                                                  -    0.30    0.88    0.58       -      1.76
Estte TOT                                                                                                           0.13    0.13    0.13       -       -     0.39
Estate Trairing Healh Staff                                                                                            -    0.57    0.36    0.22       -     1 15
Estate Training Other Staff                                                                                            -    0.27    0.23    0.13             0.64
Currc Rev Basic TraIning                                                                                               -    0.02       -       -       -     0.02
Subtotal National Training                                                                                            8.69    6.56    5.16    0.93       -    21.34
G. International Training
Dir Nutition                                                          1-                          1   3,527,194        -       -    3.53       -       -     3.53
H. TA-Natonallc                                       2        2        2        2        2        10      329,160    0.66    0.66    0.66    066    0.66      3.29
'. TA - Intemational
TechnicalConsulltncyforSaftlndustry                  1        -        -        -        -        1   1,019,079    1.02        -       -       -       -     1.02
IECConsUtncy/d                                       1        -        -                 -        1   1,286,110    1.29        -       -       -       -     1.29
IECConsuitncyle                                      1        1       1         -        -        3   1,019,079    1.02    1.02    1.02        -       -     3.06
Subtotal TA - InternatIonal                                                                                           3.32    1.02    1.02       -       -     5.36
J. RU & E
Moritorhin Modal Divs                                                                                               0.44    0.44       -       -       -     0.87
Nat Nuirtion Surveys                                                                                                2.19       -    2.19       -    2.19     6.56
IDD Surveys                                                                                                         2.19       -       -    2.19       -     4.37
Tech & Opeational Rsch                                                                                              5.47    5.47    5.47    6.56    6.56    29.53
Thilposha Impact Study                                                                                              1.64    109        -       -       -     2.73
Subtotal M &a E                                                                                                      11.92    7.00    7.66    8.75    8.75    44 07
K. ActivItles
IEC (Natonal end Comnintly)                                                                                        24.21    6.43    6.78    5.74    5.83    48.99
Total Investment Costa                                                                                                 58.87   36.00   26.74   16.08   15.23   152.92
L Recurrant Costa
A.VeNcleO&M                                           3        3        3        3        3        15      219.350    0.66    0.66    0.66    0.66    0.66     3.29
6. 0 & M                                                                                                              0.55    1.10    1.10    1.10    110      494
Total Recurrent Costa                                                                                                   121    1.75    1.75    1.75    1.75      8.23
Total                                                                                                                  60.07   37.75   28.49   17.84   16.99   161.15
bn System prlce InckJdes wrkstaton, printer, softwre nd tiwrrte.
b Dir Nuir: Dir MRI
bc 2 constants to support Dir Nutrbiion
d Initial 3-wvek consuency
be 2-week constuarlles



- 133 -                                                       Annex, I 
Page 16 of 28
Sri Lanka
The Sri Larnia Health Services Project
Table 4. Non-Communlcable Dtaes
Detailed Ctod
Quantities                           Unit Cost-            anse Cot - Negotiation
1nr7 1    S1       IlK     2000     2001     Tebl   NgoUtatlon   tnr    iNS    19K        2000    2001    Totur_
I. Invatment Costa
A. Equlpment
R & T Otfce                                                                                                     0.82       -       -        -       -    082
IL Computers /a
PC Woribttions                                   1        -        -                  -        1     381,211    0.38       -       -        -       -    038
C Materials (IEC)
NCD Support                                                                                                     0.11    0.16    0.16    0.16    0.16    076
D. Vehicle
Double Cab                                       1        -                                    1    1,364,367    1.36      -       -        -       -    136
E TA - National
Project Consultant                               1        1        1        1        1        5      384,020    0.38    0.38    0.38    0.38    0.38    1 92
F. TA Internatlonal
Consultancy for DPP h                            1        1        1         -        -       3    1,019.079    1.02    1.02    1.02        -       -    3.06
G. RM&E
Nat. Risk Factor Prevalence Survey                                                                              2.19    2.19       -        -       -    4.38
Assmt of NCD Care                                                                                               0.11    0.11        -       -       -    0.22
Policy Research                                                                                                 0.11    0.11                             0.22
Oper. Research                                                                                                     -    0.22    0.22    0.22    0.22    0.87
Best Prnctce Guidelines                                                                                         0.16    0.27    0.16        -       -    0.60
DPP ht                                                                                                          0.55    1.09    1.09    1.09    1.09    4.92
Subtotal RM & E                                                                                                   3.12    4.00    1.48    1.31    1.31   11.22
H. Activities (IEC)
Mass Media Campaigns                                                                                            0.11    0.11    0.27    0.27    0.27    1.04
Total Investment Codst                                                                                              7.31    5.67    3.32    2.13    2.13   20.5
Ii. Recurrent Costs
A Vehicle 0 & M                                    1        1        1        1         1        5     219,350    0.22    0.22    0.22    0.22    0.22    1.10
S.0 SM
R & T Offrk                                                                                                     0.27    0.55    0.55    0.55    0.55    2.47
NCD Registry                                                                                                    0.11    011    0.11    0.11    0.11    0.55
Subtotal O & M                                                                                                    0.38    0.66    0.66    0.66    0.66    3 32
Total Recurrnt Cogst                                                                                                0.60    0.88    0.88    0.88    0.88    4.11
Total                                                                                                                7.91    6.55    4.19    3.01    3.01   24.58
\e System price Includes workstation, prlnter, softare and tumrture.
lb Consultancy for Rist Factor Survey and/or DPP
\c DPP - Diabetes Pilot Project



- 134 -                                                           Annex 11
Page 17 of 28
Sri Lanka
The Sri Lanka Health Service Project
Table 5. Heath Policy Development
Deiled Coats
Quantites                           Unit Coat -          Baes Coat - Negotiadlon
1997t  lo"        1S1      2000    2001    Total   Negotiation   197   iBm       ION     2000    2001    Total
1. Investment Coet
A Computas
PC Workct tions - MDPU                             4                                           4     272,294    1.09                    -                 1.09
B. National Training
Health Planning Capacity Development                                                                                -    1.97    1.97    1.97        -    5.92
C. International Training
Masters Level Fellowship - MFP a                   I        -        -        -                     3,527,194    3.53       -       -       -             3.53
ShortTermFellowships-MFP                           -        1                 -       -        1    1,469,664       -    1.47               -             1.47
Masters Level Fellowhip- MOH                       1        1        1        -       -        3    3,527,194    3.53    3.53    3.53       -        -   10.58
Subtotal Intmdational TraIning                                                                                     7.05    5.00    3.53                -   1558
D. TA - National
HESP kc                                                                                                          558    3.29    3.29    2.19    2.19   17.56
E TA - Intemational
Consultncy fOr Policy Studies                      1        1        1            -            3    1,019,079    1.02    1.02    1.02       -        -    3.06
F. RM Al E
Policy 6 Planning Studies                                                                                        2.19    2.19    2.19    2.19    2.19   10.94
DHS Survey                                                                                                          -       -   1D.94                -   10.94
Health Expend. Survey Mod                                                                                        0.22    0.22    0.22    0.22    0.22    1l09
Study - Mental Health                                                                                               -    2.19    3.25       -        -    5.47
Subtotal RM & E                                                                                                    2.41    4.59   16.62    2.41    2 41   28 43
Total Investment Coats                                                                                              18.15   15.88   26.44    6.58    4860   7164
II. Recurrent Costa
A OAM
Incremental O&M MDPU /d                                                                                          0.22    0.22    0.55    0.55    0.55    2.08
Total Recurrent Cosb                                                                                                 0.22    0.22    0.55    0.55    0.55    2.08
Totd                                                                                                                 18.37   16.09   26.98    7.12    5.15   73.72
\a MFP: Ministry of Finance and Planning
\b MOH; Minstry of Health
\c HESP: Health Economlcs Study Program, Dept of Economics, U. of Colombo; includes support for computbra, library matehias, inri training, etc
\d MDPU: Management Development Planning Unit



- 135 -                                                        Annex I1
Page 18 of 28
Sri Lanka
The Sri Lanka Health Services Project
Table 6. MIS
Detailed Costs
Quantities                              Unit Cost -         Bass Cost - Negotiation
1007      1999      1999     2000      2001      Total   Negotiation   1997   199     199    2000   2001   Totil
I. Investment Costs
A Civil Works
Factity Modtfication                           1         1          -        -         -         2     819,448    0.82    0.82       -       -       -    1 64
S. Computers /a
Network System - MOH                           1         -         1         -         -         2     871,340    0.87       -    0.87       -       -    174
PC Workstations - MOH                          5         3         -         -         -         8     381,211    1.91    1.14       -       -       -    3 05
PrInters- MOH                                  2         2         -         -         -         4      54,459    0.11    0.11       -       -       -    0 22
Addtl. Hardware - MOH                           1        1          -         -         -        2      272,294    0.27    0.27      -        -       -    0 54
Intrnet Connectin - MOH                        I         -                                       1      54,459    0.05       -       -       -       -    0 05
PC Workstatlons - Prov                         -         -         8        10         -        18     381,211       -       -    305    381         -    686
PC Workstations - Dtstr.                       -         -        12        12         -        24     381,211       -       -    4.57    4.57       -    915
PC Workstations - Prov HRIS                    -         2         -         -         -         2     381,211       -    0.76       -       -       -    0.76
LAN Connections                                4         4         -         -         -         8     108,918    0.44    0.44       -       -       -    0.87
PCWorkstations-MedStatsUnKt                    1         -         -         -         -         1     381,211    0.38       -       -       -       -    0.38
E-mall Kts                                     4         4         7         5         4        24      54,459    0.22    0.22    0.38    0.27    0.22    131
Subtotal Computers                                                                                                  4.25    2.94    88       88.66    0.22   24.94
C. Equlpment
Misc. Equip. - DIstr.                          -         -        12        12         -        24      54,459       -       -    0.65    0.65       -    1.31
Misc. Equipment - Prov.                        -         -                  10                  18      54,459       -       -    0.44    0.54       -    0.98
Subtotal Equipment                                                                                                     -       -    1.09    1.20       -    2.29
0. National Training
Programming Training - MOH                     -         1         1         -         -         2      54,860       -    0.05    0.05       -       -    0.11
Health Stat Analysis- MOH                      -         1         1         -         -         2      109,720      -    0.11    0.11       -       -    0.22
Equipment Support - MOH                        1         -         -         -         -         1      54,860    005        -       -       -       -    0.05
Data Entry/Word Processing - MOH              10         3         -         -         -        13      27,430    0.27    0.08       -       -       -    0.36
Health Into. Analysis - Prov.                  -         -         8        10         -        18      27,430       -       -    0.22    0.27       -    0.49
MOH Software Training - Prov.                  -         -         8        10         -        18       10,972      -       -    009    0.11        -    0.20
Bast Computer Skills - Prov.                   -         -        16        20         -        36       10,972      -       -    018    0.22        -    0.39
Advanced Computer Skills                        -         -       18        18                  36       10,972      -       -    020    020         -    0.39
Health info Analysis- Distr.                   -         -        12        12                  24       13,715      -       -    016    016         -    033
Use of information for Mgmt.                   -        12        12         -         -        24       13,715      -    0.16    016        -       -    033
Baskc Computer Skills - Distr.                 -         -        24        24         -        48       13,715      -       -    0.33    0.33       -    066
Subtotal National Training                                                                                           033    041    150    129          -    354
E. International Training
Health MIS                                     1         -         -         -         -         1     587,866    0.59       -       -       -       -    0.59
Health MIS Study Tour /b                        -        1         -         -         -         1     881,798       -    0 88       -       -       -    0.88
Tech Sys Tr (Systems Analyst)                  1          -                                      1     881,798    0.88       -       -       -       -    088
Subtotal intemational Training                                                                                                                         -    235
F. TA - National
MOH Systems Software Dev                       1         1         -         -         -         2   1645,800    1.65    1.65        -       -       -    329
MDPU Systems Implementatin                     1         1         -         -         -         2   4,059,640    4.06    4.06       -       -       -    812
Provincial Systems Software Dev                 -        1         1         -         -         2     822,900       -    0.82    0.82       -       -    165
Disrlct Systems Software                        -        1         1         1         -         3     548,600       -    0.55    0.55    0.55       -    165
Temp Data Entry MOH (HRIS)                     2          -                                      2       78,998    0.16           -       -       -        016
Temp Data Entry Prov. (HRIS)                   8          -                                      8       78,998    0.63      -       -       -        -    0 63
Subtotal TA - Natlonal                                                                                               6.60    7.08    137    055         -   1549
G. Activities
Health Facility Database                                                                                          4.00    4.00    0.80    0.80    0.80   10 41
Total lnveatment Costs                                                                                                1736   1613   1364   1260    102   6066
II. Recurrent Costs
A Salarles
Sr. Systems Analyst                            1         1         1         1         1         5      197,496    0.20    0.20    0.20    020    0.20    0 99
Programmer                                     1         1         1         1         1         5      105,331    0.11    0.11    0.11    011    011    0.53
Statistical Officer                            1         1         1         1         1         5      105,331    0.11    0.11    0.11    011    011    0.53
Network Support Techniclan                     1         1         1         1         1         5      92,165    0.09    0.09    0.09    0 09    0 09    0.46
Data Entry                                     1         1         1         1         1         5      78,998    0.08    0.08    0.08    008    008    0.39
Clerk                                          1         1         1         1         1         5       65,832    0.07    0.07    0.07    0.07    0.07    0 33
Subtotal Salaries                                                                                                    0.65    0.65    0.65    065    065    3 23
U. 0 S,M                                                                                                                   06        .5    06        .5     32
Malntenance and Supplies - MOH                 1         1         1         1         1         5     685,488    0.69    0.69    0.69    0.69    0.69    3 43
Maintenance and Supplies - Prov.               -          -        8         8         a        24     383,662       -       -    3.07    3.07    3 07    9 21
Maintenance and Supplie - Distr.               -          -       12        24        24        60     219,350       -       -    2.63    5.26    5.26   1316
InternedConnect Fees                           1         1         1         1         1         5      21,935    0.02    0.02    0.02    002    002    011
Aliowances (HRIS)                               1        1         1         1          -        4      219,350    0.22    0.22    0.22    022        -    0B8
Subtotal 0 & M                                                                                                       0.93    0.93    6.63    9.26    9.04   26 79
Total Recunt Co                                                                                                        1.57    1.57    7.28    9,91    9.69   30.31
Total                                                                                                                 18.94   17.71   20.92   2241   10 71   90. 57
\a System price  ciudes workstation, printer, wttware and tumrture.
\b Study Tour 4-6 weeks



- 136 -                                                      AnnexlIf2
Page 19 of 28
SOt Larks
The Srl Larks Hesnh Seewlces Project
Table 7. Heath Educe0n Bureau
Detailed Coats
Quantities                             Unit Co             Base Cot - Negotistion
1997     1ti      199      2000      2001     Total   Neotition  11N7   190    1990   2000   2001   Total
L Investment Costs
A Clvil works
HEBHostetCornsucUon                           1         -        -        -         -         1   14,640,811   14.64     -       -      -       -   14.64
Upgrdng ofHEUrltsla                          30       30        30        -         -        90     218,520    6.56    6.56    6.56     -       -   19.67
Subtotal Civil works                                                                                            21.20    6.56    6.56     -       -   34.31
e Fumiture
Hostl                                                                                                             -   2.46    0.11      -       -    2.57
C. Equipment
Ar Condmorwrs                                 4             -         -             -         4      76,242    0.30      -       -      -             0.30
Photocopier                                   1         -        -        -         -         1      136,147    0.14     -       -      -       -    0.14
Pulc Adress Systen                           25         -        -        -         -        25      33,819    0.85      -       -      -       -    0.85
Overheed Projector                           25         -        -        -         -        25       18,516   0.46      -       -      -       -    0.46
Side Prqector                                25         -        -        -         -        25       16,336   0.41                     -       -    0.41
Magic Boards                                 25         -        -        -         -        25       8,169    0.20      -       -      -       -    0.20
PortableFlpBoard                             25         -        -        -         -        25       6,535    0.16      -       -      -       -    0.16
Radlo Cassete Recorder                       25         -        -        -         -        25       2,668    0.07      -       -      -       -    0.07
Tetaitslon 24"                               25                  -        -         -        25      29,353    0.73              -      -       -    0.73
Vdeo Desk                                    25         -        -        -         -        25      20,585   0.51       -       -      -             0.51
Generators                                   25         -        -        -         -        25      32,675   0.62       -       -      -       -    0.82
LCDOvwrheedProjector                          -        1         -        -         -         1     435,670       -   0.44       -      -       -    0.44
Subtotal Equipment                                                                                               4.66    0.44      -      -             5.09
D. Cornputer lb
PC Workstaton                                 1        2         1        -         -         4     381,211    0.38    0.76    0.38     -             1.52
E Vehicles
MicrobusforTralnres/c                         1         -        -        -         -         1    2,401,285    2.40     -       -      -       -    2.40
Motorcycles                                  52         -        -        -         -        52      76.405    3 97      -       -      -       -    3.97
MobleVans                                    25         -        -        -         -        25    1,746,389   43.66     -       -      -       -   43.66
Doubtle Cabs                                  2         -        -        -         -         2    1,364,367    2.73     -       -      -       -    2.73
Subtotal Vehicles                                                                                               52.76                             -   52.76
F. Intmnatinsl Training
Longlrm Ftlowsp for HEO                                 1        1                            2    1,469,664      -   1.47    1.47      -       -    2.94
G. TA - National
Architectural Delgn - HE Hostel Ad                                                                             0.21    0.21    0.12    0.06     -    0.59
Prq0ectC ontint11 1                                                                           5     329,160    0.33    0.33    0.33    0.33   0.33    1.65
Subtotal TA - National                                                                                           0.53    0.53    0.45    0.39    0.33    2.23
H. Trailing/a                                                                                                    2.19    2.19    2.19    2.19    2.19    10.97
Total Investment Costs                                                                                            81.73   14.41   11.16    2.58    2.52   112.40
l Recurrent Coats
A. Salaries
Dab EntzyOpsertor                             1         1        1        1        1          5      78,998   0.08    0.08   0.08    0.08    0.08    039
Progrnvner                                    1         1        1        1        1          5      105,331    0.11    0.11    0.11    0.11    0.11    0.53
Subtotal Salaries                                                                                                0.18    0.16    0.18    0.18    0.16  0.92
B.Vehde  O&M                                  28       28        28       28       26        140     219,350    6.14    6.14    6.14    6.14    6.14    30.71
Total Recurrent Coats                                                                                              6.33    6.33    6.33    6.33    6.33    31.63
Total                                                                                                             88.05   20.74   17.48    8.91    8.85   144.03
'A Hospita Health Educatlon Urits
lb System price Includes workstatlon, prnter, software and fur,tire.
Ic 26 sealer
vd 4% of overal cost over 4 years (35,35,20,10 %)
v Trairing for HE Staff



Annex 11
- 137 -                                                Page 20 of 28
Sri Lanka
The Sn Lanka Health Services Project
Table 8. Project Management
Detailed Costs
Quantiftes                           Unit Cost -          Base Cost - Negotlation
1997    1996    1999    2000    2001        Total   Negotiation   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001    Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Equipment
Photocopier                            1        -        -        -                 1      272,294    0.27          -       -           -   0.2'
Electnctypewriter                      1        -        -        -        -        1      108,918    0.11      -       -       -       -   0.11
Subtotal Equipment                                                                                      0.38      -        -      -       -   0o38
B. Computer la
PCWorkstabon                           3                                            3      381,211    1.14               -      -       -   1.1.1
Notebook                               1        -        -        -        -         1     272,294    0.27       -      -       -       -   0.2
ModemlPnnt Sharer                      2        -        -        -        -        2       27,229    0.05       -      -       -       - 00
Addtl. Hardware                        1        -        -        -                 1      108,918    0.11       -      -       -       -   0.11
Addtl. Software                        1        1        -        -        -        2      163,376    0.16    0.16      -       -       -   0.3
Subtotal Computar                                                                                       1.74    0.16      -       -       -   1.9
C. Vehicles
Double Cab                             1        -        -        -        -        1   1,384,367    1.36       -       -               -    1.36
D. National Training
Accounting/Procurement Tr.             2        1        -        1        -        4       21,944    0.04    0.02      -   0.02        -   0.01
Administrative Tr.                     2        1        -        1        -        4        5,486    0.01    0.01       -   001        -   0.02
Subtotal National Training                                                                              0.05    0 03           0.03       -   01
E. TA - National
Project Coordinator                    1        1        1        1       1         5      263,328    0.26    0.28    026    0.26    0.26    1.3
Project Accountant                     1        1        1        1       1         5      197,498    0.20    020    0.20    020    0.20    0.99
ProcurementOfficer                     1        1        1        1       1         5      197,498    0.20    020    020    020    0.20    0.9Q'
System Analyst                         1        1        1        1        1        5      105,331    0.11    011    011    011    0.11    0.52
ProjectAssistant                       2        2        2        2       2         10      92,165    0.18    018    018    0.18    0.18    0.92
Subtotal TA - National                                                                                  0.95    0.95    0.95    0.95    0.95    4.7'.
F. RM & E
Mid-term Review                        -        -        1        -        -        1      164,039       -       -   0.16               -   01t
Final review                           -        -        -        -        1        1      164,039       -       -      -        -   0.16    0.1t
Subtotal RM & E                                                                                           -       -   0.16        -   0.16    0.3:
Total Investment Costs                                                                                    4.49    1.14    1.11    0.98    1.11    8.8,
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Vehicle 0 & M                         1        1        1        1        1        5      219,350    0.22    0.22    0.22    0.22    0.22    i.110
B.C & M
Office 0 & M                                                                                          0.44    0.44    0.44    0.44    0.44    2.1 C
Utilities                                                                                             0.23    0.23    0.23    0.23    0.23    1.1f
Field Allowances                                                                                      0.05    0.05    0.05    0.05    0.05    0.2;
Computer Support                                                                                      0.03    0.03    0.03    0.03    0.03    0.1
Internet Connect Fees                                                                                 0.03    0.03    0.03    0.03    0.03    OlE
Project Audit                          1        1        1        1        1        5      471,602    0.47    0.47    0.47    0.47    0.47    2.3E
Project Meetings                       1        1        1        1        1        5       82,290    0.08    0.08    0.08    0.08    0.08    0.41
Subtotal O a M                                                                                          1.34    134    134    134    1.34    8.6C
Total Recurrent Costs                                                                                     1.58    158    158    1.58    1.58    7.7S
Total                                                                                                     6.05    2.70    2.67    2.53    2.67   16.8,
\a System price includes workstation, printer, software and furniture



- 138 -                                              Annex 11
Page 21 of 28
B.    Expenditure Accounts by Components
Sr Lanka
The Sri Lanka Health Services Project
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including ContIngencies
(USS Million)
Program Support
Health   Management  Health
Non-Communicabi   Policy   Information Education   Project
Malaria STDIHIVIAIDS Nutrition    Diseases    Development Systems        IEC     anagomen  Total
I. Investment Costs
A. Civil Works                        -         1.91         -               -           -        0.03      0.67          -   2.62
B. Equipment                       0.49         0.70      0.17            0.02           -        0.05      0.10       0.01    1.52
C. Comp. Hardware & Software       0.06         0.04      0.03            0.01        0.02        0.51      0.03       0.04    0.75
D. Fumiture                           -         0.08      0.00               -           -           -      0.05          -   0.13
E. Vehicles                        0.81         0.63      0.08            0.03           -           -      0.98       0.03    2.55
F. Materials                          -            -      0.24            0.02           -           -         -          -   0.26
G. Activities                      0.59         0.31      0.91            0.02           -        0.20         -          -   2.04
H. National Training               0.42         0.20      0 39               -        0.11        0.07      0.21       0.00    1.40
I. Intemational Training              -            -      0.07               -        0.30        0.04      0.06          -   0.47
J. TA - National                      -         0.08      0 06            0.03        0 31        0.27      0.04       0.09    0.88
K. TA - Intemational                  -         0.17      0.10            0.06        0.06           -         -          -   0.39
L. RM & E                          0.03         014       0.85            0.21        0.55           -         -       0.01    1.77
Total Investment Costs               2.40         4.27      2.90            0.39        1.35        118       214        016   1478
Ii. Recurrent Costs
A. Salaries                           -         0.14         -               -           -        0.06      0.02          -   0.22
B. O& M                            1.43         2.35      0.16            0.08        0.04        0.52      0.58       0.15    5.30
C. Drugs                              -         2.30         -               -           -           -         -          -   2.30
Total Recurrent Costs                1.43         4.79      0.16            0.08        0.04        0.58      0.60       0.15    7.82
Total PROJECT COSTS                   3.83        9.06      3.06             0.47        1.39        1.76     2.74       0.31   22.60
Taxes                              0.44         0.74      0.19            0.03        0.05        0.17      0.37       0.03    202
Foreign Exchange                   0.94         3.98      0 93            0.16        0.59        0.52      1.06       0.06    8 23



-  139  -                                 Page 22 of 28
Si Lanka
The Sri Lanka Health SeMces Project
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Including Contingencies
(LKR Million)
Program Support
Health   Managemen  Health
Non-Communicabl   Policy   informaUon Education  Project
Malaria STD/HIVIAIDS NutritMon  Diseses    Developmen  Systems       IEC    anagemen   Total
I. lnvestment Costs
A. Civil Works                       -      122.67        -                          -       2.01    42.22          -    166.90
B. Equipment                     32.69       46.68    10.56            0.97          -       3.31      6.10      0.45    100.'7
C. Comp. Hardware & Software      3.84        2.72     2.07            0.45       1.30      34.53      1.98      2.28     49. 7
D. Furniture                         -        4.99     0.09               -          -                 3.36         -      8.43
E. Vehicles                      49.44       39.30     4.60            1.53          -          -    59.31       1.53    155.'2
F. Matenals                          -           -    15.60            1.07          -          -         -         -     16.ti7
G. ActMties                      38.97       21.09    59.39            1.38          -      13.07         -         -    133.Ei0
H. National Training             28.42       13.39    25.23               -       7.59       4.55    14.04       0.13     93.15
I. Intemational Training             -           -     4.72               -      18.95       2.77      3.79         -     30.23
J. TA - National                     -        5.10     4.01            2.34      20.54      17.20      2.71      5.78     57.6i7
K. TA - International                -       11.10     6.37            3.77       3.77          -         -         -     25.00
L. RM&E                           1.71        9.25    56.92           13.97      36.86          -         -      0.46    119.16
Totai Investment Costs            155.08      276.29   189.57           25.48      89.00      77.43   133.50      10.63    956.E18
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Salaries                          -        9.69        -               -          -       4.13      1.18         -     14.E'9
B. O & M                         96.67      159.74    10.65            5.32       2.76      36.56    39.37       9.98    361. 06
C. Drugs                             -      156.89        -               -          -          -         -         -    156.19
Total Recurrent Costs              96.67      326.31    10.65            5.32       2.76      40.69    40.55       9.98    532.E3
Total PROJECT COSTS               251,75      602.60   200.21           30.80      91.76      118.12   174.05     20.62   1,489.E1
Taxes                            27.96       48.30    12.29            1.87       3.65      11.48    23.10       1.75    130.29
Foreign Exchange                 60.10      264.05    60.63           10.63      38.32      34.78    65.76       3.51    537.78



Sr Lanka
The Sn Lanka Health Services Project
Expenditure Accounts by Years - Totals Including Contingencies
Totals Including Contingencies (LKR Million)       Totals Including Contingencies (USS Million)
1997    1998    1999    2000    2001       Total    1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   Total
I. Investment Costs                                                                                                                            m
A. Civil Works                    62.69    69.38    34.82      -        -    166.90    1.03    1.07    0.51      -       -   2.62
B. Equipment                      26.76    18.77    25.87    22.13   7.25     100.77    0.44    0.29    0.38    0.31    0.10    1.52
C. Comp. Hardware & Software      16.51    5.02    14.38    12.91    0.35      49.17    0.27    0.08    0.21    0.18    0.00    0.75
D. Fumiture                        1.40    4.83     2.21       -        -       8.43    0.02    0.07    0.03     -       -   0.13
E. Vehicles                      139.67    16.05       -       -        -    155.72    2.30    0.25      -       -       -   2.55
F. Materials                       0.94    15.00    0.23     0.24    0.26      16.67    0.02    0.23    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.26
G. Activities                     48.11    22.02    22.33    20.01    21.43   133.90    0.79    0.34    0.33    0.28    0.29    2.04
H. National Training              19.61    22.46    23.84    17.75   9.68      93.35    0.32    0.35    0.35    0.25    0.13    1.40
nj
1. lIntemational Training          9.70    9.13    11.40       -        -      30.23    0.16    0.14    0.17     -       -   0.47
J.TA-National                     17.51    15.92    9.72     7.57    6.96      57.67    0.29    0.25    0.14    0.11    0.09    0.88
K TA - Intemational               10.68    7.55     6.77       -        -      25.00    0.18    0.12    0.10     -       -   0.39
L.RM&E                            21.49    20.59    36.24    19.35    21.49   119.16    0.35    0.32    0.53    0.27    0.29    1.77
Total Investnent Costs             375.06   226.72   187.83    99.96    67.41   956.98    6.18    3.50    2.77    1.41    0.92   14.78
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Salaries                        2.57     2.79    3.00     3.21    3.42      14.99    0.04    0.04    0.04    0.05    0.05    0.22
B. O & M                          49.03    61.39    75.93    84.76    89.94   361.06    0.81    0.95    1.12    1.20    1.23    5.30              C
C. Drugs                          16.12    31.66    34.07    36.36    38.67   156.89    0.27    0.49    0.50    0.51    0.53    2.30
Total Recurrent Costs               67.72    95.83   113.01   124.34   132.03   532.93    1.12    1.48    1.66    1.76    1.80    7.82
Total PROJECT COSTS                442.78   322.56   300.83   224.30   199.44   1,489.91    7.29    4.99    4.43    3.17    2.72   22.60
0 n
0 X



Sri Lanka
The Sri Lanka Health Services Prject
Project Components by Year - Totals Including Contingencies
Totals Including Contingencies (LKR Million)      Totals Including Contingencies (US$ Million)
1997    1998    1999    2000    2001       Total    1997   1998   1999   2000   2001   Total 
A. Malaria                           94.47    34.23    41.13    39.36    42.56   251.75    1.56    0.53    0.61    0.56    0.58    3.83
B. STD/HIV/AIDS                     124.19   164.21   127.63    98.96    87.62   602.60    2.05    2.54    1.88    1.40    1.19    9.06
C. Nutrition                         66.91    46.58    37.15   24.61    24.97    200.21    1.10    0.72    0.55    0.35    0.34    3.06
D. Non-Communicable Diseases          8.88     7.90    5.46     4.15    4.42      30.80    0.15    0.12    0.08    0.06    0.06    0.47
E. Program Support
Health Policy Development          20.27    19.38    35.01    9.67    7.42      91.76    0.33    0.30    0.52    0.14    0.10    1.39
Management Information Systems     21.17    21.35    27.94    31.93    15.73   118.12    0.35    0.33    0.41    0.45    0.21    1.76         n
Health Education IEC              100.08    25.73    23.14    12.20    12.90   174.05    1.65    0.40    0.34    0.17    0.18    2.74        u,
Subtotal Program Support            141.52    66.46    86.10   53.80    36.05    383.93    2.33    1.03    1.27    0.76    0.49    5.88
F. Project Management                 6.82     3.18    3.37    3.41     3.84      20.62    0.11    0.05    0.05    0.05    0.05    0.31
Total PROJECT COSTS                  442.78   322.56   300.83   224.30   199.44   1,489.91    7.29    4.99    4.43    3.17    2.72   22.60      m
CD
-Ii 
I-.'
CD
0 _



-  142  -                                                          Annex I I
Page 25 of 28
IV.  MONITORING AND REPORTING
A.        Monitoring Indicators
Process, output, and impact indicators are indicated. Input indicators are available from the
detailed cost tables. It is assumed that the procurement, supply, installation, etc. of inputs will be monitored.
For process and output indicators, how the various indicators will be operationalized and
reported will be determined jointly by the individual programs and the project office. In some cases, the specified
indicators are already monitored but reporting of the data collected to the Ministry of Health needs improvement.
In other instances, additional monitoring will need to be introduced on either a program-wide or a sample basis.
For example, detailed monitoring of the reoriented growth promotion program in all areas would not be practical;
instead, in-depth monitoring of sentinel divisions in all provinces will provide guidance for the larger program.
Key performance monitoring indicators have been agreed by IDA and the Government of Sri
Lanka and are given in the following Table.
Key Performance Monitoring Indicators*
Objective                Outputs                            Risks/Critical Assumptions          Outcomes/Impacts
MALARIA Component
Reduction in incidence   Indicator: Mobile clinic coverage    Increase in drug resistance; failure    Indicator: Number of malaria cases
of malaria in an         in high-prevalence districts       to expand utilization of            in high-prevalence districts
environmentally          Goal: Achievement of planned       impregnated bed nets; failure to    Goal: Reduction of annual number
acceptable manner        coverage as indicated in annual    improve vector control              of identified cases to less than
district plans                                                        10/1000 pop. by 2001
Measurement: annual incidence
(positive blood slides); baseline
and end-project surveys
STD/AIDS Component
Prevention of epidemic    Indicator: No. of planned STD     Inadequate Govt-NGO cooperation;   Indicator: HIV prevalence
spread of HIV            clinics in provincial and base     failure to reduce high-risk behaviors   Goal: Maintenance of Sri Lanka as
hospitals established/refurbished,                                    a low HIV prevalence country
equipped, and functioning                                             Measurement: Annual sentinel
Goal: All planned STD clinics to                                      surveys; service statistics
be functioning prior to mid-term
review.
NUTRITION
Component
Improvement in the       Indicator: Percentage of           Inadequate shift of program to      Indicator: Percentage of under-
nutritional status of    Percentage of Public Health        communities; inadequate shift of    weight children (standard weight for
infants, young children,    Midwifes (PHMs ) associated with    program focus from growth      age criterion)
pregnant women and       at least one community nutrition   monitoring to growth promotion;     Goal: Reduction of percentage of
lactating mothers        center that provides growth        failure of mothers to modify key    underweight children below age 3
promotion activities (nutrition    weaning practices                  to less than 20% by 2001
education, growth monitoring)                                         Measurement: Baseline and end-
Goal: 80-90%  of PHMs in                                              project anthropometric surveys
sentinel divisions associated with
community nutrition centers by
_  project-end



Annex 11
- 143 -                                                      Page 26 of 28
Objective                Outputs                           Risks/Critical Assumptions          Outcomes/Impacts
NON-
COMMUNICABLE
DISEASES (NCD)
Component
Development of a         Indicator: Creation of an NCD     Failure to adopt policy reforms due    Indicator: NCD-related policy
national NCD strategy    database                          to vested interests; emphasis on   recommendations
Goal: Carrying out of baseline    clinic-based treatment rather than  Goal: Adoption of recommended
surveys and establishment of      comliunity-based prevention        policy measures by project-end.
database prior to mid-term review                                    Measurement: IDA/Borrower
______________________________    Jreview
HEALTH POLICY
Component
Improvements in          Indicator: Undertaking of agreed  Political sensitivity of health policy   Indicator: Adoption of agreed
efficiency, effectiveness   studies program                reform, especially cost recovery;  recommendations based on studies
and sustainability of the   Goal: Completion of studies agreed   lack of a constituency for health  program
health system            per annual action plan for health  policy reform in the Health Ministry   Goal: Reform of identified policies
policy component                                                     and procedures
Measurement: IDA/Borrower
review
MIS Component
Improved MOH planning  Indicator: Production of required   Failure to coordinate MOH data and   Indicator: Utilization of MIS data
and management           data by MIS                       monitoring systems                 by MOH for planning and
capacity                 Goal: Planned systems in MOH                                         management purposes
installed, functioning and producing                                 Goal: Improvements in MOH
required data prior to mid-term                                      program planning and management
review                                                               linked to MIS inputs
Measurement: IDA/Borrower
review
HEALTH
EDUCATION
BUREAU Component                                             _
Increased effectiveness    Indicator: Field staff training in  Improvements in knowledge may  Indicator: Specified health and
of health and nutrition  interpersonal communication (IPC)   not result in behavior change    nutrition-related behaviors
education programs       Goal: Provision of IPC training to                                   Goal: Significant modification of
all field staff by project-end.                                      specified behaviors by identified
populations as specified in annual
program/HEB action plans
Measurement: Changes in relevant
knowledge and behavior (baseline
and follow-up surveys)
* The basic input is an IDA credit (US$ 19.0 million), to be implemented by the Ministry of Health. There are no cofinanciers. Input
details are given in the detailed project cost tables.
Process/Output/Impact Indicators
Component               Process Indicators               Output indicators                Impact Indicators
Malaria            . implementation of              * annual district plans          . annual incidence
training programs             * treated bed net use               (positive blood slides)
* blood slides taken by                                          * prevalence (surveys)
mobile teams
* blood slides taken at
health facilities
. bed nets treated
. microscopists recruited,
trained and posted



Annex  1I
- 144 -                                         Page 27 of 28
Component          Process Indicators        Output Indicators         Impact Indicators
STD/AIDS       * implementation of       * knowledge about AIDS    * no. of STD cases
training programs         and how to avoid          diagnosed/treated
* patients treated in central    (general public and  (program statistics)
and provincial clinics    specific target groups)  * HIV prevalence (sentinel
* reporting by private    * knowledge about STDs      surveys)
sector                    and how to treat/avoid  * high-risk behaviors
* NGO programs carried     (general public and        (sentinel behavioral
out                       specific target groups    surveys)
esp. private sector
physicians)
Nutrition      * implementation of       * improved technical       * % of children
training programs         knowledge (health staff)    underweight (surveys)
* growth promotion        * adoption of             * % of pregnant women
programs separate from    recommended               anemic (surveys)
MCH clinics               breastfeeding practices  * % of low weight births
* nutrition education      (mothers)                 (birth records)
activities undertaken   * adoption of             * occurrence of new goiters
* coverage of growth       recommended weaning        (surveys)
monitoring                practices (mothers)
* coverage of supply of   * compliance with
iron/ folic acid (pregnant    iron/folic acid regime
women)                   (pregnant women)
* coverage of visits to   * consumption of iodized
pregnant women/new        salt (households)
mothers by volunteers
* program reporting to
FHB
NCD (pilot)                              * NCD prevalence           * utilization of guidelines
assessments             * adoption of policy
* best practices guidelines    recommendations
* NCD data registry       * utilization of pilot
* food and tobacco policy  experience
recommendations
* pilot diabetes program
Health Policy   * external training      * annual provincial health    * implementation of agreed
* training (provincial     plans                     recommendations
staff/health planning)  * implementation of agreed
* utilization of technical  studies program
assistance (Health
Economics Study
Program, U. of Colombo)
MIS            * software consultancy    * introduction of new MIS   * improved utilization of
systems                   data for planning and
management purposes
Health         * HE/IEC materials in                                * changes in knowledge
Education        support of program                                  and behavior resulting
Bureau           components                                          from specific HE/IEC
* mass media campaign in                             efforts (surveys)
support of program
components



Annex I 1
- 145 -                                    Page 28 of 28
B.    Progress Reporting
The PMU will be responsible of ensuring that baseline and other studies that will be required for impact
assessment are carried out. the implementing units of the Ministry of Health will be responsible for ensuring that
input and program monitoring data are obtained and submitted to the PMU on a regular basis.
The PMU will submit to IDA semi-annual reports reviewing project progress and problems for the period
under review and cumulatively. One month prior to the beginning of the project year, the Government will
submit to IDA annual action plans for the coming year covering each component for comment and approval by
IDA. Prior to June 30, 1998, the Government and IDA will carry out joint mid-term review of the project, and
following the review Government will implement agreed recommendations.



- 146 -                               Annex 12
Page I of 2
REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
Sri Lanka Health Service Project
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ million)
IDA Fiscal Year         Amount per         Cumulative           Disbursement
and Semester            Semester       Amount         %          Profile
1997
January - June 1997      2            1.51        1.51          8.0          0
1998
July - December 1997     1            1.52        3.03         16.2         10
January- June 1998       2            3.03        6.06         32.2         18
1999
July - December 1998     1            2.15        8.21         43.7         26
January - June 1999      2            2.15       10.36         55.2         34
2000
July - December 1999     1            1.87       12.23         65.2         46
January- June 2000       2            1.87       14.10         75.2         58
2001
July - December 2000     1            1.26       15.36         81.9         66
January - June 2001      2            1.26       16.62         88.6         78
2002
July - December 2001     1            1.07       17.69         94.2         82
January - June 2002      2            1.07       18.76        100.0         90
2003
l                                                 94
2                                                  96
2004
1                                                 98
2                                                 100



- 147 -                                       Annex 12
Page 2 of 2
Disbursement by TvDe
(US$ million)
Local
IDA           The Government  Total             For.  (Excl.  Duties L
Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount   %           Exch.  Taxes)  Taxes
Works                             2.43    93.0   0.18      7.0    2.62    11.6    1.33    1.11      0.18
Goods                             8.44    86.1    1.37    13.9    9.80    43.4    5.14    3.30      1.37
Consultancies and Training        3.03    96.4   0.11      3.6    3.15    13.9    0.80    2.23      0.11
Health Promotion Programs         1.74    95.0    0.09     5.0    1.83     8.1    0.09    1.65      0.09
RM & E                            1.88    95.0    0.10     5.0    1.97     8.7    0.71    1.16      0.10
Incremental Salaries                 -       -    0.22   100.0    0.22     1.0       -    0.21      0.01
Operation and Maintenance        1.241    41.2    1.77    58.8    3.00    13.3    0.15    2.70      0.15
Total                               18.76    83.0    3.84    17.0   22.60   100.0    8.23   12.35     2.02
1 I Includes spare parts, small maintenance tools and other small equipment.



- 148 -
Annex 13
Page 1 of 2
SRI LANKA
HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
Selected Documents Available in the Proiect File
A. Project Proposals and Supporting Documents
Project Proposal for the Malaria Component. Ministry of Health, Highways and Social Services.
October 1995.
Project Proposal for the Nutrition Component. Ministry of Health, Highways and Social Services.
October 1995.
Sub Component of the Nutrition Project. Ministry of Health, Highways and Social Services.
November 1995.
Project Proposal for the STD/AIDS Component. Ministry of Health, Highways and Social Services.
October 1995.
Project Proposal for Non-Communicable Diseases Component. Sri Lanka Medical Association.
November 1995.
Abeyratne, Seneka. Nutrition Intervention in Sri Lanka: A Preliminary Evaluation of the Thriposha
Program. October 1995.
Abeyratne, Seneka. A Proposed Design and Conceptual Approach for Assessing the Nutritional
Impact of the Thriposha Program. February 1996.
Abeyesundere, A.N.A. Efficient Utilisation of Health Facilities in Hambantota and Polonnaruwa
Districts. September 1995.
Attanayake, Nimal and Harsha Aturupane. A Brief Assessment of the Economic Impact of
Interventions in Malaria Control, Supplementary Feedings and Prevention of Sexually
Transmitted Diseases including HIV. November 1995.
Chin, James. Current Status and Future Prospects of HIV/AIDS/STDs in Sri Lanka. November
1995.
Ernst & Young. Business Plan for the Distribution of Iodized Salt in Sri Lanka. January 1996.
Ernst & Young. Financial analysis of Expenditure Incurred by the Ministry of Health for the Period
1980-1989. December 1995.
Fernando, Dulitha. Assessment of the Impact of Strengthening of Primarv Health Care Services.
April 1995.



- 149 -
Annex 13
Page 2 of 2
Graves, Patricia M., Dulitha Fernando and Nimal Attanayake. Intensified Malaria Control Program
in Sri Lanka with Emphasis on Primary Care Approach. July 1995.
Hassan, S. H. Development of IEC Support for Project Components. October 1995.
MTP II for the Prevention and Control of STD/AIDS, 1994-1998, National STD/AIDS Control
Program (NSACP), National Strategic Plan.
Samarasinghe, Daya and John Akin. Report of the Health Strategy & Financing Study. 1995.
Varghese, Pan. Technical Assessment of Salt lodization in Sri Lanka. October 1995.
Wijewardene, Kumudu. Burden of Disease Sri Lanka 1995. January 1996.
B. World Bank Reports
Sri Lanka Health and Family Planning Project. Staff Appraisal Report. March 1988.
Sri Lanka Nutrition Review. July 1989.
Sri Lanka Poverty Alleviation Project. Staff Appraisal Report. April 1991.
Sri Lanka Poverty Assesment. January 1995.
C. Government Documents
Approaches to drug Policy and Management The Sri Lankan Experience. Ministry of Health.
January 1994.
Demographic and Health Survey Sri Lanka 1993. Department of Census and Statistics, Ministry of
Policy, Planning & Implementation. 1994.
National Health Policy Shri Lanka. Report of the Presidential Task Force on formulation of a
National Health Policy for Shri Lanka. July 1992.
National Health Development Plan 1994. Ministry of State for Health.
Nutrition and Health of Sri Lankan Children. Results from the First Nutrition and Health Survey.
Nutrition and Poverty Policy Division, Ministry of Policy, Planning & Implementation. 1994.
The Perspective Plan for Health Development in Sri Lanka (1995-2004). Management Development
and Planning Unit. Ministry of Health, Highways and Social Services. 1995.



Chart 1
- 150 -                                                                                   Pagel ofl
SRI LANKA
ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH
MINISTER OF HEALTH HIGHWAYS & SOCIAL SERVICES
Secretary ot Health H1-lays & SS  |                    |Dy Minister at Health Highways & SS
Addl Secretary of Healh Services
DeSenorDAssiserntctriretr                          Director General DHealthoSer-  |-                       Senor AssistantSecretary
D rector         DDt r           Di rector          D     r Director         io r          Dy Director        Dy Directr         D  Dector           Dy Drector
General~  ~    D    Directr YGGnMedca                             General Man.          General             General          Genral Er             General           Research
MC    H         Hervices      SDG Slrvices                            Du Flannmng        Admmstration         Fiance             G      rLogistics                          ran
Director       Dio . 0or                                                Director           Director           A    D              DirectDr
E|  H          A             C& '                                     PraaniDe           Admin -3                               Adi O4
| Drector  |  | Drrector  eector I                                     Dl)ire|ctor                 |        |    ector |ect
| MC  a H       HE e.         s .                 Cnr Cn TEraini
| Drrector |  | Director     Director                Drector 
|PHVS  r                                                                                                           rNurs PH  |Ad   MS  L
Dire tol r              I | Director                                                d-r
MS
tor..ge






IBRD 28019
80.                                                         81                                                           820
SRI LANKA
HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
:      SELECTED CITIES
/,     PROVINCE CAPITALS
Killnoclhchi C
@    NATIONAL CAPITAL
0 '   oMullvittivv         - - - -MAIN ROADS
_   ____ . ..--.--- _   - 1                                  .- -RAILROADS
DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                    9_
Vavuniyao
t&Lh![ of                    s-         -------   f-                                                 o0    1    2    3    4    5    6
Aa1 a n n    Ir      .                                                                                          KILOMETERS
0 Trincomalee
K            Anuradhapurao- .-0
I  I ,  ochchiyagama                                               /
Taloa,            '.,
<vtcmbuftagGmae       C       '0                 j/-
Eppwoala
-8'   Ptfslam 9 . - '"              i GiaEne vao  4           ,   . - '~' ' \            Weikando'   Sidhdhapuro
f   f     O       ,       fd~~~~oonnoruw+"    
.      1,      .         ~~~~GaI&lricgomo                  contfmitpiIyou:
V ,   1k.              *'                               -           C0 Randiyonuwacrc
o               Arolognwila'
Btsk.muna 
Kc>  ' >   '  BoksmOuna              ( 'O'  '-" "' '      '    -> tticnloo
j,    t   *-,,    i                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Kan5fyo e 
IND  N   '
Kurunegala@                  MotoJe   Gircadvtulkotte
,*, Kond      y          , ,El - A' - . hlyangane             Amparo'
4ompaha
70                                             '    '                                          Bodulla .7
COLOM            '&; ru  .I                                                                                           -t
MJ                                                                                         M  .A_/,a/,.oMrnoragala o 
Ratnapura
Kolutora
TI,0 hounchrdr, rob-S ..                                           ,,, - , -; Ernbmilipitiy%
d.onoi,,^oMnt and rony      ,          
other jnlormotion shoen     8                     
on tho  -op do rot
-ply,on the  pOerf 
7h0 World B.nk Group,
atfny p,dgnott on th h sol     \
tttttu  of ony terriory,         \o, -                                                   '     Hombontoto
or -ny endorsotert                                     ^
or occeptonce of such ''= . --''
86G                        Motr^                             81i                                                          82
MAY 1996









IMAGING
Report No:       15466 CE
Type: SAR



