Report No. PIC2825
Project Name              Sri Lanka-Health Services Project
Region                    South Asia
Sector                    Health
Project ID                LKPA10526
Implementing Agency       The Democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka
Ministry of Health, Highways and Social
Services Colombo, Sri Lanka
Contact: Dr. R.C. Rajapakse, Project
Coordinator, MOHHSS
Tel/Fax: 94 1 687-015
Date Prepared             October 30, 1995
Projected Board Date      April 1996
1.   Project Objectives.   The objectives of the project are to improve
the health and nutritional status of the people of Sri Lanka,
particularly of women and children, and to support the introduction of
agreed policy measures that would contribute to more efficient and
effective use of increasingly scarce resources.
2.   Project Description.   These objectives would be accomplished
through: (i) a nutrition component to reduce surprisingly high levels of
malnutrition in infants and young children using an
education/information approach; (ii) a malaria component in support of
a revised malaria control strategy following WHO guidelines; (iii) an
STD/HIV/AIDS and reproductive health component to support strengthening
and full integration of STD/HIV/AIDS prevention and treatment with
ongoing health and family planning programs; and (iv) a health policy
component that would support a program of studies and pilot initiatives
developed with the Government to address changes in the health system
resulting from a changing disease profile as life expectancy increases
and from the increasing importance of the private sector. In addition,
a small component to support a pilot non-communicable diseases program
may be included in the project.
3.   Project Implementation.   The project will be implemented by the
Ministry of Health, Highways & Social Services. Under Sri Lanka's
recent provincialization, responsibility for many aspects of health
services has been decentralized to the provincial health departments,
which will therefore be involved in the implementation of all components
to some extent. NGOs will play especially significant roles in the
implementation of the STD/HIV/AIDS, nutrition and non-communicable
diseases components.
4.   Project Costs.   Project costs are expected to be approximately US$
million.
5.   Environmental Aspects.   No adverse impact on the environment is
expected from this project.



Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 2 -



