Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 25097
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-29280)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 13.0 MILLION (US$18.8 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
FOR A
HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
12/20/2002
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not othenvise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective September 30, 2002)
Currency Unit =   Sri Lanka Rupee (LIR)
T (R 1.00 =   US5 0.01038
US$ 1.00 = LKR 96.31
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS ANlD ACRONYMS
AIDS           Acquired Im-nunodeficiency Syndrome
AMC            Anti-Malaria Campaign
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
DCA            Development Credit Agreement
DG             Director General
DHS            Demographic Health Survey
FEPS           Final Executive Project Summary
FHB            Family Health Bureau
GOSL           Goverranent of Sri Lanka
HEB            Health Education Bureau
HESP           Health Economics Study Programn (University of Colombo)
HIV            Human Immunodeficiency Virus
IEC            Inforrnation Education and Communication
MCH            Maternal and Child Health
MDPU           Management Development & Planning Unit
MOH            Ministry of Health
MIS            Managment Information System
MTR            Mid-Term Review
NCD            Non-Communicable Disease
NGO            Non-Governmental Organization
NSACO          National STD/AIDS Control Program
PHC            Pnmary Health Care
PHRD           Policy and Human Resources Development FRnd
PMI            Planning & Management Information
PMU            Project Management Unit
SAR            Staff Appraisal Report
SDR            Special Drawing Right
SLMA           Sri Lanka Medical Associatioi
STD            Sexually Transmitted Diseases
UNDP           United Nations Development h-ogram
UNFPA          United Nations Population Fund
UNICEF         United Nations Children's Fund
WBI            World Bank Institute
WHO            World Health Organization
Vice President:   Miieko Nishimizu
Country Director:    Peter C. Harrold
Sector Manager/Director:    Anabela Abreu/Charbcs Gri{Thi
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Jagmohan S. Kang



SRI LANKA
HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
I Project Data                                                                     1
2. Pnncipal Performance Ratings                                                     1
3 Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            6
5 Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                               9
6. Sustainability                                                                 11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                  12
8 Lessons Learned                                                                 14
9. Partner Comments                                                               16
10 Additional Information                                                         16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                              17
Annex 2 Project Costs and Financing                                               20
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                              24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                              25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components              28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                 29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                             30
Annex 8 Borrower's Implementation Completion Report                               32






|Project ID P010526                                       Project Name: HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT
Team Leader: Jagmohan S. Kang                            TL Unit: SASHD
ICR Type Core ICR                                        Report Date: December 20, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: HEALTH SERVICES PROJECT                       L/C/TFNumber' IDA-29280
Country/Department- SRI LANKA                                           Region: South Asia Regional
Office
Sector/subsector' Health (93%); Central government administration
(7%)
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   08/25/1994                             Effective  03/05/1997        03/05/1997
Appraisal:  10/12/1995                               MTR: 11/19/1999            12/01/2000
Approval:  12/19/1996                             Closing: 06/30/2002          06/30/2002
Borrower/lmplementing Agency   GOSL/TBD
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President.      Mieko Nishimizu                           D. Joseph Wood
Country Manager:     Peter C. Harrold                          Mieko Nishimizu
Sector Manager'      Anabela Abreu                             Barbara Herz
Team Leader at [CR:  Jagmohan S. Kang                          Frances Plunkett
ICR Primary Author:  Jagmohan S Kang
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry:                        U
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entiry
3.1 Original Objective:
The objectives of this $18.8 million, five-year operation, as stated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR),
were to strengthen Government's ability to address (a) remaining major public health problems (malaria,
malnutrition and HIV/AIDS); (b) new challenges raised by the epidemiological transition and the increasing
importance of non-communicable diseases of adults; and (c) key health policy and financing issues.
The Context: This operation was designed during a period of significant transition in the Sri Lankan
health sector. Though the country had impressive social indicators for its level of development, its health
sector faced challenges of an aging population and an increasing burden of expensive-to-treat
non-communicable diseases (NCDs). Major public health issues of malaria and malnutrition persisted,
and the threat of HIV/AIDS was emerging. In 1987, government had to decentralize authority to provinces
but did so partially, transferring responsibility for services but with limited transfer of revenues and the
power to tax. At the same time, the need for health sector reform was under active discussion. The
Presidential Task Force on National Health Policy had submitted its report in 1992; following the 1994
elections, the new government constituted a second Presidential Task Force on health sector reform. Major
sectoral issues were reflected in the1996 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), which noted the pressures for
high-cost tertiary care, and the need for a more efficient health system and greater private partnership. The
context called for policy shifts, including altemative financing options, and investments in new areas.
The project's objectives were complementary to the activities of the other donors. The Asian Development
Bank was concentrating on secondary care and the UN technical agencies (WHO, UNICEF and UNFPA)
were supporting matemal health, family planning and technical assistance (TA). IDA's comparative
advantage in policy analysis and sector assessment was realized in the setting of objectives, especially the
NCD and policy objectives.
The project was intended to be the second in a series of three in Sri Lanka's health sector. The first project
had focused on management, logistics and primary health care. The second aimed at reducing morbidity,
preventing rapid spread of HIV infection and, to the extent possible, supporting health policy change. The
third project, building on this ground work, would be a health sector reform operation.
The project's intended beneficiaries varied by component Under the nutrition component, 200,000
malnourished children were the potential beneficiaries. The malaria component was to benefit 125,000
potential malaria cases in the six high-prevalence districts. High-risk groups, such as the commercial sex
workers, the injecting drug users and the general population were to benefit from the STD/AIDS
component. The other components, i.e., policy, NCDs, health education and management information
system (MIS), were to strengthen the government's program and eventually the health system, and thus
benefit the entire population.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Overall project objectives remained the same though during the mid-term review (MTR) in November
1999; objectives of four components, i.e., STD/AIDS, nutrition, NCD and MIS, were revised, mostly to
reduce the component scope.
-2 -



3.3 Original Components:
The project had eight components; the largest in money tenns was Component 2, which was devoted to
combating STDs and AIDS; all the other components were funded at a level of less than $4 million each:
Component 1: Malaria (US$3.6 million, or 17% of base cost)
This component sought to reduce the annual incidence of malaria in the six high-prevalence districts from
over 40/1000 population to below 1O/1000. It supported expanded implementation of WHO's 1993
Revised Malaria Strategy, which focused on (a) early detection and prompt treatment of malaria cases; (b)
selective application of malaria control measures including vector control; (c) development of mechanisms
to forecast/prevent malaria epidemics; and (d) regular assessment of the program impact. The SAR output
indicators were (i) mobile clinic coverage to achieve planned coverage in the annual district plans; (ii)
preparation and implementation of district plans; and (iii) treated bed-net use. Inputs included equipment,
computers, vehicles, insecticide, in-service training, Information, Education and Communication (IEC) and
incremental costs.
Component 2: STD/AIDS (US$8.2 million, or 43% of base cost)
This component's objective was to ensure that Sri Lanka would remain a low HIV prevalence country. It
supported program aspects not financed by other donors and government. Output indicators were (a)
number of planned clinics in provincial and base hospitals established/refurbished, equipped and
functioning; (b) knowledge about AIDS and how to avoid it; and (c) knowledge about STD and how to
avoid it. Inputs were civil works, equipment, furniture, computers, vehicles, pharmaceuticals,
contraceptives, supplies, TA, EEC, training, salaries and other incremental costs.
Component 3: Nutrition (US$2.8 million, or 14% of base cost)
This component aimed at (a) reducing protein-energy malnutrition among children by half, and eliminating
severe malnutrition; (b) reducing the proportion of low-weight births to 15%; (c) reducmg iron deficiency
anemia among pregnant women and children substantially, and (d) eliminating iodine deficiency diseases.
Output indicators were (i) percentage of public health nurses associated with at least one Community
Nutrition Center; (ii) improved technical knowledge of health staff; (iii) adoption of recommended breast
feeding and weaning practices by mothers; (iv) compliance with iron/folic acid regime (pregnant women);
and (v) consumption of iodized salt (households). Inputs included equipment, computers, vehicles, TA,
in-service training, IEC, and incremental operating costs.
Component 4: Non-Communicable Diseases (US$0.4 million, or 2% of base cost)
This pilot component was to (a) develop an NCD Strategy for Sri Lanka; (b) compile an NCD database;
(c) develop recommendations on food and tobacco policy; and (d) develop cost-effective programs for
prevention and control of selected NCDs. Planned outputs were (i) creation of an NCD database; (ii) NCD
prevalence assessments; (iii) best practice guidelines on key NCDs; (iv) NCD Data Registry; (v) food and
tobacco policy recommendations; and (vi) pilot diabetes program. Inputs included equipment, computers,
vehicles, in-service training, TA, EEC and incremental operating costs.
- 3-



Component 5: Hlealith Policy (US$1.3 milon, or 6% of base cost)
This component sought to (a) strengthen the weak capacity for policy analysis and planning in the health
sector; and (b) support research and analysis of health policy and financing issues. Planned outputs were
(i) implementation of agreed health studies program; and (ii) annual provincial health (training) plans.
Inputs were TA, in-service training, equipment, computers and incremental costs.
Component 6: Management Information System (US$.6 milon, or 8% of base cost)
This component aimed at increasing the capacity of MOH's Management Development and Planning Unit
(MDPU) to organize and utilize information for planning and management. Planned output was the MIS
system installed, functioning and producing required data prior to the MTR. Inputs were TA, in-service
training, computers, equipment and incremental operating costs.
Component 7: lHlealth Education (US$2.5 millon, or 12% of base cost)
This component sought to (a) improve quality, effectiveness and coverage of the activities of the Health
Education Bureau (HEB); and (b) strengthen its capacity to carry out interpersonal communication
training. Planned output was the provision of interpersonal training to all health field staff. Inputs
included civil work, equipment, fulrniture, computers, vehicles, TA, IEC, in-service training, and
incremental operating costs.
Component 8: Project Management (US$0.3 millon, or 1% of base cost)
This component was to set up a Project Management Unit (PMU) within the MOH to coordinate project
activities and handle procurement, disbursement, monitoring and reporting for this project. Inputs were
equipment, vehicles, computers, training, monitoring and evaluation, and national TA (salaries of PMU
staff who were technically consultants).
3.4 Revised Components:
The project was restructured following the MTR. Reasons were: "delays in project implementation; an
over-ambitious project design; and, in financial terms, a greater than expected depreciation of the Sri
Lankan rupee against the US dollar." The restructuring reduced the project scope, and the credit value
from SDR 13.0 million to SDR 10.4 million. It was based on five principles: (a) no deletion of
components; (b) no addition of components; (c) expansion of successful components; (d) truncation of
unsuccessful ones; and (e) no project extension. Minor changes were made to the original objectives of
some components. The successful components, i.e., malaria and health education, were expanded; nutrition
was refocused to support NGO activities; the originally ambitious STD/ADS component was reduced; the
policy component remained unchanged, and the unsuccessful NCD and MIS components were substantially
reduced.
The revised components were as follows:
Malarlia: US$3.85 millon (24%): The objective remained the same, but the component was expanded to
cover four more districts.
ST1D)/Al1D)S: US$6.84 milion (36%): The objective was slightly revised; it was now to prevent a
widespread HIV epidemic and to ensure that HIV prevalence remains low. The focus was to be on an
- 4 -



effective STD prevention and control program, blood safety, increased condom use among high-risk
groups, a sound surveillance program and increased HIV and STD awareness.
Nutrition: US$2.23 million (14%): The objective was revised to focus on (a) improvement in the
nutritional status of mothers and children under 3 years in the communities covered by the NGO projects;
and (b) in-service training. Key activities were NGO projects, training, Nutrition Information System, EEC
activities, and evaluation of iodine deficiency and goiter.
Non-Communicable Diseases: US$0.63 million (2%): The modified objective focused on the
development of an NCD strategy for Sri Lanka, based on the development of a data base and best practice
guidelines for diabetes and hypertension.
Health Policy: US$0.92 million (9%): Objective remained unchanged but the implementation of the pilots
was scaled back from two to one.
Management Information System: US$0.23 million (1%): Due to implementation problems, the
original objective was scaled back. The revised objective was to support selected data collection activities
and strengthen the capacity of central and provincial staff in basic computer skills.
Health Education: US$1.58 million (12%): The objective remained unchanged. Key activities were
construction, intemational training, procurement of services of a short-term intemational consultant,
interpersonal communication skills training, and production and dissemination of IEC material.
Project Management Unit: US$0A7 million (2%): The objective remained unchanged.
Since the project scope was narrowed for increased focus, and was within the original objectives, the
revisions were not referred to the Board.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality at entry is rated unsatisfactory.
While the project's objectives were relevant and appropriate considering the country's epidemiological
profile and institutional characteristics, and realistic given the country's strong public sector track record in
health, several of its design elements were deficient First, while each component was relevant and
appropriate, together the components made a complex design that lacked internal coherence. Each
component had three to eleven sub-components and each subcomponent had multiple interventions making
the project unwieldy. Second, activities under some components were not sufficient to achieve the
component objectives as, for example, activities under the nutrition and the NCD components. Third,
following the decentralization, most health staff, services and facilities were provincial responsibilities and
serious capacity issues existed at that level. The project focused at the center, paying little attention to
significant decentralization issues. Fourth, the original components did not cover the conflict areas of the
Northeast where the public health needs were greater. Only during the MTR, four districts from these
areas were included under the malaria component. Fifth, while the risks were well assessed and lessons,
such as the need for design simplicity and client ownership, were noted from the previous projects,
mitigation strategies and lessons were not reflected in the design. Sixth, management and implementation
arrangements were inadequate. Projects with several vertical program components are best managed by the
existing implementation structures; a PMU, unless headed by a high level officer, is not appropriate.
Further implementation arrangements were not sufficiently specified. For example, the what, the where,
-5-



the when and the how of NGO participation in the nutrition component was not specified and led to
confusion and poor implementation. Seventh, preparation did not pay sufficient attention to procurement,
financial management and project monitoring. For example, procurement capacity was not properly
assessed; later as the procurement of drugs and supplies was lagging, WHO and UNICEF had to be
contracted as sole source procurement agents 39 months into the project. Eighth, the project did not have
clear outcome, output and process indicators; often these were objectives or activities and not indicators.
Also there was no baseline data on most indicators. And finally, description of the target population and
the component jurisdiction is inadequate.
4. Aclhievement of Ob~ecflve and cutpuuts
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overall outcome and achievement of objectives is rated satisfactory. Malaria and STD/AIDS which
accounted for 80% of the investment under the first objective and 57% of total base cost, achieved
satisfactory outcomes. There were gains under the second objective relating to the NCDs though the
objective was not achieved. The third objective relating to policy and financing issues was achieved: this
component undertook important policy studies and created capacity for policy analysis in the MOH. There
were also modest gains in nutrition, health education and institutional strengthening.
Public heafth: The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) target for the malaria component was a reduction in the
number of malaria cases in the high-prevalence six districts from 40/1000 to below 10/1000 population.
This target was achieved by 2001. This achievement cannot be solely attributed to the project as the
reduction in prevalence was facilitated by a drought in 2001 in parts of Sri Lanka. During the MTR, four
conflict zone districts were added in which morbidity declined to 20/1000 population. The target for the
STD/AIDS component was to ensure that HIV prevalence in Sri Lanka remains below 1% of the
population. This target was achieved, again not solely due to the project. The nutrition component did not
perform well and most of its outputs and outcomes were not measured. However low birth-weight among
five-year old children decreased from 23% in 1997 to 17% in 2000, but the project's contribution to this
may only be marginal.
Non-commuicaible diseases: The planned outcome was development of a strategy/policy
recommendations, and their adoption by the government. The project did not succeed in producing the
strategy/policy recommendations. This component had a modest accomplishment in preparing best practice
guidelines on diabetes and hypertension. The recently developed draft Strategy for a Healthier Nation
under the Policy and Human Resources Development (PHRD) grant, emphasizes addressing NCDs as a
priority.
Ilealth Policy: The SAR outcomes were strengthened government capacity for policy analysis and
planning, and adoption of recommendations from research and analysis of health policy and financing
issues. The project developed capacity for analysis and planning through training of managers and, to a
limited extent, through the link program between the MOH and the Health Economics Study Program of
the University of Colombo. Several policy studies and a high quality National Health Expenditure data
were produced which are influencing policy discussion, and the sector strategy being developed for the next
operation.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Malaria: The component outputs were satisfactory, and included strengthened surveillance; quality
-6-



assurance of malaria slides collection and testing; and improved malaria control interventions such as
indoor residual spraying and biological control. The project succeeded in controlling epidemics in 1999,
2000, 2001 and 2002 through early case detection, prompt treatment and effective spraying of the affected
area. Successful operations research projects were completed in water management for vector control, and
control of mosquito breeding in wells using the larvivorous fish. Additional outputs included the upgrading
of seven entomological laboratories and doubling the number of field days of entomological investigations
from 12 to 24 per month. About 80% of the planned trainng was achieved. The number of positive cases
detected in the six project districts dropped from 70,503 in 1997 to 11,055 in 2001. The mobile clinic
strategy was found expensive (30% of the program cost) and not sustainable. Regular district plans were
prepared and implemented with implementation monitored through quarterly review meetings of the
regional malaria officers and six-monthly meetings of all the malaria officers. There is no data on actual
treated bed-net use though, between 1997 and 2000, 9,010 bed-nets were treated. By the end of the project,
about 150,000 bed-nets had been procured and were being distributed.
Constant procurement difficulties and delayed procurement of chemical supplies and of 400 inappropriate
microscopes affected implementation.
STD/AIDS: The component outputs were satisfactory. Capacity of STD clinics to diagnose and treat
patients was strengthened in nine provincial hospitals and nine base hospitals. Public awareness of
HIV/AIDS increased and ranges from 97% in the urban areas to 86% in the rural areas. Awareness about
STDs and safer sex practice increased; condom use in the high-risk sexual relationships ranges from 25%
to 38%. An important output is improved STD care-seeking behavior. The number of cases diagnosed and
treated increased from 4,000 in 1997 to over 6,000 in 2000. The project completed the construction and
equipping of the STD/AIDS headquarters building. It developed and disseminated blood safety guidelines,
and legislation requiring private blood bank compliance has been passed. A national strategic plan for the
prevention and control of HIV/AIDS for the period 2001-2005 was prepared and released.
Nutrition: The output was unsatisfactory. The component was poorly implemented and the planned
outputs were not focused upon or later measured. However, some outputs were produced that may
strengthen nutrition work in future. Both MOH and NGOs, 55 in number, gained experience of working
together on nutrition. A nutrition guide was prepared, printed in three languages, Singhalese, Tamil and
English, and distributed. Nutrition surveillance sentinel points were established and surveillance begun.
Some capacity development occurred through training. Revision of the basic training curriculum of public
health midwives was completed introducing growth promotion elements of nutrition. The project financed
two nutrition staff to undertake master's level training in food and nutrition, and statistics and computer
analysis.
This component had 11 sub-components. A fragmented approach, over-centralized and weak management,
lack of staff ownership, lack of agreement on approach to nutrition among the implementers, and other
similar problems impeded progress. During the MTR, the component was refocused on NGOs. But delays
at all stages pennitted NGO work only for a year. Evaluation showed little impact on the nutrition status
of children and knowledge of mothers.
Non-Communicable Disease: The component output was unsatisfactory, in part because of poor design,
with too many agencies involved, inadequate arrangements for coordination, and poor management. The
NCD database could not be created as most of the other activities were not implemented. A scaled down
version of the planned NCD prevalence survey was completed towards the project end but the data
remained to be analyzed. Other important activities including establishing an NCD data registry, food and
tobacco policy recommendations, and pilots were not undertaken. However best practice guidelines on
- 7 -



diabetes produced and printed and 4,500 copies released by the Sri Lanka Medical Association. Similar
guidelines were also produced on hypertension.
IEle21th Polcy: The component produced satisfactory output. Outputs included six rapid Needs
Assessments of policy options for (a) addressing resource needs for tertiary care; (b) people affected by
war; (c) health care of the elderly; (d) violence against women; (e) drug costs and availability; and (f)
school health program. The results of these assessments were disseminated. Three additional studies were
financed under the project: (i) a National Health Expenditures study; (ii) Demographic and Health Survey;
and, (iii) a mental health study. These studies were well disseminated and well received. Government has
implemented the recommendations of the mental health study and is progressively extending this activity
community-wide. Further planned national level training and five provincial training programs were
completed. Two intemational masters level and one short term training fellowships were completed. Eight
provincial training units were fully equipped. Twenty senior MOH staff participated in the World Bank's
Flagship Course on Health Sector Reform and Sustainable Financing. By the end of the project, policy
aspects had begun receiving attention.
Management l[normzotin System: The component output is rated unsatisfactory. This component did
not progress and was substantially reduced at the MTR. Its outputs were two reports on mapping of health
assets in two provinces and five associated training programs. MOH's lack of experience with service
procurement and weak monitoring led to its poor performance.
Blealth Education: This component yielded satisfactory outputs. Over 50% of the field staff was trained
in interpersonal communication. An auditorium and hostel complex were constructed for the Health
Education Bureau (HEB). Other outputs were 88 out of 90 upgraded hospital health education units; three
target audience research studies on nutrition and STD/AIDS; and production and distribution of EEC
materials on STD/AIDS, non-communicable diseases, malaria and nutrition. HEB also produced seven
tele-dramas and a cartoon film on HIV/AIDS, a cartoon film on nutrition, and three exhibition kits on
alcohol use prevention. Additionally, booklets for health workers were produced and printed. Health
education mobile vans, 23 at the district level and two centrally, spread health education messages. The
main weakness was deficient coordination between the HEB and the public health components limiting the
impact of HEB's activities.
Project Management: This component had a mixed performance. The heterogeneous nature of the
project's performance can, in large part, be attributed to management and implementation problems.
Implementation went through two phases, a poorly implemented first phase, and following the MTR, a well
implemented second phase. A small PMU, headed by a mid-level Coordinator, was not able to coordinate
activities managed by different program directors who were senior to the Coordinator. Under this
arrangement, the directors paid little heed to the Project Coordinator. The PMU staffing, with poorly paid
consultants from outside the system, consisted of an accountant, a procurement officer, and three clerical
staff, and was inadequate. There was no one to handle administration or construction. Though located in
the MOH, PMU had an insignificant status there. Only when the MOH senior officials, the Secretary and
the DG, got fully involved after the MTR did the PMU become effective.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
No net present value/economic rate of return were calculated for this project.
- 8 -



4.4 Financial rate of return:
No financial rate of return was calculated for the project.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Overall institutional development impact was modest. The impact can be seen in four areas: (a) modest
increases in national and field level public health capacity due to training and specific project experience;
(b) increased capacity for policy analysis and planning; (c) additional capacity added through new positions
and facilities; and (d) infrastructure related experience. The Health Education and Nutrition components
trained numerous field and higher staff who are better equipped now to implement future public health
activities. For example, senior HEB officials were trained in management and technical (communication)
skills, and public health field staff were trained in interpersonal communication.
NGO collaboration with the NGOs provided useful exposure and experience to MOH for similar future
activity. MOH gained experience in contracting private sector services, especially consultancies and
studies. The Ministry faced initial difficulties but, by the project end, gained confidence in managing these
contracts and partnering with the private sector. The policy component completed and disseminated several
studies including the influential National Health Expenditure study. MOH is better equipped now to handle
policy work as is evident from the current work on developing the health sector strategy. Strengthened
malaria surveillance, health education capacity with eleven new posts of Health Education Officers for the
provinces, and the new post of Director of Nutrition are institutional gains. Finally the construction
experience in putting up STD/AIDS Program and HEB headquarters buildings, and dozens of smaller
constructions strengthened capacity for similar future work.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5. 1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency
Both negative and positive factors outside government's control affected implementation and outcomes.
The continuing civil war was one such factor that affected outcome. Malaria interventions were initially
avoided in the conflict zone. Malaria related morbidity reduction in these areas, which were included in the
project after the MTR, was 20/1000 population compared to 10/1000 in the initial six districts. If there
had been no civil war, these high prevalence areas would have been added from the beginning with better
results. The second such factor was the 2001 drought in parts of Sri Lanka, which combined with the
project interventions to produce a steep decline in malaria cases not witnessed during the earlier five years.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
An important factor that affected implementation was a lack of demonstrated project ownership among the
concerned higher officials, at least initially. This was manifested in inaction to address procurement delays,
lack of counterpart funds and persistent vacancies in key positions. Procurement required double
processing requuing compliance both with IDA and government procedures and that involved additional
approvals. Deficient understanding of the Bank's procurement guidelines among the MOH staff and the
initial lack of delegation to the project tender board delayed procurement action. The project did not have a
checking account and had to follow the normal treasury procedures to draw funds. This made use of funds
difficult as the project had to compete with other uses of the available funds. For the first three years,
vacancies in the PMU were a constant issue, especially the vacant post of the Project Coordinator.
Together these issues resulted in implementation delays, which finally led to the project restructuring. The
-9-



government could have addressed most of these issues through simple executive orders.
Governance issues affected implementation initially. Appointments to the PMU were not always
advertised and often unsuitable candidates appointed on short-term basis. In five years, there were seven
project coordinators, eight accountants, and two procurement officers. Lack of continuity in key positions
impeded implementation. Again, the project had provided for the position of a Deputy Director (Nutrition)
in the Family Health Directorate, which is responsible for nutrition activities. Instead, the government
created a higher post of a Director, placed it in the MOH, and selected a high profile candidate to fill it.
This arrangement affected the implementation of this component throughout.
It must be pointed out that many of these problems were shared across the Bank's portfolio in Sri Lanka.
The July 2002 Portfolio Performance Review listed weak and inadequate management, inadequate
commitment/ownership, slow procurement, inadequate funds flow, complex project design and governance
as the systemic issues that affect the portfolio performance.
Despite weak performance, the project was not reviewed by the higher levels and allowed to drift till the
MTR. Following the restructuring, implementation picked up because of the increased focus on priority
issues and activities, regular progress monitoring, strong involvement of higher-level MOH officials and
continuity of the Secretary, the DG and the Project Coordinator. At this stage, new Health Secretary and
DG were appointed who continued for much of the remaining project period. They took up the challenge to
turn the project around and pursued sustained effective action on implementation. The partial cancellation
of the credit facilitated purposeful action.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Factors that led to poor implementation were well within the MOH control. These emanated from MOH's
weak commitment to the project and poor management during the first phase.
The MOH-based PMU, which was headed by a mid-level officer, coordinated project activities. The
effectiveness of this arrangement depended on the status of the PMU within the MOH. Unfortunately the
PMU had hardly any status and was like another MOH cell. The Health Secretary headed the Project
Steering Committee met irregularly and did little to steer implementation. During the first phase, the MOH
did not support the PMU by monitoring progress, identifying weaknesses and taking corrective action.
Coordination among different project components and the PMU was weak. Lack of interaction between
MOH's budget section and the PMU affected the flow of funds to the project. Financial management
remained weak and often led to delayed submission of withdrawal applications. For example, the
implementing agency has continued to submit withdrawal applications even after the terminal date for
receipt of applications.
Both the MOH and the PMU lacked procurement capacity but took no remedial action. The MIS
component did not take off because of procurement delays. There were complaints of substandard
equipment, caused mainly because of inadequate or inaccurate specifications. Other problems included
lack of procurement planning, inadequate understanding of IDA guidelines, lack of experience with service
procurement, lack of delegation to the project tender board and delayed decision making leading to expiry
of validity of bids.
The MOH contracted out work to several private sector organizations, especially studies and consultancies,
but did not adequately monitor the performance of the contractors. Building designs were not satisfactory
-10-



in some cases, and long delays occurred in receiving the contracted services, e.g., NCD Risk Assessment
Survey. Simple progress monitoring could have addressed this problem.
Implementation of certain components, e.g., the NCD and policy issues, was affected by the MOH not
hiring the planned TA, e.g., intemational TA in health economics, and not using the available training
opportunities, especially in the first phase. Though the situation changed in the second phase, some of the
components had been substantially reduced by that time.
After the restructuring, though the revised work plans remained ambitious, implementation improved
distinctively. The Health Secretary, the DG and the Project Coordinator who joined the MOH at this stage,
continued for the remaining period. The MOH took up the challenge of retrieving the project and got
strongly involved in progress monitoring and corrective action. The MOH focused on policy related
direction and decision-making and the DG on implementation. The new Additional Secretary, who
provided the needed leadership in the MOH to speed up implementation, later became the Secretary. The
system had the implementation capacity which effective management now tapped fully. The big issues
identified by the MTR were focused upon and implemented speedily. The project disbursed 94% of the
revised credit. The MTR had laid down that if the implementing agency did not meet the agreed upon
benchmarks, following a planned review six months later, the project would be further reduced. The new
MOH leadership made sure that that did not happen.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The original project cost over five years was estimated at LKR 1,489.0 million or US$22.6 million
equivalent. Of this, US$18.76 million (SDR 13.0 million equivalent) was to be financed through an IDA
Credit and the remaining US$3.84 million to be contributed by the government. The project was
restructured in November 1999, and SDR2.6 million was cancelled, reducing the original Credit to SDR
10.4 million (US$15.3 million).
At the project closing, the government estimated that the total project expenditure was LKR 1,288.8
million, i.e., 87% of the originally estimated project cost in rupees. On October 31, 2002, the deadline for
receipt of disbursement requests, SDR 9.7 million (US$ 12.9 million equivalent), representing 94% of the
revised credit, and the undocumented balance of the special account was the equivalent of SDR 0. lmillion;
therefore approximately SDR 0.8 million, in addition to the refunds not received, is subject to cancellation.
The difference between the estimated cost at appraisal and the actual project cost is attributable to (a)
slower than expected implementation pace in initial years; (b) project restructuring and cancellation of part
of the credit; and (c) exchange rate related savings.
6. Sustainability
6 1 Rationalefor sustainabilhty rating-
Project sustainability is rated likely. Financial sustainability is likely because the project's recurrent annual
cost of about $5.46 million is small, less than 2% of government annual health expenditure (2002 budget:
US$295 million). Institutional sustainability is likely because, except for a few consultant positions, the
posts created under the project, such as the 11 Health Education Officers or the Director, Nutrition, were
regular posts paid out of government's regular budget. The capacity created through training and research
in policy planning and analysis, management and technical training of higher-level HEB officials, training
of officers and staff in food and nutrition, statistical analysis, and several public health areas, is available
to the program. Similarly data collected from policy studies and other research is available and, in some
- 1 1 -



cases, being used for policy development and other program needs.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The project's malaria activities are being incorporated in the provincial health systems. The STD/AIDS
program is being transferred to the regular health budget. The government has prepared a scaled-up
program for the prevention of these diseases to be partially financed by an IDA grant. The proposed
HIV/AIDS Prevention Project is scheduled for the Board approval in December 2002. The position of
Director (Nutrition) will provide the necessary focus for nutrition activities. Health Education facilities
have been transferred to different health institutions as part of their regular programs. Improved policy
analysis and planning capacity and the policy studies are already contributing to the development of the
country's health sector strategy.
7. BanXk gand l3orroweT Perforirmaince
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Bank's performance in lending was unsatisfactory. While the project design did focus on important needs,
it did not fully respond to the country/sector needs, absorb lessons from the earlier projects, or deliver a
thorough preparation. First, the project did not address a central issue like decentralization; nor did it
include conflict areas. International experience shows that health services can be delivered in war
situations. Second, risks relating to project complexity and decentralization of services were assessed but
mitigation strategies did not measure up. Similarly, lessons from the previous projects on ownership,
coordination and political sensitivity were noted but not internalized into the project design as became
evident during the implementation. Third, the participation of key stakeholders such as the provincial
governments, NGOs, and the private sector was limited; important government players, such as the
planning section in the DG's office, were not involved in preparation. Fourth, the project design was loose
and complex and had poorly developed components. For example, if the objective was to lay down a basis
for addressing the increasing NCD burden, the component should have provided for and specified solid
analytical work. Instead it opted for a number of loosely-defined pilots, databases and assessments. Sixth,
project components supported programs, e.g., malaria, STD/AIDS, nutrition, etc., but did not sufficiently
address the necessary underlying institutional arrangements. Seventh, implementation arrangements were
not given enough attention and were not detailed enough. For example, 'incremental operating costs' were
not provided for in the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) through an oversight, and the omission was
corrected 39 months later. Bank did not obtain from the borrower an implementation plan or a monitoring
plan. These weaknesses were pointed out by the peer reviewers but remained un-addressed in the design.
It is instructive to note that lessons on procurement and management problems have been addressed in the
recently negotiated HIV/AIDS Project in the project design and preparation through (a) technical assistance
to strengthen management and procurement capacity and planning; (b) integration of project management
into the MOH to enhance coordination, ownership, and sustainability; (c) development of financial
management guidelines, procurement plans and capacity building during the preparation; and (d) a
provision to involve provincial authorities in implementing locally specific interventions as well as selecting
and monitoring NGOs.
7.2 Supervision:
Overall, supervision is rated satisfactory. Though it was weak to begin with, later it helped turn the project
around through restructuring and follow up supervision. The project achieved its major, high-cost
- 12 -



component objectives, and produced substantial benefits in public health and, to an extent, in institutional
strengthening. It was the pro-activity of the task team leader that led to a quick and sound restructuring.
The project had started indicating ownership and implementation problems from the beginning. For
example, the contract of the experienced Project Coordinator from the previous project came to an end six
months after effectiveness and was not renewed, nor was a substitute appointed. Subsequently, unsuitable
candidates were appointed for short periods throughout the first three years. The MOH was also not
providing progress reports. Ironically supervision reports indicated a "satisfactory" implementation rating
for this period. Similarly supervision missions did not include an architect though the project included
significant construction activity. Problems with design of the buildings were detected late. Also the
supervision did not emphasize monitoring and evaluation which has been a weak feature of implementation.
The situation was remedied by the project restructuring which was done well and had the intended effect.
The restructuring focused on implementation and monitoring by identifying a limited number of key
monitoring indicators overall and for individual components, and required their monthly review. It also
required that the department as a whole and not the PMU alone was involved in achieving the agreed
benchmarks and dated actions. It virtually closed components and sub-components that had not progressed
and reduced or cancelled several small items of expenditure that are typically time-consuming, e.g.,
household surveys and research projects, and thereby lightened the implementation load. The restructured
project completed most of its activities. A positive feature of the supervision was a responsive Field
Office. It responded to the project needs and provided good support to the borrower.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance was satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Government's performance during the preparation was unsatisfactory. It did not show enough commitment
to the process. There was not enough consultation within the government on the content or management
arrangements of the project. The borrower did not prepare a project implementation plan or other project
document for guidance of the PMU. Nor was there a monitoring plan. The borrower's previous project
had performed poorly during the first half, was restructured and then implemented well. The borrower did
not absorb any lessons from that experience and this project repeated the history by following exactly the
same course. The borrower negotiated a project significant parts of which it did not fully own.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government's implementation performance is rated satisfactory because it greatly improved over the
project period. It was weak for the first almost three years. Procurement delays, delays in release of
counterpart funds, vacant posts and frequent transfers in the PMU remained a recurring theme. A
Bank-assisted pilot on a computerized accounting system had to be abandoned because of frequent
turnover in project accounting staff and the difficulties the Bank faced in providing continuous traimng. A
significant financial management problem arose reflecting insufficient attention to administrative issues.
Following the Auditor General's observations, the borrower was requested to refund LKR 4.4million as it
was declared ineligible. During the second phase, a more committed project leadership, continuity of staff,
focus on major issues and activities and intensive monitoring improved implementation, and the project
achieved most of its objectives. It is clear that the problem was not management capacity but weak
commitment during the first implementation phase.
- 13 -



7.6 Implementing Agency:
Implementing Agency's performance improved substantially during the second half of the project and, for
this reason, is rated satisfactory. It was the re-structuring and cancellation of a substantial part of the
credit that appears to have spurred the MOH into action. After the restructuring, it appointed a suitable
Project Coordinator and retained him till the project end. It also started supporting the PMU strongly.
There was no siglificant change in the management arrangements, but the MOH started showing greater
commitment to the project and conducting regular monthly progress monitoring and taking corrective
action.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance.
This is rated satisfactory because with strong borrower efforts during the second implementation phase, the
project achieved most of its objectives.
8. Lessons Learned
Bank supported next Health Nutrition and Population (HNP) operation in Sri Lanka is expected to be a
sector program. Lessons below are in two categories: lessons (a) through (f) are particularly relevant to a
sector program, and lessons (g) through (m) are relevant to Bank's HNP and other projects:
(a) New areas require attention to conasensus-building. For successful implementation, new directions
such as in the NCD component, and program reorientation as in the nutrition component, require extensive
consultations and a broad consensus among the key stakeholders. In the absence of this, performance of
these components was poor.
(b) Consultation with the key implementation staff is necessary. One reason projects, or individual
components, fail is the lack of understanding, among the key implementing staff, of the project rationale,
design, strategies, activities, implementation arrangements and expected outputs and outcomes. Thorough
consultation with key implementation staff during preparation and intensive orientation before and during
early implementation improves the likelihood of successful implementation.
(c) Procmrement is often critical to the success of HNIP projects. In HNP projects, procurement
accounts for about two-thirds of the project cost. Procurement delays, which characterize HNP projects,
prevent the use of inputs until much later in the project, thus consuming time and affecting the quality of
outputs. Given procurement volumes/costs in regular HNP programs, a strong case exists for establishing
adequately staffed and well-trained procurement units in Health Ministries. Appointment of a procurement
agent can support project implementation but is no substitute for development of in-house capacity for
longer-term institutional effectiveness. For sector programs, it is important not to apply IDA procurement
guidelines but agree on common procedures acceptable to government and participating donors. Normally
because IDA finances a proportion of the budget, all procurement under the program attracts the use of
IDA guidelines. Also experience elsewhere indicates the desirability of not centralizing procurement in a
sector program to avoid holding well-functioning program parts hostage to procurement issues.
(d) Complementarities and synergies among verticalprograms should be identRfled and exploited.
Health Ministries normally implement several vertical projects and programs. Those have their own
support services such as LEC, procurement and financial management. When several such programs are
clubbed together as components in a project, as in the present project, coordination becomes a challenge. If
- 14 -



strong coordination is lacking, each part tends to work in isolation, and reduce the effectiveness of the
whole. While in itself the HEB component performed well, its deficient interaction with the public health
components deprived them of the vital communication support that they needed for full effectiveness.
(e) A responsivefieldpresence is necessary. Close client contact is needed at all times but especially
when a project is in trouble. The Bank's responsive field presence in Colombo contributed positively to
supervision and problem solving, especially after the MTR when the government became committed to
delivering on the agreed milestones.
(f) Attention to administrative issues is needed at the start. Supervision missions for the first two years
should include strong procurement and financial management expertise and should focus on identifying
administrative impediments to progress. Early detection of problems in these areas is necessary to get the
best out of the technical interventions.
(g) PMUs, that lack strong supportfrom the ministry leadership, have limited management
effectiveness. For projects involving a number of large or vertical programs, existing management
structures are far more appropriate than PMUs. Establishing a PMU to manage a loose, dispersed and
complex project was not an appropriate approach. Such projects require higher-level coordination and
control and can be better managed by the existing structures. Also that can better facilitate
institutionalization of the capacities developed in the implementation process.
(h) Lessons should be internalized into project design. Lessons from the previous projects should be
effectively learned into the project design to avoid the same mistakes being repeated, as happened in this
project. Mere identification and discussion of potential risks does not help; their seriousness should be
carefully assessed and strategies put in place to mitigate them. Several risks to the present project were
identified during preparation, i.e., design complexity and decentralization, but the strategies to address them
did not at all stand.
(i) Financial management capacity is a prerequisite. It is necessary to assess financial management
capacity well in advance and have adequate capacity put in place before the project begins. An analysis of
flow of funds should be conducted, potential impediments identified and addressed during the preparation.
In this project, financial management took a 'ring-fenced' approach that focused on bookkeeping and
accounting rather than on developing a system covering financial, physical, and procurement progress
monitoring. Future projects should focus on building capacity for financial management, streamlining
accounting practices in the ministry, and linking financial with physical progress monitoring.
(j)  Contractingfor services requires special skills and shifts in the institutional culture. While most
health ministries are familiar with the procurement of works and goods, they have little experience in
service procurement and contracting. In future, increasingly services will be contracted to the private
sector and the NGOs. It is necessary to establish a section in the health ministries that specializes in
contracting the private sector to deliver the needed services. Long delays in contracting services and later
weak monitoring of contractor performance affected the project performance.
(k) Traditionalpublic sector culture is not conducive to working with the NGOs. NGOs' view of their
experience of working on the present project's nutrition component is "a lesson on how to kill an NGO
initiative". Special arrangements are needed in the public sector organizations if these have to successfully
work with NGOs. Establishing small sections and sensitizing the staff on the special value and needs of the
NGOs, can improve government and NGO collaboration and enable health ministries to use this effective
resource.
- 15 -



(1) Proper monitoring indicators are essenidaL Use of monitoring indicators both by the Bank during
the supervision nissions and by the government during routine reviews of implementation progress, can
help control the quality of implementation. Lack of use of such indicators allowed several components,
e.g., nutrition, NCD and MIS, to go off track. Lack of baseline data, quantified output indicators and
arrangements for results measurement affected implementation and outcomes.
(m) IRestrucctore as needed when problems arise. Restructuring need not wait until the mid-term. A
project that would need restructuring starts indicating problems in the first year. A view on the need for
restructuring should be taken early and once it is found necessaiy, no time should be lost in completing it.
9. Partmner (Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The MOH's comment to the draft ICR has been incorporated in the final ICR. The Borrower's independent
Project Evaluation Report is attached as Annex 8.
(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.
20D. Additional informnuatiom
None.
- 16 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                  Projected In last IjSR   .ACtUalILatestEsUlmnate
Malaria:
Reduction of annual umber of identified  Reducbon of mortality and morbidity by 50%  Malana morbidity has been reduced to
malaria cases in high prevalence distncts  and 30% in the distticts of Jaffna, Vavuniya  10/1000 populabon in the original six disticts
covered by the project to less than 10/1000  and Moneragala, and by 75% and 50% in the and to 20/1000 populabon In the four districts
populabon by 2001.                   distncts of Auradhapura, Polonnanjwa,  added at the MTR.
Ampara, Matale, Hambantota, Puttalam and
Trincomalee
STD/AIDS
(i) ) HIV prevalence remains below 1% of  HIV prevalence below 1% of population,  Prevalence remains below 1% of population
populabon.
(n) Number of STD cases diagnosed/ treated. Not specified                The number of STD cases diagnosed and
treated increased from 4,000 in1997 to over
6,000 in 2000 (Later informaton is not
available )
(Iil) (Reduction in) high nsk behavior.  Not specified                   Awareness about safer sex practice
increased with condom use in high-nsk
relabonships ranging from 25% to 38%
Nutnbon.
(i) Reducton of percentage of underweight  Underweight children below age 3 reduced to The Demographic and Health Survey (2000)
children (standard weight for age cnterion)  less than 20%.              results show that the percentage of
below age 3 to less than 20% by 2001                                     underweight children decreased from 37% in
1993 to 29% In 2000
(ii) Percentage of pregnant women anemic  Not specified.                 Not measured
(iii) Percentage of low-weight births  Prevalence of low-weight births less than  Prevalence of low birth weight In 2000 was
15%                                  16 6%
(iv) Occurrence of new goiters       Not specified.                      Data not collected
Non-communicable Disease (NCD)
(i) NCD related policy recommendabons.  Not specified                    Policy recommendations or NCD strategy not
developed
(ii) Utilization of (best practce) guidelines.  Ubilzaton of guidelines  Best practices guidelines for hypertension
and Diabetes were prepared and
disseminated, their ublizabon is not known
(iii) Adoption of policy recommendabons.  Adoption of policy recommendations.  Policy recommendabons not developed.
(Iv) Ubliaton of pilot expenence     Pilot program was not undertaken    Pilot program not undertaken
Health Policy.
(i) Adopbon of agreed recommendations  Adopbon of strategies based on lessons from Only recommendabons of the Mental Health
based on study program               studies and long-term technical assistance in Study adopted. Some other studies induding
economics.                           the Nabonal Health Expenditures, and the
Demographic and Health Survey are proving
influenbal in shaping future strategies
(ii) Implementabon of agreed        Recommendations of Mental Health Study  Recommnedabons of the Mental Health
recommendations.                    are being implemented and progressively  Study are being implemented.
extended community-wide
- 17 -



MIS
Ublizabon of MIS data by MOH for planning  Due to delay in implementation of MIS, this  MIS not developed
and management purposes              component was drastcally reduced
Health Educabon.
(i) Modfication of specified health and  Improved knowledge and practces related to Impact uncertain; not measured
nutnton related behaviors by identified  nutribon during pregnancy and
populabons.                          complementary feeding after 6 months;
improved knowledge and practices related to
HIV/AIDS preventon.
(li) Changes in knowledge and behavior  Mixed improvement of knowledge and  Mixed improvement in knovledge and
resulting from specific              behavior resulted from health education/lEC  behavior.
health educabon/lEC efforts.         efforts
Output Indicators:
lndicatorMlatrlx                   Projected In last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
MALARIA:
Mobile dinic coverage in high-prevalence  Achievement of planned coverage as  Planned coverage was achieved by holding
districts as Indicated in annual district plans  indicated in annual district plans  mobile dinics in inaccessible areas, though
this strategy is expensive (30% of the
program costs) and not sustainable.
Altemately, Malaria dinics were tried and a
norm 40 such clinics per month was
established for in remote areas
Producton of annual distnct plans    Not specified.                       These plans were produced and their
implementabon monitored regularly
Treated bed-net use                  Not specified.                       Between 1997 and 2000 a total of 9,170
treated bed-nets were distnbuted. There was
delay in procunng the bed-nets through
UNICEF. However, by the end of the project
about 150,000 bed-nets were procured and
were being distnbuted. Data on use is not
available
STDIAIDS
No. of planned STD clinics in provincial and  Not specified.              STD clinics in nine provincial hospitals and
base hospitals established/refurbished,                                   nine base hospitals were
equipped and functoning.                                                  estabished/refurbished, equipped and made
functional
Knowledge about AIDS and how to avoid it  HIV/AIDS awareness ranges between 97% in Public awareness about AIDS ranges from
urban areas to 86% in rural areas with slightly 97% in the urban areas to 86% in the rural
higher rates among males             areas wth slighty higher rates among males
Knowledge about STDs and how to treat and Increased treatment of STD cases  There is increased awareness of STDs and
avoid it (general public, specific target                                 safer sex practies and an increase in STD
groups, private sector physicians)                                        care-seeking as evident from the increasing
number of cases showing up at the STD
clinics No data on knowledge levels of
pnvate sector physicians available.
NUTRITION:
Percentage of Public Health Midwives (PHM) Not specidied.                 Data not available.
associated with at least one community
nutiion center.
Improved technical knowledge (among  Not specified.                       Data not available.
- 18 -



PHMs).
Adoption of recommended breastfeeding,  Not specified.                     Data not available.
and weaning practces by mothers.
Compliance with Ironlfolic acid regime  Not specified.                     Data not available
(pregnant women)
Consumption of iodized salt (households)  Not specified.                   Data not available
NON-COMMUNICABLE DISEASES (NCD)
Creaton of an NCD database prior to
mid-term review                       Not specified                        NCD database was not created
NCOD prevalence assessments           Not specified                        Could not be completed.
Development and dissemination of best  Best pracbce guidelines for hypertension and Best practice guidelines for Diabetes have
practice guidelines                   diabetes                             been produced and 5,000 copies printed.
The best practice guide for the hypertension
is developed but not pnnted.
Development of NCD data registery     Not specified                        Could not be done.
Food and tobacco policy recommendations  Not specified.                    Not developed.
Pilot diabetes program                Not undertaken                       The pilot could not be undertaken
HEALTH POLICY
Undertaking of agreed studies program.  Six rapid Needs assessments and two major Six rapid Needs Assessments of policy
studies have been completed           options on resource needs for tertiary care:
people affected by war, health care for the
elderly; violence against women, drug costs
and availability, and school health program
were undertaken and completed, two
important studies such as Nabonal Health
Expenditures, and Demographic and Health
Survey were completed.
Annual provincial health plans        Not specified                        No informabon is available
MIS:
Producton of required data by MIS     Due to delay in implementation of MIS, these Due to delay in Implementation of MIS, this
activities were dropped at the MTR; support actvity was dropped at the mid-term review.
was provided to develop asset database in
three provinces.
Introducton of new MIS system.        Actvity dropped.                     MIS system not introduced. Support was
provided for the development of asset
database in three provinces.
Two reports on the mapping of health assets
of the Sabaragamuwa and North Central
Provincial were submitted.
HEALTH EDUCATION BUREAU
Training of all field staff in interpersonal  Provision of IPC training to all field staff by  Over 50% of the field staff were trained in
communication (IPC).                  project-end                           IPC
End of project
Note: Indicators in Annex I are from the Staff Appraisal Report's Annex 11 that provides key performance
monitoring indicators and project impact/output indicators.
- 19 -



Annei 2. lPiroject Costs and l Knafneing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   ActualIatess1t  Percentage of
.Estimate     Esqimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component             US$ million   US$ million
A. Malaria                                           3.55            3.85            108
B. STD/HIV/AIDS                                      8.15            6.84            84
C. Nutrition                                         2.84            2.23            79
D. Non-Communicable Diseases                         0.44            0.63           143
E. Program Support
Health Policy Development                          1.30           0.92             71
Management Information Systems                     1.60           0.23             14
Health Education EEC                               2.54           1.58             62
F. Project Management                                0.29            0.47            162
Total Baseline Cost                                  20.71          16.75
Physical Contingencies                               1.33
Price Contingencies                                  0.56
Total Project Costs             22.60           16.75
Total Financing Required              22.60          16.75
-20 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Eg'pe,'nd,iture Catego,jy            I    lS       'N1R      OQthfr,   N:B.F;2nY   Cost
A. Works
AID/STD Complex                             0.86            -               -        0.86
(0.80)                                   (0.80)
Hostel Construction                                   0.28                 -         0.28
(0.26)                         (0.26)
Minor Civil Works (diff. Locations)                   1.47       -         -         1.47
(1.37)                         (1.37)
B. Goods
Furniture                                                       0.13        -        0.13
(0.10)               (0.10)
Computer Hard and Software                  0.64       -        0.11        -        0.75
(0.51)              (0.09)               (0.60)
Misc. Equipment and Materials               0.92      0.30      0.32        -        1.54
(0.74)    (0.28)    (0.29)               (1.31)
Lab/Med Equipment/Consumables               0.45            -               -        0.45
(0.36)      -         -                  (0.36)
Medical Supplies, Drugs and Contraceptives  4.00       -        0.38        -        4.38
( 3.80)     .       (0.36)               (4.16)
C. Vehicles                                 2.55            -               -        2.55
(1.91)                                  (1.91)
D. Consultancies
Intemational TA                                                 0.39        -        0.39
(0.39)               (0.39)
Nabtonal TA                                                     0.88        -        0.88
(0.84)               (0.84)
E. Training
National Training                                               1.40        -        1.40
(1.33)      -        (1.33)
Fellowship & Study Tours                                        0.47                 0.47
(0.47)               (0.47)
F. Miscellaneous
RM & E                                                          1.97                 1.97
(1.88)               (1.88)
Health Eduction Program                                         1.83        -         1.83
(1.74)               (1 74)
Incremental Salaries                                             -         0.22      0.22
Operation & Maintenance                                         1.35       1.65      3.00
___(1.24)  _              (1.24)
Total                                       9.42      2.05      9.25       1.87     22.60
(8.12)   (1.91)     (8.73)      -       (18.76)
-21 -



Prcoject Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Lateet Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                  G       NCe       Other  N)      I
A. _ o.1s                                       2.59            .           2.59
(1.50)     -                (1.50)
S. Goods
Furniture                                                 0.06              0.06
(0.05)            (0.05)
Computer Hard and Software                       -        0.24              0.24
(0.21)            (0.21)
Misc. Equipment and Materials          1.36     0.44      0.14               1.94
(1.08)   (0.35)    (0.12)             (1.55)
Lab/Med Equipment/Consumables          0.73      -                           0.73
(0.45)     -         -                (0.45)
Medical Supplies, Drugs and Contraceptiv  0.82   -        0.38               1.20
(0.82)     -       (0.36)             (1.18)
C. Vehicle$                            3.09      -                           3.09
(2.78_ (2.78)  -     -                 2
D. Consultancies
International TA                       -         -        0.40               0.40
(0.40)            (0.40)
National TA                             -        -        0.11               0.11
(0. 10)           (0.10)
E. Training
National Training                       -        -        0.39               0.39
(0.34)            (0.34)
Fellowship & Study Tours               -         -        0.37               0.37
(0.37)            (0.37)
F. Miscellaneous
RM & E                                  -                 1.03               1.03
(0.85)            (0.85)
Health Eduction Program                 -                 2.97      -        2.97
(2.94)            (2.94)
Incremental Salaries                        -              -       0.04      0.04
Operation & Maintenance               -                   1.37     0.23      1.60
(0.13)            (0.13)
Total                                  6.00      3.03     7.46     0.27     16.75
(5.13)   (1.85)    (5.87)     -      (12.85)
-22 -



Project Financing by Disbursement Categories (In US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Disbursement            Appraisal Estimate          ActualzlJiieEst Estimate'
Categories]
IDA       Govt.     CoF.   , ,I,       . sGovt.     F.     IDA,, Govt.  CoF.,
Works                    2.43       0.18                1.50      1.08              61.7   600.0
Goods                    8.44       1.37                5.95      0.89              70.5   65 0
Consultancies and        3.03      0.11                 1.17      0.05              38.6   45.5
Training
Health Promotion Program  1.74      0.09                3.27      0 27              187 9  300.0
Research Monitoring &     1.88      0.10                0.83      0.11              44 1   110.0
Evaluation
Incremental Salaries     0.00      0.22                 0.00      0.04               0 0    18 2
Operation and             1 24      1.77               0.13       1.46               10.5   82.5
Maintenance
Total                    18 76      3.84               12.85      3.90              68.5   101.6
- 23 -



Annen 3. Economn     (Costs and BenneIl T
No economic costs and benefits analysis was carried out at the time of project appraisal, nor was it done at
the time of the ICR.
-24-



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty          Performance Rating
(e g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                     Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
November, 1994              9   Task Manager, Senior Public
Health Specialist, Nutrition
Specialist, IEC Specialist
(Consultant), MIS Specialist
(Consultant), Management
Specialist (Consultant), Health
Specialist (Consultant),
Procurement Specialist, Financial
Management Specialist
Appraisal/Negotiation
10/09/1995 -                7   Task Manager, Senior Public
10/20/1995                      Health Specialist, Nutrition
Specialist, IEC Specialist
(Consultant), MIS Specialist
(Consultant), Management
Specialist (Consultant),
Health Specialist
(Consultant)
Negotiation:
10/5/1996 -
10/11/199699
Supervision
05/14/1997                  2    Operations Advisor; Private       S             S
Sector Development
10/24/1997 -                3   Operations Advisor; Public         S             S
12/08/1997                      Health Specialist; Private Sector
Development
05/08/1998-                10   Public Health Specialist (3);      S             S
05/26/1998                      Private Sector Development
Specialist; Health Economist,
Procurement Secialist (2);
Participatory Development
Specialist; Nutritionist/
Consultant; Operations Assistant
10/14/1998 -                6   Public Health Specialist; Private  S             S
11/16/1998                      Sector Development Specialist,
Procurement Secialist (2);
Participatory Development
Specialist; Health Economist
05/11/1999 -                8   Public Health Specialist;          S             U
06/01/1999                       Consultant (2); Procurement
-25 -



Specialist; Participatory
Development Specialist;
Principle Public Health
Specialist; Health Economist;
Team Assistant
11/19/1999 -                 8   Mission Leader, Quality Advisor;   S             U
12/14/1999                       Sector Director; Public Health
Specialist, Health Economist;
Procurement Specialist;
Financial Management
Specialist; Team Assistant
06/05/2000 -                 5   Mission Leader; Health              S             S
06/22/2000                       Specialist; Procurement
Specialist; Financial
Management Specialist; Team
Assistant; Operations Advisor
1211/2000 -                 5   Mission Leader; Health             S             S
12/27/2000                       Specialist; Procurement
Specialist; Financial
Management Specialist; Team
Assistant
05/15/2001                   6   Mission Leader, Health              S             S
Specialist; Procurement
Specialist; Financial
Management Specialist; Team
Assistant; Operations Advisor
11/15/2001 -                 5   Public Health Specialist;           S             S
12/13/2001                       Procurement Specialist;
Financial Management
Specialist, Team Assistant,
Operations Advisor
ECR
06/03/2002 -                 6    Mission Leader; Health             S             S
06/12/2002                        Specialist; Implementation
Specialist, Economist/
Consultant, Financial
Management Specialist;
Team Assistant
- 26 -



(b) Staff.
Stage of Project Cycle                  ActuaULatest Estimate
No Staff weeks              US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation             38.0                     134.20
AppraisalNegotiation                   51.5                     180.15
Supervision                            118.5                    414.68
ICR                                    13.3                      46.40
Total                                 221.3                     775.43
- 27 -



Annnex S. Radfmgs for Achievement of Obeceflves/(DutTpus of Conmponents
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
OMacro policies                       O H OSUOM O N O NA
Sector Policies                      O H OSUOM O N O NA
0 Physical                            O H OSUOM O N O NA
Z Financial                           OH   OSUOM     ON    ONA
Z Institutional Development           O H O SU O M O N 0 NA
? Environmental                       O H OSUOM O N O NA
Social
Z Poverty Reduction             O H OSUOM O N O NA
ZGender                         OH OSUOM ON ONA
OI Other (Please specify)       OH OSUOM ON O NA
O Private sector development          0 H O SU O M 0 N 0 NA
Z Public sector management            0 H O SU O M 0 N 0 NA
Z Other (Please specify)              OH OSUOM O N O NA
NGO Development
- 28 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                Rating
F Lending                                          OHS OS       *U    OHU
 Supervision                                      OHS OS       O U   O HU
F Overall                                          OHS OS       OU    O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                            Rating
Z Preparation                                      OHS OS       * U   O HU
F Government implementation performance            O HS * S     0 U   0 HU
F Implementation agency performance                O HS OS      0 U   0 HU
 Overall                                          OHS OS       OU    O HU
- 29-



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. Country Assistance Strategy, The World Bank. 1996.
2. Sri Lanka Poverty Assessment, The World Bank. 1995.
3. The Perspective Plan for Health Development in Sri Lanka (1995-2004), The Ministry of
Health and Family Welfare, Government of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka.
1995.
4. Health Manpower Development Plan for Sri Lanka (1997-2006), Government of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka. 1997-2002.
5. Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), Decocratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, Health Services
Project. The World Bank. November 21, 1996.
6. Development Credit Agreement, Credit Number 2928-CE. World Bank. January 14, 1997.
7. The Presidential Task Force Proposal for Reforms in the Health Section, Government of the
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka. 1997.
8. Various Project Progress Reports. The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, Govemment
of the Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka. 1997-2002.
9. Project Status Reports of various supervision missions, The World Bank. 1997 - 2002.
10. Report of an Inquiry into Knowledge, Attitudes and Practices on Reproductive Health and
STD/HIV/AIDS Among Beach boys in Sri Lanka, Ministry of Health and Indigenous Medicine,
Government of Sri Lanka. November 1998.
11. Target Audience Research (TAR) on Breast Feeding Practices and on Complementary
Feeding, Health Education Bureau, Ministry of Health and Indigenous Medicine, Colombo, 1999.
12. Target Audience Research (TAR) on Protein Energy Malnutrition (PEM) and Micronutrient
Malnutrition among Lactating Mothers, Health Education Bureau, Ministry of Health and
Indigenous Medicine, Colombo, 1999.
13. Effectiveness of an Intervention Programme to Improve Compliance to Malaria
Chemoprophylaxis During Pregnancy in an Endemic Area, by Dr. S. D. P. Warusavithana,
Medical Officer, Anti Malaria Campaign Directorate, Ministry of Health and Indigenous
Medicine, Colombo, 1999.
14. Mid-Term Review, Consultant Report, Ministry of Health and Indigenous Medicine,
Government of Sri Lanka. August 1999.
15. Mid-Term Review/Supervision Mission Aide-Memoire, The World Bank. November 1999.
16. Violence Against Women, A Policy Planning Study, Ministry of Health and Indigenous
Medicine, Colombo, 1999.
17. National Level Baseline Survey on STD/HIHV/AIDS - Among Prisoners, Ministry of Health
and Indigenous Medicine, June, 2001.
18. Policy Options for Generating Resources for Tertiary Care, A Policy Planning Study, July
2001
19. Report of the Study on School Health Programme, Ministry of Health, Government of Sri
Lanka. August 2001.
20. Evaluation of the Impact of the Community Nutritional Programming Project, by TEAMS
(Pvt.) Ltd, Ministry of Health, September 2001
21. Research Study on Marital Sexual Dysfunction, Ministry of Health and Indigenous Medicine,
Government of Sri Lanka. October 2001.
22. A study on Knowledge, Attitudes and Practices of Middle East Returness Sri Lanka on
- 30 -



STD/HIV/AIDS by Research Team, for Ministry of Health and Indigenous Medicine, Government
of Sri Lanka. October 2001.
23. Establishment of Computerized Surveillance System for Malaria, Control in Sri Lanka,
Progress Report, January 2001-June 2002
24. Study on the Effect of Insecticide Impregnated Curtain on the Transmission of Malaria
Endemic Area of Sri Lank, Progress Report (May 1 2001- June 28, 2002)
25. Prevalence of Diabetes, Hypertension, and Risk Factors, (no date)
26. Physical Health Status of the Elderly in the District of Matale and Risk Factors for Under-
nutrition Among the Rural Elderly, A Policy Planning Study, 2002
27. Report of a Study of Thyroid Volume, Urine Iodine Concentration and Thyroid
Autoimmunity in Vulnerable Groups in Sri Lanka in 2001 - 8 years after universal salt, Ministry
of Health and Indigenous Medicine, Colombo, June 2002.
28. Aide-Memoire, Implementation Completion Mission Report, The World Bank. June 2002.
29. Policy Planning Studies, July 2002
-31 -



Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Implementation Completion Report
Borrower's Implementation Completion Report on
IDA/WB Health Services Development Project
Project Concept
Overall
Overall project concept was substantial and it appeared for resolution of most of the vital
health issues: controlling malaria, arresting the spread of STD/AIDS, reducing the
malnourishment of children and pregnant mothers and reducing the incidence of NCD (that is
surfacing as a major theme as a result of epidemiological transition). It also had identified
support components, such as Health Policy Development, Management Information Systems
(MIS) and Health Education Bureau component to achieve above. But when it comes to the
component level, the picture is little different. The following is a short review about the
conceptual issues at component level.
Malaria component
There has been a change of emphasis to malaria control strategies in the project. Instead of
controlling vectors it advocated controlling parasites. Areas with high malaria incidences were
to be identified by an outreach program and concentrated combat in controlling vectors in
those areas were to be carried out instead of general spraying of insecticides. This had lot of
positive aspects such as reduction of costs, reduction of chemical use, reduction of the
possibility of adaptation to chemical by vectors as a result of overuse, etc. Even the action to
give impregnated nets to people is considered a positive concept and this concept has been
picked up by many NGOs in their programs.
STD component
Project activities undertaken under this component are very much appreciated by the staff
involved. STD/AIDS is a sensitive area where the diseases are attached with a social stigma.
In this context, the decision to construct new and separate buildings with adequate facilities
was seen very positive. Concentrating on the prevention part, especially by conducting
awareness about safety actions and launching outreach programs, is also viewed very
positively. The mobile training facility given to each STD clinic is considered a vital asset to
conduct the outreach programs.
However, it is felt that the medical and hospital staff outside the STD/AIDS clinics are not
oriented properly to handle these patients sensitively and as a result many social issues have
cropped up, discouraging people to get treatment, undermining some of the objectives set by
the project. This particular aspect had not been adequately addressed by the project.
- 32 -



Nutrition Project
There had been various on going programs on nutrition conducted, by the NGOs, the National
Development Trust Fund (NDTF) and the Family Health Bureau (FHB). The project was to
strengthen the program run by the FHB with certain reorientation. In the reorientation the
existing clinic based focus was to be changed to a community based, interpersonal
communication approach supported by a mass media campaign and a pilot efforts to revitalize
the health and nutrition education program in the schools. It was to be undertaken through
NGO and community participation, on critical nutritional themes, identified based on the
results of those earlier interventions, in areas not covered by the NDTF. The rationale was
that NDTF was already canying out a very commendable nutrition program and the project
was to pick up from that program and to replicate it outside NDTF areas.
It is not clear from the project documents how much coverage (how many villages or how
many families to be brought under the program) was to be achieved under the project. After
the project is completed it appears that coverage is very small (27000) compared to the needy
target group. There is a serious question as to whether the objectives of this kind of a project
could be achieved by concentrating on a limited area (less coverage). The original project
proposal is also silent about how the beneficiaries are going to be selected.
The decision to get the participation of NGO and CBO is viewed with mixed reactions by
most of the staff involved in the project. The experience in the NDTF nutrition program had
been very encouraging and they had gain success through a community participation program.
Hence there was more reason to believe that same thing could be replicated, though it did not
materialize as expected. There had been some NGOs who had done a fairly good job but some
had taken money and abandoned the project halfway. The NGOs had been given a substantial
package for participating in the project including a rental; payment for electricity and
telephone bills, etc and these had sometimes been used on the private dwelling houses of NGO
members. There also had been petitions against NGOs accusing them of misusing money and
project component staff also had found malpractices done by certain NGOs. Legal action has
been taken against one of the NGOs, which has taken money but not doing substantiative
work. Some argues that what should be questioned is not the decision to get NGOs
participated in the program, but how they were selected. However, there had been no NGOs
to undertake work in some of the areas (beyond Puttalam), which had complicated matters for
the selectors, too.
How much money that was spent on the NGOs had been used usefully is a question with
regards to all the NGOs, not only because of the malpractices but also as nutrition component
of the project had failed to launch the last (fifth) stage of the project, as per the original
concept. This stage was considered the most vital part of the component being the final
intervention to address nutritional issues. Before this stage, the nutrition assessment surveys
had to be conducted and deficiencies identified and the intervention required had to be
identified through a participatory exercise. However, there had been a decision from the top
(World Bank) to give a project wide solution to the nutritional issue instead of going through
the participatory process, according to the officers involved in the implementation. The
- 33 -



solution was to give limited number of toilets and wells to a village (according to a World
Bank direction). There was an explanation that over expenditure in the first four stages and as
a result having less money available for stage V would have led to such a decision. However,
the Nutrition component by that time had only spent just above 50% of the allocation and
hence the sudden decision to change the concept cannot be solely attributed to the
overspending in the first four stages.
Even some of the NGOs have withdrawn from the last stage of the project because of the last
moment deviation in the project concept, which they thought was not prudent (decision to
construct toilets and wells) and practicable (in terns of mnumlber of toilets and wells to be
provided to a particular village).
Health Education Bureau
Project was to support the Bureau through strengthening its facilities and equipping its field
units for information dissemination. The Bureau was expected to support other project
components by undertaking awareness campaigns including mass media campaigns. In terms
of the expectations from the HEB towards the project, the project documents were not very
specific (objectives set were very vague and hence difficult to be measured).
MIS Project
The original project concept is very weak. A management information system is proposed
ignoring the most primary and most reliable data source: the hospitals. Even this inadequate
MIS was to be available only to the Medical Administrators.
Health Policy Development Component
A few broad study areas have been identified under this component. Like in HEB component,
here again project documents are non specific as regards to the expectations. Other
weaknesses are in the project design than in the concept and hence discussed under the project
design.
Project )DesOgn
Overall Design
Bringing too many components within a single project has been seen as a reason for certain
lapses. Especially when a project coordinator, who had been an outsider having not much of
authority, is made responsible for the outcome, where he has to get the work done from a
rigid hierarchical organization, this complexity becomes a serious issue.
Malaria Component
Project had used the existing staff and machinery and therefore had not come across serious
- 34 -



issues. The project had identified specified number of mobile clinics per district (same number
for all districts), as the spread of malaria would have been equally strong in all districts that
came directly under the project. However this prescribed number of clinics per district
appeared to have been continued without a change through out the project period irrespective
of the existing Malaria incidence rate of each district (the number would have been far too
much for some areas and too few for other areas), which could be considered as a design
weakness (rigidity in the design).
The decision to give impregnated nets totally free is another questionable decision as entirely
free things have less value for some people and selection always creates issues with other
people. The latter issues have created problems in timely and correct selection of recipients
and even in timely distribution of nets.
Nutrition Component
The volunteers of the NGOs were trained with a view that they would in turn train and
mobilise the volunteers of the community, in assessing the nutrition issues and educating
people on nutrition issues. However, there was a problem of retaining these volunteers.
Whenever they found a more secured employment they left the program abruptly. This aspect
had not been taken into due consideration by the project designers.
The decision to get various staff categories of MOH involve in the fifth stage (constructing
wells and toilets) of the project had finally resulted in long undue delays in the funding and
reimbursement process, which finally resulted in many NGOs withdrawing from the last stage
of the project. In fact, their active participation would have been sought from the very
beginning of the project.
Bringing in a Nutritional Expert to the project and running a program outside the Nutrition
Division had caused controversy and there is a question as to whether there were substantial
reasons for such an action.
STD/AIDS component
There had been many design issues with regards to the implementation of the STD/AIDS
building program. The centrally prepared plans have been imposed on various localities
sometimes with restricted spaces forcing the builders to reduce the sizes of rooms, doors and
windows. As a result there are doors, which are too small for some equipments, and those
equipments cannot be housed in those buildings. In certain areas the clinics had to be housed
in hospital premises belonging to the central government and the provincial councils were to
construct buildings and manage the STD clinics, which created various complications. These
should have been looked into at the design stage.
- 35 -



Non-communicable disease component
Non-commnunicable diseases could be reduced mainly through preventive actions and that is
mainly by making people aware about the risk factors. National Risk Factor Prevalence
Survey was to be undertaken to identify these factors. This survey, which was done spending
a lot of money, was completed without the inputs that were expected from blood tests. The
reason was that the test results were found to be incorrect and that was found to be due to the
poor management of blood samples. Though this could be considered as an implementation
error study team identified it as a problem largely associated with the design. The survey had
been carried out by a professor overseeing the work on a part time basis amidst her other
academic work without a support of a medical officer assigned to the project on a fulltime
basis, which would have been thought of at the design stage.
Disease management is done by the curative arm of the MOH, but the project was to
undertake, on a pilot basis, a specialized support service to the curative arm of the MOH, with
regards to diabetes. But apart from the preparation of a manual, which had been distributed,
this part of the project had not been fulfilled. It is the view of the study team that this probably
had not realized because of the poor link between the curative and preventive arms of the
MOH and project mainly concentrating on preventive organization structures for its
interventions. The importance of linking curative and preventive arms of MOH has not been
taken into consideration by the project designers leading to many lapses in the project
outcome.
There had been many interdependencies among the components. For example, the MDPU and
Health Economic Study Program were expected to evaluate impact, cost benefit, cost
effectiveness and replicability of all interventions supported by the NCD component. HEB was
assigned the task of developing national communication strategies for NCD prevention
including national mass media campaigns. Establishment of an NCD data registry was to be
done in cooperation with the epidemiological unit. The viability of such inter-agency links in
the absence of a strong coordinator was a question the project formulators should have
addressed.
Health Policy Development Component
The decision to support a link program between the Ministry and the Health Economics Study
Program (HESP) of the Centre for Economic Research and Analysis at the University of
Colombo has to be questioned in the light of University backing out after enjoying
postgraduate fellowships to its staff. This is taken for discussion under project design because
it is very enthusiastic to believe that organizations in the Sri Lankan context (in a country
where priorities are often arrived by power of politics, for that matter both organizational and
national politics, than on rational analysis) are geared to deliver services outside their main
mandate when they have other priorities (their own). See under learning for future for further
details.
- 36 -



Project Organization
Appointment of Project Coordinators
There had been 6 Coordinators within the five-year project period. Most coordinators had not
been able to win the support of the project implementation staff and some had not been
acceptable to the political leadership and had to leave as a result. This post has been subjected
to heavy political control and as a result at times had not been respected by the ministry staff.
Apart bringing outsiders to the medical profession also has been a serious issue, probably
because of the wrong selection.
Authority of Project Coordinator
Due to the existing organizational culture of MOH, the appointed Project Coordinators were
considered either as outsiders to health sector or as external to the normal organizational
hierarchy. Therefore, they neither enjoyed adequate referent power (being subjected more
often to the political pressures) or expert power (being outsiders to the medical profession or
even to the field of project management) to mobilize the implementation staff. They had to
depend largely on the existing organizational hierarchies to control the project activities.
Project staff
Project had work with a minimum skeletal staff recruited on contract basis from outside the
ministry. All accountants retiring from the Ministry had found their way to the project though
rarely any one had stayed for a substantial time to make any real impact and there had been 8
such accountants! The reason behind such could be attributed partly to wrong selection, partly
to political interference, and partly to poor remuneration and poor leadership. Project has not
tried to attract staff already working within the Ministry to support its activities. Even the staff
worked for project had not been given adequate remuneration for undertaking project
activities.
Unclear organization arrangements
There had been situations where different instructions had gone from PMIU and Component
Directors on same issues confusing the recipient of the instructions due to ambiguous
organizational arrangements. This was much evident in the nutrition program where NGO's
had complained about such conflicting instructions. Even within the ministry itself there had
been many weak organizational arrangements with respect to project implementation. Some of
the field staff of the ministry was not aware of the nutritional program activities undertaken by
the NGOs until they were confronted in the field accidentally by the NGO staff.
Project Implementation
Though there had been very slow progress within the first three years of the project (utilizing
only 17% of the funds) project had picked up momentum in the latter part of the project,
- 37 -



especially with the present incumbent assuming duties as the project coordinator. Many
reasons could be attributed to this poor performance in the initial three-year period and some
reasons are given below. Some problems mentioned below had been present even in the last
three years though in spite of those the project had made significant progress in the latter part.
Political and Bureaucratic Interference
This had been evident in most crucial project activities, from appointing Project Coordinators
(also in removing them) to selecting contractors and suppliers, especially in the first three
years. There also had been attempts to divert funds for pet political projects, again especially
during the initial period. Some of the resources especially vehicles and media equipments had
said to be taken over by the politicians. Some of the resources (vehicles, motor bikes and
computers) identified for various project components and to be used by field staff had been
retained within some units of the ministry.
Vacancies
Some of the key positions of the Ministry, which were assigned with project responsibilities,
had been kept vacant for many years under acting arrangements. One is the Director (Policy
Analysis and Development). Therefore, there had been lapses and delays in implementing
some of the project activities (for example, studies undertaken under the project had seen the
day after the project was closed and there was no possibility of getting insights from those
studies to the project).
Internal Politics
There had been strong internal politics that had hindered work. Though internal politics are
evident in all organizations they become unwieldy when there is a strong organization culture
present in the organization, which normally cannot be challenged by a quite ordinary
leadership having not enough authority.
Procurement delays
There had been prolonging delays with regards to many types of equipment and supplies.
Certain bids (such as the consultancy services of the MIS project) got invalid due to the delays
in approval (both at the ministry level and at the bank), some such delays were due to political
interferences and some delays in approving by the bank due to petitions sent by the
competitive bidders to the Bank. Some were due to not having a proper procurement plan.
Approval delays
There had been undue delays in approving of certain actions on the part of the World Bank,
such as studies undertaken under the Malaria program; consultancy services contract of the
MIS project, etc.
- 38 -



The approval delays by the project authorities also were found in payment vouchers to NGOs.
Reasons were many. Some are listed below.
* They were not adequately aware of the govermment accounting requirements
* There were forged documents presented by the NGOs
* With regards to the payments for wells and latrines they were to first submit a
recommendation of the PHI regarding the location and then were told to submit the same
from the MOH. Some of the PHI and MOH were not involved in the program from the
beginning and as a result they had problems in getting these recommendations
* There had been delays at the project office due to many reasons including lack of staff,
lack of commitment, etc, especially in the initial stages, some bills and vouchers often
getting misplaced and displaced.
Cash flow delays
There had been cash flow delays especially during the first half of the project. This
discouraged NGOs undertaking the nutrition programs (There had been long delays in settling
their payments). Some times money had been allocated at the end of the year (in certain
components) with a condition that money not spent within the month would be taken back.
Substandard Equipment and stores
Some of the equipments, such as microscopes, ophthalmoscope and stethoscopes received by
the project are substandard. According to a particular opinion the stringent regulations of the
World Bank disallowed the recommendations made by the TEC on the grounds of
transparency ultimately leading to purchases from cheaper sources supplying substandard
equipment. Substandard products were also evident with regards to certain other supplies
such as reagents for STD testing, which the field staffs says had already expired on arrival,
though who was responsible for that was not evident.
Incompatibility of equipments and accessories
Computers, server and cables for the STD component had been purchased from three different
companies and were not compatible (which were provided to STD Head office). Though
multi-media projector has been provided it was reported that no laptops have been provided
to the Health Education activities and hence the multi-media projector cannot be used.
Flow of supply in the reverse order (Having the cart before the horse) and Not synchronized
The goods, equipments and reagents etc. were supplied not in the correct order. Some of the
reagents came early but without the necessary equipments they could not be used and they had
to be discarded because of expiry. The supplies were neither synchronized. Some equipment
was supplied very early but the rest were very late and when one had to use them together
early arrival of one category of instruments did not mean much to the users.
- 39 -



Insufficient inputs
Some of the leaflets provided by the HEB were not sufficient to cover the target audiences,
especially with regards to the STD/AIDS component.
Though STD/AIDS program had a very aggressive outreach element including testing of high
risk groups, once the cases are identified the hospital staff could only prescribe certain
medicines which are essential for treatment of some of the diseases, because some of those
medicines (such as Acyclovir that is used to treat Herpes and Defuroxima Axitil and
Cefdrioxone, both used to treat Gonorrhoea) have not been available in some hospitals.
Though Rs. 5.3 million had been identified to purchase STD drugs/contraceptives under the
project only Rs. 3.2 million had been spent as at 31st December 2001.
Project Moaitoerimg
The financial progress has been 17% during the first three years indicating not only poor
implementation but also poor monitoring. It appears that until the funds have been slashed
with the rnid-term review mission, the project has not been taken very seriously by the project
stakeholders.
Originally, monitoring had been done only at the top level though the issues discussed were
very trivial implementation issues that should have been thrashed out at a lower level. In the
latter part of the project this was corrected by having a two tier monitoring mechanism at the
Ministry level, one headed by DG which dealt with operational issues and the second headed
by the Secretary taking up more important policy and directional issues. Since then, there had
been regular progress review meetings. However, progress monitoring had been largely
focussed on the financial expenditure figures. Some times there had been a compulsion to
spend money allocated to the project and less concern about on what really the money was
spent, some had observed. There also had been a third level of monitoring at the regional level
and because the minutes of the regional project review meetings had not been distributed to
the participants the full effect of the meeting was not realized.
Project authorities had not been able to do much to keep the political interference at bay and
as a result, the project had suffered. During the monitoring exercises, these constraints had not
been openly discussed or resolved. Even other issues that were brought up continuously at the
project-monitoring meeting had not been duly addressed (example is the vacancy of the
Director (Policy Analysis and Development), which is still vacant).
]Froaect (Dutcome
Malaria incidence has come down to a level set by the project targets. However, there had
been a downward trend even before the project commenced and the same downward trend
had continued even in areas outside the project and therefore it is difficult to attribute the
down ward trend solely to the project. Nevertheless, there had been substantial reasons to
believe that project impact was positive.
-40 -



There had been a decrease in STD patients in case of some infections like Gonorrhoea.
However there is an increase in viral STDs. It is not sure whether the latter increase is because
of increasing spread of the diseases or because of the increasing detection or because of the
confidence people have on STD/AIDS clinics in getting treatment after the improvements
made under the project (improved facilities and testing, outreach programs, reduced social
stigma attached to the disease with trained staff being sympathetic towards patients, etc).
Project had supported the Health Education Bureau through strengthening its facilities
(providing a hostel building for headquarters training facility consisting of 15 double rooms)
and equipping its field units with state of the art technology (Vehicle equipped with a TV,
Video player, OHP, two-in-one cassette recorder and a public address system) for information
dissemination. The Bureau has supported other project components by undertaking awareness
campaigns including mass media campaigns. They have published books, leaflets, posters,
cassettes, Tele-dramas and films. They have conducted "Wada Baila", street drama and
"Virindu" competitions to promote health awareness. They also have trained schoolteachers,
community leaders, etc. on specific health themes and trained HC workers on training.
However the outcome of such programs has not been measured. According to the field staff
of MOH there is a large gap between what they do and their capacity and also what they do
and what they could really do.
Even in areas where there is less evidence about a substantial impact, the necessary
infrastructure laid by the project can be used by the MOH to generate a greater impact in the
long run.
Project sustainability
MIS Proiect
To run an integrated curative and preventive health service, a MIS is essential. But apart from
containing a poor project concept, the MIS implementation is only half done, money being
withdrawn after the mid-term review mission. The component that was capable of providing
inputs to most of the other project components has not really seen the day. Some computers
have been purchased under this component and part of the network proposed also has been
built (though it is not sure the work had been done purely from the project funds or with the
use of the outside help, such as assistance from WHO). But without substantial support the
computers will remain mainly as typing tools and at the most as personal computers with very
limited use.
Nutrition Project
There is nothing much achieved under the nutrition project and therefore one can argue that
the question of sustainability does not arise. But the intervention half done will likely to create
a negative picture (especially in places where it had been a flop) making even a future
intervention difficult.
-41 -



Malaria component
At the beginning of the project there were not enough vehicles to travel and equipments to
test, though there was less funds allocated for travelling and subsistence to do testing and run
mobile clinics and at the end of the project there were enough vehicles and enough equipments
to test but there was less funds to travel and less reagents to carryout testing. Anti-malaria
Campaign had been getting funds even before the project and it is likely to get some funds
based on those historical figures. However, whether it would be adequate to sustain the
momentum gathered by the project is a question.
STD component
The funding may be difficult with the STD/AIDS program as there is no such precedence as in
the case of Malaria in allocating funds for STD to undertake outreach programs especially
aimed at preventing. Sustainability, therefore, is going to be a big issue especially with regards
to the preventive aspects of the STD/AIDS component. The sustainability of the STD/AIDS
program is therefore, even more doubtful.
The non-availability of some essential drugs in hospitals (which are also expensive) had
created a situation where people sometimes taking only half of the dosage, creating a
resistance for those antibiotics and at times choosing less expensive alternatives that were
offered to them by non-doctors. Therefore how successful the project initiative in the long run
is again doubtful if this situation is not corrected.
Equipments
The source, warranty facilities and other similar information were not made available to the
users (though the information may be available in the project office, once it is closed, it will be
lost to the users) is going to create problems in future. Some labs (STD) have not been
provided with AC and the lifetime of some of the sensitive equipments will be shortened as a
result. The necessary funds also have to be provided to upkeep the vehicles and equipment
provided under the project.
General
The vehicles made available to the project are likely to be underused if the funds are not made
available. Even in case of a temporary set back of funds a situation would be created where
vehicles are idled and fall prey to others (that would provide a rationale for others to take over
the vehicles).
There are certain areas, which are under staffed, and other areas, which are over staffed and if
the project benefits are to be made sustainable this situation has to be changed.
-42 -



What more to be done to sustain the project outcomes
Enough allocations should be provided to maintain vehicles and equipments, to run clinics and
outreach programs, to get chemicals and reagents, to supply essential medicine especially for
STD/AIDS patients.
Should take necessary action to protect vehicles and equipment from takeovers
To retain staff already trained under the project in their speciality areas rather than subjecting
them to normal transfer procedures as far as possible
To take action immediately to disseminate the study results
To take action immediately to disseminate the information regarding the equipments (source,
warranty details, accessories)
To undertake a better-conceptualised MIS project that combines and shares the information
available separately in curative and preventive arms of the MOH (There are computers and
other hardware facilities received under the WB project and some under other projects and
hence some infrastructure is therefore already available to launch a MIS).
Learning for future
If projects of this nature to succeed
* Political direction should be brought into the picture during the project formulation stage
(to align the project objectives with national and sectoral priorities) but not during its
implementation stage. Political commitment also should be obtained to projects prior to their
implementation by building consensus on project concept, design and organization.
* There should be a consultation process for getting insights from the implementation staff
for the project concept and design and also in formulating the project organizations.
* Careful consideration should be given in the selection of project coordinator and staff. To
attract and retain good people the project staff positions should be adequately remunerated. It
is also worthwhile considering people intemal to the organization as project staf, when such
people are available than bringing in complete outsiders.
*   The project coordinator should be recruited in the very early stages of the project and not
just before the implementation.
*   There should be transparency at all levels in implementing the project. The process that is
followed in selecting people, selecting suppliers, selecting contractors, selecting material
and equipment, should be made known to decisive stakeholders in the project.
-43 -



*   Especially with regards to the equipments and reagents, quality should be a decisive
criterion and samples should be evaluated before a firm order is made.
*   Studies undertaken by a project of this nature should be completed and also disseminated
in time to give insights to the project activities
* Commitment of the government should be obtained in funding the activities that have been
initiated under the project but will have to continue far beyond the project period to make
the project sustainable
*   Institutional strengthening outside the direct project purview should not be undertaken
unless there is clear commitment from the parties involved to perform the tasks agreed
upon by way of releasing sufficient resources including necessary people to the job and
starting the project activity on a firm footing.
*   Employees who are responsible for implementing the project should be fully aware of the
project, including its concept and design (rationale, objectives, strategies, activities, inputs
and also about the officers, individuals and organizations responsible for carrying out
identified activities).
Conclusion
Most of the project objectives with regards to the malaria and STD/AIDS programs have been
achieved to a greater extent. Foundation has been laid to achieve certain other objectives (as in
HEB component) though realization would take some more time and requires some more effort.
Project has failed to achieve some of its set objectives, especially with regards to the Nutrition
Component and other support components like MIS, Health Policy Development Area and
probably to achieve those objectives will require much effort in future.
- 44 -









IMAGING
Repot: No.:        25097
Type:     {CR



