Page  1
                                                         CONFORMED COPY
                                                  CREDIT NUMBER 2928 CE
                      Development Credit Agreement
                       (Health Services Project)
                              between
              DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
                                and
                INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                     Dated January 14, 1997
                                                    CREDIT NUMBER 2928 CE
                    DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated January 14, 1997, between DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST
REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter dated September
10, 1996 from the Borrower describing a program of actions, objectives
and policies designed for the further development of its health sector
(hereinafter called the Program); and
     (B)  the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
has requested the Association to assist in the financing of the
Project; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia of
the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                               ARTICLE I
                   General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with
the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute
Page  2
an integral part of this Agreement:
     (a)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     (b)  The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
          "Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise
          agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of
          expenditures in the territories of any country which is
          not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or
          services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the
          purpose of any payment to persons or entities, or for any
          import of goods, if such payment or import, to the know-
          ledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of
          the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter
          VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
     (c)  Section 6.03 is modified to read:
          "Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Association.  If (a) the
          right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit
          Account shall have been suspended with respect to any amount
          of the Credit for a continuous period of thirty days, or (b)
          at any time, the Association determines, after consultation
          with the Borrower, that an amount of the Credit will not be
          required to finance the Project's costs to be financed out
          of the proceeds of the Credit, or (c) at any time, the
          Association determines, with respect to any contract to be
          financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, that corrupt or
          fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of
          the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during the
          procurement or the execution of such contract, without
          the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action
          satisfactory to the Association to remedy the situation,
          and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of
          such contract which would otherwise have been eligible
          for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit, or (d)
          at any time, the Association determines that the procure-
          ment of any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of
          the Credit is inconsistent with the procedures set forth
          or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement and
          establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of such
          contract which would otherwise have been eligible for
          financing out of the proceeds of the Credit, or (e) after
          the Closing Date, an amount of the Credit shall remain
          unwithdrawn from the Credit Account, the Association may,
          by notice to the Borrower, terminate the right of the
          Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such amount.
          Upon the giving of such notice, such amount of the Credit
          shall be canceled."
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "MOH" means the Ministry of Health, Highways and Social
Services of the Borrower;
     (b)  "PMU" means the Project Management Unit within MOH
established under Development Credit Agreement No. 1903-CE (Health
and Family Planning Project) dated July 13, 1988;
     (c)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
     (d)  "STD/AIDS" means Sexually Transmitted Disease/Acquired
Immunodeficiency Syndrome.
                                 ARTICLE II
                                The Credit
Page  3
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
thirteen million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 13,000,000).
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in its Central Bank on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.  Deposits into,
and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2002 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June
30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower
from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of
the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to para-
graph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be
applied from the next date in that year specified in Section 2.06
of this Agreement.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions
of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and
(iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible
currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or
selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
     Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each May 1 and November 1 commencing
May 1, 2007 and ending November 1, 2036. Each installment to and
including the installment payable on November 1, 2016 shall be one
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national
product (GNP), as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded
for three consecutive years the level established annually by the
Association for determining eligibility to access the Association's
resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the borrower creditworthy
for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and
after due consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's
economy, modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
Page  4
above by:
          (A)  requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of
               each such installment not yet due until the principal
               amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; and
          (B)  requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the
               principal amount of the Credit as of the first
               semiannual payment date referred to in paragraph
               (a) above falling six months or more after the date
               on which the Association notifies the Borrower that
               the events set out in this paragraph (b) have
               occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a
               grace period of a minimum of five years on such
               repayment of principal.
     (c)  If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise
the modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in
lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such install-
ments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the
Association, such revision shall not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
     (d)  If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association
may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of
repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided
in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                                ARTICLE III
                        Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and health practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accor-
dance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to
this Agreement.
     Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower shall maintain until completion of
the Project the PMU with terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association, which shall be headed by a Project Coordinator with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association, and
shall be responsible for the overall management and coordination of
the Project.
     Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
     (a)  maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with bench-
marks and indicators satisfactory to the Association, the carrying
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
Page  5
     (b)  prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association, and furnish to the Association, by April 30, 1999 a
report integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section,
on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during
the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the
period following such date; and
     (c)  review with the Association, by June 30, 1999 or such later
date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section, and thereafter, take all measures
required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and
recommendations of the said report and the Association's views on
the matter.
     Section 3.05. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6)
months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed
for this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan
for the future operation of the Project; and
     (b)  afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan.
                                 ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph
               (a) of this Section including those for the Special
               Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
               with appropriate auditing principles consistently
               applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
               Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but
               in any case not later than six months after the end
               of each such year, a certified copy of the report of
               such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
               such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
               requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Association such other information
               concerning said records, accounts and the audit
               thereof as the Association shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
               paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
               reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one year after the Association
Page  6
               has received the audit for the fiscal year in which
               the last withdrawal from the Credit Account was made,
               all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills,
               receipts and other documents) evidencing such
               expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records and accounts are included in
               the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
               Section and that the report of such audit contains a
               separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
               statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal
               year, together with the procedures and internal
               controls involved in their preparation, can be relied
               upon to support the related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                        Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has
arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a significant
part thereof, will be carried out.
                                ARTICLE VI
                                Termination
     Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
                               ARTICLE VII
                 Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The Secretary, or the Director General, External
Resources Department, Ministry of Finance and Planning of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance and Planning
          Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka
          Colombo, Sri Lanka
          Cable address:                   Telex:
               SECMINFIN                   FINMIN 21409
               Colombo                     FORAID 21232
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                   Telex:
               INDEVAS                     197688 (TRT),
               Washington, D.C.            248423 (RCA),
                                            64145 (WUI) or
                                            82987 (FTCC)
Page  7
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
               DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF SRI LANKA
               By /s/ Jayantha Dhanapala
                                                Authorized Representative
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
               By /s/ D. Joseph Wood
                                                 Regional Vice President
                                                              South Asia
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                    Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
                           Amount of the
                         Credit Allocated                 % of
                          (Expressed in               Expenditures
     Category             SDR Equivalent)            to be Financed
(1)  Civil works             1,450,000               85%
(2)  Goods                   5,680,000               100% of foreign
                                                     expenditures,
                                                     100% of local
                                                     expenditures
                                                     (ex-factory cost)
                                                     and 85% of local
                                                     expenditures for
                                                     other items procured
                                                     locally
(3)  Consultants' services   2,080,000               100%
     and training
(4)  (a) HNE (Health and       970,000               100%
     Nutrition Education)
     activities
     (b) HNE materials         210,000               100% of foreign
                                                     expenditures,
                                                     100% of local
                                                     expenditures
                                                     (ex-factory cost)
                                                     and 85% of local
                                                     expenditures for
                                                     other items
                                                     procured locally
(5)  RME (Research,          1,250,000               100%
     Monitoring and
Page  8
     Education) activities
(6)  Unallocated             1,360,000
                             _________
          TOTAL             13,000,000
                            ==========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower;
     (b)  the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower;
     (c)  the terms "HNE activities" means information, education and
communication efforts to improve people's knowledge, attitudes and
behaviors, which have an effect on health and nutritional status,
through messages delivered through a variety of media, including mass
media, interpersonal approaches and audiovisual aids, and "HNE
materials" means posters, videos, pamphlets, booklets and brochures
specifically designed, developed and produced for HNE purposes; and
     (d)  the term "RME activities" means research, monitoring and
evaluation carried out under the Project, such as surveys, studies
and monitoring of Project supported activities, and evaluation of
the effectiveness of such activities.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the
date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount
not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 350,000, may be made in respect of
Categories 1 through 5 on account of payments made for expenditures
before that date but after January 1, 1996.
4.   The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure under contracts for:
     (a)  goods not exceeding $200,000 equivalent;
     (b)  works not exceeding $200,000 equivalent;
     (c)  consulting firms not exceeding $100,000 equivalent; and
     (d)  individual consultants not exceeding $50,000 equivalent; all
under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by
notice to the Borrower.
                                 SCHEDULE 2
                          Description of the Project
     The objective of the Project is to strengthen the ability of the
Borrower to address: (i) major public health problems including, inter
alia, malaria, malnutrition and HIV/AIDS; (ii) non-communicable
diseases; and (iii) health policy and financing issues.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Communicable Diseases and Malnutrition
1.   Support, including provision of mobile clinics, equipment and
training, and carrying out of research and health education activities,
for the revised World Health Organization malaria control strategy
adopted by the Borrower in 1993, which includes early diagnosis and
prompt treatment of malaria cases, promotion of personal protection
Page  9
measures such as insecticide-impregnated bed nets, selective appli-
cation of vector control methods, and development of mechanisms to
forecast and prevent malaria epidemics.
2.   Support, including construction of new headquarters in Colombo for
the National STD/AIDS Control Program (the Program), upgrading and
equipping of existing and new STD clinics in provincial and base
hospitals, research activities, health education activities, training,
and provision of technical assistance, vehicles, drugs, and supplies,
for the Program, which includes improvement in the capacity to diagnose
and treat STDs, ensuring the safety of the blood supply, and promotion
of knowledge about HIV/AIDS and avoidance of high-risk behaviors.
3.   Support, including provision of equipment, vehicles, training,
technical assistance, nutrition education materials, and carrying out
of nutrition education activities, for reorientation of MOH's existing
nutrition program to a community-based growth promotion program, which
includes prevention of growth faltering of infants and young children,
improvement of maternal nutrition, reduction of low-weight births, and
elimination of micronutrient deficiencies, as well as for other MOH
nutrition activities.
Part B:   Non-Communicable Diseases
     Support, including training, provision of technical assistance,
research activities, and health education materials, for a non-
communicable disease (NCD) pilot program that would include assessment
of the dimensions of non-communicable diseases in Sri Lanka, develop-
ment of NCD-related policy recommendations, and development of programs
to prevent, control and treat NCDs.
Part C:   Program Support
1.   Support, including provision of technical assistance and training,
and carrying out of institutional strengthening, management development,
planning and research, for  programs of improved health administration
and policy development.
2.   Support, including provision of computers and related equipment,
technical assistance, training, and institutional strengthening of the
Health Management Information Systems unit for development of management
information systems for improved planning, management and health
administration in MOH.
3.   Support, including construction of a hostel in Colombo and provision
of audiovisual equipment, vehicles, technical assistance, and training,
for enhancing the capacities of the Health Education Bureau of MOH and
of the provincial health education units.
                             *      *      *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001.
                               SCHEDULE 3
                 Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.     Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   General
     Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in January l995 and revised in January
and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this
Section, as applicable.
Part B:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix
Page  10
1 thereto.
2.   The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph 1 of this Part B.
      (a) Grouping of Contracts
     To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in
bid packages estimated to cost $400,000 or more each.
     (b)  Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods and Domestic
          Contractors
     The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and
Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory
of the Borrower and works to be carried out by domestic contractors.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   National Competitive Bidding
     Civil works estimated to cost less than $400,000 equivalent per
contract and $1,800,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, and goods
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or less per contract and $300,000
equivalent or less in the aggregate, may be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of
the Guidelines.
2.   National Shopping
     Furniture and other items of equipment estimated to cost less than
$70,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed
$700,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.   Procurement from U.N. Agencies
     Condoms, condom vending machines and contraceptives may be procured
from the United Nations Population Fund in accordance with the provisions
of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Procurement Planning
     Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project
shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by
the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.   Prior Review
     With respect to each contract for civil works and each contract for
goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the pro-
cedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply.
3.   Post Review
     With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.    Employment of Consultants
1.   Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Page  11
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on
the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the
Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the
Association.  Where no relevant standard contracts have been issued by
the Association, other standard forms acceptable to the Association
shall be used.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures,
letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts,
shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting
firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b)
contracts for the employment of individual consultants estimated to
cost less than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to
prior Association review shall not apply to (a) the terms of reference
for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms,
(c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the
Association, (d) amendments to contracts for the employment of
consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000 equivalent or
above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of individual
consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 or above.
                                 SCHEDULE 4
                            Implementation Program
1.   The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association by
November 30, 1997, and each November 30 thereafter, for comments by
the Association, an annual action plan for the execution of the Project.
2.   The Borrower shall take all necessary measures to ensure that by
December 31, 1997, private blood banks will adhere to MOH standards
for the safety of the blood supply.
3.   The Borrower shall:
     (a)  by June 30, 1998, carry out, under terms of reference satis-
factory to the Association, an evaluation of the impact of the Triposha
supplementary feeding program of MOH and furnish to the Association the
findings and recommendations thereof; and
     (b)  thereafter carry out such recommendations as the Borrower and
the Association shall agree upon.
4.   The Borrower shall by March 31, 1997 appoint a Director, Nutrition
in MOH with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Association.
5.   The Borrower shall ensure that growth monitoring and other growth
promotion activities may be carried out by trained local volunteers
under the general guidance of health workers.
6.   The Borrower shall:
     (a)  by June 30, 1997 prepare and furnish to the Association, for
its concurrence, an operational plan for a pilot diabetes program; and
     (b)  thereafter carry out such plan taking into account the
Association's comments thereon.
7.   The Borrower shall:
     (a)  carry out, under terms of reference and in accordance with a
time schedule agreed with the Association, a program of policy related
studies under Part C (1) of the Project;
     (b)  annually review with the Association the findings and recom-
mendations of such studies; and
     (c)  timely implement such recommendations taking into account the
Page  12
Association's comments thereon.
                                SCHEDULE 5
                              Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories 1 through 5
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated
from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent
to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule,
provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to
$250,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 3,500,000.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account
shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for deposit into
the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower
               shall furnish to the Association requests for deposits
               into the Special Account at such intervals as the
               Association shall specify.
         (ii)  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish to the Association the documents
               and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of
               this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of
               which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
               such request, the Association shall, on behalf of the
               Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
               into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
               shall have requested and as shall have been shown by
               said documents and other evidence to have been paid out
               of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective
equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said documents and
other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably
request, furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible
expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
Page  13
the Association shall not be required to make further deposits into
the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement;
     (b)  if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Asso-
ciation, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii)
of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished
to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of
the records and accounts for the Special Account;
     (c)  if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to
the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
     (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated
to the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding
special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwith-
drawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall
follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to
the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expendi-
ture or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the
Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount
equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the
Association such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to
the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account
for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the
relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General Condi-
tions.
