Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16780
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ZAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1746-ZM)
June 25, 1997
Agriculture Operations
Eastern and Southern Africa
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank
authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Appraisal: US$ 1.0 = K 7.2
K 1.0 = US$ 0.139
Completion: US$ 1.0 = K 1,300.0
K 1.0 = US$ 0.0008
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROVE
GRZ: January 1 - December 31
IDA: July I - June 30
Vice President:           Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:         Phyllis Pomerantz
Technical Manager:        Sushma Ganguly
Staff Member:             Rajah Ranasinghe



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACC          Agricultural Communication Center
ADF          African Development Fund
ARPT         Adaptive Research Planning Team
ASIP         Agricultural Sector Investment Program
BS           Block Supervisor
CARO         Chief Agricultural Research Officer
CEO          Camp Extension Officer
CP           Cooperative Program
CRT          Commodity Research Team
DAO          District Agricultural Office
DATU         Department of Agriculture Training Unit
DCA          Development Credit Agreement
DOA          Department of Agriculture
FMU          Financial Management Unit
FSRT         Farming Systems Research Team
GART         Golden Valley Agricultural Research Trust
GRZ          Government of the Republic of Zambia
IDA          International Development Association
ISNAR        International Service for National Agricultural Research
KAP          Knowledge-Attitude-Practice
MAFF         Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Fisheries
M&E          Monitoring and Evaluation
MTR          Mid-Term Review
MsiIS        Management Information System
NAIS         National Agricultural Information Service
NOK          Norwegian Krone
NRAP         National Research Action Plan
NTF          Norwegian Trust Fund
PAO          Provincial Agricultural Office
PIMU         Project Implementation and Management Unit
PPF          Project Preparation Facility
RETU         Research and Extension Training Unit
SAR          Staff Appraisal Report
SMS          Subject Matter Specialist
SRT          Specialist Research Team
TA           Technical Assistance
TAS          Technology Assessment Site
TS           Trial Site
T&V          Training and Visit
VEG          Village Extension Group
ZAREP        Zambian Agricultural Research and Extension Project
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ZAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
(CR. 1746-ZM)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE ................................................................1
EVALUATION SUMMARY ...........................................................                                                                                  ii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT .......................................................... 1
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES ....................................................... 1
B.  ACHIEVEMENT  OF  OBJECTIVES ..................................                                              ............................. 2
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT ...................................................... 7
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY ...............................................................                                                         9
E. BANK PERFORMANCE ...............................................................                                                               9
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE .......................                                                   ........................................ 9
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME ................................................................                                                       10
H. FUTURE  OPERATION  ................................................................ 10
I.   KEY  LESSONS  LEARNED   ................................................................ 11
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES ...............................................................                                                                 12
TABLE  1:           SUMMARY  OF ASSESSMENTS  ...............................                               ................................ 12
TABLE 2:   RELATED  BANK  LOANS/CREDITS  ...............................................................     14
TABLE 3:   PROJECT TiMETABLE  ............................................................... 14
TABLE 4: IDA CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL .......... 15
TABLE  5.   KEY  INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  .....................                                              ....................... 16
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION ...................................................... 17
TABLE 7:   STUDIES INCLUDED  IN  THE PROJECT ...............................................................  17
TABLE  8A:  PROJECT COSTS  ............................................................... 18
TABLE  8B:   PROJECT FINANCING  ............................................................... 18
TABLE 9:   ECONOMIC  COSTS AND  BENEFITS ...............................................................     18
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS ...............................................................                                              19
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS ............................... 20
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS ............................................................... 20
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS ...............................................................                                              21



APPENDICES                                             ................................................. 22
APPENDIX A: AIDE-MEMOIRE ..............................................                                                     23
APPENDIX  B:   BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION  TO  THE ICR ..............................................  36
APPENDIX C: SUPPLEMENTAL TABLES ..............................................                                              43
APPENDIX D: MAP ..............................................                                                               47



-1-
1 1 1 MTAIOCOMPLETION REPORT
RE;PUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
AGRICULTURALRESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
(Cr. 1746-ZM)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Zambia Agricultural
Research and Extension Project (ZAREP), for which an IDA Credit (1 746-ZM) of SDR 10.8
million (US$ 13.0 million equivalent) was signed on March 19, 1987 and became effective on
March 13, 1992. (The delay in effectiveness was due largely to the suspension of disbursements
to Zambia because of arrears in debt service.) The Mid-Term Review took place in February
1993. The Credit closed on June 30, 1997 with a total disbursement of SDR 10.5 million and an
undisbursed balance of SDR 0.3 million.
2.    This ICR was prepared by a missionI from the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program,
on behalf of Agriculture Operations Group 1 (AFTAI) of the World Bank. Preparation of the
ICR began with the mission's visit to Zambia from January 27 to February 12, 1997. This report
is based on material gathered from the project files and supervision reports, as well as
discussions with IDA and Government of Zambia staff associated with the project, and
representatives of the Norwegian Agency for International Development and the African
Development Fund (cofinanciers). The mission undertook intensive discussions and field
investigations with research and extension staff and farmers in five districts of three provinces,
and the mission visited five research facilities. Contributions to the report were made by Alex
Mundia (AFMZM); Rajah Ranasinghe, Jacob Kampen, V. Venkatesan, Fred King, and Susheila
John (AFTA1); and Jacomina de Regt (AFTS 1); it was reviewed by Sushma Ganguly, Technical
Manager, AFTAI.
3.    The borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR through participation in the
discussions and field visits, and provided useful comments on the mission's aide-memoire. In
addition, the borrower provided a response to the ICR, which is included as Appendix B. No
comments were received from the cofinanciers.
The mission consisted of Guy Evers, Mission Leader and Agronomist, and Andre Wooning,
Economist, (FAO/CP); and James Litsinger, Research Specialist (Consultant).






- 11 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
(Cr. 1746-ZM}
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    Since the 1960s, the Bank has been active in assisting Zambian agriculture. During the
eighties, the Bank supported the agricultural sector by providing credits which focused on
regional development (Eastern and Southern Provinces), input supply and marketing, coffee
development, and sector rehabilitation. The Agricultural Research and Extension Project
(ZAREP), which followed the national Agricultural Rehabilitation Project, was intended to
further strengthen key agricultural institutions.
2.    The overall objective of the project was to raise the productivity of Zambia's agricultural
sector by improving the research and extension services, particularly for smallholders. The
specific objectives of the project were to strengthen existing institutions and infrastructure;
upgrade human resources; strengthen research-extension linkages; establish a Training and Visit
(T&V) extension system; and promote better coordination of external assistance. The project, to
be implemented over a period of eight years, was to support: (i) Research Services for
organizational restructuring, strengthening of research teams, and rationalizing and strengthening
the national station network; (ii) Extension Services for organizational restructuring,
introducing a T&V system in three of the nine provinces, and establishing an Agricultural
Communication Center (ACC); (iii) Training for implementing a staff development program
comprising the establishment of a Research and Extension Training Unit (RETU) and provision
of fellowships up to MSc degree level and other training courses held locally or abroad; and (iv)
Project Management for strengthening the Department of Agriculture (DOA) of the Ministry
of Agriculture, Food and Fisheries (MAFF) to implement the project, and for establishing a
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) system. The project was financed by an IDA Credit (US$
13.0 million), a grant from the Norwegian Government (referred to as NTF) (US$ 7.2 million)
administered by IDA, a loan from the African Development Fund (ADF) (US$ 12.6 million), and
the Government of the Republic of Zambia (GRZ) (US$ 6.0 million). A Project Preparation
Facility (PPF) of US$ 1.0 million was approved by IDA in 1986.
3.    The initial project objectives were well-defined and the project strategy rightly called for
a step-wise approach to expansion of the T&V extension system. A 15- to 20-year planning
horizon was envisaged, of which the project constituted the first phase. When the IDA Credit
became effective, some five years after approval (see para. 4 below), the project objectives and
design were still considered to be appropriate, and were not revised. However, the Development



- iii -
Credit Agreement was amended to expand the extension component to cover all nine provinces
instead of the three provinces envisaged at appraisal.
Project Implementation and Results
4.    Soon after Credit approval, IDA suspended disbursements to Zambia (in May 1987), due
to arrears in debt service. Credit effectiveness was delayed by about five years, until March
1992. Consequently, project implementation started slowly, as only some activities were made
possible through the use of the PPF and some funds from the cofinanciers. When the IDA Credit
became effective, 60% of the project expenditures (including 80% of IDA funds) were incurred
in about three years. The project closing date, initially set for December 31, 1995, was postponed
once, until December 31, 1996 and, during this extension year, ZAREP activities were
transferred to the Agricultural Sector Investment Project (ASIP).
5.    The objective of rationalizing and strengthening the institutional structure of the
research system was largely achieved, while the objective of involving farmers in the
determination of research priorities and design/implementation of on-farm research was partially
achieved. The project supported MAFF in formulating a National Research Action Plan, which
became the blueprint for the major reorganization of the research system, and the research
stations were reduced from 32 to 21. The research structure was reorganized into a network of
nine Commodity Research Teams, seven Specialist Research Teams and nine Farming Systems
Research Teams. Linkages between research and extension were strengthened, but further staff
training is required to improve their skills in participatory approaches, enabling them to better
interact with farmers in determining priorities and in the design/implementation of research and
extension programs. Farmer involvement was also hindered by problems with maintenance and
utilization of vehicles and by inadequacy of operating funds. In addition, the project supported
the conversion of the Golden Valley Station into the Golden Valley Agricultural Research Trust
(GART), a non-profit organization formed by MAFF and the Zambian National Farmers Union,
which is intended to become self-financing.
6.    The objectives of strengthening extension management and establishing a T&V system
were largely achieved, while the objective of transferring appropriate technologies to small
farmers was partially achieved. Substantial progress was made in removing the burden of input
supply, credit, and marketing from the extension service, as GRZ's liberalization program
proceeded. In spite of the phased approach agreed at appraisal, however, ZAREP extension
activities were rapidly expanded to all districts which did not receive support from other donors.
By the 1994/95 season, the project covered 48 of the country's 64 districts. Some 70% of the
technical recommendations covered crop husbandry, including the promotion of hybrid maize
production technologies, and crop diversification. Two external factors affected the adoption of
extension recommendations, especially those concerning input-dependent technologies for
maize: (i) GRZ gradually withdrew from agricultural input supply and marketing, and removed
subsidies, resulting initially in higher prices and/or shortages of inputs; and (ii) a serious drought
which occurred in the early 1990s, resulting in poor response to purchased inputs, although it
encouraged farmers to adopt crop diversification recommendations. The objective of
strengthening alternative means of communication, such as mass media, distribution of posters,
leaflets and booklets, was marginally achieved. The project financed some audio-visual
equipment and, in 1996, the Agricultural Communication Center (ACC) was accommodated in
the former ZAREP office block, although it lacks a suitable radio and television studio.



-iv -
7.    The training objectives of the project were partially met, as the Research and Extension
Training Unit (RETU) was not put into operation and the project-funded training needs
assessment was found substandard and not adopted. Consequently, the selection of training
opportunities was not guided by a well-defined capacity-building strategy. Nevertheless, over
200 staff benefited from local short courses, 70 from short courses abroad, and 60 from long-
term academic programs.
8.    The M&E Unit successfully contributed to improving the research and extension
management system. The Unit established a reporting system to enable the DOA to monitor the
output of field extension staff. The Unit also assisted the Research Branch in setting up two
databases. A mid-term review (MTR), conducted in 1993, made a thorough analysis of project
activities and largely confirmed the approach agreed at appraisal. While MTR recommendations
were generally followed for research activities, they were largely ignored for the extension and
training components.
9.    The project provided a substantial increase in mobility for research and extension staff.
However, the intensive use of cars and motorcycles for project and non-project activities,
combined with the poor quality of roads, called for frequent maintenance and repair operations.
At present, many cars are in poor condition or grounded. The bicycles proved to be inadequate
and were rapidly grounded, drastically reducing the mobility of Camp Extension Officers
(CEOs). Numerous facilities were constructed under the project, but the use of pre-fabricated
structures, lack of reliable contractors, delay in payments, time pressure and inadequate
supervision resulted in a number of sub-standard and/or incomplete buildings.
10.   The project financed some 600 person-months of international technical assistance
(TA), mostly for long-term assignments. Around 60% of international TA was spent on
managerial tasks, but a substantial part of the short-term thematic TA was dropped, especially
that intended for adjusting extension methodologies, improving Farming Systems Research
(FSR) methodologies, and enhancing alternative means of communication. During the first few
years, the weak performance of the TA team was considered a serious constraint to project
progress. However, the appointment of a new TA team in 1991 brought significant improvement
in project administration.
11.   The project only partially met its objective of enhancing donor coordination, especially
regarding extension activities. The M&E Unit-prepared database of donor assistance contributed
to reducing duplication of funding, but the assumption that other donors would support the T&V
management system proved unfounded. Toward the end of the project, coordination among
donors improved (in part as a result of ASIP preparation) through their participation in annual
planning meetings.
12.   Actual project costs are estimated at about US$ 35.2 million, or about 91% of the
appraisal estimate (US$ 38.8 million). The project expenditures exceeded the appraisal estimates
for three categories: overseas training (US$ 3.7 against US$ 1.4 million), vehicles (US$ 6.2
against US$ 4.1 million) and incremental recurrent costs (US$ 10 against US$ 3.8 million).
These changes were mainly due to the rapid expansion of extension coverage, in contrast to the
phased approach agreed at appraisal. The Credit disbursement amounted to SDR 10.5 million, or
about 97% of the Credit, and SDR 0.3 million remained undisbursed. Overall, GRZ met only
25% of its funding commitment, which adversely affected project operations.



13.   Given the current implementation of ASIP, project activities are likely to continue in the
medium term. However, the project-supported T&V system has proved to be costly under
Zambian conditions, with high staff allowances and transport costs. The project extension
activities are, therefore, not sustainable without substantial donor funding. Except for the GART
experiment, the current research activities also remain heavily dependent on donor funding.
Because of the low quality of civil works, major rehabilitation is already required for project-
funded buildings, raising concerns about their durability.
14.   Supervision by IDA was intensive and generally satisfactory, facilitating implementation
of the project. IDA was less successful in supervising civil works activities, and in ensuring
proper use of project vehicles. More follow-up should have been given by IDA and GRZ on the
MTR recommendations. GRZ was generally effective in strengthening the institutional
infrastructure of the research and extension systems, but it was less successful in expediting
procurement procedures, supervising civil works, and in controlling the use of project vehicles.
The inadequate flow of operational funds to the field negatively affected T&V implementation.
15.   On balance, the outcome of the project is considered to be marginally satisfactory.
Restructuring of the institutional infrastructure was reasonably successful, in spite of the
turnover in MAFF officials and weaknesses in administrative systems such as procurement.
Project training contributed to raising the level of professional skills. The T&V system was
introduced with reasonable success, although it has proven to be a substantial fiscal burden.
Field observations suggest that adoption rates among smallholders have increased, but surveys
show little difference in these rates between members of the Village Extension Groups and other
farmers. (This result may have been affected by the drought during the early 1990s and by the
higher input prices.) An economic rate of return was not estimated at appraisal, as the project
was intended to constitute the first phase of a long-term capacity-building program, and a rate of
return was not calculated as part of the completion exercise.
Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
16.   The research, extension and training components of ZAREP have been incorporated into
the on-going ASIP as sub-programs, for which work plans are prepared annually. The
completion mission made recommendations for consideration by the ASIP research, extension
and training sub-programs (Appendix A). These address the need to: (i) further rationalize the
research facility network; (ii) increase the use of participatory approaches to strengthen
farmer-extension-research linkages; (iii) undertake an independent assessment of past extension
experiences to make adjustments to, and improve the sustainability of, the T&V system; and (iv)
give further emphasis to training of district and field staff.
17.   Key lessons learned are as follows:
(a)  Farmer involvement in determination of priorities and in
design/implementation of research and extension programs is critical to their
success and to their sustainability. Therefore, adequate resources should be
devoted to increasing the participatory skills of research and extension staff,
and mobility of staff must be maintained.



- vi -
(b)  Government commitment, especially in terms of appointment of staff,
provision of adequate funding, and implementation of agreed actions, is
crucial for project success.
(c)  Phased implementation of a longer-term extension program is important to its
success. The major expansion of area introduced during the course of the
project resulted in reduced effectiveness and contributed to an unsustainable
fiscal burden.
(d) Labor constraints and financial viability, which still need to be addressed,
form a major impediment to adoption of released technologies.
(e)  The restructuring of the extension service and re-focusing on its core
functions were successful, although the T&V system proved to be costly
under Zambian circumstances. Adjustments need to be made to improve its
efficiency and cost effectiveness.
(f)   The GART experiment suggests that there is a role for the private sector in
research, particularly research relevant to larger farmers and for cash crops.
This would allow GRZ to focus on smallholders, thus reducing its fiscal
burden.
(g) Civil works are an important element of research and extension infrastructure,
but where there is lack of proper quality control, the use of relatively
inexpensive pre-fabricated structures may prove to be more costly in the long
run.
ZAREP was incorporated into ASIP one year before scheduled completion, but there was
inadequate follow-up on outstanding project commitments. In the future, the incorporation of
on-going IDA-funded projects into a SIP should consider not only the integration of future
project activities, but also the continuation of activities during the transition.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETON REPORT
REPULICOFZAMBRIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
(Cr. 1746-ZM)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.    During the period 1982-1987, IDA supported the agricultural sector in Zambia by providing
credits which focused on regional development (Eastern and Southern Provinces), coffee development,
and sector rehabilitation. The Agricultural Research and Extension Project (ZAREP) followed the
national Agricultural Rehabilitation Project, and was intended to further strengthen the country's
agricultural institutions. The overall objective of the project was to raise the productivity of Zambia's
agricultural sector by improving research and extension services to farmers, particularly smallholders.
The specific objectives of the project were to: (i) strengthen existing institutions and infrastructure in
support of decentralized research and extension programs; (ii) upgrade human resources; (iii) strengthen
linkages between extension and research; (iv) establish a Training and Visit (T&V) system as the basis of
the National Extension Program; and (v) promote better coordination of external assistance (in addition to
IDA, support was provided by the African Development Fund and the Norwegian Trust Fund). The
project, to be implemented over a period of eight years, included:
(a)  Research Services for: (i) organizational restructuring to formulate and coordinate
research programs, establish policies and set priorities; (ii) strengthening Adaptive
Research Planning Teams (ARPTs), Commodity Research Teams (CRTs) and
Specialist Research Teams (SRTs); and (iii) rationalizing and strengthening the
national station network.
(b)  Extension Services for: (i) organizational restructuring, including measures to
improve the planning and coordination of extension activities; (ii) introducing a T&V
system in ten districts of three of the nine provinces; and (iii) establishing an
Agricultural Communication Center (ACC).
(c)  Training for implementing a staff development program comprising: (i) the
establishment of a Research and Extension Training Unit (RETU); and (ii) fellowships
up to MSc degree level and other training courses held locally or abroad.
(d)  Project Management for strengthening the institutional capability of the Department
of Agriculture (DOA) of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Fisheries (MAFF) to



-2 -
implement the project, and for establishing a management-oriented Monitoring and
Evaluation (M&E) system.
2.    In the late 1980s, although small-scale farmers predominated (76% of households), they benefited
little from research and extension activities, as these reached only a small minority of them. The
management capacity of the Research Branch was weak and highly dominated by donor agencies who
funded up to 80% of the budget, while professional staff were largely made up of expatriates (53%). The
activities of over 20 donors through 70 projects, were uncoordinated, leading to duplication and, at times,
conflicting objectives. The Extension Branch also lacked an organizational structure and the capacity to
effectively carry out its functions. Extension workers were short of appropriate technologies for the
widely spread and diversified farming community, although a number of extension approaches were
promoted by donors. Many of the extension staff lacked adequate training and were considered under-
qualified for their positions.
3.    The project objectives, intended to address these major institutional issues, were well defined and
the project strategy rightly called for a step-wise approach to expansion of the T&V extension system. A
15- to 20-year planning horizon was envisaged due to the anticipated protracted payoff period for
capacity building of human resources and civil works for research services to provide improved
technologies. The project was, therefore, conceived as a first phase of a succession of interlocking
projects. When the IDA Credit became effective in March 1992, some five years after approval (para 21),
the project objectives and design were still considered to be appropriate to the prevailing circumstances,
and were, therefore, not revised. However, the IDA Development Credit Agreement (DCA) was
amended in November 1992 to expand the extension component to cover all nine provinces instead of the
three provinces envisaged at appraisal. This rapid expansion of area was not in line with the cautious
approach agreed during project appraisal.
B. ACRIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
Research Services
4.    The objective of rationalizing and strengthening the institutional structure of the research service
was largely met, while the involvement of farmers in the determination of priorities and the
design/implementation of on-farm research was partially achieved. The project supported MAFF in
formulating a National Research Action Plan (NRAP), which became the blueprint for the major
reorganization and restructuring of the research system. The earlier system was considered problematic
as experiments were centrally planned, trials unnecessarily repetitious and not appropriate for farmers'
conditions, results often went unreported, and research stations were located by province rather than by
agro-ecological regions.
5.    The NRAP called for the rationalization of research facilities within three main agro-ecological
regions (see Map). The 32 research facilities were assessed and consolidated along the lines agreed at
appraisal. The overall number of research facilities now totals 21: three Regional Centers (Regions I, II
and III), five Research Stations, 10 Technology Assessment Sites (TASs), and three Trial Sites (TSs).
One research station and eight TSs were closed, while four research stations were downgraded to TASs.



-3 -
6.    In line with the rationalization, the research structure has been reorganized into a network of
research teams1 composed of: eight CRTs, fourteen SRTs and five Farming Systems Research Teams
(FSRTs, formerly called ARPTs) under the coordination of three regional and four divisional Chief
Agricultural Research Officers (CAROs), who report to the Deputy Director. While linkages between
research and extension have been strengthened, further staff training and sensitization is required to
improve their skills in participatory approaches, enabling them to better interact with farmers in
determining priorities and design/implementation of research and extension programs. Farmer
involvement was also hindered by problems with the maintenance and utilization of vehicles (para. 26)
and the inadequacy of operating funds (para. 30).
7.     With the adoption of NRAP, program formulation became decentralized and budgeting was
controlled at each research facility. The project, in conjunction with the International Service for
National Agricultural Research (ISNAR), assisted the Research Branch to develop two essential research
databases: (i) Research Data Archive, which includes information on all research trials since the 1950s,
assists researchers during the process of planning and prioritizing research activities to assess where
research gaps and duplication exist; and (ii) INFORMfor Research Managers assists in preparing annual
work plans, budgets, and summaries of on-going research. The system is currently expanding and is now
operational in one regional center, two research stations, and one TAS.
8.     The Golden Valley Station was based on an expansion of the Mount Makulu Research Center in
Region II because of the unsuitablility of the initial site.2 IDA and the Swedish Government funding
contributed to improvement of the infrastructure of this station through the construction of housing
facilities and the provision of an irrigation system, as well as a laboratory and farm equipment. In line
with the Government of Zambia's (GRZ) liberalization policy and desire for cost recovery, it was decided
in 1994 to incorporate the station into a trust, for which the project funded a study that provided guidance
in setting up the trust. Subsequently, the project technical assistance (TA) and Bank supervision gave
strong encouragement for its establishment. The resulting Golden Valley Agricultural Trust (GART) is a
non-profit organization formed by MAFF and the Zambian National Farmers Union (an association of
larger farmers), which is intended to become self-financing. ZAREP also fnanced the salary of the
Station Manager for three years. GART now has 15 contracts, mostly with the private sector, dealing
with seed production, conservation farming and minimum tillage, chemical weed control and irrigation.
Extension Services
9.     The objectives of strengthening extension management and establishing a T&V system were
largely achieved, while the objective of transferring appropriate technologies to small-scale farmers was
partially achieved. In 1991, the project facilitated MAFF in formulating its National Extension Action
Plan, which provided a framework for launching the project-supported extension activities. In-service
training and orientation workshops were organized to introduce the new system to staff, while technical
and administrative functions were separated to allow technical staff to concentrate on field activities. The
extension service was also largely relieved of the burden of input supply, credit, and marketing, as a
result of GRZ's liberalization program. Because of the initial implementation delays (para 21), the
project started its activities in 10 districts for the 1991/92 season. One season after the introduction of
T&V, ZAREP extension activities were expanded in all provinces to all districts which did not receive
CRTs: cereals, oil seeds, food legumes, fibre crops, roots and tubers, vegetables, tree/plantation crops, foage/grasses and
livestock; SRTs: soils, plant protection, agro-forestty, agricultural economics, irrigation, farm power/machinery, and food
storage.
2   In particular because of the rise in soil pH from fallout from a neaby cement factory.



-4-
support from other donors, in spite of the recommendations of the mid-term review (MTR) to postpone
expansion until an assessment was made for the 10 initial districts. By the 1994/95 season, the project
covered 48 of the 64 districts of the country. The T&V system was not adjusted to varying farning
conditions, such as low population density or peri-urban areas, as agreed at appraisal. Each Provincial
and District Agricultural Office (PAO & DAO) was provided with 4-wheel drive vehicles, the Block
Supervisor (BS) with a motorcycle and Camp Extension Officers (CEOs) with a bicycle. Camp houses
were built for CEOs in 10 districts.3 The project also provided office and field equipment and operating
costs, including field allowances.
10.   The T&V system was based on fortnightly visits by CEOs to Village Extension Groups (VEGs);
establishment of fanner-managed adoption plots; fortnightly training workshops for CEOs; and monthly
workshops for Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs). The T&V system was to cover agricultural and
livestock aspects, to which fisheries was later added. Initially, extension messages were prepared by
provincial staff on the basis of Knowledge-Attitude-Practice (KAP) survey findings, which were carried
out in each district (para 13). Over the last two years, following budget reductions, GRZ decided to
modify the initial T&V system by reducing the intensity of field activities as follows: visits by CEOs to
VEGs from fortnightly to monthly; training workshop for CEOs, from fortnightly to monthly; and
workshops for SMSs, from monthly to quarterly. Towards the end of the project, VEGs have been
increasingly consulted in the selection of technical messages to be discussed during their meeting with
CEOs. Some 70% of the technical recommendations covered crop husbandry, including the promotion of
hybrid maize production technologies, and crop diversification, including sorghum, groundnut, bean and
wheat. Other recommendations dealt with animal husbandry, soil conservation and agro-forestry, animal
traction and storage. However, extension messages did not fully address farmers problems, because
messages have tended to be input-dependent and repetitive, with only a few new technologies promoted.
Moreover, blanket recommendations that do not reflect market opportunities and input price changes4
continued to be disseminated. While simple low cost messages have been adopted by a large number of
VEG farmers, the main reasons for non-adoption of some technologies are: labor shortage, unavailability
or late availability of inputs, lack of credit, unprofitability of the production recommendations, and
marketing uncertainties.
11.   The objective to strengthen complementary means of communication was marginally achieved.
In order to complement the field extension operations, the project was to support the now-called National
Agricultural Information Service (NAIS) to enhance alternative means of communication through mass
media, distribution of posters, leaflets and booklets. An Agricultural Communication Center (ACC) of
300 mi2 was planned to be built in Lusaka, but this did not take place because it received low priority from
project management. The project financed some audio-visual equipment, and, in 1996, the ACC was
accommodated in the former ZAREP office block, although it lacks a suitable radio and television studio.
Training
12.   The SAR budgeted for a large training component for research and extension staff (technical and
administrative). In-country training was emphasized, although provisions were also made for overseas
training including study tours and university courses up to the M.Sc. level. For this purpose, the DOA
3   The change in project area for the extension component was included in the first amendment of the IDA Credit Agreement
While the amendment made provision for incremental requirements of mobility, it did not fully meet operational funding
requirements and it did not cater for incremental camp house needs.
4   The completion mission observed that, although the price of fertilizers more than doubled for the 1996/97 cropping season,
the fertilizer recommendation for maize was still at the high level of 400 kg/ha (200 basal and 200 top-dressing).



-5 -
was expected to establish a Research and Extension Training Unit (RETU). The training objectives of the
project were only partially met, as the RETU was not put into operation5 and the project-funded training
needs assessment was found substandard and not adopted. Consequently, the selection of training
opportunities was not guided by a well-defined staff capacity building strategy. Local training
concentrated on short courses and over 200 staff benefited from courses covering extension, production,
computer use, accounting, and farm management. Overseas training has covered academic programs for
Diplomas (10), Bachelors (4), Masters (30), Doctoral (15), and over 70 short courses.
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)
13.   The M&E Unit started operating in 1991. The Unit established a system to evaluate the
performance of the extension services. Baseline data were collected for 48 Districts, using the
Knowledge-Attitude-Practice (KAP) survey methodology. Adoption rate surveys were conducted on a
regular basis from 1992 onwards, initially for the 10 pilot districts, while new districts were added in
subsequent years. The Unit also established a reporting system for field operations to enable the DOA to
monitor output of field extension staff, and this contributed to the improved performance of the extension
services. The Unit also assisted the Research Branch in setting up two databases (para 7). Another
important activity was the development of a database for donor-funded research and extension projects.
From mid-1993, the M&E Unit was also involved in preparatory activities for ASIP. The Unit largely
achieved its objectives to increase the effectiveness of the research and extension management system.
14.   A mid-term review (MTR), conducted in February 1993 by an independent team of local and
international experts, made a thorough analysis of project activities. The MTR largely confirmed the
approach of the SAR. Regarding research, it was recommended to: (i) convert Golden Valley into a
partially self-sustaining trust; (ii) complete research station rationalization according to NRAP; (iii)
decentralize research responsibilities linked to a merit-based remuneration system; and (iv) integrate
adaptive research into research and extension. Regarding extension, the MTR recommended that
expansion beyond the pilot areas (established only in the same year), be postponed until the results of
those pilots could be evaluated. Furthermore, to reduce costs, the Review advised that maximum use be
made of other extension communication systems. The MTR also advised against the heavy emphasis
placed on Ph.D.-level overseas training, and suggested that funds be used for personnel upgrading, using
the University of Zambia's facilities for M.Sc. courses and in-service training. While MTR
recommendations were generally followed for research activities, they were largely ignored for the
extension and training components.
Mobility and Infrastructure
15.   The project supported a substantial increase in mobility for research and extension staff, although
maintenance and utilization proved troublesome (para. 27). The vehicle workshop at the Mount Makulu
Research Center was upgraded to conduct major repairs for all project vehicles. Provincial workshops
were also equipped to undertake maintenance and minor repairs. The project funded the salary of a
superintendent at the Mount Makulu workshop, and training to enhance drivers' and mechanics'
capabilities. A large quantity of spares was imported, as they were difficult to obtain locally, especially
at the beginning of the project. The procurement of spares proved cumbersome as delays in supply were
regular and sometimes wrong parts were sent. Spares have not yet been received for the last shipment of
5   At a later stage, the RETU was to have been called the Department of Agriculture Training Unit (DATU). This unit was to
coordinate training for all DOA staff financed by GRZ, ZAREP, as well as other donors. The creation of DATU was
postponed, awaiting MAFF restructuring.



-6-
cars and motorcycles. The spares were partly distributed to the provinces, and partly stored at Mount
Makulu, in a temporary store, while a new project-funded large store is still under construction.
16.   As part of the rationalization of the research station network and the expansion of the extension
service, numerous facilities (offices, laboratories, training rooms, housing, etc.) were rehabilitated or
constructed. However, the civil works program encountered design and construction quality problems (in
part because of the use of pre-fabricated structures). The lack of reliable contractors, delay in payments,
time pressure and inadequate supervision, resulted in a number of sub-standard and/or incomplete
buildings.
Technical Assistance (TA)
17.   The SAR made provisions for 606 person months (pm) of long-term and 190 pm of short-term
TA. The project financed some 600 p-m of international TA, mostly for long-term assignments (Table 5
of Part II, and Tables 3-4 of Appendix C). Around 60% of International TA was spent on managerial
tasks including some eight years for the Project Implementation and Management Unit (PIMU), and 4.5
years for the GART farm manager and the Mount Makulu workshop superintendent. The specific TA for
M&E, research and extension represented only 11%, 15% and 1% respectively. During project
implementation, a substantial part of the short-term thematic TA was dropped, especially that intended
for adjusting extension methodologies, improving FSR methodologies, and enhancing alternative means
of communication. The project TA was rated unsatisfactory during the first four years of project
implementation, while it is considered to have contributed substantially to project achievements
afterwards. Although not anticipated at appraisal, some 100 pm of short-term national TA was financed
under ZAREP, which contributed to the ASIP preparation process (1993-94).
Donor Coordination
18.   The project was intended to assist GRZ in enhancing donor coordination in order to avoid
duplication of activities, to harmonize research and extension methodologies and to optimize the use of
the limited financial resources. The project only partially met this objective, especially regarding
extension activities. The M&E Unit-prepared database of donor assistance contributed to reducing
duplication of funding. Coordination of extension activities was based on the assumption that all donors
would adopt the ZAREP-promoted T&V management system, which was not recognized by all donors as
a suitable approach. Consequently, alternative extension systems continued to be supported in a number
of non-project districts, while in a few cases different extension approaches prevailed even in project
districts. Towards the end of the project, donor coordination improved (in part as a result of ASIP
preparation) through their participation in annual planning meetings, but greater involvement in regional
planning is needed.
Project Costs and Financing
19.   Actual project costs are estimated at about US$ 35.2 million, or about 91% of the SAR estimate
(US$ 38.8 million). The project expenditures exceeded the estimated amounts for overseas training (US$
3.7 against US$ 1.4 million), vehicles (US$ 6.2 against US$ 4.1 million) and incremental recurrent costs
(US$ 10 against US$ 3.8 million). These changes are mainly due to the expansion of the project area for
6 See first DCA amendment (of November 1992).



the extension component from 10 to 48 districts, in contrast to the phased approach agreed at appraisal
(Part II, Table 8A).
20.   IDA disbursements amounted to SDR 10.5 million, or about 97% of the Credit; SDR 0.3 million
remained undisbursed. In US$ terms, IDA disbursement amounted to US$ 15.2 million (about 42% of
total project costs), as opposed to the US$ 13.0 million envisaged at appraisal, because of the appreciation
of the SDR against the US dollar. The three main categories of expenditure financed by IDA are overseas
training (23%), vehicles, equipment and supplies (33%/O), and incremental operating costs (20%). Some
84% of the Norwegian Grant (US$ 6.6 million) has been disbursed (about 19% of total project costs), and
around US$ 1.3 million remains undisbursed. The bulk of the Norwegian Grant was used for
strengthening research facilities and financing research operations in the Northern Province. Some 80%
of the ADF Loan has been disbursed (about 35% of total project costs). The bulk of the ADF Loan was
used for financing civil works, technical assistance and mobility. The contribution of GRZ amounted to
some US$ 1.3 million (about 4% of total project costs), equivalent to only 25% of its estimated amount at
appraisal. Low GRZ funding implies that incremental recurrent costs were largely borne by external
funding.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Implementation Record
21.   The project was identified in 1983, prepared in 1984 and appraised at the end of 1986. A Project
Preparation Facility (PPF) of US$ 1 million was approved in 1986. Soon after project approval at the end
of 1986, IDA suspended disbursements to Zambia (in May 1987), due to arrears in service payments.
Therefore, IDA Credit effectiveness was delayed by about five years, until March 1992. The NTF Grant
and ADF Loan became effective in mid-1989. Consequently, project implementation started slowly, as
only some preparatory activities for civil works, studies and procurement, supported by TA, were made
possible through the use of the PPF, and arrangements negotiated by the co-financiers. However, ADF-
and NTF-funded activities were also delayed, as they were dependent on IDA-funded activities. When
the IDA Credit became effective, the project attempted to overcome this delay. A remarkable 60% of the
project funds (or 80% of IDA funds) were disbursed in only three years, between 1992 and 1994.
Because of the five-year delay in IDA Credit effectiveness and the concurrent emergence of the ASIP
concept, ZAREP appears to have been perceived as a "tansitional" project. Consequently, a number of
issues which were to be addressed under ZAREP, were handed over to ASIP (e.g. the formation of RETU
and the establishment of the ACC). From January 1996, ZAREP research, extension and training
activities were fully integrated within ASIP. From 1996, the PIMU merged with the ASIP Financial
Management Unit (FMU), and follow-up of specific ZAREP management aspects received low priority,
especially regarding on-going civil works, training abroad and purchase of spare parts for cars and
motorbikes.
Government Liberalization Policy
23.   During project implementation, the liberalization program modified substantially the role of the
Government in the agricultural sector. GRZ gradually withdrew from agricultural input supply and
marketing, and removed subsidies. This resulted in an initial disruption of the input supply and
marketing systems and in changes in relative prices. (In particular, fertilizer prices increased markedly in
relation to product prices.) These initial higher prices and/or shortages of inputs adversely affected the



-8-
adoption of extension messages, especially regarding the input-dependent technology promoted for
maize.
Government Funding
24.   An important factor adversely affecting project implementation was the inadequacy of
counterpart funds. Funding of project operations has been irregular, including, in 1992, a complete
omission to insert project activities in the MAFF budget, and, in 1996, a budget cut of over 50%, due to
GRZ's payment of arrears on foreign debt. Overall, the Government met only 25% of its funding
commitment. In addition, the inadequate flow of funds for field operations negatively affected T&V
implementation.7
Drought
25.   Project implementation was adversely affected by the serious drought which prevailed in Zambia
during the early 1990s. A number of technical recommendations (e.g. use of hybrid seeds and fertilizers),
especially for maize, could not be applied or yielded disappointing results. However, it provided a
favorable context for disseminating recommendations on crop diversification.
Project Management
26.   Since the project had no separate identity, apart from the national programs it encompassed, the
creation of an ad hoc management unit was not proposed at SAR. Consequently DOA had primary
responsibility for implementing the project, supported by TA. However, because of the heavy routine
work load of DOA senior management, the role of TA became critical for achieving project objectives.
During the first years, the weak performance of the project implementation TA team was considered a
serious constraint on project progress. From 1991 to the end of 1995, the appointment of a new TA team
and the establishment of PIMU brought about significant improvement in project administration. PIMU
greatly facilitated the implementation of research and extension activities, which remained under the
responsibility of DOA staff. Regular meetings of the Extension and Research Management Teams also
contributed to solving problems and enhancing project achievements.
Operation and Maintenance of Vehicles
27.   Problems in maintenance and repair of vehicles proved to be a key issue in project
implementation. The intensive use of cars and motorcycles for project and non-project activities,
combined with the poor quality of rural roads, called for frequent maintenance and repairs. At present,
many project cars are in poor condition or grounded. Towards the end of the project, the establishment of
a staff ownership scheme for motorbikes contributed to the improvement of their use and maintenance.
The bicycles, purchased through local competitive bidding, proved to be inadequate and were rapidly
grounded, reducing drastically the mobility of CEOs and affecting negatively the implementation of the
T&V system.
7   This issue is currently being addressed under ASIP.
8   It is estimated that project cars run for at least 50,000 km per year, with a maximum recorded of over 100,000 km. The
mission was informed that PAOs and DAOs had difficulties to restrict the use of ZAREP cars to project activities (the use
of project cars for non-project activities has been estimated to exceed 50%).



-9-
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
28.   Given the current implementation of ASIP, and donor commitment to support research, extension
and training activities, project activities are likely to continue in the medium term. However, in 1996, as
ZAREP activities were being integrated within ASIP, the reduction and delays in release of operational
funds, aging of vehicles and increased difficulties to maintain them, led to a rapid decline in T&V
implementation, indicating that a decrease in donor funding rapidly paralyses field extension activities.
The modified T&V system proved expensive under Zambian conditions, with substantial staff and vehicle
costs. The project extension activities are, therefore at this time, not sustainable without substantial donor
funding. While the experience of GART suggests that there may be scope for self-financed agricultural
research (for larger farmers and for cash crops), the current level of regular research activities also
remains dependent on substantial donor funding.
29.   Because of the low quality of civil works, major rehabilitation is already required for camp houses,
medium cost houses, and some office/training infrastructure, raising concern about the durability of these
investments.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
30.   The initial project design was adequate, with well thought-out phasing and attention to project
risks. With the flexible attitude of the co-financiers, it was possible to get the project started when the
IDA credit was still frozen, mainly by mutual funding arrangements. There were 13 supervision missions
before the MTR, and 8 afterwards. Supervision has been intensive and generally satisfactory, facilitating
implementation of the project. However, the fact that research and extension activities were generally
supervised separately (until the MTR) may have undermined the objective of better linking the two. IDA
has been less satisfactory in supervising civil works activities, and in ensuring proper use of project
vehicles. More follow-up should have been given on the MTR recommendations to carry out an
assessment of the T&V approach before expanding the project extension activities, and a better balance
of post-graduate with graduate/under-graduate degrees and overseas training with local training. During
1996, when project activities were integrated within ASIP, specific Bank supervision of ZAREP
procurement and disbursement matters would have helped to solve pending problems and to make fuller
use of available funds.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
31.   The institutional infrastructure of the research and extension systems has been rationalized and
strengthened. However, the insufficient and erratic flow of GRZ counterpart funds hampered
implementation. The Government has been weak in expediting procurement procedures, in supervising
civil works, and in controlling the use of project-funded vehicles. More adequate follow-up could have
been given to the recommendations in the MTR and audit reports. There was also a high MAFF staff
turn-over and frequent reorganization of MAFF departments and units, which negatively affected staff
morale and project implementation. Finally, GRZ faced difficulties in fulfilling its role of coordinating
donors supporting its research and extension activities.



-10-
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
32.   On balance, the outcome of the project is considered to be marginally satisfactory. Restructuring
of the institutional infiastructure was reasonably successful, in spite of the turnover in MAFF officials
and weaknesses in the administrative systems (e.g. procurement). Project training contributed to the
increased level of professional skills. On the extension side, the T&V system was introduced with
reasonable success, although it has proven costly.
33.   Operation of the research and extension systems has proceeded reasonably well, with greater
interaction between researchers and extensionists and, to a lesser extent, farmers. Decentralization of the
extension service has provided greater authority and responsibility to district officers, who now are better
able to tailor programs to the circumstances and needs of the farmers in their districts. However,
inadequate counterpart funding has constrained the mobility of both researchers (e.g. in terms of
collaborative on-farm research) and extensionists (in promoting the formation of additional farmers'
groups and visiting all groups on a regular basis).
34.   Field observations suggest that adoption rates among smallholders have increased, but surveys
undertaken by the M&E Unit show little difference in these rates between VEG and non-VEG members.
In part, this may result from the drought during the early 1990s and by higher input prices (and changed
price relationshipsy. However, it may also result in part from inadequate adaptation of recommendations
to changed conditions, especially prices. In any case, the institutional infrastructure is now largely in
place, and it is expected that the flow of recommendations will have an increasing impact in future years,
provided that they are developed in collaboration with farmers and continually adapted to changing
conditions, and that the T&V system is supplemented by mechanisms which do not impose a heavy fiscal
burden, using alternative communication techniques and the media.
35.   The SAR did not quantify expected impact on agricultural production and did not estimate an
economic rate of return, as the project constituted the first phase of a long-term capacity building
program. Therefore, no attempt has been made to calculate an economic rate of return at completion.
36.   ZAREP also contributed to the preparation and establishment of ASIP. The project's PIMU
financial procedures have been adopted by ASIP's FMU, and the M&E Unit laid the foundation for
ASIP's Management and Information System (MIS).
H. FUTURE OPERATIONS
37.   The research, extension and training components of ZAREP have been incorporated within the
on-going ASIP as sub-programs, for which work plans are prepared annually.9 An MIS, including
performance indicators, has been established within each sub-program, and overall responsibility rests
with the M&E unit of the MAFF's Policy and Planning Division. The completion mission made a few
recommendations for consideration by the ASIP research, extension and training sub-programs, which are
presented as an attachment to Appendix A. These address the need to: (i) further rationalize the research
facility network; (ii) increase the use of participatory approaches to strengthen farmer-extension-research
linkages; (iii) undertake an independent assessment of past extension experiences to make methodology
adjustments to, and improve the sustainability of, the T&V system; (iv) prioritize extension staff training
9   There are also a number of scholarships and civil works obligations, initiated under ZAREP, which roll over to respective
ASIP sub-programs.



- 11 -
towards district and field staff; and (v) re-consider the recent GRZ decision to separate animal health and
production from the Research and Extension Branches.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
38.   Farmer involvement in determination of priorities and in design/implementation of research and
extension programs is critical to their success and to their sustainability. Therefore, adequate resources
should be devoted to increasing the participatory skills of research and extension staff, and mobility of
staff must be maintained.
39.   Government commitment, especially in terms of appointment of staff, provision of adequate
funding, and implementation of agreed actions, is crucial for project success.
40.   Phased implementation of a longer-term extension program is important to its success. The
major expansion of area introduced during the course of the project resulted in reduced effectiveness and
contributed to an unsustainable fiscal burden.
41.   Labor constraints and financial viability, which still need to be addressed, form a major
impediment to adoption of released technologies.
42.   The restructuring of the extension service and re-focusing on its core functions were successful,
although the T&V system proved to be expensive under Zambian circumstances. Adjustments need to be
made to improve its efficiency and cost effectiveness.
43.   The GART experiment suggests that there is a role for the private sector in research, particularly
research relevant to larger farmers and for cash crops. This would allow GRZ to focus on smallholders,
thus reducing its expenditures.
44.   Civil works are an important element of research and extension infrastructure, but where there is
lack of proper quality control, relatively inexpensive pre-fabricated structures may prove to be more
expensive in the long run.
45.   ZAREP was incorporated into ASIP one year before scheduled project completion. During that
year (1996) there was no specific follow-up of outstanding project commitments. In the future, the
integration of on-going IDA-funded projects (or IDA-administered trust funds) into a SIP should not only
consider the integration of future project activities, but also the continuation of activities during the
transition.



-12 -
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of oectives       Sutalial   EPtial    Ngligble NtAlicab
Macro policies                                                        71   I  E
Sector policies                 FI          E]          F]          []
Financial objectives            F]                      [ ]E
Institutional development        a          El           I            a
Physical objectives              Li         E7          Fi           E]
Poverty reduction                Li         El          FI           []
Gender issues                                                         El  0  0
Other social objectives                      L             ]         E l
Environmental objectives        Fi          Fi          FI          Rl
Public sector management        Fi          El          FI           F]
Private sector development      Fj          Erl          Li          FI
Other (specify)                 Fi          Fi          Fi          Fi
B. Pjsillz                      ILA        Bli*i  I Tneenn
Fi   Oi   El



- 13-
Hghl
C.           ine              satisfaig    Satisfiy  . Deficiet
Identification                    [1
Preparation assistance                         Fn
Appraisal                           ]                     [] F
Supervision                        FI          71         F
HWbL
D. Borowerflmance               atisfatry  Satisfagt=   Defic
Preparation                        EEl [0
Implementation                      O         El 
Covenant compliance                             D           E]
Operation (if applicable)                       E           E 0
Wgh~~~~~~~  ~~Hghly
E. Assmentoutcome             satis       Satisicky  Unsatisf&=        satisfa=taiv
Mwrginally satismctory.



- 14-
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
Loan/Credit Title                     Purpose                    Year of        Status
Approval
Preceding Operations
1. Eastern Province Agricultural    Increase of crop production through  1981        Completed
Development Project          improvement of agricultural extension,
research, input supplies, processing and
credit facilities
2. Southern Province Agricultural   Increase of crop and livestock production  1981   Completed
Development Project          through the improvement of agricultural
extension, veterinary and tsetse control,
input supply, credit and marketing
services
3. Agricultural Rehabilitation  Agricultural sector development through   1985        Completed
Project                      policy and institutional reforms
complemented by input supply
4. Second Coffee Project        Smallholder and commercial coffee         1987        Completed
development
Following Operations
5. Agricultural Marketing and   Support road infrastructure and the private  1992     On-going
Processing                   sector to be involved in marketing and
processing of agricultural commodities
6. Agricultural Sector Investnent   Sector development by making more     1995        On-going
Program                      effective donor and GRZ resources
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Date ActuaV
Steps in Project Cycle                 Date Planned           Latest Estimate
Identification                                                              AugiSept. 1983
Preparation                                                                   June 1984
Appraisal                                              Aug. 1983            Aug-JSept 1986
Post-appraisal                                                                June 1986
Negotiations                                           July 1985               Oct 1986
Board presentation                                     Sept. 1985            Feb. 9, 1986
Signing                                                                      Mar. 19, 1987
Effectiveness                                          June 1987             Mar. 13, 1992
Mid-term review                                                               Feb. 1993
Project completion                                     Dec. 1995              Dec. 1996
Credit closing                                         Dec. 1995              Dec. 1996



- 15-
TABLE 4: IDA CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTrUAIu
(USS MILLION)
86/87  87/88   88/89  89/90  90/91  91/92  92/93  93/94  94/95  95/96  96/97a
IDA Creditw
Appraisal estimate      0.4    2       4.5    7.3    9.8      11.9   12.6   13.0   13.0   13.0   13.0
Actual                  0.2    0.6    0.9    1.0    1.0        1.5    2.8    5.8   11.5   14.5   14.9
Act. as % of estimate   41    32      21     13      10       13     22      44     87    112    115d
Total Project
Appraisal estimate      1.2    5.9   13.0   21.0   28.0       33.2   36.4   38.8   38.8   38.8   38.8
Actual                  0.2    0.7    3.0    4.9    6.8       10.5   14.6   20.1   30.4   34.5   35.2
Act. as % of estimate    14   12      23     23      24       32     40      52     78  89         91
Date of final disbursementw before 31/4/1997w
' To be updated by the IDA after final disbursement (following processing of outstanding claims during the grace period)
W First five years refer to the disbursement of the Project Preparation Facility (PPF)
' Actual IDA disbursement exceeded appraisal estimates due to depreciation of the USS against SDR
W Undisbursed IDA credit balance (31/12/1996) = 0.4 million SDR



- 16-
TABLE 5. KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Indicators                                     Unit              Estimated           Actual
1. Research
Research facilities restructuring
Facilibes closed                             No.                 19                  12
Facilities upgraded                          No.                  3                  4
Facilities downgraded                        No.                  2                  5
Facilities opened                            No.                  1                  0
Expenditure ratio: operating/personnel        Ratio                > 0.3              1.1
Database for research management               No.                  0                  2
2. Extension
District covered by T&V                        No.                 10                 48
T&V management system
Implementation workshops                     No.                400                1,330
CEO visits to VEGs                        Frequency         Fortnightly          Monthly
CEO visits to VEGs                         Duration            1 day             1-3 hours
CEO training workshop                     Frequency         Fortnightly           Monthly
SMS training workshop                     Frequency          Monthly             Quaterly
Active VEG groups                              No.                 -                 5,535
Farm families reached                          No.              55,900           80,000 - 150,000
3. Training
RETU                                           No.                  1                  0
Research staff training
Diploma (abroad)                             No.                  0                  5
Post-Graduate course                         No.                  0                  3
B.Sc. (abroad)                               No.                  0                  4
M.Sc. (abroad)                               No.                 12                  18
Ph. D. (abroad)                              No.                  0                  15
Short-term courses (abroad)                  No.                 15                  3
Extension staff training
Diploma (abroad)                             No.                  0                  14
M.Sc. (local)                                No.                  4                  14
M.Sc. (abroad)                               No.                  0                  7
Short-term courses (abroad)                  No.                  0                 40
4. Monitoring and Evaluation
Districts included in MIS                      No.                   -                45
Camps included in MIS                          No.                   -               1,193
Adoption rate surveys completed            No. of districts                            18
KAP studies completed                          No.                   -             44 districts
S. Technical Assistance
Long-term international TA              Person-month            606                572
Short-term intemational TA              Person-month            190                 34
Short-termn national TA                 Person-month              0                 98
6. MoblUty
Vehicles                                     No.                142                 238
Motorbikes                                   No.                176                > 500
Bicycles                                     No.                331               > 1,000
Minibuses                                    No.                 10                 15
7. Civil Works (Construction)
Low cost houses (CEOs)                       No.                126                 126
Mediumn/high cost houses                     No.                 54                 36
Agricultural Community Center                  No.                   1                 0



- 17-
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION
L    Key Operating bdicators in
SAR/Preudent's Report                  Estimated                            Actual
Not applicable
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN THE PROJECT
Study               Done by         Purpose as Defined at       Status              Impact of Study
Appraisal or Redefined
1. Five-year Action Program  Consulting    Develop a work plan for     Completed      Limited value as recommendations
for Research              Firm          restructuring of the Research   in 1987     conflicted with those in SAR
Branch organization setup
2. National Extension Action    GRZ/DOA    Prepare a comprehensive      Completed     Served as the basis for project for
Plan                                     plan to reorganize Extension    in 1991   launching project extension
Services                                  activities
3. National Research Action  GRZIDOA       Prepare a comprehensive      Completed     Served as the basis for project
Plan                                     plan to reorganize Research    in 1991     setting up project research activides
Services
4. Knowledge, Attitudes and    ZAREP       Monitoring and Evaluation    Series of     Enabled to evaluate extension
Practices (KAP) Surveys                 tool                         surveys        activities and propose adjustments
from 1992
to 1995
5. Adoption Rate Surveys     ZAREP         Monitoring and Evaluation    Series of     Provided indications on T&V
tool                        studies from    performance
1993 to
1995
6. Golden Valley Trust       Consultant    Study the feasibility of     Completed     Contributed to define GART
Feasibility Study                        chartering Golden Valley    in 1993       insttutional and organizational set-
staton into a trust                       up
7. Assessment of potential   Consulting    Develop plan for unused      Completed     Negligible (report classified
and for expanding         Firm           agricultural lands as means  in 1993       confidential)
agricultural production in               of increasing production
Zambia
8. Staff development and     ZAREP         Develop a staff training plan    Completed  Negligible, report considered sub-
training review                         for Research and Extension   in 1995        standard
Branches
9. Past Research Data        ZAREP         Data base to summarize past    Completed   Useful tool for research planning
Collabon                                 research achievements       in 1996
lO.Lime Study                Done by       Identify sources/availability  N/A         N/A
other donor    of lime and potential use
I l.Women in Development     Done by       Women's role in agricultural   N/A         N/A
other donor    production



- 18-
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS (US$ MILLION)
Appraisal Estimate            ActuaULatest Estimate (31/12/96)
Local    Foreign                   Local    Foreign
Category a'         Costs      Costs       Total       Costs bl   Costs bt       Total
echnical assistance         1.1      5.5           6.6          -          -           6.6
raining (overseas)          -        1.4           1.4          -          -           3.7
Training (local)             0.5       -            0.5          -          -           1.2
Civil works                  4.3      3.4           7.7          -          -           5.7
Vehicles                     0.3      3.8           4.1          -          -           6.2
Equipment & supplies         0.5      2.5           3.0          -          -           1.7
Incremental recurrent costs  1.9       1.9           3.8         -          -          10.0
Unallocated                  3.8      7.9          11.7                                 -
Total                       12.4     26.4          38.8          -          -          35.2
Project costs were not kept according to components.
Detailed distribution between local and foreign cost figure not available.
TABLE SB: PROJECT FINANCING (US$ MILLION)
Appraisal Estimate       ActuaULLatest Estimate (31/12/96)
Local   Foreign             Local    Foreip
Source            Costs    Costs   Total    Costs        Costs       Total
IDA credit                  1.5      11.5     13.0       -          -          14.9V
Norway grant                1.5      5.7       7.2       -          -          6.6
ADF loan                    3A       9.2      12.6       -          -         12A
GRZ contribution            6.0      0         6.0       -                      1.3
Total                      12.4     26.4      38.8       -          -         35.2
{ Actual disbursement exceeded appraisal estimate due to depreciation of the USS against SDR
Detailed distribution between local and foreign cost figures not available.
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
There was no net present value (NPV) or economic rate of return (ERR) estimated at appraisal. Therefore the
NPV and ERR were not re-estimated by the ICR mission. An assessment of the project outcome is presented in
the main report.



- 19-
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
ZAREP
Original     Revised
Covenant  Present  Fulffilnment  Fulfillment           Description of
syreement   wLfype                &==s               <-Covenant                                          Comments
DCA          3.03          M         C     Sept. 88     Sept 93      MAFF to produce policy statement on Complied with
irrigation and implement it
DCA          3.04          M         C     June88       Dec. 93      Report of Task Force on Livestock    Complied with.
Development Policy developed and   Proposals submitted
reviewed by IDA                  under ASIP
DCA          3.05          M         C     Annual       Annual       Annual Work Program and budgets to Complied with
be reviewed and approved by IDA
DCA          3.06          M         C     Dec. 87      Dec. 92      A four-year research program     Complied with
developed and approved by IDA to
develop from year program
DCA          3.07          M        NC    Dec. 88       March 94     Long-ten agricultural manpower   Conipliance under
projection and training program  ASIP
developed
DCA          3.08          M         C     Aug. 89      March 94     Mid-term Review report to be     Complied with
developed
DCA          3.09          M         C     Semi-Ann.  Semi-Ann.   Semi-Annual Program Reports on       Complied with
project comments submitted by IRA
and implemented accordingly
DCA          3.10          M         C                               Maintenance of BOZ/ZNCB Project   Complied with
Advance Account for recurrent
expenditure
DCA          3.11          M         C     Dec.87       March94      Establish aM&E Unit              Complied with
DCA          4.01          M         C                               Maintain adequate records for    Complied with
(a)(bXc)                                               accounting and expenditure Accounts
audited and submitted
DCA          4.02          M        CD    Dec. 88       Dec. 88      Design system of budgeting financial  Complied with in
and cost accounting acceptable and    May 91
cleared by IDA
DCA          5.01          M        CD    Dec. 87       Dec. 87      AFDB Loan Agreement effectiveness  Complied with
DCA          6.01          M         C     May 87       May 87       (a) Appoint Project Coordinators by   Complied with
MAFF
(b) Five-Year Research Plan by
consultants
(c) Establish Special Accounts
(d) Acceptable research sites and
extension camp houses selected.
Status:    C:          Complied with
CD:        Compliance after delay
NC:        Not complied with
SOON:      Compliance expected in reasonably short time
NYD:       Not yet due



-20 -
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
Statement Number and Title              Jescribe and Comment on Lack of Compliance
Not Applicable
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Stage of                    Planned                Revised       |        Actual
Project Cycle             Weeks   TUSS          Weeks  |  USS   jWeeks    ' 000US$
Preparation for appraisal                                                           66       141
Appraisal                                                                          117       256
Negotiations through approval                                                       10        24
Supervision                                                                        147       439
Completion'                             12        30.1        12         30.1        n.a.      n.a.
Total                                  n.a.       n.a.       n.a.        n.a.      340       861
Only for completion phase, planned estimates were available.



- 21 -
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Performance Rating'
Stage of Project   Month/Year    Number   Days in   Specialized Skills   Implemen-    Development           Types of
Cycle                          of       Field      Representeda         tation        Impact           Problems 
Persons                                    Status
Identification      8-9/83          2          10
Preparation         5-6/84          3          7
Appraisal            1-2/85         8         25
Post-appraisal       7/86           4         28
Negotiations         10/86          -          -
Supervision
I d/           3/87           2          5          AE, AG                                               EF
2d/           9-10/87         3         17         AE, AG, AR                                            EF
3d/            6/88           1         n.a.           AE                                -               EF
4             3/89            1         11            AR                2               1             EF, RM
5             9/89            1         9             AR                3               1         EF, RM, DC, TA
6            4-5/90          2          9             AE                3               1           EF, CW, TA
7             12/90          2          4           AE, AR              2              2               EF, TA
8            6-7/91          4          20        AE, EX, AR            2              2                 EF
9             12/91           1         12            EX                2               2                EF
10            3-4/92          3         13        AE, EX, AR            2               2                CF
I Id/         6-8/92          2          12          EX, AR              -                             CF, RM
126/          10-11/92        2          8           EX, AS              -               -              CF, FF
13            2-4/93          5         14      EX, AE, AS, AR          2               2                DC
Mid-term review     3-4/93          5         32       AE, AR, EX, AG          -
14W/            7/93           8         21        AE, EX, AS                                         DC, FF, PR
15 61           9/93          2          7           EX, AS              -               -              CF, PR
16             2/94           1         7             EX                2               2            FF, DC, MO
17            5-6/94          2        n.a.         EX, AS              2               2           FF, MO, CW
186d          11-12/94        2          6           EX, AS                              .                FF
19             1/95           2         12          EX, AS              S               S                FF
20             5/95           2          ?           EX, AS             S               S              CW, PR
21 /            1/96          4          16        AS, EX, AR                                         FF, MO, CF
Completion       01-02/97         3         I$        AG, AE, AR             .
AG = Agriculturist; AE = Agricultural Economist; AR = Agricultural Research Specialist; EX = Extension  Specialist;
AS = Aq,icultural Services Specialist
EF = Delay in credit effectiveness; CF = Counterpart funding ; TA = Technical assistance; PR = Procurement;
CW = Civil works; MO = Mobility; FF = Flow of funds to the field; DC = Donor coordination; RM = Research
management.
cl      I = Non significant problems; 2 = Moderate problems; 3 = Major problems (appropriate action is being taken to
address these problems); S = Satisfactory.
cv     Formn 590 not available.



- 22 -
APPENDICES



- 23 -
PMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXIENSION PROJECT
(Cr. 1746-ZM)
A. Aide Memoire
Introduction
1.    A mission1 from the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program visited Zambia from 27 January to
12 February 1997 to prepare the ICR for the above project. The mission worked closely with staff
concerned by ZAREP from the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and
Fisheries (MAFF), especially from the Research and Extension Branches of the Department of
Agriculture (DOA). The mission also held discussions with representatives of NORAD, SIDA and EU.
Field visits were made to five districts in three Provinces2 where discussions were held with -
3
representatives of MAFF and farmers. The mission also visited five research facilities'.
2.    The mission is grateful to the officials of the Government of the Republic of Zambia (GRZ),
farmers, and the WB and FAO offices in Lusaka for their assistance in information gathering and
organising successful field visits. Preliminary impressions and findings are presented below, and are
subject to modifications following further detailed analysis.
Objectives and Components
3.    The purpose of the project was to raise the productivity of Zambia's agricultural sector by
improving research and extension services to farmers, particularly smallholders. The objectives of the
project were to: (i) strengthen existing institutions and infrastructure in support of adaptive and applied
research, and extension programs; (ii) upgrade human resources; (iii) strengthen linkages between
extension and research; (iv) establish a modified Training and Visit (T&V) system as the basis of the
National Extension Program; and (v) promote better coordination of external assistance. According to the
Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the project was intended to support, over a period of eight years:
(a)  Research Services for: (i) organisational restructuring to formulate and coordinate
overall research programs, establish policies and set priorities; (ii) strengthening
Adaptive Research Planning Teamns (ARPTs) and Commodity Research Teams
1 Guy Evers, Mission Leader/Agronomist (FAO/CP), Andre Wooning, Agricultural Economist (FAO/CP) and
James Litsinger, Research and Training Specialist (Consultant).
2 Chongwe (Lusaka Province), Choma and Kalomo (Southem Province), and Kapiri Mposhi and Mkushi
(Central Province).
3 Mount Makulu Research Station, Golden Valley Agricultural Research Trust, Kabwe and Magoye Technology
Assessment Sites and Mochipapa Research Station.



- 24 -
(CRTs); (iii) strengthening Specialists Research Teams (SRTs) especially to restore
and/or sustain soil productivity; and (iv rationalisation and strengthening the national
station network by phasing out redundant facilities and upgrading infrastructure and
equipment at the remaining stations.
(b)  Extension Services for: (i) organisational restructuring, including measures to
separate technical and administrative functions, an, improving the planning and
coordination of extension activities; (ii) introducing a modified T&V system, adapted
to varying conditions in 10 districts of Lusaka, Central and Northern Provinces (four
pilot districts before the mid-term review); and (iii) establishing an Agricultural
Communication Centre (ACC).
(c)  Training for implementing a comprehensive staff development program comprising:
(i) the establishment of a Research and Extension Training Unit (RETU); (ii)
fellowships up to MSc degree and other overseas and local training courses; and (iii)
upgrading of training facilities.
(d)  Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) for establishing a systematic, management-
oriented monitoring and evaluation system, including a comprehensive mid-term
review (MTR) of research and extension strategies and programs.
(e) Project Management for strengthening the institutional capability of MAFF to
implement the project, and providing an internationally recruited team.
4.    The project objectives were well articulated in the SAR. The project document was cautious and
its strategy called for step-wise approach to expansion of the T & V system. A 15- to 20-year planning
horizon was envisaged due to the anticipated protracted payoff period for capacity building of human
resources and civil works for research services to provide improved technologies. The project was
conceived as a first phase of a succession of interlocking projects.
Project Timing, Financing and Costs
5.    The project was identified and prepared by the WB in 1983 and 1984, and appraised in 1986. It
was to be co-financed by IDA, a Norwegian Grant (Trust Fund administered by IDA = NTF), and the
African Development Fund (ADF). A Project Preparation Facility (PPF) of US$ 1 million was approved
in 1986. The IDA Credit Agreement was signed in March 19874. The NTF Grant and ADF Credit
became effective in mid- 1989, and IDA Credit in March 1992. The MTR was launched early 1993. There
were 13 Bank supervision missions before the MTR, and 8 afterwards. The project initial closing date
was set at December 1995, later extended to December 1996. In January 1996, the project activities were
integrated into the multi-donor supported, Agricultural Sector Investment Program (ASIP), after which no
specific ZAREP supervision took place.
6.    ZAREP provisional estimates of total project costs amount to US$ 35.2 million compared with
the SAR estimate of US$ 38.2 million. To illustrate the application of funds, the Table below shows
disbursements against the planned allocation of funds among categories of expenditure. Since the project
4   The Development Credit Agreement was amended in November 1992, in August and November 1993, and
early 1995.



- 25 -
is now in a four month grace period, to allow for disbursement of outstanding commitments as of 31
December 96, final arnount and allocation of funds will slightly differ.



- 26 -
Planned allocation and disbursement of funds by category
Credit/Grant and category                         Credit/Grant allocation      Disbursed
SAR             Last
Amendment  31 Dec 1996
IDA Credit (x,000 SDR)                                (1987)          (1995)
1       Technical assistance                           5,670           1,050          904
2-A     Overseas training                              1,000           2,250         2,407
2-B     Local training                                  250              300           250
3       Civil works                                     580             1,270          529
Vehicles, equipment, supplies                   500            3,150         3,430
5       O&M: buildings, vehicles, equipment             330            2,040         2,020
6       Refund ofPPF                                     830             741           741
Unallocated                                    1,640            789            77
Total IDA                                             10,800          10,800        10,358
Norwegian Trust Fund (x ,000 NOK)                     (1987)          (1989)
1-A     Mount Makulu Central Research Station         27,300          24,400        15,269
i-B     Misamfu Zonal Research Station                 3,500           3,100         2,861
1-C     Mufulira Region Research Station               4,900           4,300           552
I-D     Mongu Regional Research Station                4,900           4,300         6,122
1-E     Mbala Trial Research Station                   1,400           1,000             0
1-F     Research activities in the Northern Province  10,500          10,500        12,803
1-G     New Research Stations                                            100            55
2       Consultancies, Training, Estab. Mgt. Unit                      4,800         4,749
Unallocated                                                                  1,819
Total Norwegian Trust Fund                            52,500          52,500        44,229
ADF Credit (x ,000 SDR)
Total                                                 12,600                         8,887
GRZ (x,000 US$)                                        5,400                         1,261
Implementation Experience
7.     General. The project implementation started slowly because of the initial five year delay in IDA
Credit effectiveness. Some preparatory activities for civil works, studies and procurement, supported by
technical assistance (TA), were made possible through the use of the PPF, and arrangements negotiated
by the co-financiers. However, ADF- and NTF-funded activities were also delayed, as they were
dependant on IDA funded activities. When IDA Credit became effective (until 1995), the project
attempted to overcome this delay, and even to exceed the initial extension program (see par 14).
Consequently, some 80% of IDA Credit, and 60% of total project costs were disbursed in about three
years. From 1993, ZAREP resources (including TA) were also used for ASIP preparation. From 1996, as
ZAREP research extension and training activities were integrated within ASIP, only a few withdrawal
applications were claimed under the IDA Credit and NTF.



- 27 -
8.       B h      i. ZAREP contracted an initial strategic study in 1988 that paved the basis for
the National Research Action Plan (NRAP) which became a blueprint for the major reorganisation and
restructuring of the research system. The former system was considered problematic as experiments were
centrally planned, triats unnecessarily repetitious and not appropriate to farmers' conditions, results often
went unreported, and research stations were located by province rather than by agro-ecological regions.
NRAP addressed these problems following the objectives set out in the SAR.
9.    Rationalisation of Research Facilities: the NRAP called for delineation of research target
domains based mainly on annual rainfall, resulting in three regions being defined. The 27 research
facilities were then assessed and redundancies were to be eliminated. The number of facilities now totals
16: two regional centres (Regions II and III), four research stations, and 10 Technology Assessment Sites
(TASs). Closed were 10 TASs and one research station with four research stations downgraded to TASs.
The former trial site at Sinazongue has yet to be upgraded to the Region I centre. ZAREP funded civil
works and laboratory equipment to upgrade the regional centres and research stations as well as five
TASs.
10.   The research structure has been reorganised into a network of research teams5 composed of:
nine CRTs, seven SRTs and nine FSRTs (formerly called ARPTs) under the coordination of three
regional and three divisional Chief Agricultural Research Officers (CAROs), who report to an overall
coordinator, for whom terms of references have been developed. ZAREP supported these teams through
equipment, vehicles, computers and operational funds. A succession of new teams and divisions, as well
as coordinating committees was formed whose makeup and number have been in continual revision.
Their meetings required substantial time, vehicles and budget. Despite these revisions, FSRTs, CRTs, and
SRTs are still composed of separate staff, therefore maintaining communication barriers. A performance-
based merit system to increase staff morale has been developed, and awaits final approval.
11.   The mandate of FSRTs is to link researchers with farmers and extension. These multi-
disciplinary units are based at research facilities and perform on-station and on-farm trials. During the
period of ARPTs, one team member was appointed as the Research and Extension Liaison Officer
(RELO). ARPTs, once functioned as autonomous units (with their own farmers' groups), but under the
new re-organisation, the FSRTs have been integrated into the research structure. The RELOs were
dropped, and research-extension liaison is now part of the mandate of the District SMSs for Extension
Methodology. While linkages have been strengthened, further training would be required to improve their
skills in participatory appraisal, to better identify and prioritise farmers problems and possible solutions.
12.   With the adoption of NRAP, program formulation became decentralised and budgeting was
controlled at each research facility. The ZAREP M & E and biometrics groups (with project TA and the
expertise of ISNAR) teamed up in Mt. Makulu to assist research services develop two Research
Databases. Past research trials to the 1950s have been computerised to form a Research Data Archive.
Analysis of the database assists researchers to know where research gaps and duplication exist. A second
database, Inform for Research Managers, has been developed that produces costed annual work plans,
budgets, and summaries of current trials. The system is currently expanding and is now operational in
one regional centre and two research stations.
CRTs: cereals, oil seeds, food legumes, fibre, roots and tubers, vegetables, tree/plantation, forage/grasses and
livestock; SRTs: soils, plant protection, agro-forestry, agricultural economics, irrigation, farm
power/machinery, and food storage.



- 28 -
13.   Golden Valley Station is an expansion research farm of Region II (Mt. Makulu) and was given
increasingly greater status due to the unsuitability of the Mt. Makulu site6. Donor funding from ZAREP
and SIDA greatly improved infrastructure at the Golden Valley station (irrigation system, buildings, soil
laboratory and farm e4uipment). In line with the GRZ liberalisation policy and desire for cost recovery, it
was decided in 1994 to incorporate the station into a trust. ZAREP funded a study that provided guidance
in setting up of the trust. Subsequently, the project TA and Bank supervision gave strong encouragement
for its establishment. The resulting Golden Valley Agricultural Trust (GART) is a self-financing, non-
profit organisation which was formed by MAFF and the Zambian National Farmers Union (ZNFU), with
linkages to the national seed company (ZAMSEED). ZAREP also financed the salary of the station
manager (TA) for three years. GART now has 15 contracts, mostly with the private sector, but the desire
for outside funding may marginalize small-scale farmers from its activities.
14.   Extension Services. As per the National Extension Action Plan (NEAP) prepared by GRZ in
1991, the project-supported extension activities following a modified T&V system. In-service training
and orientation workshops were organised to introduce the new system to staff. Each Provincial and
District Agricultural Office (PAO/DAO) was provided with 4-wheel drive cars, Block Supervisors (BSs)
with motorbikes and Camp Extension Officers (CEOs) with bicycles. Camp houses were built for CEOs
in 10 districts. The project also provided office and field equipment and operating costs, including field
allowances. In addition, technical and administrative functions were separated to allow technical staff to
concentrate on field activities. Because of the initial implementation delays, the project started its
activities in 10 districts for the 1991/92 season. After one T&V season, it was agreed by GRZ and the
Bank to gradually expand ZAREP extension activities to all districts not covered by other projects.
Although the MTR recommended to postpone expansion, the project covered 47 districts by the 1994/95
season . The T&V implementation in expansion project districts was constrained by shortage of qualified
staff, camp houses and funding. The T&V system was not adjusted to varying farming conditions, such
as low population density or peri-urban areas, as recommended by the SAR.
15.   The modified T&V was based on fortnigthly visits by CEOs to Village Extension Groups
(VEGs); establishment of farmer-managed adoption plots; fortnightly training workshops for CEOs; and
monthly workshops for SMSs. The T&V system was to cover agricultural and livestock aspects, to which
fisheries was added later on. Initially, extension messages were prepared by provincial staff on the basis
of Knowledge-Attitude-Practice (KAP)-survey findings which were carried out in each district (see par.
21). Technical messages have tended to be input-driven and repetitive, with only a few new technologies
promoted. Blanket recommendations that do not reflect market opportunities and input price changess
continued to be disseminated. While simple messages have been adopted by a large number VEG
farmers, the main reasons for non-adoption of a technology are: labour shortage, unavailability / late
availability of inputs, lack of credit, unprofitablility, and marketing uncertainties.
6   In particular because of the rise in soil pH from fallout from a nearby cement factory.
7   The change in project area for the extension component was included in the first amendment of the IDA Credit
Agreement. While the amendment made provision for incremental requirements of mobility and operating
costs, it did not cater to incremental requirements of camp houses.
8   The mission observed that, although the price of fertilisers more than doubled for the 95/96 cropping season,
the fertilizer recommendation for maize was still at the high level of 400 kg/ha (200 basal and 200 top-
dressing).



- 29 -
16.   Over the last 2 years, VEGs have been consulted in the selection of technical messages to be
discussed during their fortnightly meeting with CEOs. In addition, following budget reductions, it was
decided by GRZ to further modify the T&V system by reducing the intensity of field activities as follows:
visits by CEOs to VEGs from fortnightly to monthly; training workshop for CEOs, from fortnightly to
monthly; and workshops for SMSs, from monthly to quarterly. During 1996, as ZAREP activities were
integrated within ASIP, reduced and delays of operational funds, ageing of vehicles and increased
difficulties to maintain them led to a decline in T&V implementation. Staff morale has been low over the
last year, especially for CEOs who have poor housing facilities and inadequate mobility.
17.   In order to complement the T&V field operations, the project intended to support the now-called
National Agricultural Information Centre (NAIS) to enhance alternative means of communication
through mass media, distribution of posters, leaflets and booklets. A 300 m Agricultural Communication
Centre (ACC) was to be built in Lusaka. Low priority was given to this issue, as the project only financed
some audio-visual equipment. The ACC was not constructed, but, in 1996, it has been accommodated in
the former ZAREP office block.
18.   Training. SAR budgeted for a large training component for research and extension staff (technical
and administrative). In-country training was emphasised with overseas training provision for study tours
and university courses up to the MSc level. The RETU, was to be set up to coordinate training for all
DOA staff financed by GRZ, ZAREP, and more than 20 other donors. The creation of this unit was
postponed, awaiting MAFF restructuring. ZAREP sponsored a training needs assessment which should
have provided a basis for a master plan, but the study was substandard and not adopted.
19.   Local training has concentrated on short courses and over 200 staff benefited from courses
covering extension, production, computer skills, accounting, and farm management. Overseas training has
covered academic programs for Diplomas (10), Bachelors (4), Masters (30), Doctoral (15), and about 50
short courses. The ad hoc nature of selection of postgraduate candidates, who typically appeared to select
their own subject areas, has led to a situation where many received degrees but certain disciplines such as
weed science, rural sociology, and agricultural economics are under-represented. Overseas training
generally dominated over local training, and only two students conducted their thesis work in-country.
20.   Project Management. During the first years, the delay in releasing IDA funds and the weak
performance of the project implementation TA-team have been the most serious constraints to project
progress. From 1991 to end- 1995, appointment of a new TA team for the project Implementation Unit
(PIU) has brought about significant improvement in project administration. PIU greatly facilitated the
implementation of research and extension activities which remained under the responsibility of DOA
staff. Regular meeting of the Extension and Research Management Teams also contributed to solving
problems and enhancing project achievements. From 1996, the PIU merged with the ASIP Financial
Management Unit (FMU), and follow-up of specific ZAREP management aspects received low priority,
especially regarding civil works, training abroad and purchase of spare parts for cars and motorbikes.
21.   Monitoring and Evaluation. The M&E Unit started operating in 1991. One of its first activities
was the collection of baseline information, through KAP studies, in Central and Lusaka Province, later
followed by the other provinces. From 1993, in each project district, Adoption Rate Surveys were
conducted to provide feed back for the extension program. Data collection was done by regular field staff
(District SMSs and BSs). However a number of them, done in 1995, await analysis and reporting.
Another important activity was to develop a Management Information System, involving: (i) camp
database; (ii) report system for field operations; (iii) research database (in collaboration with research);
and (iv) database including donor funded research & extension projects. From mid-1993, the M&E Unit



- 30 -
was also involved in preparatory activities for ASIP. Despite the late implementation and set-backs due to
lack of staff and equipment, the unit made considerable achievement in increasing the effectiveness of the
research and extension management system.
22.   A Mid-Term Review, conducted in 1993 by an independent team of local and international
experts, made a high quality thorough analysis of project activities. The MTR recommendations were
largely in line with the SAR. Regarding research, it was recommended to: (i) convert Golden Valley into
a partially self sustaining trust; (ii) to complete research station rationalisation as per NRAP; (iii) to
decentralise research responsibilities coupled to a merit based remuneration system; and (iv) to integrate
adaptive research into research and extension. Regarding extension, the MTR recommended that
expansion beyond the pilot areas (established only in the same year), be postponed until the results of
those pilots could be properly evaluated. Further, to minimise the cost (related to transport), the Review
advised that maximum use be made of other extension communication systems. The MTR also advised
against the heavy emphasis placed on PhD-level overseas training, and suggested that funds be used for
extension personnel, using University of Zambia (UNZA) facilities for MSc courses and in-service
training. It further recommended that extension staff be trained in Farm Management and Marketing
aspects, and that a study should be conducted on the roles and needs of women in agricultural
development.
23.   Procurement and Maintenance of Mobility. The project purchased a total of 238 cars, 15 mini
busses, 3 trucks, 13 tractors, around 500 motorcycles and 1,000 bicycles. The workshop at Mount Makulu
was upgraded to conduct major repairs for all project vehicles. Provincial workshops were also equipped
to undertake maintenance and minor repairs. The project provided TA (Mt. Makulu superintendent) and
training to enhance mechanics' capabilities.
24.   A large quantity of spares was purchased, as they were difficult to obtain on the local market,
especially at the beginning of the project. The procurement of spares proved cumbersome as delays in
supply were regular and sometimes wrong parts were sent. Spares have not yet been received for the last
shipment of cars and motorcycles. The spares were partly distributed to the provinces, and partly stored at
Mt. Makulu, in a temporary store. A project-funded, large new store is still under construction.
25.   Problems in maintenance and repair of vehicles proved to be a key issue in project
implementation. The intensive use of cars9 and motorcycles combined with the poor quality of rural roads
called for frequent maintenance and repair operations. The fact that all operations at the central workshop
at Mt. Makulu (or provincial workshops) was done without charge might have contributed to less careful
use of the vehicles. At present, many cars are in poor condition or are grounded. The local bicycles
proved unreliable and only a fraction is still running.
26.   Civil Works. 126 prefabricated camp houses, 36 houses for professional staff, 11 stores, and 17
other buildings (office blocks, classrooms, dormitories) were constructed under the project. A total of 71
buildings was renovated. The lack of reliable contractors, delay in payments, tirne pressure and
inadequate supervision resulted in a large number of sub-standard buildings, already requiring substantial
renovation.
Factors Affecting Project Implementation
9   It is estimated that project vehicles run for at least 50,000 km per year, with a maximum recorded of over
100,000 km.



- 31 -
27.   A number of factors have positively or adversely affected project implementation: (i) five year
delay for IDA credit effectiveness; (ii) inadequate GRZ counterpart funding; (iii) liberalisation of the
economy, including GRZ withdrawal from direct marketing, input supply and credit activities; (iv) good
and sub-standard performance of TA; (v) decentralisation policy and increased role played by districts;
(vi) poor flow of operational funds from Lusaka to the field; (vii) delays and inadequate procurements;
(viii) lack of selection of capable building contractors; (ix) lack of donor coordination, including, in some
cases, their reluctance to support the T&V system or reorganise the research system along the lines
promoted under ZAREP; (x) high GRZ staff tun-over; (xi) frequent reorganisation of MAFF departments
and units; (xii) emergence of the ASIP concept, its preparatory process and implementation before
ZAREP completion.
Bank and Borrower Performance.
28.   Bank Performance. Project overall design was adequate, with well-thought phasing and
attention to project risks. With a flexible attitude of the co-financiers, it was possible to get the project
started when IDA-credit was still frozen, mainly by mutual funding arrangements. Supervision has been
intensive and overall satisfactory, and maintained momentum of and provided guidance to project
activities. However, the fact that research and extension activities were generally supervised separately
(until the MTR) may have undermined the objective of better linking the two. More follow-up should
have been given on MTR conclusions, especially the recommendations to: (i) postpone the expansion of
ZAREP extension activities; (ii) carry out an assessment of the T&V approach; (iii) adjust T&V to local
conditions; and (iv) better balance post-graduate with graduate/under-graduate degrees and overseas
training with local training.
29.   Borrower performance. In general, MAFF has assumed responsibility in implementing the
ZAREP program (in research and extension), at national, provincial and district levels. However, long
procurement procedures, insufficient and erratic flow of GRZ funds hampered implementation. More
adequate follow up could have been given to the recommendations in MTR and audit reports.
Assessment of Outcome
30.   The overall project achievements are considered satisfactory, especially the improved
management capacity and output of the Research and Extension branches of MAFF. The various types of
review and planning meetings contributed to more interaction between researchers, extensionists and
farmers, and generally to a more effective research system. The increased professional skills are reflected
by the quality of several workshop proceedings provided to the mission. Concerning extension, the staff
morale and the output of district, block and camp staff improved with the availability of resources,
including allowances, and a well-defined work plan. The decentralisation process of extension services,
supported by ZAREP, has given more responsibilities to DAO's, who are increasingly able to perform as
individual managers. Furthermore ZAREP has contributed in the preparation and establishment of ASIP.
The project's PIU financial procedures have been adopted by ASIP's FMU, and the M&E Unit laid the
foundation for ASIP's Management and Information System.
31.   The SAR did not quantify impact on agricultural production and did not estimate an ERR, as the
project constituted the first phase of a long term capacity building program. New technologies related to
conservation tillage have been developed by research and are currently tested at farmers' level. Following
the early 1990's drought, extension activities proved an effective channel for promoting crop
diversification in maize-based cropping systems, therefore contributing to food security. M&E data



- 32 -
suggest that, on average, each CEO organises 10 VEG-meetings per month, with an average of 12
participants per meeting. Provisional estimates suggest that, each month, 15% to 25% of farmers
attended VEG-meetings10. However, there are indications that the VEG-meetings attendance decreases
after 2-3 years, possibly due to the lack of new messages. Although adoption rates have been reportedly
increasing, adoption rate surveys show little difference in adoption between VEG and non-VEG
members.
Project Sustainability
32.   Given the current implementation of ASIP, and donor commitment to support research,
extension, and training activities (including IDA as the donor of last resort), the sustainability of project
activities is likely to be assured in the medium term. But as experienced during the transition from
ZAREP to ASIP, a decrease in funding rapidly paralyses field extension activities. The modified T&V
system has proven to be expensive, relying excessively on vehicles and field allowances. The project
extension activities are, therefore, considered not sustainable without major donor funding. While the
experience of GART suggests that there may be scope for self-financed agricultural research, the level of
current regular research activities remains dependant on substantial donor funding.
33.   Because of the low quality of civil works, major rehabilitation is already required, for camp houses,
medium cost houses, and some office/training infrastructure, raising major concern on the future
sustainability of such investments.
Future Operations
34.   The future operations of ZAREP have been defined under the on-going ASIP, for which a work
program is prepared annually. There remain a few pending withdrawal applications for 1996, which
require follow-up by the Bank and GRZ during the ZAREP grace period (IDA Credit and Norwegian
Grant). There are also a number of scholarships and civil works obligations, initiated under ZAREP,
which will roll over to ASIP respective sub-programs (new commitments from January 1997). The
mission has drawn a few recommendations for consideration for the ASIP research, extension and
training sub-program, which are present as an attachment to the Aide Memoire.
Lessons Learned
35.   ZAREP was integrated into ASIP one year before project completion. During that year (1996)
there was no specific follow-up of outstanding project commitments, while only a few expenditures have
been submitted against the remaining balance (Credit and Trust-Fund). In the future, the incorporation of
on-going IDA-funded projects (or IDA administered Trust Funds) into ASIP should consider not only the
integration of project activities, but should also clearly define follow-up arrangements to use undisbursed
project funds until actual project completion, in accordance with IDA rules and regulations.
36.   The teaming up of the M & E and biometrics units with ISNAR proved to be the key in
developing computerised, low cost databases to archive past research trials, and as a planning and
reporting tool which should be emulated elsewhere. The exercise has proved a valuable tool for research
managers.
10  These figures may be over-estimated, as data are recorded by the extension staff themselves.



- 33 -
37.   The GART experience shows that there is scope and a role for privatisation in generating research
funds to reduce government expenditures by contracting research and selling services to the public and
private sectors.
38.   Civil works are a key component in government infrastructure strengthening but cheaper options
such as pre-fabricated structures and lack of proper quality control may prove to be more expensive, in
the long run.
39.   Labour constraints and financial viability assessment, which have been chronically ignored by
research and extension activities during the project, are a major impediment to adoption of released
technologies.
Follow-up
40.   The mission will prepare a draft ICR in accordance with the Bank's guidelines for submission to
the Bank by mid-March 1997. GRZ will prepare its own evaluation and send it to the Bank in due course
for incorporation in the final ICR.



- 34 -
ATTACHMENT TO AIDE MEMOIRE
Suggestions for Future Operation
Research.
1.    There may be still scope for further restructuring of the research station network through further
delineation of agro-ecological regions. The current delineation into three vast regions has been based
mainly on rainfall. Clearly, agro-ecological and farning systems features could be incorporated to
increase the number of recommendation domains to about 7 regions. Ideally, a single research station
would be identified to serve each region. Further study therefore is warranted to delineate the boundaries
of key production systems.
2.    There may also be scope for reducing the number of TASs. To date, new technologies have to
first be perfected on-station before they are tested on-farm. Experience elsewhere has shown that stations
can never fully represent all farm situations and the most expeditious method for fine tuning technology
is to give it to farmers at an early stage. Farmers can be taught to perform single variable trials that most
TASs carry out now.
3.    Low adoption of single technology recommendations and the increasing diversification of
agricultural enterprises argue for technology interventions of a more fundamental nature. Useful
technologies can be developed by maximising nutrient recycling to improve soil fertility linked with
livestock enterprises, soil and water conservation practices, and crop residue management. Naturally-
occurring biological and cultural methods of pest control should be emphasised to lessen the dependence
on, but not necessarily do away with, inorganic fertilisers and pesticides. Research teams should address
farming systems rather than mono-crops which would require more of a systems' perspective. Greater
effectiveness in conducting FSR would accrue if it is carried out as a program that selects members from
various line services, rather than as an autonomous team. FSRTs should therefore be formed from a mix
of professionals taken from SRTs, CRTs, and extension.
4.    Research teams should interact more closely with farrners so that efforts of research are more
accurately directed to solving what farmers' problems really are. Participatory approaches aim to lessen
the distance between farmers, extensionists, and researchers and start with a revision of attitudes, in
which extensionists and researchers no longer see themselves as teachers, but recognise their own
involvement in a learning process together with the farmer. Once this partnership would be foraned it
would start with a common diagnosis of problems and prioritisation, and the extension staff and farmers
would work together experimenting, with the researcher's, proposed solutions to the problems. They
would then adapt them, following an iterative process, until they jointly arrive at improved and acceptable
practices.



- 35-
Extension.
5.    In light of past experiences of the T&V system and alternative extension approaches promoted by
various donors, the DOA has initiated a process to develop the Zambian Participatory Extension System
(ZAPES). ZAPES is intended to better meet farmers priorities under their prevailing circumstances in a
liberalised economy. ZAPES has been adopted as the ASIP extension approach' 1. This initiative should
be encouraged, and the dialogue between the various extension system's stakeholders be encouraged. In
addition, along the lines of the SAR and the MTR recommendations, an independent assessment of the
past extension experiences in Zambia should be carried out to draw lessons, and to contribute to the
definition of future extension approach(es). However, a deadline should be given for the process, so as to
crystallise the DOA extension approach(es), and to avoid regular adjustments which would be
counterproductive and lead to farmer, staff, and donor confusion.
6.    While improving the proposed ZAPES, consideration could also be given to the following: (i)
one single extension approach cannot be adapted to varying prevailing conditions, and there is a need for
adjustments according to population densities and varying production systems; (ii) contribution of the
private sector to extension; (iii) integration of livestock into the extension approach; (iv) gender aspects;
(v) need for farmers to take a more proactive role in marketing, inputs supply and credit activities; (vi)
consistency with on-going public sector reform, economic justification and sustainability; and (vii)
successful extension approaches elsewhere under comparable conditions.
Training.
7.     A large number of extension staff are underqualified for their positions. As they did not receive
priority under ZAREP, they will have to receive training at in-service centres for diploma and higher
levels to meet job requirements. The training strategy developed under ASIP should consider prioritising
training needs accordingly. The NAIS staff, which were not served by ZAREP, may deserve priority.
Removal of livestock activities from Research and Extension Branches.
8.    Under the current reorganisation, the Directorate of Animal Health and Livestock Production
will be created and include the current Livestock Husbandry unit in research and Livestock Extension.
This step should be re-considered, as it may create an additional barrier between these institutions and
result in less co-ordination and integration between the crops and livestock sectors.
See Workshop Report on the Development of Participatory Extension Approach, MAFF, October 1996, and
ASIP Extension and Information Sub-program annual Workplan and Budget for 1997.



- 36 -
IMPLEMENTATIQN COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
(Cr. 1746-ZM)
B. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
-Comments on Implementation Completion Report (ICR),
extension Component
1.   ACHIEVEMENTS
a)   Physical
The introduction of the ZAREP brought about many attributes which
saw the 'revival' of the extension System in those provinces where it
was operating. There were definitely more achievements than failures
in as far as the 'performanceu of the system was concerned.
An Extension Action Plan was for the first time designed and this gave
solid foundation for the overall extension Policy in Zambia clear
guidelines on Organisation and management of extension in Zambia
were introduced.
The National extension Programme were established through the
Action Plan. The shift from Project Approach to Programme Approach
now being advocated in ASIP was actually started by ZAREP.
The Supply of funds was timely adequate and consistent. Again
decentralisation being developed in ASIP was initiated by ZAREP
through direct funding to districts.
The M & E Unit in ZAREP performed well by estabiishing an intemal
MIS and this has been carried through into ASIP.
An elaborate training programme was designed and many extension
personnel benefited. This contributed significantly in building capacity
in extension. Adequate logistical support was provided and this
increased the interaction between extension and farme. The Civil
WorKs Programme - The quality of the works was unsatisfaction.
As stated in para 9 of the report one would therefore agree that the
objectves of stengthening extension management was largely
achieved.



- 37 -
b)   Adoption of Technologies
Again It is correct (as stated In the report) that achievement here was
partial. The reasons for this are various and include:-
* The classical T & V System whose concept was mainly that of
"delivering" messages: The involvement of farmers in the
programme as a whole was inadequate.
This situation applied to Research also.
* Weak support services to provide inputs, marketing and credit
; Poor Research extension linkages leading to lack of Uoint approach
to technology development.
The observations and concems raised by Mr. Venkatesan are
strongly supported and I wish to emphasise that it is no longer correct
to assume that research ends at technology development while that of
Extension is to do only with transfer or dissemination. The
prormance of Research therefore cannot be based on technologies
developed only but on the extent to which these technologies are
demand driven and adopted.
Lessons learnt in ZAREP have helped us strengthen extension
further under ASIP by addressing the factors that had posed
hindrances i.e.
* Modification of the T & V System into a Zambian structured
Participatory Extension Methodology, still being developed.
* Strengthen R/E linkages (i.e. joint Planning, Exeution, Monitory
and Evalwation of programmes, Significant prooesG has been made
here.)
L.J. Mw_
Actng Deputy DiruCtor (Ext-)
2L310L0997



- 38 -
AGRICULIURAL RESEARCH AND EXTFNSION PROJECI' (ZAREP)
Project Implementation Assessment
Comments From Soils and Crops Research Branch
B. Achievement of Objectives
Research Services
Statement (ppS): Rcscarch Centre for Region I, formerly a TS, has yet to be upgradedi
Comment: -  Rcgion I Research Centre was not recommended by the mid-term
evaluation of ZAREP. No Station could therefore be up graded or
built to Region I status.
- No TAS was closed, the TAS concept was developed later.
Statement (6):. In line with rationalisation, the research structure has been
reorganised into a network comprised nine CIRTA, Apvtn SRTs and
nine Farming System Research Teams
Comment: - CRTs are eight and not nine
- SRTs are fourteen and not seven
- Five Farming Systems Research Teams (by 5 disciplines and not by
provinces)
- rPour divisional Chief Agricultural Research Officers instead of three
appearing
- Who report to overdll Co-ordinator, should 'read who report to the
Deputy Director'
Statement;   A performancc based merit system to increase staff morale developed
under the project dwaito final apFr9YIl.
Comment: - If developed never seen one
Statement (7): The INFORM system is currently expanding and is now operational in
one regional centre and two research stations.
Comment: - It should be at four Research Stations (one regional center, two
research stations and one TAS )



- 39 -
Statoment (8):   IDA Contributions, together with Swedish Goverment. to
improve the infrastructure of this station through
construction of housing facilities and provision of
irrigation system, as well as a soil laboratory and farm
equipment.
Comment;        No soil laboratory at Golden Valley was developed. The
labs developed were for maize, sorghum and millets.
Contributions towards irrigation equipment and housing
as well as overall Golden Valley development should be
put in figures or financial proportions for each Donor
(SIDA and CIDA).
Statement:      GART now has 15 contracts, mostly with the private
sector, dealing with plant breeding (including maize and
sorghum hybrids).
Comment:        No seed company is carrying out plant breeding at
Golden Valley apart from conducting demonstrations
only.
Extension Services
Statement (9):   The extension service was also largely relieved of the
burden of input supply, credit and marketing as a result
of GRZ's liberalising programme.
Comment:        There hasn't been such involvement by extension
services to supply inputs, credits and marketing.
Statemont (10);  Over the last two years, following budget reductions,
GRZ decided to modify the initial T&V system by
reducing the intensity of field activities as follows visits by
CEOs to VEG frornlortnight to monthly.
Comment;        This modification from fortnight to monthly was partly
due to budgetary constraints and largely due to pace of
technology generations which was slow.
Statement (10):  Footnote 5: The fertiliser recommendation for maize of
400 kg (200kg basal and 200 kg top-dressing) was still at
high level.
Comment:        200 kg basal and 200 kg top-dressing for maize is not
high level. This is average recommendation. What we
need is to look for altemate sources for nitrogen as
options for low cost inputs.



- 40 -
Training
Statement (12): Research and Extension Training Urtit (RETU)
Comment:   - It was established under first ZARFP TA but never took off
Procurement of Vehicles and Civil Works
Statement (15): The Project funded thc salary of superintendent (TA) at Mt Makulu
workshop, and Lraining to enhance drivcrs and mnechanics capabilities.
Cominent: - The capacity of thc personnel trained under the propgramme hasn't
improved all what is require-d are qualified personnel.
- The progranime created problems in the workshop for not accepting to
work or procure spares for the vehicles which were not bought by
ZAREP. This situation was later correctud.
Statement (16) :The project only partially met its objectives set for civil works
4iAuvivti, ducq Lo Acoi3rn cned conatructiort quality problorzi. The la4le nf
reliable contlractors delay in payments, time pressure and inadequate
supervision resulted in a large nutinbcr of sub-standard and/or
uncompleted buildings.
Connent:  - The main problem was to do with the poor choice of constuctors and
consulting firms.
- The civil works programme with a few exceptional cases (e.g.
Snimulumbe) were a greaL disappointment in all stations. To - datc
some work has rcmained uncompleted.
Technical Assistance (TA)
Statement (17): During project implementation, substantial part of the service term
, thernatic TA was dropped pspeci4l1y Uiat intended for adjusting
extension methodologies improving for methodologies, and cnhancing
alternativc means of communication.
Comment: -The recruitment mode of the TA was not transparent and even his termA
of reference were: nol communicated to the Sub Programme where the
workshop is hosted.



- 41 -
Donor Co-ordination
Statement (18) ;.Towards the t-nd of the project, donor co-ordination improved through
their participation in annual meetings, but grealer involvement in
regional planning is needed.
Comment;  - Involvement of Donors in regional planning meetings is not clear.
Project Costs and Financing
Statement (20): Some 84% of the Norwegian Grant (UIS$ 6.6 million) has been
disbursed (about 19% of total project costs), and around US$ 1.3 mIlion
remains undisbursed.
Comment:   Where is it ? The office of thc Deputy Director was frequently asked
for this money but to no avail.
Statement (21): The tranisition from ZAREP to ASIP affected the implementation of
certain progranuncs, the momenontur was reduced.
Comment:   - Due to low priority give: Lu on-osn cirvil works, training abroad
and purchase of cars and motorbikes.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJFCT
Operation and Maintenance of Vehicles
Statement (27): Towards the end of the project, the establishment of a staff ownership
scheme for motorbikes contributed to the improvement of their use
and maintenance.
Comment:   - This scheme should be extended to vehicles.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABI.ITY
Statement (28): While the experience of GART suggests that there may be scope for
self financed agricultural research (for large fiarmers and for crops).
Comment: - GART still depends on GRZ Grant and Donor funds for investment,
operations, as well as facilities, equipment and human resources.



- 42 -
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
Statement (31),  The Govemment has been weak In expediting
procurement procedures, and controlling the us of project
funded vehicles.
Comment:        It is not Govemment alone which was weak but also the
Donor.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
Statement (31):  Training has substantially raised the level of professional
skills and Zambian scientists now constitute over 90% of
the research staff (up 50% at appraisal Para 2)
Comment:-       The increase in Zambia in Zambian scientists can not be
attributed to ZAREP but from earlier programmes (such
as ZAMARE, SADCtICRISAT, NORAD, SIDA, CIDA) as
Zambian scientist trained through ZAREP are just
starting to return.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
Statement (37):  The bank would require follow-up on the need to (I)
further rationalisation the research facility network.
Comment         Which research facility network require further
rationalisation?
Staterent (37):  (v). Re-consider the recent GRZ decision to separate
animal health and production from the Research and
Extension Branches.
Comment:        To be taken up with Directors of Field Services and
Research and Specialist Services.
Statement (39):  Labour constraints and financial variability, which have
been chronically ignored by research and extension
activities during the project, form a major impediment to
adoption of released technologies.
Comment         The word chronically to be substituted by "still ned to be
addressed .
W. Mwole (r
Deputy Director
RESEAARCH AND SPECIALIST SERVICES



- 43 -
IMP1.EMF.NIATION COMIPLETION REiPORT
RRPB  O zAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL, RESEARCH AND RXITENS10N PROJECT,
(Cr. 1746-ZM)
C. Supplemental Tables
Table 1 Research Station Netwod. Proposed under SAR. Consutnt Ropwt NRAP s cawosred to acrrnt
al
Type Of station            Stabons wrth
SAR      Consultant   NRAP   Cumrnt  project cinl
N(  Fomer Research Stabons      Recjon    1m         ti93        199t    19f9       wY=a
1   Mt MakuluiGolden Valley       11       RC          RC         RC       RC        Yes
2   Kabwe                         11   -Closure       TAS         TAS      TAS       Yes
3.  Mochipapa                     11       RS          TS         RS       RS        Yes
4.  Misamfu                       Ill      RC          RC         RC       RC        Yes
S   Simulumbe (Mongu)             I        RS          RC         RS       RS        Yes
6.  Msekera                       11       RS         TAS         RS       RS        Yes
7.  Mwrinlunga                   III     Closure     Closure    Closure   Closed
8.  Mansa                        III       RS         TAS        TAS       TAS
9   Mufulira                      III      RS         TAS         TAS      TAS       Yes
10  Magoye                        11     Closure      TAS        TAS       TAS       Yes
t   Nanga (NIRS) bl               It       RC        Closure      RS       RS        Yes
12. Mutanda                       III      RS         TAS         RS       RS
13  Livingstone c                 I        n a.        RC         RC           Not bult
Former Substations tTAS1
14. Lusitu (Mbals)               Illi    Closure     Closure    Closu      TS
15. Luchecha (Mbals)              Ill    Closure     Closure    Closure   TAS
1e. Malashi                       11     Closure       TS       Closure  Cosd
17  Longe (Kaoma)                 11       TS          TS       Clsure   TAS
18. Sesheke                        I     Closure       TS         TAS      TAS       Yes
19. Kataba Valley                 11     Closure       TS         RS       TAS
20. Masumba                        I       TS          TS         TAS      TAS       Yes
21. Chabililula                   Ill    Closure     Closure    Closure   Closed
22. Chalimbana                    11     Closure      TAS        Gene   Clsed
bank
Former Tnai Srtes (TSI
23. Mbala                         Ill       TS         TS       Closure  Closed
24  Kabompo                       Ill      TS          TS         TAS      TAS
25. Kalabo                        111    Closure     Closure    Closure   Closed
26. Salwinda                       I     Closure     Closure    Cosure   Closed
27  Jumb                          1      Clos        Closur       TAS    Closed
28. Chabi                          1     Closure     Closu       Closure  Closd
29. Mpongwe                       Ill    Closure       TS       Closure  Close
30  Lukulu                        Il1    Closure       TS       Closure  Closed
31  Sinazongue                     I     Closure     Closure      TAS    Cls
32  Siatwala dl                    I     Closure     Closure    Closure   TAS        Yes
Soeaalezed Station
33. Namushakene Farm Inst         11     Closure       TS       Closure    TS
34. Katto Farn                   Illi    Closure       TS       Closure    TS
TOTALS
Acd RC                                          3            4         3       3
v*  RS                                          6            a         a       5
TAS                                        0             7        9       10
TS                                         4            12        0        3
Sub-Total                                 13            23       18       21
CIO RS                                          4            2         1       1
ed  TAS                                         7            3         5       3
TS                                         8             a        7        a
Sub-Totl                                  19            11       13       12
Not built                                                                      1
TOTAL (actve  cloed)                      32            34       31       33
at RC 5 Regionl Cente, RS - Research Station, TAS - Technology Assesmnt Site, TS  Trbl Sit
bJ Nabona Irrigated Research Station
cl Planned in SAR bUt considered too expese
dl Location of oanned Region I Cente



Table 2A: Overview of Agreed Allocations and Amendments of IDA Credit
IDA ('000 SDR)
Category of Expenditure     DCAL         Amendment No.1       Amendment No.2      Amendment No. 3         Actual               Actual
(Mar.87)        (Aug. '93)           (Sept '93)           (begin '95)       (Dec. 1996)      as % of Amend. No3
Consultants' services           5,670              1,300               1,300                 1,050             904                     86
Overseas training               1,000              2,000               2,000                 2,250           2,407                    107,,
Local training                    250                300                300                   250              250                    100
Civil works                       580              1,270               1,270                 1,270             529                     42
Vehicles, equipment & supplies    500              2,100               2,100                 3,150           3,430                    109
O&M building,equipment, vehicles    330            2,300               2,300                 2,040           2,020                     99
RefindingPPF                      830                741                741                   741              741                    100
Unallocated                                          789                789                   789                0
Total                           10,800            10,800              10,800                10,800          10,358                     96
Note: Amendment No.2 (Sept 1993) was to change coverage of local component of consultancies services (from 95% IDA to 100% IDA funded).
4:-
Table 2B: Overview of Agreed Allocations and Amendments of Norwegian Grant
Norad Grant ('000 NOK)
Category of Expenditure      Administration Agreement      Agreement              Actual           Actual as % of
(Dec. 87)              (Mar. '89)          (Dec. 1996)      Grant Agreement
Mount Makulu RC                         27,300                    24,400              15,269                 63
Misamfu RC                               3,500                     3,100              2,861                  92
Mufulira TAC                             4,900                     4,300                552                  13
Mongu RS                                 4,900                     4,300              6,122                 142
MbalaTS                                   1,400                    1,000                  0                   0
Rcsearch activities in N. Provinces      10,500                   10,500              12,803                122
Now Researc Stions                                                   100                 55                  55
(ies,ltmcics4 trainIng                                             4,800              4,749                  99
Total                                   52,500                    52,500             44,229                  84
See Table I



- 45 -
Table 3: Technical Assistance Provided under ZAREP (al funding Included.
OR paon-4months)            1987 1985 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 t99J 1995 1996  TOTAL
ProectCoordinator             3   12   12   12   13   12   12   12   12    6        106
FlnancialController           2   12   12   12   10   12   12   12   12    0         96
ManpowerlTraining             2   12   12   12    0    4    0    0    0    0         42
Procurement                   0   12   12   12    0    0    0    0    0    0         36
Monitoringand Evaluation      0    0    0    9    8   12  12   12   12    3          66
Irrigation Economist          0   12   12   12    0    0    0    0    0    0         36
Research Management           0    0    7   12   18   17    8    0    0    0         80
Golden Valley Farm Man.       0    0    0    0    3   12   12   12   12    3         54
Mount Makulu Workshop         0    0    0    0    2   12   12   12   12    3         53
Food Security                 0    0    0    0    2    8    0    0    0    0         10
Biometrician                  0    0    0    0    0    0    8    5   12    3         28
Extension                     0    0    0    0    0    6    0    0    0    0          6
MidTerm Review                0    0    0    0    0    0    7    0    0    0          7
ASIPShortTerm localCons.      0    0    0    0    0    0   71   27    0    0         98
TOTAL TA. (LOC. & INT.)       7   60   67   81   54   95  152   92   72  I1         698
TOTAL INTERNATIONAL TA.    7   60   67   81   54   95   81  S6   72   18            60
Table 4: Technical Assistance Provided under ZAREP (by funding sources)
(in person-months)          1987 1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1998  TOTAL
A. IDA FUNDING
Project Coordinator           3   12    3                               0    3       21
Financial Controller          2   12    3                               6            23
Manpower/Training              2   12    3                                           17
Procurement                        12    3                                           15
Monitonng and Evaluaton                                                 6    3        9
lmgaton Economist                  12    3                                           16
Mid Term Review                                              7                        7
ASIP Short Term local Cons.                                 71   27                  98
B. NTF FUNDING
Project Coordinator                      9    3                                      12
Financal Controller                      9    3                                      12
Manpower/Training                        9    3                                      12
Procurement                              9    3                                      12
Monitonng and Evaluabon                                                               0
fmgation Economist                       9    3                                      12
Research Management                      7    3    3    1                            14
C. ADF FUNDING
Projec Coordinetor                            9   13   12   12   12   12    3        73
Fiancial Contro                               9   10   12   12   12    6             61
Manpower/Training                             9         4                            13
Procurement                                   9                                       9
Monitonng and Evahuaton                       9    6   12   12   12    6             57
lmgation Economit                             9                                       9
Research Managenent                           9   15   16 5                          46
Golden Valley Farm Man.                            3   12   12   12   12    3        54
MountMakulu Workshop                               2   12   12   12   12    3        53
Food Secunty                                       2    8                            10
Biometrician                                                 8    5   12    3        28
Extenswon                                               6                             6
GRAND TOTAL                                                                         691



- 46 -
Table 5. Index of Agricultural Production, 1989/90 to 1995/96 (1989/90 = 100)
CROP          1989/90    1990/91    1991/92    1992/93  | 1993/94  | 1994/95   1 1995/96
White Maize          100        94          73        145        74          54          104
Virginia Tobacco     100        25          108       122         n.a.       67          58
Burley Tobacco       100        64          197       198         n.a.       123         149
Groundnuts           100      2,044       1,692     4,228      3,167       3,048       3,388
Sunflower            100        51          27         70        52          65          127
Wheat                100        114         118       134         n.a.        n.a.         n.a.
PaddyRice            100        163         101       187         62         115         136
Soya Beans           100        97          93        108        82          69          149
Seed Cotton          100        157         91        190         n.a.       54         121
Mixed Beans          100      1,406       2,971     3,722      3,214       3,223       3,039
Sorghum              100        100          56       529       371         772         699
Source: Goverrment Republic of Zambia, 1996: Macroeconomic Indcators, Jure 1996, Ministry of Finanmc, Economic
Analysis and Report Unit, Lusaka.



- 47 -
REPUBIJC OF ZAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AIND EXITENSION PROJECT
(Cr. 1746-ZM)
D. Map
ZAMBIA. AgrctAwd Rki.hcihd Extcl PRoteCt
Map I AGRO-ECOLOGICAJ REGIONS AND RESEARCH SWAONS
Io  UWCHECHA8 0   * _
.0K 0,                                                               M
2                             0MIDREGIONAL CENTRE
r-Ml MUMPRA, ~ ~ ~     ~      ~     ~      . ~o
\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I M'KR T_ECHhdt  )MMN M                        i
LONGEr-Ml  El                                            [~~~~~~~~~~~~3. CLOUDa
> ' - ' ! / 't~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ,an.c
(ASMUUB                              Ii MULUA       I                II
NE              AGFO-6-10g,001 R*910-        4~~~~1. Chponbws
MAGC tE                                         S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1. Mbol.
I    < 800 mm       9~~1. Sba*wiu
13. UMV*g-On (naG b4l
, _00 on _                                                                         > , fl,  ,









IMAGING
Report No.:         16780
Type:      ICR



