Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4136-ZA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 10.8 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
November 17, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        Kwacha
US$1           =    K 9.00
US$0.11         =    K 1.00
(The US Dollar/Zambian Kwacha exchange rate is
determined by weekly auction. The exchange
rate shown above is the rate that prevailed
around October 18, 1986.)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)            =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)       =  0.62 miles
1 sq kilometer (km2)  =  0.386 sq miles
1 metric ton (tonne)  =  1,000 kg = 2,204.6 pounds
1 liter                =  1.057 US quarts = 0.22 Imp. gallon
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AFC        -      Agricultural Finance Company
AfDB       -     African Development Bank
ARPT       -      Adaptive Research Planning Team
BS         -      Block Supervisor
CARO       -      Chief Agricultural Research Officer
CEW        -      Camp Extension Worker
CRT        -      Commodity Research Team
DAO        -      District Agricultural Officer
DOA        -      Department of Agriculture (MAWD)
DVTCS      -     Department of Veterinary & Tsetse Control Services
FTC        -      Farmer Training Center
Lintco     -      Lint Company of Zambia
MAWD       -      Ministry of Agriculture and Water Development
MOWS       -     Ministry of Works and Supplies
NAMBOARD   -      National Agricultural Marketing Board
NORAD      -      Norwegian Agency for International Development
NAREC      -      National Agricultural Research and Extension
Committee
NRDC       -      Natural Resources Development College
PAO        -     Provincial Agricultural Officer
PIO        -      Project Implementation Officer
PCU        -     Provincial Cooperative Union
PE         -      Personnel Expenditure
PMEf       -     Provincial Monitoring and Evaluation Officer
PPF        -      Pro-ect Preparation Facility
RDC        -     Recurrent Departmental Charge
SMS        -      Subject Matter Specialist
SRT        -      Specialist Research Teams
UNZA       -      University of Zambia
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OmCIL Us ONLY
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL Zk!PT-hXCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
CREDV AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          Republic of Zambia
Executing Agency: Ministry of Agriculture and Water Development
Amount:            SDR 10.8 million (US$13.0 million equivalent)
Terms:             Standard
Project
Description:       The purpose of this Project is to raise the productivity
of Za-bia's agricultural sector-by improving research
and extension services to farmers, particularly small-
holders. The Project provides for staff training,
technical assistance, civil works, equipment and other
facilities to strengthen existing institutions and
infrastructure in support of adaptive and applied
research programs and extension services. It would
support reorganization of extension services in three of
Zambia's nine provinces, and improve linkages between
research and extension services that are mDre responsive
to smallholders' needs and constraints; promote more
efficient utilization of agricultural resources, better
coordination of external assistance; and improve
institutional framework and upgrade manpower resources.
Benefits
and Risks:         The Project would benefit a wide spectrum of farmers,
but particularly the vast majority of small traditional
producers, through the development and application of
more appropriate technological packages. Possible risks
inlAude delays in physical implementation, unforeseen
difficulties in the adoption of the T&V system,
reduction of the number of research scientists currently
provided by various donors, shortage of production
inputs, and inefficient marketing and credit services.
These risks would be respectively minimized by the facts
that: the Project includes a large technical assistance
component to strengthen the Project implementation
capability; implementation of the T&V system is
geographically phased so that efforts would be
concentrated in resolving difficultiee encountered in
areas covered by the first phase, instead of expanding
into new areas; the Project would provide a fund to
TThb document hua sticted distbutinand may be ued by recpients only in the performance
of their offal dueL Its contents my not otherwi be discloed without World Bank authorizaion.



- ii-
finance replacements of key research scientists if other
donors are unable to continue funding these scientists;
and the Government has initiated measures to liberalize
agricultural marketing and input distribution, and to
strengthen the agricultural credit system under a
possible Bank-supported project now in an advanced stage
of preparation.
Estimated Cost
Local     Foreign     Total
US$ Million
A.  Technical Assistance                 1.1        5.5         6.6
B.  Overseas Training and Travel                    1.4         1.4
C.  Local Training                      0.5                     0.5
D.  Civil Works                         4.3         3.4         7.7
E.  Vehicles                            0.3         3.8         4.1
F.  Equipment and Supplies              0.5         2.5         3.0
G. Incremental Recurrent Costs          1.9         1.9         3.8
Total Baseline Cost             8.6        18.5        27.1
Physical Contingencies              1.0         2.1         3.1
Price Contingencies                 2.8         5.8         8.6
Total Cost                     12.4       26.4         38.8
(of which taxes and duties)        (0.6)                   (0.6)
Financing Plan
Local     Foreign     Total       %
-U-S$ Million
IDA                             1.5       11.5        13.0       34
A&fDB                           3.4        9.2        12.6       33
NORAD                           1.5        5.7         7.2       18
Government                      6.0                    6.0       15
12.4       26.4       38.8       100
=            = 
Estimated Disbursements of IDA Credit
IDA FY     1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995
- US$ Million
Annual          0.8   2.2   2.6   2.8   2.2   1.3   0.9   0.2
Cumulative      0.8   3.0   5.6   8.4  10.6  11.9  12.8  13.0
Rate of Return:           Not Applicable
Staff Appraisal Report:  Report No. 5679-ZA, dated November 17, 1986
IBRD  18917



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Republic of Zambia of SDR 10.8 million (approximately
US$13.0 million equivalent) on standard terms to help finance an
Agricultural Research and Extension Project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Country Economic Memorandum on Zambia (Report No. 5000-ZA) was
distributed to the Executive Directors on April 24, 1984. A new CR4 and a
Public Expenditure Review will be issued shortly. The analysis presented
here is based on these reports' findingts and on subsequent information
received from the Zambian authorities. Country data sheets are attached as
Annex I.
3.        Zambia's economy is heavily dependent on external trade and on
government activity. Imports and exports each range between 30 and 40
percent of GDP. Goverziment expenditures amount to about 35 percent of GDP,
and the Government owns a majority share of mining and most manufacturing
enterprises. Mining, mainly copper, provides about 90 percent of foreign
exchange earnings and 10 percent of gross value added. Much economic
activity is dependent on expatriate technical, managerial, and
administrative skills.
Current Economic Situation
4.        For the past decade, the Zambian economy has been in a state of
contraction and the country is presently in the midst of an acute economic
and financial crisis. Relying on a single primary commodity for the bulk
of its export earnings and with an industrial sector highly dependent on
imported inputs, the economy was vulnerable to the combination of
deteriorating export prices, increasing costs for imported goods and raw
materials, and regional unrest which occured over the past decade. Since
1975, when the economy's problems began with a sharp drop in the copper
price, Zambia's terms of trade have deteriorated steadily and by 1985 were
more than 70 percent below the average for the early 1970s. Although the
Government initially managed to slow the decline in economic activity by
extensive foreign borrowing, contributing to the serious debt-servicing
problem that constrains the country's current options, real GDP has been on
a general downward trend since 1975, falling on average by about 1.5
percent per year. With population growing by 3.1 percent per annum during



-2-
this period, real GDP per capita is now about 25 percent below the 1974
level. Following the World Bank Atlas methodology, GNP per capita was
estimated at US$470 in 1984, but it is much lower now as a result of the
substantial depreciation of the Kwacha in the past two years.
5.        The balance of payments has been in cbronic disequilibrium since
1975, with current account deficits climbing to an average of 19 percent of
GDP in 1980-82, before dropping to an average of about 10 percent of GDP in
the past three years. Nevertheless, the volume of imports declined
steadily and is now about 60 percent of the level in 1980 and 45 percent of
the level in 1974. This has resulted in an economy-wide problem of severe
underutilization of capacity and, especially in the -ining sector, a large
backlog of maintenance and rehabilitation expenditure that has contributed
directly to a declining trend in copper production and exports. In 1985,
copper exports fell to their lowest level (475,000 tonnes) since Zambia's
independence. The current level of imports, supported by external aid, is
now only barely adequate to sustain copper production and to provide a
critical minimum of inputs for the rest of the economy. The large current
account deficits have also led directly to Zambia's high level of external
indebtedness. At the end of 1985, Zambia's total external liabilities
stood at US$5.4 billion, including drawings from the IHF (US$640 million)
and overdue commercial payments of about US$600 million. By comparison,
merchandise exports amounted to only about US$715 million in 1985.
6.        The decline in copper prices also severely affected Zambia's
fiscal and monetary positions. Prior to 1976, mineral taxes provided a
large share of government revenue, but because of the losses incurred by
the mining company in that and subsequent years, they became an
insignificant source of funding for the government. A new mineral export
tax was introduced in 1983, however, which now contributes about 10 percent
of Government's revenue. Deficit financing absorbed a large share of net
domestic credit and contributed to a sharp rise in consumer prices,
averaging 20 percent per annum during 1976-78 and 12 percent per annum in
1979-82. Price increases have accelerated in 1983 and 1984 to about 20
percent per annum, reflecting the decontrol of prices in December 1982 and
the devaluations of the Kwacha during the past two years. Currently,
inflation is running at an annual rate of about 30-40 percent due largely
to the sharp depreciation of the Kwacha from 2.2 per US$1 in October 1985,
just prior to the introduction of the foreign exchange auction, to over 10
per US$1 at present.
7.        There is no doubt that external factors have been an important
cause of Zambia's present economic difficulties. Apart from low copper
prices, severe droughts over 1982-84 have necessitated substantial food
imports. Nevertheless, inappropriate policies and shortcomings in economic
management have exacerbated the economic difficulties. The main
deficiencies in economic policies were that: (i) pricing and subsidy
policies favored the urban consuler at the expense of the agricultural
producer; also, controlled industrial prices led to low profitability in
the manufacturing sector; (ii) tax incentives and low interest rates led to
a pattern of capital intensive investment; (iii) exchange rate and tariff
policies encouraged the use of artificially cheap imported raw materials
and other inputs.



- 3-
Strategy for Economic Restructuring
8.        Zambia's economically exploitable ore reserves are only
sufficient to maintain present levels of copper production for another 15
years or so, after which production can be expected to decline sharply. In
the absence of new sources of income, employment and foreign exchange,
Zambia may expect a drastic fall in living standards and social vell-being
by the turn of the century. However, Zambia has the potential to develop
alternative sources of income, employment, and exports.  The greatest
potential is in agriculture, where there are opportunities for import
substitution (cotton, oilseeds, livestock, grains, forestry products, and
fish) and for exports (beef, cotton, coffee, tobacco, groundnuts, and
sugar). Once a good start is made with agricl"tural development,
possibilities should be created for agro-based industries.
9.        The Goverument's development strategy, then, is to restore copper
production to the 530,000 tonne level, the economically sustainable level
given the technical and other constraints on the industry in Zambia, while
at the same time accelerating development of the agricultural and
industrial sectors, with a heavy emphasis on production for export. This
strategy is designed to maximize foreign exchange earnings from mining over
the medium term, while efforts are made to diversify production and exports
through growth in the other sectors of the economy. This will require a
susbstantial restructuring of production and employment, which can only be
accomplished in the long run. The Government initiated this effort in 1983
with the introduction of a far-reaching program of economic reforms that
has received the full support of the international donor commnity. The
authorities also introduced, with support from the IKF, a comprehensive
stabilitzation program designed to restore the country's financial
viability.
10.       The main content of the economic restructuring package may be
summarized as follows:
- Providing a system of incentives to producers and exporters of
agricultural and industrial products in which production is
responsive to market forces;
- Ensuring the competitiveness of exports through an active
exchange rate policy;
- Using tariffs and interest rate policies to reverse past
trends of import dependence and capital intensity;
-- Liberalizing administrative restrictions on foreign trade and
the licensing of production, in order to improve the
allocation of resources and to encourage investment in
productive activities;
Reducing the Government's deficit and recourse to domestic
bank borrowing by reducing expenditure on personnel costs,
subsidies and other non-development related activities;



4
-- Improving planning and budgetary procedures to shift resources
to productive uses and economic investments;
-- Allowing greater competition in the procurement and selling of
food crops. The National Agricultural Marketing Board
(NAIMBOARD), the Government's agricultural marketing agency,
will move towards the role of buyer and seller of last resort,
using a system of floor and ceiling prices for agricultural
produce and inputs, respectively;
-- Strengthening the technical and managerial capacity of Zambia
Industrial and Mining Corporation (ZINCO), which is the
holding company of most state-controlled enterprises;
-- Restructuring the energy sector to bring about lesser
dependence on imported oil.
11.       In the past two years, the Government has made significant
progress in translating the above policies into tangible action. Stand-by
arrangements were agreed with the IMF in 1983, and again in 1984. Under
these programs, the Kwacha was first linked to a basket of currencies and
was depreciated in a gradual manner through October 1985 when a foreign
exchange auction was introduced, resulting in a further substantial
reduction in the value of the Kwacha. Because the Government has been
successful in holding wage increases to considerably less than rises in the
cost of living, it has maintained the benefits of devaluation in real
terms, which has Improved the competitiveness of exports. Debt
rescheduling with members of the Paris Club, commercial banks and non-OECD
governments covering obligations due in 1983 and 1984 was also obtained.
In early 1986, following approval of a two year IMF standby arrangement,
the Paris Club agreed to reschedule Zambia's 1985 arrears to the Club
members, plus all obligations falling due in 1986.
12.       In terms of improving conditions for longer-term growth, the most
significant of the above financial measures was no doubt the exchange rate
adjustments. But other measures with significant long-term impact have
been introduced as well. Since December 1982, the Government has abolished
the control of all wholesale and retail prices except for maize flour used
itn the production of roller meal, the basic staple consumed by the lower
income segments of society. Over the last three years, producer prices for
most agricultural crops have been increased considerably in real terms, and
they now approximate border prices. The Government has also improved the
incentives affecting foreign trade by introducing a foreign exchange
retention scheme and concessional tax rates for non-traditional exports,
and by imposing a minimum tariff on many non-dutiable imports which should
reduce the high rates of effective protection afforded to import-intensive
industries.
13.       The Government's efforts over the past two years represent a
major reformulation of economic policies and incentives. This progress is
currently in danger of being set back, however, due to insufficient foreign
exchange to maintain production (and exports) and to honor external debt
obligations. On one hand, the Government wishes to improve the supply of



-5-
essential consumer goods by providing inputs to the productive sectors and
thus show some benefits from the considerable sacrifices its policies have
required of the population. In particular, a rapid increase in the
consumer price of maize (resulting from higher producer prices, drought
induced imports and lower subsidies) has heightened the political
sensitivity of further reforms that may result in higher prices for other
goods and services. On the other hand, the Government must allocate
considerable foreign exchange to debt service that cannot be rescheduled.
14.       Along with the new exchange rate system, the Government
introduced last October a wide range of supporting measures, including
decontrol of interest rates, conversion of the import licensing system to
one of import registration, and further measures to reduce government
expenditure and borrowing from the banking system. There remains, however,
a major requirement for the success of the economic reform program. The
Government's capacity for policy analysis and formulation, for adminis-
tering development programs and for mobilizing and monitoring the flow of
domestic and external resources needs to strengthened considerably. The
Government will need to focus on this crucial issue in the context of a
long-term program of training and institutional development, while also
giving top priority to improving immediately the policy formulation and
implementation capacities of such key agencies as the Ministry of Finance
and Planning and Bank of Zambia which are essential to the success of the
whole reform program.
Growth Prospectt:
15.       Zambia's external payments situation deteriorated further in 1986
and the worsened prospects for mineral exports in the near term have worked
to delay the recovery process. On the other hand, however, more rapid
growth than was anticipated has occured in industry and agriculture in
response to favorable weather conditions and the reform m-asures, and the
response of non-traditional exports to the improved incentives and exchange
rate has been quite promising. It seems reasonable to expect, therefore,
modestly positive growth in 1987 and 1988, followed by somewhat more rapid
growth in ensuing years. The main obstacle to more rapid growth continues
to be the excessive amount of debt service falling due in the medium term,
which prevents imports from reaching the levels required for faster
growth. Resolution of this problem will require a high and sustained level
of commitments and disbursements from the donor community, on concessional
terms and in quick-disbursing form, preferably in support of the auction.
It will also require continued access to IMP resources. But most
significantly, it will require an extraordinary restructuring of Zambia's
external debt to bring about a large reduction in the debt service ratio.
The amount of restructuring provided by the annual rescheduling exercises
of past years although helpful will simply not suffice, since imports will
not be able to reach the necessary levels.
16.       For the five year period, 1986-90, the Zambian economy should be
able to achieve GDP growth (at market prices) of about 3.6 percent per
annum on average, which would only maintain per capita income at current
levels. Because of the difficulties facing the economy in the next couple
of years, especially in the mining sectot, the rate of growth is not likely



-6-
to exceed 2.5 percent per annum on average, but as productive efficiency
rises and the confidence of the private sector is restored by the reform
program, there should be an upturn in economic activity in the later years
of this period. To achieve this level of GDP growth, gross investment
would have to increase by about 10 percent per annum in real terms,
reaching 16 percent of GDP by 1990 from 12 percent in 1985. At this level,
the investment ratio is still low. However, wt is the most that is
achievable given the external constraints on the economy. On the other
hand, a good part of the gains in GDP over the next few years are expected
to come from increased productivity of investment due to improved resource
allocation and greater selectivity in capital projects by the public
sector. While a major effort is required to generate domestically the
savings needed to support this level of investment, a substantial part of
the investment will have to be financed from abroad.
17.       There is no question but that the social cost of adjustment in
Zambia will be heavy, particularly for the next five years and perhaps for
the next decade. Coming on top of the large drop in living standards that
has already occurred, this will be an especially difficult period for the
Zambian people. However, it is equally certain that without these
adjustments living standards would decline even further and there would be
little or no prospects for improvement in the future. With the adjustment
program per capita income will be stabilized in the medium term and rise in
the longer run, which would not be the case without the program. Steps are
being taken to soften the impact of these measures on the lowest income
segments of society, e.g., the maize subsidy is being retained for this
group, assistance is being provided for resettlement to rural areas,
incentives are being given for investment in lower income areas, etc. Most
importantly, the adjustment program itself will ensure increasing supplies
of basic consumer goods at reasonable prices, which would not be the case
otherwise.
Creditworthiness
18.       Scheduled service on public and publicly guaranteed (PPG)
external debt will remain over US$400 million per annum for the next tbree
years, or about 40 percent of export earnings at today's copper prices. Of
this amount, about US$65 million per annum is due to the World Bank Group,
including the IFC. (The Bank currently holds US$467 million, or 15 percent
of Zambia's US$3.2 billion PPG debt disbursed and outstanding). In
addition, about US$200 million per anrum in payments is due to the IMF and
oanother US$50-70 million per annum on Zambia's pipeline of commercial
payment arrears and sbort-term borrowings. In total, scheduled debt
service will amount to over US$700 million per annum for the next tbree
years, and lt will thus be necessary for the Government to continue its
financial stabilization policies in cooperation with the [[F and to seek
debt relief through further rescheduling. Even with maximum debt relief
under rescheduling arrangement similar to those of the past, however,
Zambia will continue to owe over US$400 million per annum in debt service
that cannot be rescheduled. The Government should, therefore, avoid as
much as possible borrowing on commercial terms, and additional borrowing
should carry sufficiently long grace periods and maturities.



-7-
19.       Ia the longer term, the restoration of Zambia's creditworthiness
depends on the vigor with which the Governmert continues to pursue its
economic restructaring policies. The Government is well underway in
adjusting its economic policies and is fully committed to take further
steps towards economic reform and the restructuring of Zambia's productive
industries. Assuming successful economic policies, careful financial
management and adequate external assistance, Zambia will be able to achieve
a sufficient measure of export growth and diversification within the next
decade to allow the country to resume normal debt servicing.
II. BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAMBIA
20.       Since 1956, the Bank Group has made 28 loans and 14 credits to
Zambia, totalling about U$780 million (net of cancellations). Two
additional Bank loans were made to Zambia and Zimbabwe jointly to finance
shared power facilities on the Zambezi River. Fourteen loans and six
credits have financed energy, transportation, communications and rural
water supply projects. Four loans and one credit for education have helped
expand Zambia's secondary and higher education systems, teacher training,
and commercial, agricultural and technical education systems. Two program
loans have helped Zambia maintain its development program in periods of
severe economic dislocation. In agriculture, forestry and fisheries, six
loans and six credits have been for industrial forest plantations,
livestock, commercial crops, integrated family farming, coffee production,
smallholder dairy development and fisheries development. Agricultural
projects in the Eastern and Southern Provinces are assisting smallholder
farmers, and an Agricultural Rehabilitation Project is providing inputs to
the sector in support of policy reforms. Other loans have assisted
Zambia's urban development program, copper mining and, through the
Development of Bank of Zambia, its manufacturing, agricultural and
industrial sectors. A technical assistance credit is helping the
Government improve its planning and project preparation. An engineering
credit is supporting a project to assess the rehabilitation requirements of
the TAZAMA oil pipeline.
21.       The International Finance Corporation (IFC) has invested about
US$87 million in 11 projects in Zambia since 1972. Two investments each
were in shoe manufacturing, in a packaging materials plant and in textiles
and fiber production, and one each in the Development Bank of Zambia,
tourism development, food production and processing, cobalt production, and
copper production.
22.       The implementation of Bank-assisted projects in Zambia has
deteriorated significantly in recent years, and serious delays have
been experienced in the execution of a number of these projects. There are
several reasons for this, the main ones being the lack of budgetary
resources with which to finance local counterpart expenditures and to
prefinance local expenditures which are subsequently to be reimbursed by



-8-
the Bank loan; ineffective project management; and inadequate inter-agency
coordination. The Bank-assisted agricultural projects, which require
careful management and effective coordination have suffered from these
problems, as has the Third Highway Project.
23.       The deterioration of project implementation has, as expected,
substantially reduced the rate of disbursements on Bank Group loans and
credits. As of September 30, 1985 a total of US$87 million of loans and
US$128 million of credits remained undisbursed. To alleviate the problem,
provision is being made for technical assistance in projects to strengthen
implementing agencies and increased use is being made of the Resident
Mission in monitoring project execution. Revolving funds are being
established under new and ongoing projects which should ease the
Government's financial burden and accelerate disbursements. In addition,
estimates of counterpart funds required and when the funds should be made
available are being prepared by Bank/IDA staff well in advance of their
need to allow implementing agencies as much lead time as possible to plan
for these expenditures. As of December 1984, IBRD loans disbursed and
outstanding were about 12 percent of Zambia's total medium and long-term
debt disbursed and outstanding.
24.       The Bank Group's strategy in Zambia is to support the country's
efforts to diversify and increase economic efficiency. Raising the
efficiency of the mining industry through the Export Rehabilitation and
Diversification loan so that the industry may contribute resources to
diversification programs was the first step in carrying out this strategy.
Subsequent operations, such as the Agricultural Rehabilitation Project and
the Industrial Reorientation Project are focusing on improving sector
policies in agriculture and industry, which are the sectors with the best
potential for production and export growth and for employment creation.
The Group's strategy also gives priority to programs to increase the use of
indigenous energy resources and to raise the efficiency of transportation
services. Emphasis will be given to rehabilitation and maintenance, rather
than expansion, of infrastructure and Bank Group assistance is expected to
include a significant proportion of quick-disbursing resources. Support
for addressing the longer term development constraints, e.g., improving
economic management, education, population, health, etc., is also part of
the strategy. Policy and institutional reform programs in each of the
sectors, as well as on the macroeconomic level, are being agreed with the
Government. Through organizing and chairing the regular meetings of the
Consultative Group for Zambia, the Bank is assisting the Government in
coordinating the country's economic rehabilitation program and investment
needs with the international donor communi.y. At its last meeting, which
was convened on an emergency basis in December 1985, the Consultative Group
endorsed the Government's recent economic measures, in particular the
foreign exchange auction system, and announced substantial multi- and
bilateral financial support for the Government's program.



-9-
PART III - THE AGRICULTUtAL SECTOR
Salient Features
25.       The development of Zambia's agricultural sector remains far below
its potential. Of an estimated 60 million ha available for agriculture,
only some 5 million ha are regularly cultivated while the balance is under
shifting cultivation. Much of the country receives adequate rainfall,
700-1,400 mm p.a., and the climate is generally suitable for the
cultivation of a wide range of crops and livestock farming. Maize
represents nearly 75 percent of the value of marketed agricultural output.
Other major crops are cassava, sorghum, millet, groundnuts, tobacco,
cotton, sunflower, sugarcane, rice, and soybeans. The country also has a
large, varied livestock population and cattle are a significant source of
farm incomes. Fishery and forestry resources are also abundant.
26.       The sector is characterized by dualistic features.  On the one
extreme are about 460,000 traditional farmers, or 76 percent of the total
600,000 farm households, eking out a suhsistence living from cultivating an
average of 2 ha, at a very low level of productivity. On the other extreme
are about 24,000 medium and large-scale farmers, cultivating an average of
60-100 ha, using mechanization and modern seasonal inputs, with high levels
of productivity and incomes; these produce about 40 percent of the maize
and about 55 percent of other marketed crops. Between the two extremes are
an estimated 125,000 'emergent farmers," cultivating an average of
10-15 ha, who produce significantly for the market using appreciable
quantities of modern inputs.
27.       Government or parastatal organizations provide most of the
agricultural support services. The Ministry of Agriculture and Water
Development (MAWD) has the overall responsibility. The major agricultural
parastatals are the National Agricultural Marketing Board (Namboard) for
crop marketing and input distribution, the Cold Storage Board for meat
processing and marketing, the Dairy Produce Board for milk processing and
marketing, and the Lint Company of Zambia (Lintco) mainly for cotton
extension services, processing and marketing. Also, the nine Provincial
Cooperative Unions (PCUs) play a major role in input delivery and produce
marketing. Farmers get institutional credit from the Agricultural Finance
Company (AFC), the Development Bank of Zambia, the Zambia State Insurance
Corporation, the Cooperative Credit Scheme, and the commercial banks.
Objectives and Achievements
28.       The national agricultural development objectives aim at
diversifying the economy away from copper, attaining self-sufficiency in
basic foods, and spreading development and increasing incomes in all
regions, especially in the rural areas. Despite innumerable programs and
projects since Independence twenty years ago, little progress has been made
towards achieving these objectives. The economy remains heavily dependent
on copper and, therefore, highly sensitive and vulnerable to external
shocks. During the last two decades, agriculture has been growing at an
average annual rate of about 2.4 percent, less than the annual population



- 10 -
growth rate of over 3 percent. Consequently, overall self-sufficiency in
food grains has deteriorated by about 21 percent during the last ten years
and Zambia, once a net exporter of maize, has been, until this year, a
chronic importer since the mid-1970s. Development remains concentrated in
a few areas, as the three ecologically better endowed and historically more
developed provinces have continued to account for over 90 percent of the
marketed commodities, more or less as they did before Independence. While
about 60 percent of the Zambians derive their livelihood directly from
agriculture, the sector typically contributes less than 20 percent to GDP,
reflecting the low level of rural productivity and incomes.
29.       The poor performance of Zambia's agriculture is attributable to
both internal and external factors, especially the acute shortage of
foreign exchange stemming from weak copper prices since the mid-1970s and
the severe drought that hit the country for three consecutive years at the
turn of the current decade. However, the impact of the external factors
has been exacerbated by several internal constraints, notably:
inappropriate pricing policies; an inefficient marketing and input
distribution system; a poor credit delivery and recovery system; inadequate
and inefficient allocation of budgetary funds; and weak research and
extension services. For many years Zambia has kept producer and retail
prices low, coupled with heavy subsidies, in order to provide cheap food to
the mining and industrial workers.  Thus, although budgetary allocations to
agriculture have been rising in nominal terms, most of the funds have been
going to consumer subsidies while essential services, notably research and
extension, remain seriously under-funded. The marketing and input
distribution system has been characterized by a high level of inefficiency
in part arising from a legal monopoly conferred on Namboard and the PCUs in
maize marketing and fertilizer distribution. The agricultural credit
system has been characterized by serious inefficiencies and persistent
financial losses. Research and extension services have continued to be
weak and have failed to reach most of the small-scale and traditional
farmers who constitute the preponderant majority of the farm households.
30.      During the last five years, Zambia has taken positive measures to
move away from the cheap food policy, to ensure adequate producer
incentives, and to improve the efficiency of the marketing and input
distribution system. Producer and consumer prices and the marketing of all
agricultural commodities and inputs, except maize and fertilizer, have been
decontrolled; maize and fertilizer prices have been increased periodically
and significantly, correspondingly reducing subsidies and improving
producer incentives. Under the Bank-supported Agricultural Rehabilitation
Project and Recovery Credit, the Government has undertaken to promote a
broad-based liberalization of maize and fertilizer trade, with Namboard
eventually serving as buyer and seller of last resort and managing food
reserves; to eliminate subsidies on fertilizers and on maize used for
livestock feed, beer, and maize meal consumed by high income groups while
effective ways are devised to target the bulk of the remaining maize
subsidies to the low income groups. An agricultural credit project, under
preparation and to be financially supported by the Bank, would incorporate
effective measures to improve the efficiency of the agricultural credit
delivery and recovery system.



- 11 -
31.       Notable efforts have also been underway to enhance the perfor-
mance of the research and extension services. During November 1984, with
the help of a firm of consultants financed by IDA, the Government formu-
lated a comprehensive 15-year strategy for agricultural research and
extension, the main thrust of which is to improve the effectiveness of
these services and to re-orient them to the needs of small-scale and tradi-
tional farmers. The strategy seeks to achieve these objectives primarily
by: (a) rationalizing the organizational structure and management
processes; (b) upgrading the quality and efficiency of physical facilities,
manpower resources, and logistic support; (c) establishing effective
mechanisms to provide policy guidelines, to formulate coherent programs and
priorities, and to coordinate, monitor and evaluate implementation of these
programs; and (d) strengthening farmer-specific research activities and
improving research-extension linkage and extension methodology, with
emphasis on small-scale and traditional farmers. The proposed Project is
designed to assist the Government initiate implementation of the first
phase of this strategy.
Agricultural Research and Extension Services
32.       Organizational Structure:  MAWD has overall responsibility for
agricultural research and extension and provides most of the crop and
livestock research and extension services. The Research Branch of MAWD's
Department of Agriculture (DOA) is responsible for crop production and
animal husbandry research, while the Department of Veterinary and Tsetse
Control Services (DVTCS) carries out animal disease research. The National
Council for Scientific Research (NCSR) handles animal nutrition, disease
control and food technology research. Agriculture research also takes
place under the Department of Fisheries, the Forestry Department of the
Ministry of Lands and Natural Resources, and the University of Zambia
(UNZA) through its School of Agricultural Sciences and Rural Development
Studies Bureau.
33.       The Research Branch of DOA is headed by an Assistant Director,
supported by the Chief Agricultural Research Officer (CARD), while the day-
to-day operations of the research stations are managed by officers-in-
charge. Research programs are organized on an inter-disciplinary basis,
comprising Commodity Research Teams (CRTs) for on-station research;
Adaptive Research Planning Teams (ARPTs) for field trials under
farmer-specific conditions; and Specialist Research Teams (SRTs) for such
activities as weed ccatrol, plant protection, and crop storage. There are
now nine CRTs, six ARPTs and seven SRTs. The Research Branch also
administers three advisory services: crop advisory, seed control and
library services.
34.       The Extension Branch is also headed by an Assistant Director,
supported by seven Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs). The Provincial
Agricultural Officer (PAO), supported by provincial SMSs and administrative
personnel, is responsible for the overall extension activities in each of
the nine provinces. Below him are the District Agricultural Officers
(DADs), operating through Block Supervisors (BSs) and Camp Extension
Workers (CEWs) who provide the day-to-day contact with farmers. The



- 12 -
Extension Branch also provides advisory services in home economics to rural
women through women's clubs, and agricultural advisory services to rural
youth through Young Farmers' Clubs.
35.       Staff and Training:  The country has a total of 125 professional
research staff, 65 (or 53 percent) of whom are expatriates funded by 12
different bilateral aid agencies. The total number of DQA's extension
staff is 2,400, excluding administrative personnel, and only 80 of them are
university graduates; about one-half of total staff are based at the block
and camp levels. Nearly two-thirds of the staff at the block and camp
levels are diploma or certificate holders; the balance of about 390 are
commodity demonstrators who, although fairly experienced, have had no
pre-service training in agriculture. The total number of extension staff
at the farmer-contact level is satisfactory, with a staff-farmer ratio of
about 1:600; however, there are considerable variations, ranging from 200
to 1,500 farmers per extension worker, mainly reflecting varying densities
of the farms, farming systems, and agricultural potentials.
36.       The University of Zambia provides undergraduate degrees in
agricultural fields. The Natural Resources Development College (NRDC)
offers three year certificate courses while Monze or Mpika Colleges of
Agriculture offer two year diploma courses in agriculture. The Extension
Branch provides general in-service training at eight provincial Farm
Institutes (FIg), while a few additional centers give in-service training
in specialized fields such as horticulture. Most of the districts have
Farmer Training Centers (FTCs) that provide resident and day training
courses to farmers; however, the results have been generally disappointing
and the trend now is to train farmers in their own village surroundings.
37.       Main Constraints:  One of the major constraints on agricultural
development in Zambia is that most of the available technological packages
are inappropriate for the majority of the farmers. Past research efforts
have paid little attention to the needs of smallholders in general and
traditional farmers in particular. More specifically, insufficient efforts
have been directed to finding practical ways of increasing productivity
within the limits imposed by labor, management skills, and capital
resources at the disposal of these farmers. Partly as a result, the
preponderant proportion of Zambia's agriculture is characterized by low
productivity, both per unit of labor and land.
38.       In addition, research services are rendered more costly and less
efficient by the large number of widely dispersed research stations,
substations and trial sites, often involving unnecessary duplication of
research efforts within similar agro-ecological zones. This has resulted
in spreading scarce resources so thinly that individual facilities are
poorly staffed and equipped.
39.       The acute shortage of suitably qualified and experienced Zambians
has been one of the other major constraints on the performance of the
research and extension services. Research, in particular, has suffered
from too heavy a reliance on expatriate personnel who are generally
available for shorter periods than are required to ensure sufficient
continuity in experimental and trial work. In extension, inadequacy of



- 13 -
qualified manpower resources has been reflected in poor support provided to
the field staff by SMSs and insufficient technical guidance at senior staff
levels. Manpower constraints are exacerbated by low staff motivation and
morale at all levels, partly arising from unattractive terms and conditions
of employment; lack of clearly defined objectives; and inadequate housing
facilities, transport and general logistic support. The performance of the
research and extension services is further hampered by: (a) an
organizational structure that overloads technical personnel with
administrative functions; (b) lack of an overall framework for systematic
planning, coordination and monitoring of research and extension activities
to the effect that these activities have been neither focussed as sharply
nor farmer-oriented as they should; (c) weak linkages between research and
extension; and (d) inadequate supervision of extension staff. MAWD has
recently submitted proposals to the Government that would appreciably
improve terms and conditions of employment for all extension and research
staff. These proposals have been received favorably, at an informal level,
and the matter is expected to be finalized early in 1987.
40.       Among the most severe constraints on research and extension
services in Zambia is inadequate funding, aggravated by uncertainties as to
when and how much of the approved budgetary allocations will be released.
While budgetary allocations to these services have been rising in nominal
terms, they have declined sharply in real terms; more importantly, the
increase has gone mainly to Personnel Expenditures (PEs), leaving
insufficient funds for Recurrent Departmental Charges (RDCs) which finance
transport, travel allowances and operational facilities. As a result, the
RDC/PE ratios for research services declined from 1.0 in 1975 to 0.8 in
1980 and 0.3 in 1986; for extension services, the RDC/PE ratios declined
from 0.9 in 1975 to 0.4 in 1980 and 0.2 in 1986. Moreover, the uncertainty
as to how much and when the budgeted allocations to RDCs would be released
makes it difficult to plan research and extension activities. Shortage of
funds has also had adverse effects on the staff training program at all
levels and on availability and maintenance of buildings, utilities,
equipment, scientific instruments and research materials. The proposed
Project is designed to alleviate the above technical, physical,
institutional and financial constraints.
Agricultural Development Program and IDA/Bank Assistance
41.       The Bank Group has supported 12 agricultural projects in Zambia:
three for industrial forestry, two for livestock/dairy development, two for
tobacco production, one for coffee production, two for area-based
agricultural development, one for fisheries development, and one for
policy-oriented agricultural rehabilitation. The first livestock loan was
cancelled in 1973 at Government request because of pricing problems and
poor management. The dairy project, which was approved in 1982 and aimed
at improving milk production by smallholder producers, encountered initial
implementation problems, was scaled down to a more-realistic pilot design
and is now progressing well.  The first and second industrial forestry
projects were relatively well-executed; the third has been facing major
problems stemsIng from weak management, but promising measures have been
initiated to improve management practices.  Because of managerial and
pricing problems, the two tobacco projects were unsuccessful in meeting



- 14 -
their objectives and production targets. The coffee project has been
hampered by cost overruns, shortages of foreign exchange and counterpart
funds, and management deficiencies. The progress of the two area-based
projects, which have substantial research and extension components, has
been hampered by delays in recruiting technical assistance staff,
inadequate funding and lengthy procurement procedures; these problems are
gradually being resolved. The fisheries project became effective in August
1985, after six months of delay, mainly because of difficulties in
recruiting key staff, and has been making satisfactory progress. However,
disbursement of sub-loans to the fishermen remains low due to the inability
of many of the fishermen to raise enough funds for the required
down-payment; steps are underway to resolve the problem. The Agricultural
Rehabilitation Project has made notable achievements in promoting policy
and institutional changes. On the other hand, the sharp devaluation of the
Kwacha has radically altered the structure of demand for imported
agricultural inputs, especially farm machinery and implements the demand of
which has shifted in favor of animal draft power and reconditioning of
existing machineries, thereby slowing down the use of project funds for
agricultural purposes. Partly because of this, the Credit Agreement was
subsequently amended to allow project funds to be used for general imports,
subject to a negative list, and the project funds have been fully
committed, mostly for industrial and energy-related imports.
42.       Projects in other sectors have also assisted agriculture.  The
Fourth Education Project, for example, had a major component to strengthen
the training of extension staff and farmers. Lines of credit to the
Development Bank of Zambia financed medium- and long-term loans to
commercial farmers. The Bank has also helped the Government carry out
extensive in-depth studies aimed at strengthening the agricultural
institutional and policy framework, including specific studies on MAWD's
planning capabilities, research and extension, credit, policy options and
strategies for agricultural growth, agricultural pricing and parastatal
performance, and maize marketing and fertilizer distribution. The proposed
Project has incorporated the lessons of these studies and those learned
from the Bank's previous involvement in Zambia's agriculture, particularly
with regard to the recurring management, financial, accounting and
procurement problems.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
43.       The proposed Project forms the first phase of a 15-20 year
national program to strengthen agricultural research and extension services
in Zambia. The Project was identified by an IDA mission in
August-September 1983. MAWD, with the assistance of consultants financed
by IDA, subsequently prepared long-term strategies and detailed proposals
on institutional changes, technical assistance and investrent programs to
improve agricultural research and extension. These proposals were reviewed
and refined by a Bank preparation mission in Septenber-October 1984, and an
appraisal mission in January-February 1985. In May 1985, the Association



- 15 -
approved a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) of US$1.0 million to be used
mainly for recruitment of key staff and procurement of essential items to
enable MAWD to initiate Project start-up activities. Further processing of
the Project was delayed because of a large financing gap due to diffi-
culties in securing cofinancing and because of reservations within the
Government, now resolved, regarding the size and nature of the technical
assistance component. A post-appraisal, therefore, was fielded in June-
July 1986. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. in October 1986.
The Zambian delegation was led by Mr. E.S.S. Nebwe, Permanent Secretary,
MAWD. A Credit and Project Summary is provided at the beginning of this
report and a supplementary project data sheet is presented in Annex III.
Project Area
44.       The entire research component and some of the institutional
aspects of the extension component would be nationwide. The bulk of the
hardware component for extension services, comprising mainly staff houses
and vehicles, would be limited to three provinces (Lusaka, Central and
Northern), which cover about 35% of Zambia's total land area. The
selection of the extension areas was based on agricultural potential,
availability of technological packages, and the need to achieve a
significant development impact. During the first two years, the extension
component would cover two districts in Lusaka and Central Provinces, and
one district in the Northern Province. After a mid-term review, the
extension component would be expanded to cover the whole of Lusaka and
Central Provinces, and about a third of the Northern Province.
Project Objectives
455.      The main objective of the proposed Project is to accelerate
agricultural development, thus broadening the economic base and promoting
diversification, by alleviating the main constraints on the performance of
agricultural research and extension services primarily through: (a)
strengthening the technical and institutional capability; (b)
rationalizing, augmenting and enhancing efficiency of physical resources
and facilities; (c) upgrading the quality of manpower resources; (d)
creating a mechanism and framework for providing policy guidance,
formulating programs and priorities, and coordinating donors' aid; and (e)
sharpening the focus of, and improving linkages between these two services.
Project Description
46.       Research Organization.  The Project would support the
reorganization of the Research Branch to separate technical and
administrative functions, thereby freeing technical staff from
administrative tasks. It would also support the recently established
National Agricultural Research and Extension Committee (NAREC) which would
be responsible for formulating agricultural research policies and
priorities, and coordinating donor assistance. Nine manmonths of
consultancy services, and 24 manmonths of periodically visiting scientists
from appropriate international research institutions, would be provided to
assist NAREC to formulate and implement a detailed 5-year research action
program and priorities. The appointment of consultants to formulate this



- 16 -
research action program would be a condition of credit effectiveness. The
Government would submit the completed 5-year research action program,
together with the assignment of priorities to program components, to IDA
for review and comments not later than December 31, 1987, and implement the
program taking IDA's views into account.
47.       Strengthening Research Technical Capability.  The Project would
strengthen applied on-station research by the multi-disciplinary Commodity
Research Teams (CRTs) and Specialist Research Teams (SRTs) through the
provision of additional facilities and technical assistance designed to
address specific weaknesses in the system. Thus, the Project would provide
three manyears of a tillage and farm machinery research specialist, three
manyears of a Research Services Coordinator, four manyears of an irrigation
research specialist, and three manyears of an irrigation planning
specialist, along with supporting facilities and equipment. The irrigation
specialists would assist the Government to formulate and implement a
consistent irrigation research program, and sound development policy and
strategies. A statement of irrigation development policy would be prepared
and submitted to IDA not later than September 30, 1988 for review and
comment. The Project would also promote the use of ideas, information and
genetic materials developed elsewhere by intensifying contacts with the
international research network. Accordingly, funds would be provided for
overseas visits by Zambian scientists, and participation by Zambian
research staff in international workshops and seminars.
48.       The Project would give highest priority to developing and testing
economically feasible technical packages to increase smallholder output.
To this end, farming systems research carried out by the Adaptive Research
Planning Team (ARPTs) would be supported by providing consultancies in farm
system research methodology and techniques and in rural sociological
surveys and analysis. Furthermore, the Project would support ARPTs by
providing six manmonths of consultants in livestock research and policy
who, together with a Task Force recently established by the Government,
would formulate a national livestock development policy and strategy, and
the report of the Task Force would be submitted to IDA for comments not
later than June 30, 1988.
49.       Rationalization and Strengthening of the Research Station
Network. The Project would support rationalization of the existing
research station network by providing improved facilities and services to
the central research station and two zonal stations, four regional
stations, three trial sites, and the plant quarantine station. The rest of
the facilities would be put to other uses or closed down. Three manyears
of a general maintenance engineer and three manyears of a laboratory
equipment and scientific instrument maintenance specialist would be
provided. Furthermore, the Project would finance six manmonths of
consultancy services in station management and administration; and training
of local staff in station management, and in maintenance of laboratory
equipment and instruments.
50.       Research Supporting Facilities.  The Project would provide
staff houses, laboratories, storage sheds, cold rooms, glass and screen
houses, library, documentation facilities and a conference center, in



- 17 -
addition to general site development, establishment of a nationwide radio
communications network linking all DOA research facilities and substantial
renovation of existing infrastructure. Staff mobility and ability to
conduct off-station research trials would be increased through the provi-
sion of vehicles, motorcycles, bicycles, and minibuses. Tractors, other
farm machinery, laboratory and scientific equipment, research materials and
supplies, and workshop equipment and tools would also be provided for the
research stations. Furthermore, funds would be provided for buildings
maintenance, operation and maintenance of vehicles and equipment, purchase
of books and scientific journals, essential overseas travel of research
staff and resumed publication of annual research reports.
51.       Extension Methodology and Technical Content.  The Project would
support reorganization of the extension service along the lines of a
Training and Visit (T&V) system. Information on improved technology would
be made available to a wide cross-section of the farming population and
farmers with different resource bases would be assisted in tailoring this
information to their particular needs. The extension system would be
field-oriented and organized from the camps up. Extension advice would
concentrate on simple, low-cost cultivation practices for a limited number
of major crops in each area, having a high probability of yielding good
financial results. To support these activities, the Project provides for
four manyears of an Extension Methodology Specialist, three manyears of an
Agricultural Communications Specialist, and consultancies of
eight manmonths in audio-visual aid, and nine manmonths in extension
planning and management.
52.       Research and Extension Training.  Training under the Project is
designed to strengthen the technical and managerial capabilities of the DOA
staff. To this end, the Project would provide three manyears of a Manpower
Development and Training Specialist. He would support the activities of
the Research and Extension Training Unit (RETU) which would be responsible
for consolidating ongoing training programs and formulating and
implementing training policies and a long-term training program for all DOA
staff. For the research services, considerable funds for overseas
fellowships are already being provided under various bilateral aid
programs. However, these funds are often restricted in their purpose and
do not generally allow research staff to benefit from training at
international or regional research centers, or to return to Zambia to carry
out dissertation research. The Project would, therefore, complement the
ongoing training assistance by financing some candidates for post-graduate
training, up to the MSc level; short-term courses to upgrade the technical
knowledge of various types of technicians and to improve the management and
administrative capability of the research stations; and about US$250,000 to
enable Zambian students studying abroad, either under bilateral or Bank
assistance, to return to Zambia for their dissertation or thesis research.
53.       For extension services, the Project would finance several
candidates for post-graduate courses, up to the MSc level, and appropriate
short-term courses for SMSs. In addition to orientation courses mainly for
the field staff and selected farmers in connection with the T&V system, the
Project would provide a considerable number of short courses, workshops and
seminars for all staff in extension management and planning, and technical



- 18 -
and methodology topics. It would also finance short-term and day courses
for farmers in agricultural practices and farm management. In addition,
the Project will finance consultants (12 manmonths) to assist RETUJ assess
long-term requirements for professional staff in the agricultural sector as
a whole and to formulate a training program to meet the requirements; the
report on the long-term reauirements and training programs would be
submitted to IDA for review and comments not later than December 31, 1988.
54.       Extension Supporting Facilities. Field offices and staff houses
would be constructed or renovated to widen the geographic coverage of
extension and intensify contacts with farmers. Construction standards and
designs, particularly for camp and block houses, would be rationalized to
reflect the requirements of rural areas and make maximum use of local
building materials. The Project would also help to construct and equip an
Agricultural Coumnications Center (ACC). The purchase and repair of
vehicles, motorcycles, bicycles, minibuses, and mobile repair units are
included to increase extension worker mobility. Extension materials and
audio-visual equipment would also be provided. The existing Farm
Institutes in Central and Northern provinces would be refurbished to help
MAWD carry out local in-service training and the Farmer Traiaing Center in
Lusaka Province would be upgraded to a Farm Institute.
55.       Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E). The Project would establish an
M&E system to collect and analyze selected physical and financial
indicators in order to facilitate effective implementation of the Project
activities and to enable periodic assessment of Project achievements in
generating and disseminating technical packages to smallholders and
traditional farmers, and in strengthening local research and extension
capability. To these ends, the Project would provide four manyears of a
Monitoring aad Evaluation Specialist, four manyears of a Computer Systems
Analyst, and six manmouths of consultancies to deal with specialized
problems. Staff houses, and provision of vehicles, motorcycles, small
computers, and surveying and camping equipment would be provided.
56.       Project Administration. The project would address existing
weaknesses in MAWD's administration by providing four manyears of an
internationally-recruited Project Implementation Officer (PIO), four
manyears of a Project Financial Officer (PFO) and three and a half manyears
of a Project Procurement Officer (PPO). It would also provide 74 manmonths
of the services of a firm of architect-engineer consultants recently
appoinated to design and supervise the envisaged civil works. Furthermore,
it would provide the services of independent external auditors to audit the
project accounts each year. The Project also includes funds for vehicles,
motorcycles, office equipment and supplies, and for incremental staff costs
for Project implementation and administration activities. The posts of
PIO, PFO and PPO have been advertised internationally and would be filled
with candidates satisfactory to IDA as a condition of Credit effectiveness.
57.       Aid Coordination. The undertaking of research experiments and
trials in Zambia is heavily dependent on personnel financed by several
external donors. The proposed Project would not finance any technical
assistance for carrying out actual research work and assumes that this
would continue to b1 aupported fully by other donors. Because the success



: 19 -
of the Project critically depends on continuation of the assistance now
provided outside the Project by other donors, the Government would be
required to seek agreement annually with the various donors that the
essential assistance would be maintained at least during the Project
period, and to keep IDA fully informed of any changes. After the
finalization of the 5-year research action program (para. 47 above), a
donor's jeeting would be convened to reassess and coordinate, and, if
necessary, realign the individual donors physical share of the program.
Moreover, to provide for the possibility that these other donors might not
continue their assistance to the extent required, the proposed Project
would provide a fund of about US$0.7 million (equivalent to about 10% of
the technical assistance cost under the project) to finance replacements of
critical research personnel now provided by other donors, should suitable
replacements not be available from other sources.
Cost and Financing Arrangements
58.       Total Project cost, including physical contingencies and expected
price increases, is estimated at about K349.3 million (US$38.8 million),
with a foreign exchange component of US$26.4 million or 68 percent.
Project costs include incremental recurrent expenses of US$4.9 million.
These cost estimates are based on October 1986 prices and includes taxes
and duties of K5.6 million (US$0.6 million). Civil works account for about
30 percent of total costs, vehicles and equipment account for about 26
percent, technical assistance 25 percent, training 6 percent, and
incremental recurrent costs 14 percent. Physical contingencies have been
assessed at 20 percent for civil works, and 10 percent for equipment and
vehicles. Price contingency estimates assume increases for both foreign
and local currency costs of 7.2 percent in 1987, 6.8 percent in 1988 and
1989, 7.0 percent in 1990, 7.5 percent in 1991, and 4.0 percent p.a.
thereafter.  Differences between domestic and foreign inflation costs are
assumed to be corrected through exchange rate adjustments.
59.       IDA would provide US$13.0 million which would finance about 25
percent of total project cost and cover 43 percent of the total foreign
exchange and 14 percent of the total local costs.  The proposed IDA credit
includes US$1.0 million already approved under the Project Preparation
Facility (PPF) for the appointment of key staff and procurement of
essential items to enable the Government to initiate project start-up
activities. Cofinanciers, comprising AfDB and NORAD would contribute
US$19.8 million, of which US$14.9 million would cover foreign exchange and
US$4.9 million would cover local costs. Total external financing would
thus be US$32-.8 million, or 85 percent of total costs, and would cover 100
percent of foreign exchange costs and 52 percent of local costs. The
Government would finance the remaining project cost of US$6.0 million,
including taxes and duties. The Government's signing of agreements with
AfDB and NORAD would be conditions of Credit effectiveness.
Procurement
60.       Vehicles, equipment, supplies and materials would be bulked to
the extent possible and procured following international competitive



- 20 -
bidding (ICB) procedures in accordance with IDA's guidelines. In bid
evaluation, local manufacturers would be allowed a preference of 15% or the
applicable customs duty, whichever is lower. Vehicles, equipment and
supplies which cannot be suitably bulked and other small items such as
materials and supplies costing more than US$50,000 and less than US$200,000
equivalent may be procured through local competitive procedures (which are
satisfactory to IDA), with solicitation of bids from at least three
suppliers whenever practicable. Foreign firms are well-represented in
Zambia and would be allowed to participate in local competitive bidding.
Proprietary equipment (mainly spare parts) and other goods costing less
than US$50,000 equivalent may be purchased off the shelf from reliable
suppliers. Civil works would be procured on the basis of local advertising
and competitive bidding procedures, which are satisfactory to IDA and which
do not exclude foreign firms from competing. These works would be
unsuitable for ICB because of the relatively small sizes and the phasing of
contracts over five years. Consultants for the various forms of technical
assistance under the project would be appointed following procedures, on
terms and conditions, and with qualifications and experience acceptable to
IDA. Procurement arrangements are summarized in the following table:
Project Element               Procurement Method                Total
ICB       LCB     Other      N.A.        Cost
-(US$ million)
Vehicles, Equipment,      7.0         2.3     0.8                  10.1
Supplies & Materials  (0.9)        (0.2)   (0.1)                 (1.2)
Civil Works                          10.2     1.5                  11.7
(0.4)   (0.0)                 (0.4)
Technical Assistance                          9.7                   9.7
(8.8)                 (8.8)
Overseas Training and Travel                  1.8                   1.8
(1.8)                (1.8)
Local Training                                0.6                   0.6
(0.3)                 (0.3)
Increm. Recurrent Costs                                4.9          4.9
(0.5)       (0.5)
Total                     7.0        12.0    14.4      4.9         38.8
(0.9)      (0.6)  (11.0)    (0.5)        (13.0)
Note:  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the
IDA Credit.
Disbursements
61.       The IDA credit would be disbursed over eight years as follows:
(a) Technical assistance: 100% of foreign exchange, and 50% of
local expenditures;
(b) Training: 100% of overseas and 45% of local expenditures;



- 21 -
(c) Civil Works: 100% of foreign exchange and 80% of local
expenditures;
(d) Vehicles, Equipment and Supplies: 100% of foreign exchange
or 90% of local expenditures; and
(e) Recurrent costs for operation and maintenance for buildings,
vehicles, equipment and office: 55% of total expenditures.
62.       Disbursements for training and for local technical assistance
costs valued at less than US$20,000 per item of expenditure, and for
recurrent costs, would be made against Statements of Expenditure (SOE),
certified by the Director of Agriculture in MAWD and the Project Financial
Officer. Accounting procedures within MAWD are adequate to support SOE
applications and would be further strengthened by the employment of an
internationally-recruited staff under the Project. Documentation for SOE
expenditures would be retained by MAWD and made available for inspection by
IDA during the course of Project supervision. Total disbursements against
SOE would not exceed about US$1.0 million, or about 8Z of the IDA credit.
Disbursements for other technical assistance, consultants, and overseas
training and travel costs would be made after receipt of standard
documentation. The closing date of the IDA credit would be December 31,
1995.
63.       The Credit and Project Summary provides a schedule of estimated
disbursements. Disbursement estimates are projected over a period of eight
years (seven and a half years of implementation) based on past experience
with similar projects as reflected by the relevant standard profile in the
Region.  It is possible that the Project could be implemented in the target
period of four years in which case Project costs would be reduced by about
15 percent from a total of US$38.8 million to US$33.0 million; however, the
Government contribution, at 15 percent of total Project costs, would
increase to an annual average of about US$1.2 million compared to about
US$0.8 million. On the other hand, while the costs would be incurred
earlier, the flow of benefits would also begin more quickly.
Status of Project Preparation
64.       Most of the building designs would be essentially repetitive and
would be based on existing Government houses for various grades of staff
while most of the research station buildings would be expansion and
improvement of existing facilities. Preliminary designs have been prepared
for most of the major civil works. A firm of architect- engineers has been
appointed and is expected to start working on detail designs in December
1986. This would be followed by the preparation of tender documents, to be
completed by August 1987, for all the major works. Terms of reference for
the key technical assistance personnel and consultants have been
finalized. The consultants to prepare a five-year action program and
priority for research have been shortlisted and invited to submit
proposals. Other important actions already taken include: implementing
reorganization of the Department of Agriculture with a view to separating
technical and administrative functions and placing them under separate
officers; advertising internationally the posts of Project Implementation



- 22 -
Officer, Project Financial Officer and Project Procurement Officer, and
Manpower Development and Training Specialist; and initiating identification
of sites for staff houses and other buildings to be constructed during the
Project first year.
Environmental Effects
65.       The Project would have beneficial effects on the physical
environment through promptin.r Zambian farmers to improved land cultivation,
water use, cropping system and animal husbandry practices. It would
increase appreciation of environmental constraints and lead to a better,
more informed use of physical and human resources. There would be no
adverse environmental effects from the Project. Agro-chemicals known to
damage the ecology would be prohibited.
Project Execution
66.       MAWD would assume primary responsibility for implementing the
project. A National Agricultural Research and Extension Committee (NAREC)
has recently been established under the chairmanship of the Permanent
Secretary of HAWD; its members comprise the Director of DOA as the
executive officer, the Director of the Planning Division, and
representatives of the Ministry of Finance, NCSR, UNZA, NCDP, and of the
farming community. NAREC would be responsible for setting overall policy
direction, establishing priorities, reviewing and approving annual programs
and budget, and coordinating donor aid for research and extension
services. Overall responsibilzty specific to Project implementation,
monitoring and reporting would rest with MAWD's Permanent Secretary,
through the Director for Agriculture who would be designated as the Project
Director. Day-to-day management of research and extension programs would
be delegated to the Assistant Directors of these two services. A National
Project Implementation Committee (NPIC) has also been established, with the
Director of DOA as its chairman and including Assistant Directors of
Research and Extension, the Director of the Planning Division, the Project
XIplementation Officer (PIO), Provincial Agricultural Officers in the three
Project areas, the Project Financial Officer (PFO), a representative from
MOWS, and co-opted members as may be necessary. The NPIC would be
responsible for: (a) ensuring timely preparation, review and approval of
the annual research and extension program and budget; (b) selection and
approval of candidates for overseas training; (c) review and coordination
of Project implementation progress; (d) review and approval of building
designs; and (e) ensuring the preparation and submission to IDA of
semi-annual reports, annual work programs and budgets, and annual and
mid-term reviews.  In addition, NPIC would be responsible for coordinating
the preparation of a follow-up project.
67.       In order to facilitate Project management, a Project
Implementation Officer (PIO) would be internationally recruited and would
report directly to the Director of Agriculture. The P10 would assist the
Director of Agriculture in: (a) following up on the day-to-day matters
relating to Project implementation, and preparation of annual work plans
and budgets, and semi-annual progress reports. He would work closely with
the Project Financial Officer (PFO), directly answerable to the DOA's



- 23 -
Director, who would be responsible for designing and implementing a sound
accounting system; maintaining project accounts and records; consolidating
the annual budgets prepared by various units; and training local account
staff. Be would also be supported by a Project Procurement Officer (PPO)
on matters relating to procurement of vehicles, equipment, and technical
assistance personnel and consultancies. The appointuent of these officers
and their local counterparts would be a condition of Credit
effectiveness.
68.       Research.  The Assistant Director of the Research Branch would
have overall responsibility for the planning and execution of research and
provision of technical services within the Branch. Operational decisions
would be delegated to the two Chief Agricultural Research Officers
(CAROs). The CARo for Research would guide the planning and implementation
of research activities, and the CARO for Technical Services would be
responsible for the development and manageient of the research station and
trial site, and for overseeing the operations of the various service units,
he would be responsible, with the support of the two maintenance
specialists financed by the Project, for the maintenance of the research
facilities.
69.       Extension.  The Assistant Director of Extension would have
overall responsibility for implementation of the extension component. He
would be assisted by the two Chief Agricultural Extension Officers (CAEOs),
the Extension Methodology Specialist financed by the Project, and the
national SMSs. Implementation of the extension programs in the provinces
would be the responsibility of the Provincial Agricualtural Officers (PAO),
while implementation of the extension program in each district would be the
responsibility of the DAOs. In line with the national extension strategy,
the provincial extenslon services would be separated into technical and
administrative groups. A Provincial Project Implementation Committee
(PPIC) would be set up in each province, not later than September 30, 1987,
under the cbhirmanship of the PAO, with membership consisting of the Deputy
PAOs, the DAOs and representatives from Provincial MOWS and input supplies,
marketing and credit agencies. Its main purpose would be to ensure timely
implementation and coordination of the Project activities at the provincial
and district levels, and to review progress made in physical implementation
of the Project.
70.       Linkages between Research and Extension.  In order to further
strengthen the linkages between the research and extension branches, formal
channels of communication and cooperation would be set up and existing ones
upgraded. Provincial RELOs, as members of the ARPTs, would be involved in
the monitoring and analysis of well-defined on-farm trials, in field survey
work involving extension and research personnel, and in joint
research-extension activities such as field days and farmer training.
Moreover, under the Government's new strategy, annual research-extension
meetings would be set up for extension SMSs and relevant ARPT and CRT
staff, to discuss extension and research activities and programs. At the
camp level, closer coordination and cooperation would be achieved through
on-farm trials and survey work carried out jointly by research and
extension staff.



- 24 -
71.       Training.  The training program would be implemented by the
Research and Extension Training Unit (RETU) directly responsible to the
Director of DQA. The Unit would be headed by a Principal Training Officer
assisted by the project Manpower Development Training Specialist, funded
under the Project. The Training Unit would be responsible for determining
and planning overall training needs; evaluating the training program;
identifying training instructors iud organizing suitable courses. One of
the major tasks of the Manpower Development and Training Specialist (MDTS)
would be to prepare long-ternm projections of professional manpower needs
for the agricultural sector as a whole, and to design a corresponding
manpower development program. He would also review the curricula and
enrollments of the various local agricultural training institutions to
ensure that the curric-luu meets all the needs and that enrollment is
consistent with demand. The long-term manpower projections and training
program would be submitted to IDA by December 31, 1988 for review and
comments.
72.       Civil Works. Design and supervision of civil works and
preparation of bills of quantities and tender documents would be carried
out by the consulting architect-engineers. As a condition of Credit
effectiveness, MAWD would identify and select sites for all research
station buildings and at least one-half of extension staff houses to be
constructed during the first year of the project. The Ministry of Works
and Supplies (MOWS), through its Building Branch, would have the overall
responsibility for overseeing the design and construction of civil works
and a direct responsibility for supervision and construction of extension
staff houses in the rural areas. For these purposes, MOWs would designate
from its staff a Senior Architect not later than June 30, 1987 and District
Building Supervisors in the Project areas not later than June 30, 1987 for
the first phase of extension components and not later than September 30,
1989 for the second phase.
Staffing
73.       Every attempt would be mad& to fill professional staff positions
-with qualified and experienced Zambians; however, for most of the key
research staff, it is unlikely that suitable Zamb'an candidates could be
found for the time being. The Project would finance some of the key
positions while others would be financed by on-going donor aid outside the
Project. Assurances have been obtained from the Borrower that the postP of
the Director of Agriculture, the Assistant Directors of Research and
Extension, CAROS, CAEOS, and the PAOs in the Project areas would continue
to be filled by qualified and experienced staff.
Accounts and Audits
74.       MAWD would maintain separate records and accounts for all
activities relating to goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the IDA credit. I[AWD would submit to IDA an annual statement of Project
accounts, covering both expenditures and sources of funds, together with
the related audit report, within six months of the close of each fiscal
year. The audit report, to be carried out by an independent auditor
acceptable to IDA, would specifically comment on the use of funds disbursed



- 25 -
under Statements of Expenditures (SOEs), and for the Special Account.
Furthermore, the Project Financial Officer would design and help to
implement an improved budgeting and accounting system relating to research
and extension services, which would be submitted to ITA for coiments not
later than December 31, 1988.
Supervision and Reporting
75.       MAWD would:  prepare and submit annual work programs and budgets
for IDA's approval not later than September 30 each year; undertake annual
Project reviews, except In the year of the mid-term review, and submit the
annual review reports to IDA for comments by September 30 each year; and
undertake in-depth mid-term Project evaluation and submit the evaluation
report to IDA for comments. MAUD would also prepare and submit to IDA
semi-annual progress reports within three months of the end of each
reporting period, and prepare the Project Completion Report within one year
of the Project completion date.
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)
76.       Adequately staffed M&E units would be established at MAWD
headquarters as well as in the PAO's offices of the three provinces covered
by the Project's extension component.  The M&E system would aim at
generating data necessary to ensure efficient management of the Project and
evaluation of the Project impact relative to its macro-objectives and
institution-building goals.  While DQA would assume the primary
responsibility for data collection, the Planning Division of MAND would be
actively involved, particularly in the designing of the system and
evaluation of progress towards sectoral objectives.  The ME Specialist and
the Computer System Analyst financed by the Project would provide the
necessary professional support and training of the local staff. A suitable
M&E system would be established not later than December 31, 1987 and
implemented in consultation with IDA.
Benefits and Justification
77.       The Project is expected to make a significant contribution
towards accelerating agricultural growth and diversification of the Zambian
economy. It would achieve a more efficient utilization of limited human
and financial resources by rationalizing research and extension policies,
systematically establishing priorities, and coordinating donor assistance
within well-integrated strategies. It would create strong national
research and extension systems to produce problem-oriented research and
effectively deliver technical messages focused on farmers' needs. It would
also address basic institutional weaknesses and add to the scarce resource
of trained anpower in the research and extension subsectors. Ultimately,
it is expected to increase production of both import-substituting and
export commodities, and to have a positive impact on the agricultural
output and incomes of at least 22,400 farm families, some 30 percent of
which are headed by women, through the extension component alone, with the
full build-up of benefits occurring by year 2000. Given that about 40
percent of the rural population is estimated to fall under the poverty



- 26 -
level, and that nearly 30 percent of the families are female-headed, the
Project would have a significant impact on the poor and women members of
the population.
78.       No attempt has been made to compute rates of return for the
Project. Available data show that crop yields achieved by most traditional
farmers can be increased by at least 50X simply through their adoption of
improved practices already being applied by small-scale emergent farmers in
the same areas. However, because of the difficulty of predicting the
response to the revised technological packages, which will vary by crop,
ecological area, and several other factors, and because the outcome of
research activities is uncertain, it is difficult to quantify the likely
benefits of the Project.
Budgetary Impact
79.       The Project would not generate direct fiscal revenues as there
are no taxes or cesses levied on farm production. Nonetheless, its impact
on the budgetary resources would be modest. Budgetary contributions are
projected to increase steadily from about US$0.1 million equivalent in the
first year to a maximum of US$1.4 million equivalent in the eighth year, or
about 7 percent of the budget allocated to research and extension
activities in 1986. After the eighth year, when all investment
expenditures are completed, the budgetary contributions would consist of
recarrent costs of about US$1.0 million annually, or about 4 percent of the
budget allocations for research and extension activities in 1986. To
ensure additionality to the budgetary allocations to the Recurrent
Departmental Charges for research and extension services, and to enable
research and extension staff to devote sufficient time to field work, the
Government would be required to maintain these allocations at least at the
1985 level in real terms; to contribute a progressively increasing share to
the Project recurrent cost; and, not later than December 31, 1988, to
increase travel allowances for research and extension staff to a level
sufficient to cover full cost.
Project Risk
80.       The Project's main risks are that:  implementation of civil
works, procurement of vehicles and equipment and recruitment of technical
assistance may be hampered by weak managewent, inadequate local counterpart
funds, or the worsening geopolitical situation in the Southern African
region; adoption of the T&V system may be hindered by unforeseen
difficulties; institution-building objectives may be frustrated by some of
the staff leaving for better employment elsewhere; some of the key research
personnel now funded by other donors outside the Project may depart without
suitable replacements; and shortage of complementary inputs such as
fertilizers, seeds and credit, and poor marketing services may hinder the
adoption of the available technological packages. The Project includes
several measures to minimize these risks.
81.       To reduce delays in civil works, the Project has provided for a
private firm of architect-engineers and to be responsible for design,
preparation of tenders, evaluation of bids and supervision of civil works,



- 27 _
while all major construction works would be undertaken by private
contractors. It has also provided for a procurement officer who would be
responsible for expediting procurement of vehicles, equipment and recruit-
ment of technical assistance personnel and consultants, and follow-up on
the processing of bid documents through the Tender Board. Moreover, the
Project seeks to ensure timely recruitment of the technical assistance
personnel by providing for engagement of a professional recruitment agency,
and by requiring that all the key personnel are recruited prior to Credit
effectiveness in order to ensure that a strong management capability is
accordingly in place. The problem relating to local counterpart funds is
considerably alleviated by the fact that most of the Project costs,
including a large part of the -recurrent costs, would be funded from
external sources; moreover, nearly 40 percent of the Government contri-
bution could be financed from a fund that has been created out of the Swiss
grant under the Agricultural Rehabilitation Project. There is little the
Project can do regarding the geopolitical situation which could delay
procurement of vehicles, equipment and materials and to increase Project
costs.
82.       In anticipation of possible difficulties regarding implementation
of the T&V system, the extension component has been designed in two
geographical phases so that, in case of unforeseen problems, the second
phase would not be implemented and efforts would be concentrated on
resolving the problems encountered under the first phase. There are no
reasons to suggest that the turnover of research and extension staff is
likely to be much higher in future than the 3-4 percent experienced during
the past four years. Nevertheless, the proposals recently submitted by
HAWD to the Government (para. 39) would go a long way towards reducing
staff turnover by improving terms and conditions of employment for all
research and extension staff. Housing contributes a significant part of
the package of benefits for civil servants in Zambia and the improvement of
staff housing under the Project would offer an added attraction to a large
number of field and research staff. To minimize the adverse effects from
departure by some of the key staff now funded by other donors in research,
the Project has provided a fund to be used for replacements. Measures now
underway to liberalize maize marketing and fertilizer distribution, and
expected improvement of agricultural credit under a possible Bank-supported
project, would have a positive impact on the adoption of technological
packages.
Justification for IDA Financing
83.       Improvement of research and extension services is critical to the
development of Zambia's agriculture and, in turn, the success of national
efforts to diversify the economy from the heavy dependence on the declining
mining sector. The proposed Project is, therefore, particularly important
and bears significantly on the performance of on-going and planned IDA
supported agricultural projects in the country. Partly because of severe
financial conditions and acute shortage of qualified manpower, the country
has not been able to achieve the necessary improvements in research and
extension services. Although considerable aid is available from various
external donors, it falls short of the requirevents and lacks coordination
to ensure consistence with national development objectives. There is,



- 28 -
therefore, a need to supplement the available aid with regard to both
investment funds and technical assistance. The proposed IDA Credit would
fill this need. Furthermore, IDA's involvement would facilitate the
establlshment of a mechanism to coordinate external aid relating to these
services.
PART V. RECOMHENDATION
84.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed credit.
Barber Conable
President
Washington, D.C.
November 17, 1986



GNP per Capta  W$40 (L98)1/
NAnCKAL A1OIUD1
1985
US$     BPermt            -.-3 Ocutth Rates (Z) at Camut  Prces
TmiCator          udilios  of G1            D         1981     1982      1983    1984    1985
GOP, Factor Cut            2055        88         -0.7      2.7      -2.1     -8o        1.5     4.8
GP, Maxket Prices           2345      100         -1.1       6.2     -2.8      -2.0    -0.4      3.4
aicu1ture                  339       14          0.5      8.2    -11.7        8.4      5.6     9.2
MIning                     334       14         -3.0      4.7       0.0       3.0    -9.8    -5.3
Other Izidstry 2/           92       25         -0.2      5.1      -0.9      -5.1      0.8     4.8
Services                  1080       47          0.4      6.5      -1.6      -4.3    -2.8      2.5
onsuMqtion                  1911       81          0.0      9.3      -8.8      -4.4     2.5      6.9
Grwos Investment             280        12       -16.9    -11.1    -23.5    -24.2        5.8   -10.7
Eors oods & NF             896        38         -3.5    -12.8      15.7      -9.7    -6.8      8.8
Imports of Goods & DES       742       32         -89    -16.0    -22.0    -15.6    -2.5         1.0
Gross D tk_ Savirgs          434        19         0.0    -'8.2    -26.6       83.9    16.2   -19.1
GOVE1ENMI FDWIE               General Crr,z 3b/           atz;s' Gonu.rit (1985)
TK Mn.)       Zofp           (K  In.)        Z of P
Qrent Receipts                                              1536            24.3
OQrreit Expenditur                                          2489            39.3
current swpls                                               -953           -15.0
capital Expenraiures                                         456             7.2
Eterznal Financi%                                           361             5.7
hM, CR)DI and PR1CES
1975   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986 (June)
-    (rno  K ~ii:  Peod
Mbey ard Quasi bey                       493    907    979   139    1454   1704   2415   2704
Bark Credit to Goverrem     4/           318   1355   1495   1983   2099   2287   2809   2617
Bank Credit to Private Sector 4/         393    505    765   1011   1197   1401   2039   2252
(PeramtW  anod Index Wbers)
Mbcy and Qsil Money as Z of GDP         31.3   29.6   28.4   36.4   34.8   36.0          38.1  n.a.
Wkclesale Price Lnxle (1966.100) 5/    188.6  424.2  475.9  542.8  663.7  829.2         n.a.  na.
Axml perrFe   diarge in:
Iaesla e Price Indec                  16.6   11.1   12.2   14.1   22.3   24.9
Bat Credtit to QGweeuet              406.9   20.8   10.3   32.7    5.8    9.0   22.8    5.8
Bak Cedit to Private Secwr 4!         17.0    4.6   51.4   32.2   18.4   17.0   45.5   49.3
I Bied ca Worldd Ba  Atlas Hetodfo1 c.
2 ",Q.urizg,   ,        ,i atrity, g  and ater.
3 FIgue do nt dLffr   d          ly fro- 'Cetral Govenrt-.
4 ,Tnrilt  punsataL                (ZDD.o iS iswlz-,U  imi frO  198  m).      sw te   23, 1986
5 Au .  tiaty upad  xs.



- 30 -
ANNC I
Page 2 of 2
ZABA
MUA   PAT11  AND CAPUL FLW
BAa  (7 PAUES                                                              MME  S 1985
1982   1983   19M4   1985
(TMllioi                      I us$7 -t$ fln.  2
Ibcrts of Goods, NES         1,067   1,005    964    911       Cqppr                   646      79
otsof Goa ods, NES           1,410  1,043    928   1,06       CDbalt                    88      11
_OUrOt Gp (deficit - -)    -343    -38         36   -135       ead and Zinc             26       3
All oter                 56       7
Fa:tor Serwim (net)a          -235   -188   -221   -110          lbtal                8615    100
Not TSufezs                    -72    -50    -51    -51                                         -
Ba     a C wreit kmt    -650   -276   -236   -296
ENEEL UET, Dac. 3i, 1985
Of: IAl GzTs                    30      42     50      51
Dmrect Forei ..amt             ..             ..                                             US$ Mln.
not LT Bwradm                  258    128    129    212        PUblic Debt, mdl graiteed  3,214
350    176    179    268       N    u     e  Private Det 
Csati  a                 92      48     50      56      Tfta1 Outstwdix  & Dnsb-sed   3,214
Not Df                         -57      64     76    96
Orda1A Pay"s  kLaW             240    -ro      25      14
OtbuIe_  (ne.i.)               267      67    -49    125       MT S CE RAO PM 1985
OngeIn3meve -i8                         25      5    -10                                      X
- hEen
Public Debt, Iwnl. gumatei  12.9 b
1WrU  Itiratee  Private Debt 
MCA OutstauUxg &    }sb        2.9 b
es Int'L Resrves               140    115    110    120
(wew of :bports)              (5.2)  (5.7)  (6.3)    (6.0)
m t A/C BaL.as Z CXP    -16.7   -8.2   -8.2            12.6   ID MID  IMM, July 31, 1986
Racb
Outsandi  & Msbursed  372.48  143.35
1981     1E$1.00  -          0.868f                            Ukiisbursed              40.91  182.30
1982                        0.9282                              Ltstaadig im-1.
198.3                        1.2506                              Ibisld                413.39  325.65
19084                        1.7943
1985                         2.7027
1986 (Sept. 20)              6.3700
a Ewx.3    arrearm Iztest andM    ztlim payments an awmts resdi1ae.
b ktmi dgbt seice pad an Publc ar    UCS1b1uly Q3w_teed gbt, ecbiia:g arress a6  IMF
zqm.  SdudAal debt servi  du an PPG debt - eqiva]t to 46.1  E                    of eports of gxods
a1 tfctr ae.lon
..,   aLlable                                                                          s   23, 1986



ANNEX II
-31 -                            Page I of 2
STAIUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAMBIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of September 30, 1986)
Amount in USS Million
(Less Cancellations)
Loan   Credit                                                                    Undisbursed
No.    No.      Year   Borrower           Purpose                 Bank    IDA   Loan Credit 1/
21 Loans and 2 credits
fully disbursed                          448.79  21.00
1566    798      1978   Zambia            Third Highway           11.25  11.25 11.14      0.03
873     1979   Zambia            Technical Assistance             5.00            0.46
1790            1980   Zambia             Third Railway           25.00          1.78
1923            1981   Development        Second Development
Bank of Zambia   Finance Company          15.00         0.08
2001            1981   Zambia             Eastern Province
Agric. Development      11.00          6.13
1193     1982   Zambia            Southern Province
Agric. Development             18.00           13.39
1196     1982   Zambia            Smallholder Dairy Dev.           2.13            0.93
1251     1982   Zambia            Fifth Education                 25.00           16.43
2151             1982   Zambia Irdus-
trial & Mining
Company          Oil Refinery Mod. Eng.  5.10            2.96
2152             1982   Zambia            Pet. Exploration Prom. 6.60            1.87
1333     1983   Zambia            Maamba Coal Eng.                 4.30            1.10
1362     1983   Zambia            Rural Water Supply              10.00            5.70
SF2      1983   Zambia            Rural Water Supply               6.00            3.56
1437     1984   Zambia            Ind. Forestry-PhaseIII          22.40           16.59
2391            1984   Zambia             Export Rehab. & Diver. 75.00           9.34
1529     1985   Zambia            Fisheries                        7.10            6.52
1545     1985   Zambia            Agricultural Rehab.             25.00            5.03
A005     1986   Zambia            Agricultural Rehab.             10.00            4.48
1575     1985   Zambia            Fourth Railways                 20.00           20.00
1630     1986   Zambia            Industrial Reor.                20.00            1.58
A004     1986   Zambia             Industrial Reor.               42.00           10.52
1627     1986   Zambia            Tazama Pipeline Reh. Eng.        3.10            3.10
1662     1986   Zambia            Fertilizer Ind. Rest.2!         10.00           10.00
1679     1986   Zambia            Second Tech. Asst. 2_ _    8.00                  7.98
Total                                           597.74 270.28 33.30   169.04
of which has been repaid                       187.60    -      _       -
Total now held by Bank and IDA                  410.14 275.65
Amounts sold                        28.58
of which has been repaid         28.58
Total                                                          33.30   169.04
=_=
NOTES: The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all
Bank/IDA-financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated
to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
1/ Credits denominated in SDRs (Credit 1193-ZA and above) are shown in US Dollar equivalents,
based on the exchange rate in effect at the time of negotiations.
2/ Not yet effective



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of Sept. 31, 1986)
Investment   Commitment                                        USS Million Equivalent
No.          Year                       Type of Business      Loan  Equity      Total
216-ZA       1972   Zambia Bata Shoe                           0.85   0.23        1.08
Company Limited    Shoe Manufacturing
250-ZA       1973   Zambi..  Bata Shoe  Shoe Manufacturing
Company Limited    and Tannery            1.20    -          1.20
307-ZA       1975   Century Packages
Limited             Packaging Materials  0.78   0.21         0.99
324-ZA       1976   Development Bank   Development Finance
of Zambia           Company                -     0.54        0.54
394-ZA       1978   Century Packages
Limited             Packaging Materials  0.10    -           0.10
483-ZA       1980   Zambia Consoli-    Copper and Cobalt
dated Copper Mines Production            28.00    -         28.00
527-ZA       1980   Kafue Textiles of
Zambia Limited      Textiles & Fibers    7.60    -           7.60
600-ZA       1982   Zambia Consoli-
dated Copper Mines Copper Production   25.14    -           25.14
709-zA       1984   Zambia Hotel
Properties Ltd.    Tourism               19.71    -         19.71
743-ZA       1985   Mpongwe Develop-   Food and Food
ment Co. Ltd.,      Processing            1.81   0.29        2.10
721-ZA       1985   Kafue Textiles of
Zambia Limited      Textiles & Fibers    3.15    -           3.15
Total gross commitments                  88.34   1.27       89.61
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayment and sales                   30.39   0.20       32.01
Total now held by IFC                    57.95   1.07       59.02
Total undisbursed                         5.12    -          5.12



- 33 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I. Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare Project  :   18 months
(b)  Project prepared by             :  Government, with assistance
of consultants
(c)  First presentation to IDA        :  September 1984
(d)  Departure of appraisal mission      January 1985
Ce)  Departure of post-appraisal
mission                           June 1986
(f)  Negotiations                        October 1986
(g)  Planned date of effectiveness  :  March 1986
II. Special IDA Implementation Action
PPF advance of US$1 million; principally to finance the
appointment of kpy staff and procurement of essential items to enable
Government to initiate Project start-up.
III. Special Conditions
(a) Conditions of Credit Effectiveness
(i)    Appointment of Project Implementation Officer, Project
Financial Officer, Manpower Development and Training
Specialist, Procurement Officer, and their local
counterparts.;
(ii)   Employment of consultants for preparation of five-year
research action program;
(iii) Opening of Project Advance Account;
(iv)   Selection of specified land sites for research stations
and extension staff houses;
(v)    Signing by the Borrower of Loan and Grant Agreements,
respectively, with AfDB and NORAD.



- 34 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(b) Covenants
(i)    Implementation of the Project in accordance with an
agreed implementation schedule;
(ii)   Submission to IDA, by September 30, 1988, of a policy
statement on irrigation, and by June 30, 1988, of the
report of the Task Force on livestock development policy
and strategy;
(iii)  Submission to IDA for review and approval, by September
30 of each year, of a detailed Annual Work Program and
Budget;
(iv)   Submission to IDA for review and comment, by December 31,
1987, of a five-year research action program; by December
31, 1988, of a long-term agricultural manpower
projections and training program; and by August 31, 1989,
of a mid-term progress report;
*v)    Establishment of monitoring and evaluation units by
December 31, 1987.



ZAMBIA                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TOeLub
Z A M B I A                                                        ' 
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH & EXTENSION PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT AREA
0    Project Area                                -        Main Roads                               E
Phase I                                   -+ I Roilways                                NCheIepC
/'/  Phase II                                    4+  International Airports
:     Regional Stalion, Phase-out                4   Airfields                          M    eI'
Regional Slations                         - - - Rivers                                    -   K'
to become Zonal Stations                     Notionol Capital
Cetliral Station                                     r Naiona Capitals
to become Zonal Station                  63  Province Capitals                  r       _
Substations. Phose-out                     -    oDisrict Boundaries
*     Speciolized Station                        - - Province Boundarios                O     er!.
0     New Zonal Slation                        -.-Internalionol Boundories              < V           r
Elevations in Meters:
Less than 1219 m.
-               - *~~~~~rl1219-1828 m
To tIko-
t   Z     A    I    R     E        . ELubumboshi
*bmbw
~~  /7    RURAL~~~~~FUIR
T  E
Nl DLA
:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                            *
NA W...A ;- .                                  L
14U    
7  A       o         ~       arsaI                  aoua-



IBRD 18917
e roA ubil t A3 PA
,M,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T
T :Ko a                                         TANZANIA  -
A    A P U                  A                     Z Bo  C HE
ENGT.AS>{y                  
4,,,P    5,O""R        i,''V,Q:'C 
10ol~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
abo  ~~-H AM                                   - To R.,nmp
X     i~~~~~~ Aw   o      o    z 8 A         HZ       TAx
HABA    .,,,,                                      MA L A W  I
st~~~~ /Zog 4 111o                           e;ipto1
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
c'mi''IF'YAS' Z mt1l
oowoXy,;ti//ow ,         P        E  TbAL U N D A Z
/DOLA                                     /Z
r/////////>i_4               ,Mf / e'   ,      ZIRE'rNA3 
,,  P E Z A   K                     I   EA  
Z < /                    'T| ZAMBSA imboo            A tIRE 
-                - ~P E TANUANIA
eK CIJOMETERS.-,  _  
5"   ~o,    50     100     150          .r          sf   
Z                                                   TANZANIA.-~~~~I   -
AN-OUAAOCEAN           -
ZIMBABWE    *:    AFRICA   -                                              .NIN C.Hf -
V..=-:. 3. 00            3M         0 Z A M                                  ' I Q'''"



