Domatof
The World Bank
FOR OICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 5679-ZA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ZAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
November 17, 1986
Eastern and Southern Africa Projects
Southern Agriculture Division
This document has a restrictd disuibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwise be discklsed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Zamhian Kwacha (K)
US$1.00        = K 9.00
US$0.11        = K 1.00
The exchange rate is determined weekly by
auction; the rate shown above is the rate
that prevailed around October 18, 19bb.
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 lima                   0.25 hectares
1 hectare (ha)           2.47 acres
1 millimeter (mm)        0.039 inches
I meter (m)              3.28 feet
I square meter (m2)  =  10.76 square feet
1 kilometer (km)     =   0.62 miles
1 kilogram (kg)      =   2.205 pounds
1 metric ton (mt)    =   2,205 pounds
GRZ Financial Year
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
ZAMBIA
AGRICUaTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    BACKGROUND ....       ............................................... 1
A. The Economy ................................1............... 
B. The Agriculture Sector ..................... ................ 1
C. Previous Bank Involvement in Agriculture            .     .     4
II.   NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION SERVICES    .          6
A. Organizational Structure.                                       6
B. Staff Establisbment and Trainig.                                7
C. Focus, Programs and Hethodology...........................t     8
D. Major Constraints ..0
III. THE PROJECT .14
A. Origin, Objectives and Design          . . .14
B. Project Area               ...15
C. Project Summary Description           . . .16
D. Project Detailed Description           . . .16
E. Cost Estimates                     .      .      ............... 23
F. Financing Arrangements             ............24
G. Procurement ...................... ....... ....... .26
H. Disbursements .7
I. Status of Project Preparation .27
J. Environmental Effects .28
IV. PROJECT IMPLENENTATION .29
A. Organization and Management                 . . . 29
B. Staffing Arrangements              . . .34
C. Implementation Schedule        .      .........  ..34
D. Monitoring and Evalauation (M&E) ...............35
E. Financial Management and Audits          .    .     .37
F. Project Supervision and Progress Reporting.          .         37
V.    BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .................................... 39
A. Main Benefits and Beneficiaries ............................ 39
B. Direct Budgetary Impact .................................... 40
C. Project Risks .....................................            41
D. Justification for IDA Financing . ........................... 42
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMHENDATIONS ........................43
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ANNUES
1. Supporting Tables
T-1   Capital Expenditures Related
to Agricultural Research and Extension, 1980-85
T-2   Recurrent Expenditures Related
to Agricultural Research and Extension, 1980-85
T-3   Planned Changes in the Research Station Network
T-4   Locations of CRT Teams and Experimental Sites
T-5   Summary and Schedule of Long-Term Technical Assistance
T-6   Summary and Schedule of Short-term Consultancie3
T-7   Breakdown of Summary Accounts
T-8   Summary Accounts by Project Component
T-9   Project Componeats by Year
T-10 Financing Arrangements by Inputs
T-11  Financing Plan by Project Component
T-12 Financing Arrangements by Project Year
T-13 Incremental Budgetary Impact
T-14 Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
T-15 Summary of Extension Staff Deployment
T-16 Summary of Project Participants
2. Status of Agricultural Research
3. Training of Research and Extension Staff
4. Summary of Available Technical Recommendations
5. The Project Areas
6. Terms of Reference of Key Technical Assistance Personnel
7. Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
CEHARTS
1:    Present Structure of the Department of Agriculture
2:    Proposed Structure of the Department of Agriculture
3:    Proposed Structure of the Research Branch
4:    Proposed Structure of the Extension Branch
5:    Implementation Schedule
MAPS
1.    IBRD 18916 Research Stations and Sites
2.    IBRD 18917 Agricultural Extension Development:  Project Area



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYKS
AFC        -     Agricultural Finance Company
ARPT       -     Adaptive Research Planning Team
AVRDC      -     Asian Vegetable Research and Development Center
BS         -     Block Supervisor
CARO       -     Chief Agricultural Research Officer
CEW        -     Camp Extension Worker
CIAT       -     International Center for Tropical Agriculture
CDMMYT     -     International Center for Maize & Wheat Improvement
CKEU       -     Central Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
CRT        -     Commodity Research Team
DAO        -     District Agricultural Officer
DOA        -     Department of Agrictlture (MAJD)
DVTCS      -     Department of Veterinary & Tsetse Control Services
EEC        -     European Economic Counmnity
FC         -     Financial Controller
FINNIDA    -     Finnish International Development Agency
GDP        -     Gross Domestic Product
GRZ        -     Government of the Republic of Zambia
ICRISAT    -     International Crops Research Institute
for the Semi-Arid Tropics
IFAD       -     International Fund for Agricultural Development
IITA       -     International Institute of Tropical Agriculture
iRDP       -     Integrated Rural Development Program
IRRI       -     International Rice Research Institute
Lintco     -     Lint Company of Zambia
HAMD       -    Ministry of Agriculture and Water Development
M&E        -     Monitoring and Evaluation
MEO        -     Monitoring and Evaluation Officer
MOWS       -     Ministry of Works and Supplies
NAMBOARD   -     National Agricultural Marketing Board
ICSR       -     National Council for Scientific Research
NORAD      -     Norwegian Agency for International Development
NAREC      -     National Agricultural Research and Extension
Committee
NRDC       -     Natural Resources Development College
ODA        -     Overseas Development Administration (U.K.)
OEM        -     Operation and Maintenance
PAO        -     Provincial Agricultural Officer
PIC        -     Project Implementation Committee
PIO        -     Project Implementation Officer
PCU        -     Provincial Cooperative Union
PCW        -    Provincial Commissioner of Works
PMEO       -     Provincial Monitoring and Evaluation Ofticer
PXEU       -     Provincial Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
PPF        -     Project Preparation Facility
RELO       -     Research-Extension Liaison Officer
RETU       -     Research and Extension Training Unit
SIDA       -     Swedish International Development Agency
SMS        -     Subject Matter Specialist
SOE        -     Statement of Exuenditure
SRT        -     Specialist Research Teams
STO        -     Senior Training Officer
T&V        -     Training and Visit
UNZA       -     University of Zambia
ZADB       -     Zambia Agricultural Development Bank



REPUBLIC OF ZABBIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:          Republic of Zambia
Executing Agency:  Ministry of Agriculture and Water Development
Amount:             SDR 10.8 million (US$13.0 million equivalent)
Terms:             Standard
Project
Description:       The purpose of this Project is to raise the productivity
of Zambia's agricultural sector by improving research
and extension services to farmers, particularly small-
holders. The Project provides for staff training,
technical assistance, civil works, equipment and other
facilities to strengthen existing institutions and
infrastructure in support ot adaptive and applied
research programs and extension services. It would
support reorganization of extension services in three of
Zambia's nine provinces, and improve linkages between
research and extension services that are more responsive
to smallholders' needs and constraints; promote more
efficient utilization of agricultural resources, better
coordination of external assistance; and improve
institutional framework and upgrade manpower resources.
Benefits and       The Project would benefit a wide spectrum of farmers,
Risks              but particularly the vast majority of small traditional
producers, through the development and application of
more appropriate technological packages. Possible risks
include delays in physical implementation, unforeseen
difficulties in the adoption of the T&V system,
reduction of the number of research scientists currently
provided by various donors, shortage of production
inputs, and inefficient marketing and credit services.
These risks would be respectively minimized by the facts
that: the Project includes a large technical assistance
component to strengthen the Project implementation
capability; implementation of the T&V system is
geographically phased so that efforts would be
concentrated in resolving difficulties encountered in
areas covered by the first phase, instead ot expanding
into new areas; the Project would provide a fund to
finance replacements of key research scientists if other
donors are unable to continue funding these scientists;
and the Government has initiated measures to liberalize
agricultural marketing and input distribution, and to
strengthen the agricultural credit system under a
possible Bank-supported project now in an advanced stage
of preparation.



- ii-
Estimated Cost
Local     Foreign      Total
- US$ Million
A.  Technical Assistance                 1.1         5.5          6.6
B.  Overseas Training and Travel                     1.4          1.4
C.  Local Training                       0.5                      0.5
D.  Civil Works                          4.3         3.4          7.7
E.  Vehicles                             0.3         3.8          4.1
F.  Equipment and Supplies               0.5         2.5          3.0
G.  Incremental Recurrent Costs          1.9         1.9          3.8
Total Baseline Cost              8.6       18.5         27.1
Physical Contingencies               1.0         2.1         3.1
Price Contingencies                  2.8        5.8          8.6
Total Cost                      12.4       26.4         38.8
(of which taxes and duties)         (0.6)                   (0.6)
Financing Plan
Local     Foreign      Total       Z
-UUS$ Million
IDA                              1.5       11.5        13.0        34
AfDB                             3.4        9.2        12.6        33
NORAD                            1.5        5.7         7.2        18
Government                       6.0                    6.0        15
12.4       26.4        38.8       100
Estimated Disbursements of IDA Credit
IDA FY     1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995
US$ Million
Annual           0.8   2.2   2.6   2.8   2.2   1.3   0.9   0.2
Cumulative      0.8   3.0   5.6   8.4  10.6  11.9  12.8  13.0
Rate of Return:           Not Applicable
Staff Appraisal Report:  Report No. 5679-ZA, dated November 17, 1986
Maps:                     IBRD  18916 and 18917



ZAIMBIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
I. Background
A. The Economy
1.01      Zambia is a land-locked country with a surface area of 763,000
sq. km, a population of about 6.3 million of which 43% is urban, and a per
capita income of about US$340. The service sector, consisting mostly of
governmental services, constitutes about 46% of GDP, manufacturing about
25Z, agriculture about 17% and mining about 11%. Exports are dominated by
minerals, representing about 95% of total exports while copper alone
represents about 85%. The economy has been on a persistently declining
trend since the mid-1970s, accompanied by a severe deterioration of the
balance of payments and fiscal conditions. Despite various efforts to
reverse the trend, the country's economic and financial condition remains
extremely precarious, and the prospects in the foreseeable future look grim
in the absence of effective measures to restructure the economy and
stimulate growth.
1.02      The economy is heavily dependent on copper, the production of
which is on a secular decline as copper deposits are becoming less
accessible and ore grades less rich. It is estimated that the economically
exploitable copper reserves are likely to fall substantially within the
next 15-20 years. Although the country has a sizeable manufacturing base,
the growth of this sector is seriously constrained by high dependence on
imported inputs, the financing of which is becoming increasingly difficult
as foreign exchange resources dwindle; and by the inability to compete in
the export markets because of high production costs. On the other hand,
the development of Zambia's agricultural sector, which requires fewer
imported inputs and for which the country is well endowed with the
requisite resource base, remains far below its potential.
B. The Agricultural Sector
Salient Features
1.03      Of the estimated 60 million ha of arable land in Zambia, only
about 12 million or 20Z have been cleared, and only about 5 million ha of
the cleared land is under regular cultivation while the rest is under
shifting cultivation. Although much of the land is infertile and suitable
only for extensive farming, there still remain large areas of idle land
with mediun to high potential soils. Most of the country receives
adequate, albeit erratic, rainfall, ranging from 700 mm to 1,400 mm, and
other climatic conditions are generally favorable for the cultivation of a
wide range of crops, in addition to livestock farming. Maize is by far the
most important crop in terms of food supply, cropped area, and number of
farmers; it accounts for nearly 75% of the marketed output. The other



-2-
significant crops are cassava, sorghum, millet, groundnuts, tobacco,
cotton, sunflower, sugarcan , rice, and soybeans. The country also has a
sizeable number of various types of livestock; cattle, estimated at 2.5
million head, are an important source of income to many farmers, and offer
a considerable potential for draft .ower. Irrigated agriculture covers
about 18,000 ha, of which 50X is devoted to sugarcane, and the balance to
wheat, tea, coffee, rice, and bananas; 't is estimated that the current
development constitutes a small fraction of the irrigable potential. In
sharp contrast to suirounding countries where agriculture contributes more
than 40% to exports, in Zambia agriculture typically contributes less than
2% to total exports.  Tobacco is the main agricultural export.
1.04      Zambia's agriculture is overwhelmingly dominated by a traditional
farming system, comprising 460,000 farmers (76Z of the estimated 600,000
total farm households) who cultivate an average of 2 ha, using very few
modern inputs and producing primarily for subsistence purposes, at very low
levels of productivity and farm incomes. On the other extreme is the
medium- and large-scale commercial farming system, consisting of about
24,000 farmers (4Z of the total farm households) who cultivate an average
of 60-100 ha, using a complete range of modern inputs; this system is
characterized by high productivity and incomes. Between the two extremes
are the -emergent farmers, estimated at 125,000, who produce significantly
for the market using appreciable quantities of modern inputs, and
cultivating an average of 10-15 ha. The medium- and large-scale farmers
produce about 40Z of the maize and 55Z of the other marketed products.
1.05      The country also has appreciable fishery resources, with a
sustainable annual catch of about 75,000 tons of which 53,000 tons, or 70%
of the potential is currently exploited. Forestry resources are also
abundant; about 370,000 sq. km, or 50% of the land surface, is covered by
forests. However, most of this consists of indigenous wood, the bulK of
which is unsuitable for large-scale industrial exploitation. In addition,
over-utilization for charcoal ari  building materials has virtually depleted
natural wood in the vicinity of the main urban centers.
1.06      Provision of agricultural support services is dominated by
Governmental agencies, comprising the Ministry of Agriculture and Water
Development (MAWD) and several parastatals, the most important of which are
the National Agricultural Marketing Board (Namboard), the Cold Storage
Company (CSC), the Dairy Produce Board (DPB), the National Tobacco Company
(Natco), the Lint Company of Zambia (Lintco), the Agricultural Finance
Company (AFC) and the Zambia Agricultural Development Bank (ZADB). In
addition to Namboard, nine Provincial Cooperative Unions (PCUs) are
involved in the marketing of all the major crops and the distribution of
fertilizers.
National Objectives and Performance
1.07      The national agricultural development objectives in Zambia aim
primarily at diversifying the economy away from copper, attaining self-
sufficiency in basic foods, and spreading development and increasing
incomes in all regions, especially in the rural areas. Despit. innumerable
programs and projects since Independence twenty years ago, little progress
has been made towards achieving these objectives. The economy remains



-3-
heavily dependent on copper and, therefore, highly sensitive and vulnerable
to external shocks. During the last two decades, agriculture has been
growing at an average annual rate of about 2.4%, less than the annual
population growth rate nf over 3%. Consequently, overall self-sufficiency
in food grains has deteriorated by about 21% during the last ten years and
Zambia- once a net exporter of maize, has been a chronic importer since the
mid-1970s. Development remains concentrated in a few areas, as the three
ecologically better endowed and historically more developed provinces have
continued to account for over 90% of the marketed commodities, more or less
as they did before Independence. While about 60% of the Zambians derive
their livelihood directly from agriculture, the sector typically
contributes less than 20% to GDP, thus indicating the low level of rural
productivity and incomes.
Main Constraints
1.08      The poor performance of Zambia's agriculture is attributable to
both internal and external factors, especially the acute shortage of
foreign exchange stemming from weak copper prices since the mid-1970s and
the severe drought that hit the country for three consecutive years at the
turn of the current decade. However, the impact of the external factors
has been exacerbated by several internal constraints, notably:
inappropriate pricing policies; an inefficient marketing and input
distribution system; a poor credit delivery and recovery system; inadequate
and inefficient allocation of budgetary funds to agriculture; and weak
research and extension services.
1.09      For many years Zambia has kept producer and retail prices low,
coupled with heavy subsidies, in order to provide cheap food to the mining
and industrial workers. Thus, although budgetary allocations to
agriculture have been rising in nominal terms, most of the funds have been
going to consumer subsidies while essential services, notably research and
extension, remain seriously under-funded. The marketing and input
distribution system has been characterized by a high level of inefficiency
in part arising from a legal monopoly conferred on Namboard and the PCUs in
maize and fertilizer. The principal source of agriculture credit, AFC, has
also been characterized by serious inefficiencies and persistent financial
losses, while ZADB, created four years ago to replace AFC, remained
dormant until a year ago, partly because of lack of capital funds.
Research and extension services have continued to be weak and have failed
to reach most of the small-scale and traditional farmers who constitute the
preponderant majority of the farm households (paras. 2.09-2.21).
1.10      During the last five years, Zambia has taken positive measures to
move away from the cheap food policy, to ensure adequate producer
incentives, and to improve the efficiency of the marketing and input
distribution system. Producer and consumer prices and the marketing of all
agricultural commodities and inputs, except maize and fertilizer, have been
decontrolled; maize and fertilizer prices have been increased periodically
and significantly, correspondingly reduc'ng subsidies and improving
incentives. Under the Bank-supported Agricultural Rehabilitation Project
and Recovery Credit, the Government has undertaken to promote a broad-based
liberalization of maize and fertilizer trade, with Namboard eventually
serving as buyer and seller of last resort and managing food reserves; to
eliminate fertilizer subsidies by May 1987; to eliminate maize used for



livestock feed, for beer, and for maize meal consumed by high income groups
by the end of 1986; and to target the bulk of the remaining maize subsidies
to the low income groups. An agricultural credit project, currently under
preparation and to be financially supported by the Bank, would incorporate
effective measures to improve the efficiency of the agricultural credit
delivery and recovery system.
1.11      Notable efforts have also been underway to enhance the
performance of the research and extension services. During November 1984,
with the help of a firm of consultants financed by IDA, the Government
formulated a comprehensive 15-year strategy for agricultural research ard
extension, the main thrust of which is to improve the effectiveness of
these services and re-orient them to the needs of small-scale and
traditional farmers. The strategy seeks to achieve these objectives
primarily by: (a) rationalizing the organizational structure and
management processes; (b) upgrading the quality and efficiency of physical
facilities, manpower resources, and logistic support; (c) establishing
effective mechanisms to provide policy guidelines, to formulate coherent
programs and priorities, and to coordinate, monitor and evaluate
implementation of these programs; and (d) strengthening farmer-specific
research activities and improving research-extension linkage and extension
methodology, with emphasis on small-scale and traditional farmers. The
proposed Project is designed to assist the Government initiate
implementation of the first phase of this strategy.
C. Previous World Bank Involvement in Agriculture
1.12      Previous Bank Group assiscance to Zambia's agriculture nas
involved twelve projects: three for industrial forestry, two for
livestock/dairy development, two for tobacco production, one for coffee
production, two for area-based agricultural development (in Eastern and
Southern Provinces), one for fisheries development, and one for
policy-oriented agricultural rehabilitation. The first livestock loan was
cancelled in 1973 at GRZ request because of pricing problems and poor
management. The dairy project, which was approved in 1982 and aimed at
improving milk production by smallholder producers, encountered initial
implementation problems, was scaled down to a more realistic pilot design,
and is now progressing well. The first and second industrial forestry
projects were relatively well-executed; the third has been facing major
problems stemming mainly from weak management, but promising measures have
been initiated recently to alleviate these problems. The two tobacco
farming projects were unsuccessful in meeting their objectives of training
farmers and raising tobacco production because of managerial and pricing
problems. The coffee project has also been hampered by cost overruns,
shortages of foreign exchange and coiunterpart funds, and management
deficiencies. The progress of the two area-based agricultural development
projects, which have substantial research and extension components, has
been slowed down by delays in recruitment of technical assistance
personnel, inadequate funding, and lengthy procurement procedures; these
problems are gradually being resolved. The fisheries project became
effective in August 1985, after a delay of six months mainly because of
difficulties in recruitment of key staff, and has been making satisfactory
progress. However, disbursemenr of sub-loans to the fishermen remains low
due to the inability of many of the fishermen to raise enough funds for the
required down payment; steps are underway to resolve the problem. The



- 5 -
Agricultural Rehabilitation Project has made notable achievements In
promoting pollcy and institutional changes (para. 1.10). On the other
hand, the sbarp devaluation of the Kwacha has radically altered the
structure of devand tor agricultural imported inputs, especially for farm
.machinery and implements the demand of which has shifted In favor of animal
draft power and reconditioning of existing machinery, thus slowing down the
use of project funds for agricultural purposes. Partly because of this,
the Credit Agreement was subsequently amended to allow project funds to be
used for general imports, subject to a negative list, and the project funds
have now been fully committed, mostly for industrial and energy-related
imports.
1.14      Assistance to agriculture has also been provided through projects
in other sectors. The Fourth Education Project, for example, had a major
component to strengthen the training of extension staff and farmers; lines
of credit to the Development Bank of Zambia have provided medium and
long-term loans to commercial farmers. In addition to project financing,
the Bank has assisted the Government in carrying out an extensive program
of in-depth studies to improve the institutional and policy framework in
Zanbia's agriculture, including specific studies on M&WD's plar-ing
capabilities, research and extension, credit, policy options and strategies
for agricultural growth, and agricultural pricing and parastatal
performance. The proposed Project has sought to incorporate various
lessons learned from the Bank's previous involvement in Zambia's
agriculture, particularly with regard to the recurring management, local
funding, accounting and procurement problems in the two area-based
projects (para 3.04).



- 6 -
II. National Agricultural Research and Extension Services
A. Organizational Structure
General
2.01      Overall responsibility for agricultural research and extension
services in Zambia falls under the Ministry of Agriculture and Water
Development (MAWD). Other agencies involved in agricultural research and
extension services are: the Ministry of Lands and Natural Resources for
forestry research and extension; the National Council for Scientific
Research (NCSR) for research in animal nutrition and disease control, and
food processing technology; the University of Zambia (UNZA) School of
Agricultural Sciences, for agronomic research and socio-economic studies
respectively, through UNZA's School of Agricultural Sciences and Rural
Development Studies Bureau; and Lint Company of Zambia (LINTCO) for
extension services relating to cotton, coffee and soyabeans, using staff
seconded from MAWD. The present organizational structure of MAWD (Chart 1)
is essentially sound. Research and extension services for crops and
livestock husbandry are under the Department of Agriculture (DOA) and are
organized into three branches: research, extension and land use services.
Animal health services come under the Department of Veterinary and Tsetse
Control Services (DVTCS). The National Rural Information Services, under
MAWD's Administration Division, provides mass media support to extension
services through radio broadcasts, publications and exhibitions.
Research
2.02      The Research Branch of DOA is headed by an Assistant Director.
supported by the Chief Agricultural Research Officer (CARO) while the day-
to-day operations of the research stations aLe managed by officers-in-
charge. Research programs are organized on an inter-disciplinary basis,
comprising Commodity Research Teams (CRTs) for on-station research such as
plant breeding, variety screening, and pest and disease control; Adaptive
Research Planning Teams (ARPTs) for field trials under farmer-specific
conditions; and Specialist Research Teams (SRTs). There are now nine CRTs:
cereals, oilseeds, fiber, root and tuber crops, vegetables, grain legumes,
tobacco, tree crops, and animal husbandry and pastures; and seven SRTs:
weed control, soil productivity, cropping systems, food storage and
conservation, farm machinery and tillage, and plant crop protection. The
Research Branch also administers three advisory services: crop advisory,
seed control and library services.
2.03      ARPTs operate on a provincial basis and, at present, there are
six of them in Central, Western, Lusaka, Eastern, Luapula and Northwest
Provinces; a seventh one is being established for the Northern Province.
These teams, comprising an agronomist and an economist, start by
determining areas with similar farming systems, followed by identification
of farmers' constraints and possible solutions; they then test and refine
recommendations from research stations to reflect farmer-specific
constraints and conditions. Through the assistance of the
Research-Extension Liaison Officer (RELO), ARPTs release new research
recommendations for wider dissemination in the relevant locations only
after an economic evaluation and initial farmer response have confirmed
their viability and acceptability. In addition to ensuring that technical



- 7-
packages are relevant to farmers' conditions, the CRT and ARPT approach has
demonstrated major advantages in that it promotes effective linkages
between research and extension services, as staff from the two services are
involved in various activities of ARPTs which also generate feedback
information on specific farming conditions for further research by CRTs.
2.04      The res.>arch network is characterized by a fairly wide
geographical dispersion (IBRD Map 18916). In addition to the Mt. Makulu
Central Station, which also serves Lusaka Province, there are nine regional
research stations, nine substations, seven trial sites, a plant quarantine
station at Chelston, and a national irrigation research station at Nanga.
The regional research stations at Msekera and the substation at Masumba are
currently being strengthened under the Bank-supported Eastern Province
Agricultural Development Project, while a new regional station is being
built at Mutanda in the Northwestern Province with IFAD assistance.
Extension
2.05      The Extension Branch is also headed by an Assistant Director,
supported by seven Subject Hatter Specialists (SMSs) in animal, crop
husbandry, horticulture, training, tobacco, youth services, and home
economics. The Provincial Agricultural Officer (PAO), supported by
provincial SMSs and administrative personnel, is responsible for the
overall extension activities in each of the nine provinces. Below him are
the District Agricultural Officers (DAOs) who operate through Block
Supervisors (BSs) and Camp Extension Workers (CEWs). A camp constitutes
the ultimate level of extension outreach and CEWs provide the day-to-day
contact with farmers.  On the average, 6-8 camps make up a block.  the
Extension Branch also provides advisory services in home economics to rural
women through women's clubs, and agricultural advisory services to rural
youth through Young Farmers' Clubs.
B. Staff Establishment and Training
2.06      One of the major problems facing agricultural research in Zambia
is an acute shortage of professionally qualified Zambians. Out of a total
of 125 professional research staff, 65, or 53%, are expatriates funded Ly
12 different bilateral aid agencies. The shortage of local manpower
resources is particularly pronounced at the PhD level, where only 6 out of
24 staff are local, and at the MSc level where 18 out of 34 staff are
local. About one-half of the research staff are at the central research
station, Mt. Makulu. The extension services also suffer from a similar
shortage of qualified professional staff, as only 80 of the staff are
university graduates.
2.07      The total number of DOA's extension staff is 2,400, excluding
administrative personnel, about one-half (1,250) of which are based at the
block and camp levels. Nearly two-thirds (about 860) of the CEWs and BSs
are diploma or certificate holders, occupying established posts in the
Civil Service; the balance of about 390 are commodity demonstrators who,
although fairly experienced, have had no pre-service training in
agriculture, and are classified as daily employees. The total number of
extension staff at the farmer-contact level is satisfactory, with a staff-
farmer ratio of about 1:600; however, there are considerable variations,
ranging from 200 to 1,500 farmers per extension worker, mainly reflecting



- 8 -
varying densities of the farmers, farming systems, and agricultural
potentials.
2.08      Research and extension staff with university training have
received such training from UNZq for undergraduate studies, and from abroad
for post-graduate studies. The diploma holders have been trained through a
three-year course at the Natural Resources Development College (NRDC),
while the certificate holders have attended a two-year course in general
agriculture either at Monze or Mpika Colleges o'f Agriculture. The
Extension Branch provides in-service training at eight provincial Farm
Institutes (FIs), while a few additional centers give in-service training
in specialized fields: horticulture, tobacco, and dairy farming. Most of
the districts have Farmer Training Centers (FTCs) that provide resident and
day training courses to farmers; however, the results have been generally
disappointing and the trend now is to train farmers in their own village
surroundings. There is an urgent need for intensive programs to train
research and extension staff at all levels. As part of the recently
formulated strategy, the Government has clearly identified and projected
future training needs for research personnel; a similar exercise would be
carried out for extension personnel under the proposed Project.
C. Focus, Programs and Methodology
Research Focus and Programs
2.09      Focus.  In the past, research efforts were directed primarily
toward the needs of the medium- and large-scale farms, with major emphasis
on cash crops with high yield potential under the most favorable climatic
and soil conditions. Little work was done on the management and
productivity of acidic, low-fertility soils on which traditional farmers
practice shifting cultivation, or on intercropping, a widely used and
sensible practice on traditional farms. Research recommendations were
based for the most part on individual crops grown under mono-culture
applicable to the more progressive strata of farmers, and these
recommendations tended to be too generalized and therefore of limited
usefulness in a country as large and varied as Zambia. The Lima Program,
launched in 1979, was a concrete step towards improving smallholder farming
through a simpler, well-defined extension approach (para. 2.12). In
reality, however, this program still represented scaled-down technical
packages for commercially-oriented, capital-intensive farming, and mostly
dealt with hybrid maize, high fertilizer levels, and cash crops such as
cotton, groundnuts and soybeans, which are not particularly appropriate for
the conditions under which most of the smallholders operate. Few, if any,
messages were developed for traditional crops such as cassava, finger
millet, sorghum and beans.
2.10      Programs.  Annex 2 summarizes the current status and future needs
for agricultural research as identified by the recently formulated research
and extension strategy. Although measures have been taken to correct the
past deficiencies, improvements have been uneven in nature and scope.
Rainfed crop research to date has mainly focnsed on plant introduction,
selection and breeding work, with a fairly heavy emphasis on maize. In
addition, short- and long-term fertilizer and crop protection trials have
been carried out. Plant protection work is becoming increasingly relevant
by concenitrating on diagnosis of pests and diseases, appropriate control



measures, and selection of disease-resistant varieties. Intercropping is
also being investigated more regularly and intensively in current programs,
particularly by ARPTs. Sowever, farm machinery and tillage work, including
soil and water conservation practices that can profitably be adopted at the
farm level, has not yet received the attention it deserves. Weed control,
which is a very important aspect of improved crop husbandry, particularly
for smallholder agriculture in the agro-ecologically poorer regions, also
needs additional emphasis by ARPTs and in the work program of the farm
machinery and tillage CRT. Soil science research, funded and carried out
by a variety of units, agencies and donors, suffers from inadequate
coordination. However, measures have been taken recently to improve
operational efficiency by -aalgamating the soils research facilities
(chemistry, physics and microbiology) under the coordination of the
Research Technical Services Unit and staff functions and working procedures
are being reviewed. Also, with the assistance of USAID, steps are underway
to strengthen soil-related research by providing equipment, expertise and
training.
2.11      Animal husbandry research and crop research programs have so far
been designed and conducted largely independently of each other, thus
ignoring the important role of livestock in smallholder farming systems. A
first move towards achieving proper integration is the recent inclusion of
animal husbandry expertise in the ARPT programs and proposed close
coordination with the Cattle Development Area projects, which involve a
considerable amount of adaptive research on livestock-crop interaction.
However, there still remains an urgent need to formulate guidelines and a
policy framework for developing the livestock subsector, and hence
designing a balanced livestock research program (paras 3.08 and 3.09).
Irrigation research is another example of the need for an examination of
objectives and priorities to draw up more rational and focused programs.
There is an urgent need for evaluating past experiences in irrigated
agriculture, which appear so far to have yielded only limited results, and
reviewing the ongoing, rather disjointed, research efforts and experiments
at different locations. The Government has already started formulating an
irrigation development policy framework to guide future irrigation research
work programs (paras 3.08 and 3.09).
Extension Methodology, Programs and Lessons Learned
2.12      Methodology and Programs:  In 1978, Zambia initiated an extension
approach along the lines of the Training and Visit (T&V) system, the
classical version of which involves a programed, disciplined approach
based on regular farm visits by trained staff, delivering key impact
messages to carefully selected contact farmers, coupled with a rapid
feedback of problems from farmers to researchers. To complement this T&V
approach, the Lima Program was introduced in 1979 to facilitate the
adoption of proven technological packages for smallholders, adapted as far
as possible to their local situation. The program encourages the use of
agricultural inputs for the major cash crops on a standard unit (0.25 ha)
of land, using standardized measures of seed, fertilizer and insecticide.
Recently, the concept of the -Lima Ladder- has been developed in which four
different levels of management, experience with improved technology and
resource constraints are defined, with progressively more sophisticated
recommendat:ons (improved seed, weeding, fertilization, timely planting and
liming) extended to those farmers who move up the ladder- in terms of
resources and understanding.



- 10 -
2.13      In addition to the Lima Program, the country has had a wide range
of agricultural development programs and proiects during the past two
decades, involving extension services as a major component, several of
which are on-going. At present, the major programs and projects comprise
three integrated rural development programs, nine area-based agricultrual
development projects, three of which are financed by the Bank and IFAD; and
about ten general projects of varying sizes. These programs and projects
are budgeted for K63 million in 1986, accounting for about 58% of the total
budget allocation to activities directly relating to agricultural extension
services in that year. The programs are concentrated in the relatively
high agricultural potential areas of Southern, Central, Lusaka, Eastern,
Northern, Northwest and Luapala provinces. Over 90% of the cost of these
programs and projects is externally funded, the major donors, other than
the Bank and IFAD, being EEC, NORAD, SIDA, USIAD, FINIDA, and ODA. it is
generally recognized that most of these programs and projects are achieving
substantially less than their original objectives and targets, and that
most of them would be difficult to sustain once external assistance is
terminated.
2.14      Lessons Learned.  Recent evaluations of some of the above
projects and programs have brought to light several important lessons,
summarized as follows:
(a) To be effective in Zambia, the conventional T&V system needs
major modifications in view of: (i) widely scattered farm
households, with widely varying farming practices and
cropping patterns; (ii) inadequate incentives, in terms of
low-risk but high-return technological packages, to attract
farmers to group meetings organized by extension workers;
and (iii) a high degree of uncertainty regarding the quality
and availability of requisite inputs, such as seeds and
fertilizers;
(b) The large number of discrete projects and programs has made
coordination most difficult, thereby leading to the
situation where the sum total of their demand on local
manpower and funds is beyond the available resources, thus
causing these projects and programs to be so largely donor-
driven and dependent on expatriate personnel that it is
difficult to sustain them once the donor aid is withdrawn;
and
(c) The large number of area-based projects and programs has
tended to divert attention from strengthening the national
institutional capability upon which the success of the
area-based activities significantly depends.
D. Major Constraints
Physical and Technical Constraints
2.15      Location of Research Stations.  The large number of widely
dispersed research stations, substations and trial sites has had an adverse
impact on the efficiency of research activities as it has resulted in
scarce management and financial resources being so thinly spread that these



- 11 -
facilities are poorly staffed and equipped. Furthermore, the facilities
often involve unnecessary duplication of research efforts within similar
agro-ecological zones, thereby leading to inefficient use of resources.
There is, therefore, a need to rationalize the number and location of these
facilities as recommended in the recently formulated research and extension
strategy (Annex 1 Table T-3), while ARPTs continue to carry out trials on
selected farmers' fields in all areas according to research and extension
needs. Such a rationalization would enhance efficiency and would enable
mo.-e cost-effective improvement and staffing of the research facilities as
envisaged under the proposed Project.
2.16      Technical Packages.  One of the major constraints on agricultural
development in Zambia is that most of the available technolcgical packages
are largely inappropriate for the majority of the farmers. As mentioned
above (para 2.09) past research efforts have paid little attention to the
needs of the smallholders in general and traditional farmers in
particular. More specifically, insufficient efforts have been directed to
finding practical ways of increasing productivity within the limits imposed
by labor, management skills, and capital resources at the disposal of these
farmers. Partly as a result of these constraints, the preponderant
proportion of Zambia's agriculture is characterized by low productivity,
both per unit of labor and land. Under similar growing conditions, the
emergent and large-scale farmers usually achieve yields over 100% higher
than traditional farmers for most crops. With regard to maize, emergent
farmers obtain 2.7-3.3 tons/ha, large-scale farmers 5.5 tons/ha, while
traditional farmers obtain 1.1-1.8 tons/ha. Annex 4 shows the possible
yields for various crops which smallholders can achieve with improved
varieties and cultural practices. The proposed Project would make a
significant contribution to this end.
Manpower Resources
2.17      The acute shortage of suits'l-- qualified and experienced Zambians
has been one of the other major cons. .nts on the performance of the
research and extension services. Research, in particular, has suffered
from too heavy a reliance on expatriate personnel who are generally
available for shorter periods than are required to ensure sufficient
continuity in experimental and trial work. In extension, inadequacy of
qualified manpower resources has been reflected in poor support provided to
the field staff by SMSs and insufficient technical guidance at senior staff
levels. Manpower constraints are exacerbated by low staff motivation and
morale at all levels. Several factors account for this situation, the most
important being unattractive terms and conditions of employment, coupled
with poor career prospects, notably for DOAs, BSs, and CEWs whose posts are
not within the civil service establishments; lack of clearly defined
objectives; and inadequate housing facilities, transport and general
logistic support. MAWD has recently submitted proposals to the Government
that would appreciably improve terms and conditions of employment for all
extension and research staff, including placing the posts of DOAs, BSs and
CEWs within the civil service career development path. These proposals
have been received favorably, though at informal levels, response and the
matter is expected to be finalized during in 1987. The proposed Project
would assist in raising staff morale and motivation by setting clear
objectives as an integral part of the proposed monitoring and evaluation
system, and by financing staff houses, transport and other logistic
support.



- 12 -
Institutional Constraints
2.18      The main institutional constraints are:  an organizational
structure that overloads technical personnel with administrative functions;
lack of an overall framework for systematic planning, coordination and
monitoring of research and extension activities; weak linkages between
research and extension; and inadequate supervision of extension staff.
2.19      Under the present organizational arrangements, research and
extension staff at all levels are required to carry out various
administrative tasks for which they are not properly trained. Such tasks
±nclude personnel matters, procurement of equipment and supplies, arranging
for maintenance of equipment and facilities, and routine record keeping
activities. This takes a considerable amount of time away from technical
and substantive functions which the research and extension officers are
required to undertake. At the farmer-contact level, the CEWs now spend
considerable time on non-extension chores, notably those related to crop
forecasting tasks, the timing of which coiacides with the peak demands for
technical advice by farmers. The organizational structure under the
proposed Project would relieve technical staff from administrative tasks by
creating separate sections for administrative and technical functions in
both research and extension branches (Charts 3 and 4).
2.20      The lack of an overall framework for systematic programming,
prioritizing, cooracnating and monitoring of research and extension
activities has led to Imbalances and inefficiencies in the use of scarce
financial and manpower resources. As a result, these services have been
neither as sharply focrsed nor as farmer-oriented as they should be.
Linkages between research and extension have been weak; consequently
researchers have had only a partial understanding of farming systems and
farmers' problems, while extension staff in turn have had only a partial
knowledge of the recommended technological packages. Furthermore, the
absence of a monitoring and evaluation system has meant that there is no
effective basis for setting objectives and targets to guide supervisory
activities or to assess staff performance. The poor supervision of field
staff has been exacerbated by an acute shortage of transport vehicles and
travel allowances, which has curtailed field visits by supervisors.
Financial Constraints
2.21      Among the most severe constraints on research and extension
services in Zambia is inadequate funding, aggravated by uncertainties as to
when and how much of the approved budgetary allocations will be released.
While budgetary allocations to these services have been rising in nominal
terms, they have declined sharply in real terms; more importantly, the
increase has gone mainly to Personnel Expenditures (PEs), leaving
insufficient funds for Recurrent Departmental Charges (RDCs) which finance
transport, travel allowances and operational supplies. As a result, the
RDC/PE ratios for research services declined from 1.0 in 1975 to 0.8 in
1980 and 0.3 in 1986; for extension services, the RDC/PE ratios declined
from 0.9 in 1975 to 0.4 in 1980 and 0.2 in 1986. Because of insufficient
funds f'r transport and housing, extension work has had to be kept to a
bare minimum, as staff are unable to make frequent field visits, while the
shortage of houses has meant that critical posts cannot be filled and that
staff cannot be located close to the areas where their services are most



- 13 -
needed. Shortage of funds has also had adverse effects on the frequency
and scope of the training program at all levels, including SMSs who are
increasingly finding that their knowledge of technical matters and
extension methodology is falling below the required standards; on the
quality of agricultural research library and documentation services, which
play a crucial role in the process of dissemination of technical
information; and availability and maintenance of buildings, utilities,
equipment, scientific instruments, and research materials. Moreover, the
uncertainty as to how much and when the budgeted allocations to RDCs would
be released makes it most difficult to plan research and extension
activities. These constraints would be addressed through the proposed
Project.



- 14 -
III. The Project
A. Origin, Objectives and Design
Project Origin
3.01      The proposed Project was identified by an IDA mission in
August-September 1983 in the course of a Bank subsector review of
agricultural research and extension services. Subsequently, consultants
engaged by the Government to formulate the long-term research and extension
strategy (para 1.11) put forward detailed proposals on investment,
technical assistance, and institutional changes; chese proposals constitute
the proposed Project. These proposals were reviewed and, to some extent,
refined by a Bank preparation mission that visited Zambia in
September-October 1984, and an appraisal mission in January-February 1985.
The processing of the Project was delayed because of difficulties In
securing co-financing funds and because of reservations expressed by the
Government particularly regarding the size and nature of the technical
assistance component and a large financing gap. A post-appraisal mission,
therefore, was fielded in June-July 1986 and prepared a revised Project as
set out below.
Project Objectives and Research Priorities
3.02      The primary objective of the proposed Project is to support
Government efforts to alleviate the major constraints that have, up to now,
reduced the efficiency and effectiveness of research and extension services
in the country, and to orient these services Lowards the needs of
small-scale and traditional farmers who have hitherto been largely
side-stepped by the main thrust of these services. To this end, the
Project's immediate goals are:
(a)  to strengthen the institutional capability for research and
extension services, by rationalizing the organizational
structure and management procedures; by establishing
effective mechanisms to provide policy guidelines, formulate
coherent programs and priorities; and coordinate, monitor
and evaluate the implementation of these programs and donor
aid; by promoting the introduction of better extension
methodology; and by improving the linkage between research
and extension services.
(b)  to upgrade the quality and performance of the local manpower
resources through reorganization of DOA's training unit,
preparation of a long-term manpower development program, and
provision of formal and in-service training; and
(c)  to increase the efficiency of supporting facilities
by rationalizing, upgrading the quality, and augmenting
the availability of such facilities.
3.03      Commodity research priorities in Zambia are determined by several
criteria: value of output; national objectives with regard to growth,
equity, food security, nutrition, and trade; potential in terms of market
and physical resource availability; and the magnitude, probability and



- 15 -
time-frame for expected pay-offs from research. On the basis of these
criteria, the bro3d priorities for the research programs during the
proposed Project period would be: (a) cereals, particularly maize, sorghum
and millets; (b) fibers, particularly cotton; (c) oilseeds, particulary
groundnuts, soybean and sunflower; (d) grain legumes, particularly peas and
beans; (e) root and tubers, particularly cassava; and (f) farm machinery
and tillage.
Project Design
3.04      The Project design has taken into full account other on-going
projects and programs bearing on research and extension services. It
assumes that the technical assistance to research provided by various
donors will continue in full force, and that most of the overseas
post-graduate training, especially for research, will be financed outside
the Project by bilateral assistance. The design also reflects the need to
proceed with caution in committing additional resources to extension
services in the relatively more marginal and sparsely populated areas; as
well as the need to make maximum use of the local manpower resources in
operational functions, and to provide only as much technical assistance as
the country can absorb effectively and match with local counterpart staff.
Furthermore, the Project design seeks to keep t-tal costs and,
consequently, the required local counterpart funds, within the limits
consistent with Zambia's financial conditions and prospects. In view of
the long period needed to attain a satisfactory improvement in research and
extension services in Zambia (most probably 15-20 years), the Project is
conceived as a first phase of a series of similar and interlocking
projects. Thus, among other things, the proposed Project provides for
preparation of architectural design for some civil works and buildings, the
construction of which would take place during the follow-up phase.
Finally, the Project design has incorporated measures to alleviate the
problems experienced in past and an-going Bank supported projects,
particularly with regard to management, procurement, accounting and
financial operations. While it would be the first Bank-supported project
exclusively on research and extension services, it is designed to
complement the two Bank projects in Eastern and Southern provinces as well
as the IFAD project in the Northern Province.
B. Project Area
3.05      The entire research component and some of the institutional
aspects of the extension component would be national in scope. However,
the bulk of the hardware component for the extension services, comprising
mainly staff houses and vehicles, would be confined to selected districts
in Lusaka, Central and Northern provinces, not currently covered by other
projects (IBRD Map 18917). The selection of these areas has been based
primarily on agricultural potential, availability of technological
packages, and the need to achieve a significant development impact.
Implementation would start with two districts in Lusaka and Central
provinces and one district in the Northern Province in the first two
years. After a mid-term review, the extension componen. would be expanded
to cover the whole of Lusaka and Central provinces, and about a third of
the Northern Province. Project activities in the Northern Province would
be of a pilot nature in order to develop a cost-effective exten3ion
methcdology for an arra which, unlike Lusaka and Central provinces, is
sparsely populated, extensively cultivated and has no proven extension



- 16 -
methodology. 'be three provinces have nearly 300,000 ha under cash crops
and produce 30% of marketed maize surpluses; further details of these
provinces are shown in Annex 5.
C. Project Summary Description
3.06      To achieve the objectives set out in para. 3.02, the proposed
Project would support, over a period of eight years:
(a) Strengthening of both field adaptive and on-station applied
research programs, through training; technical assistance
for research programming and prioritizing, sociological
surveys and analysis, farm machinery and tillage research,
station management and maintenance, and coordination of
specialized research services; and upgrading of supporting
facilities;
(b) Rationalization of the research station network by phasing
out redundant facilities and upgrading the infrastructure
and equipment at the remaining stations, including the
central library and documentation facilities, and
installation of a nationwide radio communications network;
(c) Reorganization of extension services along T&V lines in
three provinces, and provision of supporting facilities and
technical assistance in extension methodology and
communwication;
(d) Implementation of a comprehensive staff development and
farmer training program, comprising fellowships and other
overseas and local training courses; upgrading of training
facilities; and provision of technical assistance in
manpower development and training;
(e)  Establishment of a systematic, management-oriented
monitoring and evaluation program, including a comprehensive
mid-term review of research and extension strategies and
programs; and provision of the necessary technical
assistance and supporting facilities; and
(f) strengthening of the overall institutional capability
through technical assistance for project implementation,
financial accounting, and procurement.
D. Project Detailed Description
Research Services
3.07      Organization Restructuring.  The recently established National
Agricultural Research and Extension Committee (NAREC) established to
formulate and coordinate overall research policies, programs, and
priorities consistent with national objectives, and to coordinate donor
assistance in research and extension (para. 4.01). To enable NAREC to
undertake these functions effectively, the Project would provide
consultancies (9 manmonths) early in the Project period, to formulate



- 17 -
detailed 5-year research action program and priorities, and visiting
scientists (24 manmonths) from appropriate international research
institutes to assist NAREC in carrying out annual and in-depth mid-term
reviews of the 5-year research program and priorities. These periodic
reviews, coupled with the ongoing research under ARPTS, would progressively
lead to the development of detailed crop-by-crop research strategies based
on identified farmer problems and priorities throughout the country, thus
facilitating better allocation of resources. In addition, the computer
system analyst under the Monitoring and Evaluation Una.t (para. 3.23) would
provide NAREC with an improved data processing capacity necessary for an
efficient data storage, updating, retrieval and analysis system. The
proposed Project would also incorporate measures to improve the
organization structure and management of the Research Branch by separating
technical and administrative functions and placing them under separate
posts (Chart 3). Consultants to formulate the five-year research action
program have been shortlisted and their appointment would be a condition of
Project Effectiveness (para. 6.01 (a)). Assurance was obtained from the
Borrower that the five-year research action program and priorities would be
compieted and submitted to IDA for review and comments not later than
December 31, 1987, and that the program would be implemented taking IDA's
views into account (para. 6.02 (g)).
3.08      Strengthening ARPTs and CRTs.  Further to providing additional
and better facilities (para. 3.12), the Project would also seek to
strengthen research-extension linkages, particularly through supporting the
activities of the ARPTs and CRTs. Most of these teams are already
receiving considerable manpower support from various aid agencies.
However, there is a serious gap in expertise to support CRTs' efforts to
achieve a closer integration between crop and livestock research.
Moreover, the work of the CRTs is rendered less effective by weak
management of the research stations and poor maintenance of the various
research facilities and eqdipment. Although the present staff personnel
are potentially capable of managing the stations efficiently, they have
been poorly trained for the purpose and lack the benefits of a well
designed management system. The work of the ARPTs ic especially hbmpered
by inadequate understanding of sociological factors bearing on adoption
rates of the recommended technological packages; by tne lack of a sound
system to ensure that farmers selected for on-rarm trials and
demonstrations are statistically repreoentative; and by the lack of a
well-designed data collection aud analysis methodnlogy for farm system
research.
3.09      To address the problems relating to CRTs, the Project would
provide consultancies for crop-livestock integration research (6
manmonths); and for designing and initiating implementation of research
station management systems (6 manmonths); and funds for short-term training
courses in research station management and administration (40 manmonths).
It would also provide the services of a general maintenance engineer (36
manmonths) for buildings and equipment, and of a maintenance specialist (36
manmonths) for scientific instrument and laboratory equipment. With regard
to ARPTs, the Project would provide short-term consultancies in rural
sociology (18 manmonths), and in farm system research methodology (9
manmonths). The consultancy on integrated crop-livestock research would be
guided by a national livestock development policy and strategy as
formulated by a Task Force which was recently set up by MAWD for this



- 18 -
purpose. Assurance was obtained from the Borrower that the report of the
Task Force would be submitted to IDA for comments not later than June 30,
1988 (para. 6.02 (g)).
3.10      Strengthening SRTs.  One of the basic challenges facing all
research work in Zambia is to maintain and restore soil productivity under
an environment of increasing intensity of land use, as agriculture shifts
towards more sedentary systems that cannot rely on restoration of the
natural fertility through prolonged fallow periods. Reorganization of the
soil services has been implemented, with the support of USAID, and measures
are underway to develop and test econoiaically feasible technological
packages for such environments, and to coordinate the base resources
inventory and management cluster of SRTs that cover soil services, ecology,
irrigation and drainage, and tillage and farm machinery. However, there is
a need to bring about a more effective coordination of the research service
units, particularly those covering plant protection, soil and crop
advisory, and food conservation and storage; to develop a coherent
irrigation research program consistent with national policies, objectives
and priorities; and to strengthen farm machinery and tillage research, with
a focus on smallholders' needs for more effective land preparation and
conservation methods. The proposed Project would, therefore, provide
technical assistance for a Research Service Coordinator (36 manmonths), who
would also undertake forward planning and budgeting for each of these
service units; an irrigation research specialist to review the rather
disjointed ongoing research activities, to formulate and help to implement
a more coherent irrigation research program (48 manmonths); and an
irrigation planning specialist to develop and help implement overall
irrigation development policies (36 manmonths); assurance was obtained from
the Borrower that the Borrower would submit to IDA for review and comment
an irrigation development policy statement not later than September 30,
1988 (para. 6.02 (g)).
3.11      Linkage with External Research Institutions.  The Project would
seek to maximize the benefits to Zambia from ideas, research fiddings and
genetic materials existing elsewhere. Germ plasm from various
international research centers such as IITA, ICRISAT, CIAT, IRRI and AVRDC
is already being evaluated in Zambia, but much of this is only in the early
stages and on a limited scale. There is an urgent need to intensify the
scope and frequency of linkages with these international institutions as
well as with the regional research activities in the neighboring countries,
notably Malawi for groundnut research and Zimbabwe for tobacco research.
In addition to making provisions for visiting scientists, the proposed
Project would make funds available for selected Zambian researchers to
visit research institutions in other countries (30 manmonths), and to
participate in international and regional seminars and workshops (20
manmonths).
3.12      Rationalizing and Strengthening Station Network.  In addition to
financing improvement of physical facilities and providing the necessary
technical assistance (para. 3.13), the proposed Project would include
measures to rationalize the existing research stations and trial sites by
reducing their geographical dispersion, consolidating them according to
agro-ecological zones, and eliminating the redundant ones (Annex 1, Table
T-5 and IBRD Map No. 18916). Consequently, one of the existing nine
regional stations (Misamfu) together with the central complex (Mt.



- 19 -
Makulu/Golden Valley Farm) and a specialized station (Nanga) would become
zonal stations: Mt. Makulu/Golden Valley Farm for the central plateau
(medium rainfall) zone, Misamfu for the northern (high rainfall) zone, and
Nanga for the southern (lower rainfall) zone. With regard to the other
eight regional stations, five would remain as such (Mochipapa, Mufulira,
Mansa, Mongu, and Msekera), while the other three would be shifted to
alternative uses. Of the seven existing trial sites, two would be retained
as such and a winter nursery site (at or near Chirundu) would be added; the
other five would be used for other purposes or closed down. The three
zonal stations would be Lhe headquarters for most of CRTs. However, some
CRTs would be based elsewhere: the Mochipapa regional station would be the
headquarters of CRT on sedentary livestock research since most of such
research is already located there, while the rice CRT would be based at
Mansa.
3.13      To support the above rationalization of the research station
network and re-orientation of the research program, the Project would
finance the construction of 150 staff houses; about 6,000 m2 of
laboratories, storage sheds, cold rooms, glass and screen houses, library,
documentation facilities, and a conference center. It would also finance
general site development, establishment of a nationwide radio
communications network linking all the DOA's research facilities, and
renovations of existing infrastructure for the stations and trial sites,
including land leveling, drainage, irrigation, potable water supply and
other essential utilities. To improve staff mobility to carry out field
research trials, the Project would make provisions (including spare parts)
for about 69 vehicles, 60 motorcycles, 12 bicycles, and 3 minibuses.
Furthermore, it would make available 8 trucks, 27 tractors and ancillary
farm machinery and implements, various laboratory and scientific equipment
and instruments, research materials and supplies, and workshop equipment
and tools. Furthermore, the Project would make provisions for incremental
staff travel costs, operation and maintenance of buildings and equipment,
purchase of books, scientific journals, and re-introduction of annual
reports to facilitate regular publication of research findings.
3.14      Research Training.  Training under the Project is designed to
strengthen the technical and managerial capabilities of the DOA staff. To
this end, the Project would provide technical assistance for a Manpower
Development and Training Specialist (36 manmonths) to strengthen the
Research and Extension Training Unit (RETU) which would be responsible for
consolidating ongoing training programs and formulating and implementing
training policies and a long-term training program for all DOA staff.
Para. 3.17 presents details relating to training for extension services.
For the research services, considerable funds for overseas fellowships are
already being provided under various bilateral aid programs. However,
these funds are often restricted in their purpose and do not allow research
staff to benefit from the work experience available at the international or
regional research centers, or to return to Zambia to carry out dissertation
research. The Project would, therefore, complement the ongoing training
assistance by financing: (a) 24 manmonths of post-graduate training, up to
the MSc level, and 30 manmonths of short courses, mainly for commodity
esearchers; (b) 150 manmonths of short-term courses to upgrade the
technical knowledge of various types of technicians and to improve the
management and administrative capability of the research stations; and (c)
about US$250,000 to enable Zambian students studying abroad, under either



- 20 -
bilateral or Bank assistance, to return to Zambia for their dissertation or
thesis research (Annex 3). This training program is conceived as one phase
of a coherent long-term program to upgrade the quality of staff in the
Research Branch.
Extension Services
3.15      Organization Restructuring.  As in the case of research services,
the proposed Project would incorporate measures to strengthen extension
services by separating technical and administrative functions as shown in
Chart 4 and detailed in para 4.05; by forging a close link with research
through support of ARPTs; and by improving the planning, coordination and
monitoring and evaluation of extension activities through NAREC and its
subcommittees at the Headquarter and provincial levels.
3.16      Methodology and Technical Messages.  To enhance the effectiveness
of the extension services, the Project would promote introduction of a
field-oriented and modified T&V system, adapted to suit varying conditions,
with a focus on small-scale and traditional farmers in Central LusakL and
Northern provinces. The objective would be to dissemiuate to the farmers,
using a group and contact farmer approach, technological packages that are
tailored by ARPTs to the specific needs of farmers in different areas.
Extension advice would, in the beginning, concentrate on simple, low-cost,
low-risk cultural practices relating to one or more major crops in each
area, which are likely to yield good financial results. These would
include timely sowing and weeding, correct density and depth of planting,
and efficient fertilizer use. Some of these basic technical packages are
known in the most developed areas but have yet to be effectively
communicated to che majority of the farmers. To further minimize risk and
overcome a natural reluctance to give up traditional methods, cultural
practices requiring fundamental changes would first be recommended for
adoption on only a small part of the farmer's field. With a gradual
build-up of tpchnical competence at various levels, the proposed technology
packages would be modified and expanded over time to cover other aspects of
the farmers' operations. As farmers' yields and incomes increase, greater
emphasis would be placed on advising farmers on using purchased inputs to
the best advantage. In order to prepare the most advanced subsistence
farmers for this development stage, extension recommendations would, from
the beginning, include farm management advice by the BSs to selected
small-scale farmers. Procedures for implementing the T&V system are
detailed in para 4.08. To support the implementation of the T&V system,
the proposed Project would :-nvide the services of an Extension Methodology
Specialist (48 manmonths), Agricultural Communication Specialist (36
manmonths); and consultants in audio-visual aid (8 manmouths), and in
extension planning and management (9 manmonths).
3.17      Extension Training.  To supplement the above program, the Project
would provide training on a country-wide basis as an integral part of
measures to improve extension services. Unlike the research services where
the recent New Strategy includes long-term projections of manpower and
training needs, no similar projections are currently available for
extension services.  The proposed Project would therefore finance
short-term consultants (12 manmonths) who, together with the Manpower



- 21 -
Development and Training Specialist, would assist the Research and
Extension Training Unit (RETU) to assess the long-term requirements for
professional staff in the agricultural sector as a whole and to formulate a
training program to meet the requirements. This, together with the already
available projections for research services, would constitute a framework
for coordinating donor aid in agricultural training and education.
Furthermore, the Project would provide: (a) 8 manyears of post-graduate
training up to the MSc level and 45 manmonths of short-term fellowships for
SMSs; (b) 90 manweeks of study tours for senior managers and SMSs; (c) 30
manmonths of out-of-country courses in management and planning for senior
managers; (d) 120 manweeks of in-country courses and workshops in
management and planning for selected managers at various levels; (e) about
600 manyears of in-country short-term courses in technical and
methodological topics for about 2,000 selected staff at all levels; and (f)
some 375 manyears of short-term courses in agricultural practices and farm
management for about 73,000 farmers (Annex 3). Recruitment of the Manpower
Development and Training Specialist has been initiated and his appointment
would be a condition of Project Effectiveness (para. 6.01 (a)).
3.18      Facilities.  To obtain a better geographical coverage and to
allow the necessary intensity of contact between extension workers and
farmers, 126 camp houses (with wells) and 54 houses at block, district and
provincial levels would be constructed. Construction standards and
designs, particularly for camp and block houses, would refle:t the
requirements and constraints of rural areas and make maximum use of local
building materials. Provision would also be made for 6 additional offices
(480 m2) in the provinces and districts, 44 block stores (660 m2), and 4
materials stores (600 m2). In addition, 328 houses, 11 offices and 3
stores would be renovated. In order to strengthen MAWD's capacity to use
audio-visual materials and mass communication methods, an Agricultural
Communications Center (ACC) would be constructed, with a building of about
315 m2. This center would provide a library of existing information from
Zambia and abroad of interest to extension workers, and would disseminate
such information to the Extension Branch. It would also produce
audio-visual aids (leaflets, technical bulletins, slides, movies, posters,
video-films, etc.) for use by CEWs in farmers' training and would
coordinate the use of mass media for general information to farmers,
particularly radio and TV broadcasts and newspaper items. The ACC would
collaborate with the research documentation center, and its staff would be
largely drawn from existing personnel of the National Farming Information
Service.
3.19      To strengthen MAWD's capacity to carry out local in-service
training courses, the existing FIs in Central and N;orthern Provinces would
be refurbished while the Farmer Training Center in Lusaka Province would be
upgraded to an FI through construction and rehabilitation of classrooms,
dormitories, and ancillary facilities. To give adequate mobility and allow
intensive supervisicn of field extension staff, both of which are vital for
the reorganized extension system to work successfully, the Project would
make provision (including spare parts) for 73 vehicles, 116 motorcycles,
319 bicyles, 7 minibuses, and I mobile repair unit, as well as the repair
of 11 vehicles, 37 motorcycles, 27 bicycles and 7 trucks. Provision is
also made for the purchase of equipment, extension aids and materials for
the ACC, and of complementary audio-visual equipment and materials and six
mobile training units for the extension field offices. Finally, provision



- 22 -
has been made for incremental operating costs, including OEM of vehicles
and equipment, building upkeep and maintenance, and inputs for
demonstrations, as well as incremental staff salaries and travel and
subsistence allowances to enable the necessary expanded program of field
visits to be maintained. The Project would also provide office equipment,
including word processors/computer, materials, and operating funds for
incremental staff salaries and allowances.
Monitoring and Evaluation
3.20      The Project would include a Monitoring and Evaluation System
(M&E) to ensure timely collection of relevant data and to review selected
physical and financial indicators in order to evaluate the performance of
the Project, thus providing an early warning of implementation problems,
and serving as the basis of identifying possible solution3. After
establishing the baseline situation, the content, delivery and adoption
rate of technical messages would be monitored through annual surveys
designed to generate data to facilitate efficient management of the
day-to-day project implementation activities and to enable periodic
assessments of project achievements against the national agricultural
development objectives and priorities. For daily purposes, management
information systems would be set up in each of the technical units. A
special feature of the M&E would be arrangements to monitor availability of
production inputs, notably fertilizer and improved seeds, so that the
agencies responsible for supplying inputs can be -lerted in time about
shortages. Fuller details regarding the proposed M&E are shown in paras.
4.14 to 4.18. To facilitate implementation, the Project would provide
technical assistance for a monitoring and evaluation specialist, 48
manmonths; a computer system analyst/programmer, 48 sanmonths; and
short-term consultancies, 6 manmonths, to assist in special problems as may
be necessary. It would also finance the required hardware and software;
and training of staff involved in the implementation of M&E; 24 manmouths
of fellowships at the MSc level, 15 mannonths of short-term overseas
courses; and 83 manmonths of in-country short courses for enumerators and
their supervisors.
Project Administration
3.21      The proposed Project would entail complex and time-consuming
tasks requiring an efficient administrative system. Major tasks would
include operation planning, management and coordination; financial
planning, control and accounting; and civil works, vehicles and equipment
procurement_  MAlD's capacity at the present time is already fairly
over-stretched to cope with these tasks efficiently. The Project would,
therefore, finance the services of a Project Implementation Officer (PIO)
for 4 years; a Project Financial Officer (PFO) for 4 years, and a Project
Procurement Officer (PPO) for 3.5 years, whose main responsibilities are
set out in paras. 4.01 and 4.09. Funds would be made available to finance
the costs of auditing Project accounts, 9 manmonths; and for the services
of a firm of engineers-architects, already appointed, to design and
supe: -ise various construction works, 72 manmonths.  The Project would also
finance incremental staff, costs, and operation and maintenance costs for
buildings, machinery, vehicles equipment and office supplies. Appointment



- 23 -
of the PIO, PFO and PPO would be a condition of Credit effectiveness
(para. 6.01 (a)). MAWD is facing serious difficulties in establishing and
maintaining a financial information system for the large number of on-going
externally funded projects mostly relating to research and extension
services. The Project would therefore provide 'or two man-years of an
accountant who, in addition to helping with selected tasks pertaining to
the proposed Project, would assist MAWD in designing and implementing a
system to plan, account and manage the financial matters pertaining to all
donor-funded projects in agricultural research and extension.
Technical Assistance and Consultancy Summary
3.22      Annex 1, Tables 5 and 6 respectively show the long-term technical
assistance and short-term consultancies that would be financed by the
project, while Annex 6 sets out the terms of reference for the key
personnel. Although all the personnel described above would be recruited
internationally, attempts would be made to fill these posts with suitably
qualified and experienced Zambians. In summary, the technical assistance
under the Project would amount to about 51 manyears of long-term technical
assistance personnel, and 190 manmonths of consultancy services. All these
would be recruited as scheduled in Annex 1, Tables T-5 and T-6, and in
accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines; each of the long-term personnel would
be paired with a full-time counterpart to be trained on the job with a view
to taking over when the expatriate staff leaves; assurances were obtained
from the Borrower to this effect (para. 6.02 (a)).
3.23      As noted in para. 2.07, the research services are heavily
dependent on bilateral aid personnel and the proposed Project is based on
the assumption that these personnel will be maintained at full strength.
This is critical to the success of the Project since the Project does not
include technical assistance for personnel involved in actual research
experiments and trials. After the finalization of the five-year research
action program, a donor's meeting would be convened to reassess and
coordinate and, if necessray, realign the individual donors' physical share
of the program. While the Government would annually seek a formal
agreement with various donors, and keep IDA informed of any changes in
research personnel financed by these donors, it would not be possible to
obtain firm commitment from the various bilateral agencies given the fact
that bilateral aid is planned on an annual basis. The proposed Project
would, therefore, provide a fund of US$0.7 million (equivalent to about 10%
of the technical assistance under the Project) which would be used to
replace critical bilateral aid personnel as may be approved by IDA.
Assurance was obtained from the Borrower to this effect (para. 6.02 (b)).
E. Cost Estimates
3.24      Total cost of the Project, including physical contingencies,
expected price increases and taxes and duties, is estimated at about
K349.3 million (US$38.8 million), with a foreign exchange component of
US$26.4 million or 68%. Project costs include incremental operating and
maintenance expenses of K44.1 million (US$4.9 million). Capital costs for
civil works account for 30% of total costs, vehicles and equipment account
for 26%, technical assistance for 25%, training for 6%, and incremental
recurrent costs for 13% (Table 3.2). The cost estimate is based on October
1986 prices and includes taxes and duties computed at K5.6 million
(US$0.6 million). Civil works estimates are derived from costs of on-going
or recently planned projects. Equipment and vehicle cost estimates are



- 24 -
based on price quotations from suppliers, cross-checked with the prices of
comparable units recently purchased or currently being procured by various
agencies. Physical contingencies, to allow for possible design variations,
have been assessed at 20% for civil works, and 10% for equipment and
vehicles. Cost of spares (estimated at 25% of purchase price) has been
included in base costs for equipment and vehicles. Price contingency
estimates assume increases for both foreign and local currency costs of
7.2% in 1987, 6.8% in 1988, 6.8Z in 1989, 7.0% in 1990, 7.1% in 1991 and 4Z
p.a. thereafter. Price contingencies have been calculated on the
assumption that differences between domestic and international inflation
rates would be offset by exchange rate adjustments. Project cost estimates
are summarized in Table 3.1 below and detailed in Annex 1, Tables T-7
through T-9.
Table 3.1: PRWECr coSr S3UfY
LOCAL   REIGN lUfAL  IOCAL FREQI TOrAL   Z       IUYAL
F       BAE
-- M1MLIM  WRQA)--   --(MMLN U$>-3   ENE CS
A.d ESEARC                      43.1   85.2  128.3  4.8   9.4   14.2   67   52
B. EXL ENSIM                    24.3   44.6   68.9  2.6   5.0    7.6   63   28
c. )INnEURI  & EVAUJnTEOC        3.5   10.0   13.5  0.4   1.1    1.5   74    6
D. TRAINIGUN1T                   1.0    4.1    5.1  0.1   0.5    0.6   80    2
E. CWIL WORK DS    & SDEfVISI3N   0.6    1.5    2.1  0.1   0.2    0.3   71        1
F. PJUCLT IPLEMtATWICN           5.1   20.8   25.9  0.6   2.3    2.9   80   11
TOTAL BASE COIS                 77.6  166.2  243.8  8.6  18.5   27.1   68  100
PHYSIML (NYtZIES9.5   18.8   2B.3  1.0   2.1    3.1   66   12
PRICE GI1lNGES              24.9   52.3   77.2  2.8   5.8    8.6   68   32
112.0  237.3  349.3  12.4  26.4   38.8   68  143
TAXES AND DUIES              5.6    -       5.6  0.6   -         0.6    -     2
106.4  237.3  343.7  11.8  26.4   38.2   74  141
F. Financing Arrangements
3.25      Annex 1, Tables T-10 to T-12 show details of the proposed
financing arrangements as summarized in Table 3.2 below. Financing
arrangements in terms of project component reflect preferences of the
prospective co-financiers, to the extent possible, and the need to minimize
disbursement problems (Table T-11). Thus, about 85% of the IDA Credit of
about US$13.0 million, on standard IDA terms, would finance technical
assistance and training, while the balance would finance civil works,
vehicles and equipment, and part of the recurrent costs for the components
specified in Annex 1, Table T-11. The amount lncludes US$1.0 million
already approved by IDA under the Project Preparation Facility (PPF) for
the appointment of key staff and procurement of essential items to initiate
Project start-up activities. The Credit would cover about 25% of the total
Project costs, including taxes and duties, about 43% of foreign exchange
and 14% of local costs.



- 25 -
Table 3.2: FINANCING ARRANGEMENTS PLAN SUMMARY
IDA    NORAD     AfDB    GRZS/   TOTAL    PERCENT
(US$ million)
Technical Assistance    8.8       -          -     0.9        9.7        25
Fellowships & Training  2.1       -          -     0.3        2.4         6
Civil Works              0.4     2.5        5.7    3.1       11.7        30
Vehicles                 0.6     2.0        3.0    0.2        5.8         15
Equipment                0.6     1.4        2.0    0.3        4.3        11
Recurrent Costs          0.5     1.3        1.     1.2        4.9        13
Total               13.0     7.2       12.6    6.0      38.8        100
Foreign Costs       11.5     5.7       9.2      -       26.4
Local Costs          1.5     1.5        3.4    6.0       12.4
Total               13.0     7.2       12.6    6.0       38.8
Percentage               34      18         33      15       100
a/ GRZ share net of taxes and duties is US$5.4 million equivalent, or
about 14Z of the total Project costs.
3.26      Cofinanciers comprising AfDB and NORAD would contribute
US$19.8 million, with US$14.9 millicn for foreign exchange and
US$4.9 million for local costs; cofinanciers would thus cover 51% of total
Project costs, 56% of foreign exchange and 40% of local costs.
Contributions from IDA and cofinanciers would be US$32.8 million, or 85% of
total costs, covering 100% of foreign exchange costs and 52% of local
costs. Signing of agreements with AfDB and NORAD would be a condition of
Credit effectiveness (para. 6.01 (c)).
3.27      The Government would finance about US$6.0 million or 15% of total
Project costs or about 48% of local costs, including taxes and du,ies.
External financing of local incremental recurrent costs is justified in
view of the severe fiscal difficulties facing Zambia, and the need to
ensure that these costs are adequately met. The Government would
assume an increasing share of the local costs, rising from US$0.1 million
in 1987 to US$1.1 million in 1994 (Annex 1, Table T-12). Its contribution
to the Project would be deposited in advance at the beginning of each
quarter into a Project Advance Account, based on quarterly budgets derived
from the annual work programs. Establishment of this Account and an
initial deposit of K350,000 by the Government would be a condition of
effectiveness of the IDA credit. To avoid requiring the Government to
pre-finance local expenditures reimbursable by IDA, and to ensure that
funds for the Project would be made available when needed, the Government
would also establish a Special Account in the Bank of Zambia, under terms
and conditions satisfactory to IDA, into which IDA would, upon credit
effectiveness and receipt of withdrawal application, make an advance
deposit of US$100,000. The Account would serve as a revolving fund to
finance Project expenditures. IDA would periodically replenish this
account upon receipt and approval of withdrawal applications of a minimum
of US$20,000 equivalent each, together with satisfactory evidence that the



- 26 -
of US$20,000 equivalent each, together with satisfactory evidence that the
expenditures paid out of the Special Account were eligible for financing
out of the Project. Assurances were obtained during Negotiations that the
two accounts would be established accordingly prior to Credit Effectiveness
(para. 6.01 (b)).
G. Procurement
3.28      Vehicles, equipment, supplies and materials would be bulked to
the extent possible and procured following international competitive
bidding (ICB) procedures in accordance with IDA's guidelines. In bid
evaluation, local manufacturers would be allowed a preference of 15Z
or the applicable customs duty, whichever is lower. Vehicles, equipment
and supplies which cannot be suitably bulked and other small items such as
materials and supplies costing more than US$50,000 and less than US$200,000
equivalent may be procured through local competitive procedures (which are
satisfactory to IDA), with solicitation of bids from at least three
suppliers whenever practicable. Foreign firms are well-represented in
Zambia and would be allowed to participate in local competitive oidding.
Proprietary equipment (mainly spare parts) and other goods costing less
than US$50,000 equivalent may be purchased off the shelf from reliable
suppliers. Civil works would be procured on the basis of local advertising
and competitive bidding procedures, which are satisfactory to IDA and which
do not exclude foreign firms from competing. These works would be
unsuitable for ICB (and extremely unlikely to attract serious foreign bids
except from the international firms already represented in Zambia) because
of the relatively small sizes and the phasing of contracts over five
years. Contractors would be pre-qualified for all contracts or packages
valued at more than US$500,000 equivalent. Consultants for the various
forms of technical assistance under the roject would be appointed
following procedures, on terms and conditions, and with qualifications and
experience acceptable to IDA. To facilitate recruitment, settling in and
All other administrative tasks associated with arranging a large number of
international staff, it is expected that MAWD would use the services of a
professional recruiting agency. Procurement arrangements are summarized in
Table 3.3 below.
Table 3.3: PROCUREMENT PLAN
Project Element               Procurement Method                Total
ICB       LCB      Other     N.A.         Cost
- - --     (US$ million)---           -
Vehicles, Equipment,      7.0         2.3     0.8                  10.1
Supplies & Materials  (0.9)       (0.2)   (0.1)                  (1.2)
Civil Works                          10.2     1.5                  11.7
(0.4)   (0.0)                 (0.4)
Technical Assistance                          9.7                   9.7
(8.8)                 (8.8)
Overseas Training and Travel                  1.8                   1.8
(1.8)                 (1.8)
Local Training                                0.6                   0.6
(0.3)                 (0.3)
Increm. Recurrent Costs                                4.9          4.9
(0.5)       (0.5)
Total                     7.0        12.0    14.4       4.9        38.8
(0.9)      (0.6)  (11.0)    (0.5)       (13.0)
Note:  Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the
IDA Credit.



- 27 -
R. Disbursements
3.29      The IDA credit would be disbursed over eight years as follows:
(a)  Technical assistance:  100% of foreign exchange, and 50% of
local expenditures;
(b)  Training:  1002 of overseas and 45% of local expenditures;
(c)  Civil Works:  100% of foreign exchange and 80Z of Local
expenditures;
(d)  Vehicles, Equipment and Supplies:  100% of foreign exchange
or 9OZ of local expenditures; and
(e)  Recurrent costs for operation and maintenance for buildings,
vehicles, equipment and office: 55Z of total expenditures.
3.30      Disbursements for training and for local technical assistance
costs valued at less than US$20,000 per item of expenditure, and for
recurrent costs, would be made against Statements of Expenditure (SOE),
certified by the Director of Agriculture in HAWD and the Project Financial
Officer. Accounting procedures within MAWD are adequate to support SOE
applications and would be further strengthened b7 the employment of an
internationally-recruited staff under the Project. Documentation for SOE
expenditures would be retained by MAWD and made available for inspection by
IDA during the course of Project supervision. Total disbursements against
SOE would not exceed about US$1.0 million, or about 8% of the IDA credit.
Disbursements for other technical assistance, consultant, and overseas
training and travel costs would be made after receipt of standard
documentation. The closing date of the IDA credit would be December 31,
1995.
3.31      An estimated disbursement schedule for the IDA Credit is shown in
Annex 1, Table T-14. Disbursement estimates are projected over a period of
eight years (seven and a half years of implementation) based on past
experience with similar projects as reflected by the relevant standard
profile in the Region. It is possible that the Project could be
implemented in the target period of four years, in which case Project costs
would be reduced by about 15% from a total of US$38.8 million to about
US$33.0 million; however, the Government contribution, at 15% of total
Project costs, would increase to an annual average of about US$1.2 million
compared to about US$0.8 million. On the other hand, while the costs would
be incurred earlier, the flow of benefits would also begin more quickly.
The nature of the Project does not allow calculation of the implications on
rates of return.
I. Status of Project Preparation
3.32      Most of the building designs would be essentially repetitive and
would be based on existing Government houses for various grades of staff
while most of the research station buildings would be expansion and
improvement of existing facilities. Preliminary designs have been prepared
for most of the major civil works. A firm of architect- engineers has been
appointed and is expected to start working on detail designs in December



- 28 -
1986. This would be followed by the preparation of tender documents, to be
completed by August 1987. for all the major works. Terms of reference for
the key technical assistance personnel and consultants have been
finalized. The consultants to prepare a five-year action program and
priority for research have been shortlisted and invited to submit
proposals. Other important actions already taken include: implemeuting
reorganization of the Department of Agriculture with a view to separating
technical and administrative functions and placing them under separate
officers; advertising internationally the posts of Project Implementation
Officer, Project Financial Officer and Project Procurement Officer, and
Manpower Development and Training Specialist; and initiating identification
of sites for staff houses and other buildings to be constructed during the
Project first year.
J. Envirormental Effects
3.33      The Project would not have any adverse effects on the physical
environment, and should, through the development of improved farming
techniques, in the long run have a beneficial effect. The overall
objectives of the Project are aimed at improving resource use and
productivity through the introduction of scientifically-tested improved
land, water, crop and animal husbandry practices to be adopted by Zambian
farmers. The formalization of information exchange with regional and
international research centers and generally improved access to up-to-date
information by research and extension workers (and eventually also bv the
farmers themselves), for example, on proper tillage and soil and water
conservation practices, judicious use of fertilizers and other agro-
chemicals, and improved cropping systems, would all contribute to a better
appreciation of environmental constraints and development potentials, and
lead to a better, more informed use of physical resources.



- 29 -
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
General
4.01      Since the Project would have no separate identlty apart from the
national programs which it encompasses, the creation of an ad hoc
project-specific institution is not required. MAWD would have the primary
responsibility for implementing the Project through its established, albeit
reorganized, structure at Headquarters and provincial levels. Broad policy
directions, establishment of priorities, approval of annual programs and
budgets, and overall donor coordination in the agricultural research and
extension subsectors would be previded by the recently established National
Agricultural Research and Extenslori Committee (NAREC), chaired by the
Permanent Secretary of MAWD; its meiibership would comprise the Director of
DOA as the executive officer, the Director of Planning Division as its
secretary, and representatives of the National Council of Scientific
Research (NCSR), the nuiversity of Zambia, the National Commission for
Development PlanrC . (NCDP), of Ministry of Finance (MOF), and the farming
community. Overall responsibility for Project coordination, planning,
budgeting, monitoring and reporting would thus rest with the Permanent
Secretary of MAWD, through the Director for Agriculture who would be
designated as the Project Director. Most of the day-to-day management of
research and extension programs would be delegated to the Asaistant
Directors and Chief Agricultural Officers of these two services.
4.02      A National Project Implementation Committee (NPIC) has been
established with the Director of DOA as its chairman and including
Assistant Directors of Research and Extension, the Director of the Planning
Division, the Project Implementation Officer (para 4.03) as its executive
officer, Provincial Agricultural Officers in the three Project areas, the
Project Financial Officer (PFO), a representative from MOWS, and co-opted
members as may be necessary. The NPIC would meet as often as required, but
at least every quarter and would be responsible for: (a) ensuring timely
preparation of the annual research and extension program ard budget,
including annual training programs, and submission to NAREC for approval;
(b) selection and approval of candidates for overseas or regional training;
(c) review of Project implementatior progress in general and Project
implementation indicators generated by the M&E system in particular, and
the resolution of problems as necessary; (d) coordination of Project
implementation activities; (e) review and approval of civil work and
building designs to ensure that they are consistent with programs
requirements; and (f) preparation and submission to IDA of semi-annual
reports on Project progress, the annual work program and budget, and annual
and mid-term reviews. In addition, it would be responsible for
coordinating the preparation of the follow-up project.
4.03      To support MAWD and MOWS, a Project Implementation Officer (PIO)
would be internationally recruited and would report directly to the
Dlrector of Agriculture. The PIO would assist the Director of Agriculture
in: (a) following up on the day-to-day implementation activities and
coordinating with other government institutions and donor agencies to
ensure smooth execution of all components; (b) timely formulation of annual
work plans and budgets, and preparation of semi-annual progress reports on



- 30 -
Project implementation; (c) overseeing ILilding construction works and
vehicles and equipment procurement; and (d) monitoring the recruitment and
performanre of various technical assistance personnel and consultants. The
PIO would work closely with the internationally recruited Project Financial
Officer, directly answerable to the DOA's Direccor and responsible for:
(a) designing and implementing an accounting system for DOA; (b)
maintaining Project accounts and financial control and preparing withdrawal
applications of Project funds; (c) consolidating the annual budgets
prepared by various field and headquarter offices into an overall budget
consistent with the work program; and (d) training local account assistants
located in the various research stations. The PIO would also be supported
by a Project Procurement Officer (PPO) who would be directly responsible
for handling all details relating to invitation of tenders for vehicles and
equipment; evaluation bids; liaison with the Tender Board; and recruitment
of technical assistance personnel and consultants. Furthermore, the PIO
could be supported by the Management Development and Training Officer who
would be directly responsible for organizing and implementing the training
program. With regard to procuring the construction of buildings and staff
houses, the PIO would work closelv with the firm of consulting architect-
engineers and the Ministry of Works and Supply (MOWS) architect (para.
4.09). Assurances were obtained from the Borrower that the
responsibilities of these officers would be as set out above (para. 6.01
(a)).
Research Services
4.04      The Assistant Director of the Research Branch would have overall
responsibility for technical guidance and administrative decisions
regarding the planning and execution of research and provision of technical
services within the Branch. Operational decisions would be delegated to
the two CAROs. The CARO for Research Programs would guide the planning and
implementation of research activities, maintain high standards in the
research programs, and ensure that the CRTs an-' ARPTs work closely together
in defining and solving farmer problems. To accomplish these objectives,
he would preside over regularly scheduled meetings of coordinators of CRTs
and ARPTs and other key persons. The CRT Coordinators would be primarily
concerned with forward planning (programming and budgeting), providing
professional guidance, and monitoring research progress. Once programs and
budgets are approved, the coordinators would be responsible for execution
of the research and for reporting research findings. They would organize a
series of annual meetings (including CRTs, ARPTs, extension personnel, and
visiting scientists) to review each year's research program, formulate
recommendations for farmers and extension agents, and plan future research
programs. After a thorough review, the recommendations would be issued in
a Crop Memo and incorporated into the next season's extension messages.
4.05      The CARO for Technical Services would have overall responsibility
for developing and managing the research station and trial site network,
operating and maintaining, with support from the two specialists financed
by the Project,  all research facilities, and overseeing the operations of
the various service units (plant protection, soil and crop advisory, soils
research programs and laboratories, food conservation and storage, and
information and documentation). He would participate in the regularly
scheduled planning and review meetings of research programs in order to
have a full understanding of the support services that will be required, as
well as to contribute professionally to the planning process. He would



- 31 -
oversee the development of standard procedures for estimating needs and
ordering research inputs (seeds, fertilizer, etc.), and would provide
technical guidelines for ensuring timely land preparation, the use of
proper experimental design and field layouts, and appropriately
standardized crop husbandry and data recording practices in field trials.
In addition, the CARO for Technical Services would be responsible for the
implementation of the management and administrative system and procedures
for research stations to be formulated by the Project-financed
consultants. The two maintenance engineers financed by the Project would
support the CARO by attending to the day-to-day tasks relating to the
maintenance of vehicles, farm tractors and equipment, laboratory equipment,
buildings and facilities, and training of staff. The engineers' first
priority would be to design and implement a system, within Government
regulations, to eliminate unserviceable and inoperable vehicles, machinery
and equipment that exist on virtually every research station, and to review
and implement procedures for routinely disposing cf non-serviceable
equipment. They would also be responsible for assisting the procurement
officer in preparing specifications for vehicles and equipment in order to
assure maximum standardization to enhance efficiency in maintenance and to
minimize the likelihood of procuring inappropriate equipment.
Extension Services
4.06      In addition to separating technical and administrative functions,
measures would be taken to deploy field staff, to the extent possible, so
as to attain the appropriate staff-rarmer ratios in the various districts,
and to absorb the women and youth services into the Special Projects and
Program Unit. The Assistant Director of Extension would have overall
responsibility for implementation of the extension component, and for
ensuring that the field staff are so deployed as to attain the appropriate
staff-farmer ratios in the various districts.  le would be assisted by the
two Chief Agricultural Extension Officers (CAEOs), one for the technical
and the other for administration services, by the Extension Methodology
Specialist, and by the national SMSs. The latter, together with the CAEO
for Technical Services, would be physically located at Mt. Makulu to
facilitate interaction with research scientists.   Implementation of the
extension programs in Lusaka, Central and Northern Provinces would be the
responsibility of the respective Provincial Agricultural Officer (PAO).
4.07      A Provincial Project Implementation Committee (PPIC) would be set
up in each province not later than September 30, 1987, under the
chairmanship of the PAO, with membership consisting of the Deputy PAOs, the
DAOs and representatives from Provincial MOWS and input supplies, marketing
and credit agencies. The Committee would not have any implementation
responsibility per se but would meet as required and at least on a
quarterly basis.  Its main purpose would be to ensure timely implementation
and coordination of the Project activities at the provincial and district
levels, to review progress made in physical implementation of the Project
and to resolve any problems that might arise. Assurances were obtained
from the Borrower accordingly (para. 6.02 (c)). In line with the national
extension strategy, the provincial extension services would be separated
into technical and administrative groups, with one group responsible for
technical functions (SMSs) reporting to the deputy PAO (Technical) and the
other group responsible for administrative functions reporting to the
deputy PAO (Administration). Implementation of the extension program in



- 32 -
each district would be the responsibility of the DAOs. However, the
provincial officers would assist the DAOs as necessary in resolving
problems that might arise. The DAO would liaise with the Research and
Extension Training Unit at NAWD headquarters, the Provincial Training
Specialist, and the provincial Farm Institute in planning and implementing
the staff training program funded under the Project.
4.08      To facilitate implementation of the T&V system, farmers would be
organized generally into groups of 60-90 and into subunits of 6-9
households. Necessary steps would be taken to ensure that contact farmers
are statistically representative with regard to farm sizes, farming
patterns, and female-headed households in the area; are receptive to new
ideas; and are willing to permit a part of their farm to be used for
dewonstration purposes, and to supply labor while the Project provides the
purchased inputs. The CEWs would make special efforts to attract as many
farmers as possible to fortnightly meetings for demonstrations and
discussions. Each CEW would be assigned a specific area, generally
involving 400-800 farm households, the size of which would vary according
to farmer densities, farming patterns and ease of communication and
transport. The CEWs, having received intensive training on relevant
topics, would visit each sub-unit at least fortnightly for a whole day and
under a timetable that would be strictly adhered to. However, in the
sparsely populated areas, such as the Northern Province, CEWs would use
alternative ways (mass media, motorcycles instead of bicycles, and contact
farmers) to reach farmer groups. Since the staff-farmer ratios are
satisfactory in most areas, there would be no need for additional staff;
however, untrained field staff would need to be trained or replaced. CEWs
would devote the days on which there are no field visits to in-service
training, report writing and meetings with SMSs. To ensure regular contact
with farmers, the field staff would be freed from non-extension activities,
such as crop forecasting and other administrative or political duties,
which now consume a considerable amount of extension staff time. The CEWs
would be closely supervised by BSs. Each BS would cover up to eight CEWs
and accompany CEWs on field visits at least twice a season in order to
provide CEWs with suppor. on technical matters.  Technical guidance to CEWs
and BSs would be provided by an average of four SMSs per district,
responsible for the formulation of technical messages, staff training and
in':erface with research.
Linkages between Research and Extension
4.09      The extension service has a responsibility not only to make
current research results available in a usable and meaningful form to
farmers, but also to assist research personnel in the identification of
problems the farmers are facing as well as defining more closely those
topics requiring additional research. This is already beginning to be done
through the ARPT activities where extension staff work cooperatively with
applied research scientists in the development of extension packages based
on the results of diagnostic surveys and adaptive research appropriate for
farmers in a given geographic area. In order to further strengthen the
linkages between the research and extension branches, formal channels of
communication and cooperation would be set up and existing ones upgraded.
Provincial RELOs, ts members of the ARPTs, would be involved in the
monitoring and analysis of well-defined on-farm trials, field survey work
involving extension and research personnel, and joint research/extension
activities such as field days and farmer training. Moreover, under GRZ's



- 33 -
new strategy, annual research-extension meetings would be set up for
extension SMSs and relevant ARPT and CRT staff, to discuss extension and
research activities and programs. At the camp level, closer coordination
and cooperation would be achieved through on-farm trials and survey work
carried out jointly by research and extension staff, and through training
of extension personnel by research staff. At the district and provincial
levels, regular contacts would be maintained between extension SMSs and the
research stations through the workshops for SMSs held at the stations, the
participation of researchers in some of the SMS workshops held in the
provinces, and the associated field visits.
Training
4.10      The training program would be implemented by the Research and
Extension Training Unit (RETU) directly responsible to the Director of
DOA.  The Unit would be headed by a Principal Training Officer assisted by
the Manpower Development and Training Specialist funded under the Project.
The Training Unit would be responsible for: (a) determining and planning
overall training needs; (b) identifying and selecting staff for training;
(c) evaluating the training program; (d) identifying training instructors
and organizing suitable training courses; and (e) maintaining training
records.  The RETU would annually assess the internal and external training
needs for all categories of DOA staff. One of the major tasks of the
Manpower Development and Training Specialist financed by the Project would
be to prepare long-term projections of professional manpower needs for the
agricultural sector as a whole, and to design a corresponding manpower
development program. He would also review the curriculum and enrollments
of the various local agricultural training institutions to ensure that the
curriculum meets all the needs and that enrollment is consistent with
demand, thus alleviating the pressure on MAWD to absorb unneeded diploma
and certificate holders. Assurances were obtained from the Borrower that
the long-term manpower projections and training program would be prepared
and submitted to IDA for review and comments not later than December 31,
1988 (para. 6.02 (g)).
Civil Works
4.11      Preparation of detailed designs, bills of quantities and tender
documents for all research civil works would be carried out by a firm of
consulting architect-engineers, who would prepare modified standard desi2as
for houses (particularly camp and block houses) and offices, as well as new
designs for all other works. The firm would also be responsible for
supervising all civil and construction works and evaluating bids in
consultation with the PIC as well as with the MOWS architect as indicated
below. Before Credit effectiveness, MAWD would identify and select sites
for all research station buildings and at least for one-half of the
extension staff houses to be constructed during the first year of the
Project, (para. 6.01 (d)). MOWS, through its Buildings Branch, would have
the overall responsibility for overseeing the design and construction of
the civil works and direct responsibility for supervision, construction and
rehabilitation of houses for extension staff in the rural areas, using
local contractors, MOWS teams, or building teams of skilled workers drawn
from PAO and DAO offices. To facilitate the foregoing, MDWS would
designate from its staff a senior architect not later than June 30, 1987
who would liaise and work with the consulting architect-engineers as may be



- 34 -
necessary; and designate, from its field staff in the Project area,
District Building Supervisors who would be responsible for supervising
construction and rehabilitation of staff houses, not later than June 30,
1987 for the districts under the first phase of the extension component and
not later than September 30, 1989 for the second phase districts.
Assurances were obtained during Negotiations that MOWS would designate
staff as above (para. 6.02 (d)).
B. Staffing Arrangements
4.12      The main staff changes would concern redeploying staff in
extension services, mostly during the second phase, consistent with the new
organizational structure and emphasis on T&V approach (Annex 1, Table
T-15). Auxiliary and support staff positions for the Project would be
filled through internal transfer only. The Project would also, as far as
possible, utilize existing professional and technical staff by redeploying
them. Although every attempt would be made to fill professional staff
positions with qualified and experienced Zambians, for most of the key
research positions, it is unlikely that suitable Zambian candidates would
be found for the time beirg. The Project would finance some of the key
positions (para. 3.22), while others would be finaL.ed by ongoing donor
programs outside the Project. Assurances were obtained during Negotiations
that the posts of the Director of Agriculture, Assistant Directors of
Research Extension Services, CAROs, CAEOs, and PAOs in the Project areas
would always be filled with qualified and experienced personnel (para. 6.02
Ce)).
C. Implementation Schedule
4.13      The implementation schedule for construction of works is shown in
Chart 5, while Annex 1, Tables T-5 and T-% respectively show implementation
schedules for technical assistance personnel and short-term committees.
Consultant architect-engineers, the Project Implementation Officer, the
Financial Officer, the Management Development and Training Specialist and
consultants to formulate detailed five year research work program and
priorities would be recruited under the PPF to initiate implementation of
the major Project activities. A major controlling factor in the Project's
overall implementation schedule would be the timing of the cropping season
(November-May). Evaluation and planning of the research and extension
programs, and preparation of MAWD's in-service training program would be
timed during the dry season (June-October). All appointments of long-term
technical assistance staff would be made before the end of the 1987/88
season (December 1987), which would be the first full crop season in the
Project implementation period. Most equipment and vehicles purchases would
be made during the first two years of the Project, followed by some
replacements later, while all civil works would be planned for completion
by the fourth year following Project effectiveness. Contracts for
extension civil works are expected to be awarded by March 1988 for the
first phase, and by October 1987 for the second phase. In research,
contracts for zonal stations would be awarded first, followed (three to six
months later) by the regional stations and then the trial sites, thus
avoiding too much of a strain on the construction industry and ensuring
adequate bid competition.



- 35 -
D. Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)
4.14      The Project would support the establishment of an MEE System,
comprising two interrelated components: a Management Information System
(MIS) and an Overall Evaluation System (OES). The MIS would be designed to
generate the kinds of data necessary to ensure effective day-to-day
management of Project activities and would specifically seek to: (a)
improve the quality of decision-making throughout the DOA by providing both
central and provincial staff with up-to-date information on the performance
of the extension and research programs measured against specific key
indicators; (b) improve internal coordination and communication between the
various Project components; and (c) provide a data base for periodic
evaluations of Project impact. The DAO would be responsible for the
design and implementation (including data collection) of the MIS at both
the central and provincial levels. The OES would generate data needed to
facilitate informed judgments regarding the Project's institution-building
achievements and its impact and cost-effectiveness relative to the national
agricultural objectives and strategies. The Planning Division (PD) would
play a major role in designing the OES to ensure that it would generate the
desired information.
4.15     M1E units would be established in the office of the Director of
DOA and in the PAO's offices in the three provinces covered by the
Project's extension component. In addition to providing ME and computer
specialists, the Project would also support these units by providing funds
for data processing hardware and software, staff houses, vehicles,
surveying and camping equipment, staff travel allowances, and O&M costs for
vehicles and equipment. The Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist, who
would be experienced in agricultural survey systems and modern management
techniques, would report to the Di.ector of Agriculture, maintain close
liaison with the Planning Division, and be responsible for: (a) designing,
guiding and supervising the implementation of the M&E System; (b) helping
technical officers in DOA to define their work I ,grams in the context of
the overall Project strategy and to develop suitable indicators to monitor
performance; (c) trainiag local staff in conducting field surveys; {d)
preparing periodic summary reports from the M&E provincial surveys and
disseminating the findings to appropriate officers of DOA and PD; and (e)
assisting the PD in conducting periodic evaluations of the macro-impact of
the various Project elements. The systems analyst will be responsible for
computerizing the ME system, analysing survey data and training local
staff in the use of micro-computers and analysis of M&E data.
4.16      The design of the NEE system would be predicated on the fact that
the main measure of Project performance would be the extent to which the
Project helps to improve the local capability for research and extension
services, and the degree to which the various segments of the farming
community apply the technical packages generated through the Project. With
regard to the institution building aspect, the M&E system would aim at
maintaining systematiz information on manpower development and training,
and on the progress of counterpart staff towards replacing the
expatriates.  With regard to the adoption of technical packages, the ME
system would monitor the messages (the agro-technological recommendations
which are the product of the research program), and the medium for
transmitting the messages (the extension services). In monitoring the
"medium", the M&E system would seek to ensure that a satisfactory



- 36 -
proportion of the farming coomunity is exposed to, and in contact with, the
extension agents and that a satisfactory proportion of these farmers is
prepared to try out, at least on a pilot basis, the proposed
recommendations. The 'messages would be evaluated by monitoring what
proportion of initial adopters continue to follow the recommendation in
subsequent seasons, the implication being that those who continue with a
recommendation do so because they find it to be of value. Each year,
adoption rate surveys with key indicators would be conducted in the
districts to be covered by the Project extension component. The surveys
would be executed independently in each province by Block Supervisors under
the technical direction of the PMEWs using mobile teams of enumerators
drawn from the provincial land-use planning teams. These surveys, which
would also include a crop forecasting module, would provide the basis for
annual and mid-term reviews as well as the Project Completion Report.
Assurances were obtained from the Borrower that the above McE system would
be established not later than December 30, 1987, and implemented in
consultation with IDA (para 6.02 (f)).
4.17      The DOA's monitoring and evaluation unit would be responsible for
conducting annual evaluation exercises to be carried out at the end of each
cropping year in May, except during the year of the mid-term review,
starting with the 1987-88 cropping season. In the early years, the annual
evaluation would focus on assessing performance relative to the annual work
program and budget, and the achievements of the extension services in
disseminating the available technological packages; and on identifying
constraints and possible ways to remove the constraints. In the later
years, the annual evaluations would progressively include assessment of the
extent to which research services are producing appropriate technological
packages, and the progress made towards achieving the institution-building
objectives. The Project would make provision for visiting scientists to
assist DOA in reviewing and evaluating the annual work program and in
conducting the mid-term and final review.
4.18      The mid-term review would be undertaken by both DOA and PD, and
would constitute an in-depth and comprehensive evaluation of the Project's
achievements and constraints, with particular attention to the national
agricultural development objectives and priorities. In addition to the
aspects covered in the annual exercise, the mid-term review would evaluate:
the research program and priorities and the extent to which research is
meeting the needs of the various types of farmers; the performance of ARPTs
and CRTs; extension methodology and justifications for expandinie extension
activities into other districts; major factors bearing on the adoption of
the available technological packages; the scope and content of the manpower
development and training programs as well as the progress of the local
counterparts towards replacing the expatriate staff; Project implementation
and management arrangements; and the cost-effectiveness of research and
extension services under the Project. The review would constitute the
initial stages in the preparation of a follow-up project which would be
progressively developed, in the course of subsequent annual evaluation
exercises, into an appraisable project. Assurances were obtained at
Negotiations that the above reviews would be carried out each year as shown
in Annex 1, Table 6 and reports would be submitted to IDA for coments not
later than September 30 of each year (para. 6.01 (g)).



- 37 -
E. Financial Management and Audits
4.19      MAWD would keep separate records and accounts reflecting Project
resources and expenditures, in accordance with sound accounting practices.
The accounting systems currently In use at MAWD are basically sound but the
accounts do not at present allow separation of expenditures by research
program and by detailed type of expenditure at each location, and do not
fully include expenditures under the various ongoing programs being funded
by external donors. The Project would strengthen M&WD's capacity to
maintain satisfactory and timely accounts through provision of an
internationally-recruited Financial Officer at Headquarters. In addition
to overseeing the maintenance of proper accounts in the research and
extension branches, and training counterpart accountants at Headquarters
and account assistants at each zonal and regional research station, the
Fioancial Officer would be responsible for setting up effective budgeting
and financial and cost accounting systems for all activities of the
research and extension branches. Proposals on such a system would be
furnished to IDA for its review and comments not later than December 31,
1988, and implementatica would be modified, if necessary, to reflect IDA
comments (para. 6.02(g)). MHAD's accounts are currently audited by the
Auditor General's Office, which is required to submit its report to
Parliament within a year of the end of each financial year. However, for
the audit of all accounts relating to the Project, MAWD would employ
independent auditors acceptable to IDA and the costs of the auditors'
services would be financed under the Project.  MAWD would submit to IDA an
annual statement of Project accounts, covering both expenditures and
sources of funds, together with the related audit report, within six months
following the end of each fiscal year. The auditors would specifically
review and comment on the disbursements made against Statements of
Expenditure (SOE) and the Special Account. Assurances on all of the above
were obtained during Negotiations (para. 6.02 (h)).
F. Project Supervision and Progress Reporting
4.20      The proposed Project is a complex and far-reaching one, which
aims at laying a sound foundation for a nationwide reorganization of the
existing extension and research services. Because of the Project's large
geographical scope and the design flexibility allowing for periodic
adjustments, IDA would have to allocate above average supervision
coefficients to the Project in order to continue the dialogue initiated
during Project preparation and appraisal as well as to contribute
effectively to institution building in these subsectors. MAWD would
prepare an annual work program and budget indicating the next year's ,-lans
in detail, and submit these to IDA for approval not later than September 30
each year. These work programs/budgets would contain details of research
programs of all CRTs and ARPTs, staff deployment, training, extension
activities and messages, coordination of aid to research and extension from
different sources, procurement and civil works construction planned for the
forthcoming year, and an updated financing plan covering both investment
and recurrent costs. Assurances were obtained from the Borrower to this
effect (para. 6.02 (g)).
4.21      The Headquarters' MDuitoring anl Evaluation Unit would arrange
for collection of statistical information on farmers' costs, production,
income and other physical and financial parameters. The detailed



- 38 -
information would be retained in Zambia and made available for review by
IDA missions. Summaries and analyses of the information, prepared by DOAts
M&E unit in accordance with mutually agreed guidelines, would be submitted
to IDA with the work programs. The unit would also prepare and submit to
IDA within three months of the end of each six-monthly period, semi-annual
reports summarizing progress in Project expenditures and disbursements,
construction of works, procurement of equipment and materials, and training
of staff, as weU as details on extension activities carried out in the
Project areas and on specific commodity and adaptive research programs.
These semi-annual reports would be based on periodic reporting by the
research and extension branches to the PS, MAWD, thus enabling him to
identify bottlenecks and constraints for remedial action. Finally, within
one year of the Credit closing date, MAWD would be responsible for
preparing a Project Completion Report summarizing and evaluating
performance under the Project. Assurances were obtained during
Negotiations that semi-annual progress reports would be submitted to IDA by
January 31 and July 31 of each year, and a Project Completion Report within
12 months after the Project completion date (para. 6.02 (g)).



- 39 -
V. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Main Benefits and Beneficiaries
5.01      Agriculture has the potential for becoming the leading growth
sector in the Zambian economy. While it may not replace copper as a
rewenue earner, it can assist in reducing food imports, provide raw
materials for processing, and contribute to exports. Production increases
in recent years have been limited, and stagnant or declining yields for
many crops indicate the lack of technological breakthrough from research
and the ineffectiveness of extension. While other factors such as adequate
incentives and efficient input and marketing services are crucially
important, the development and dissemination of suitable technologies are
prerequisites for stimulating future production increases; these are the
tasks of research and extension. The Project is expected to achieve a more
efficient utilization of the limited human and financial resources
available through the rationalization of subsector policies, the systematic
establishment of priorities, and the coordination of donor assistance
within well-integrated strategies for agricultural research and extension.
It would focus on creating strong national research and extension systems
integrated into the rural development process, with well thought-out and
properly executed programs of problem-oriented research and effective
delivery of technical messages focused on farmers' needs and aimed at
making a breakthrough in yield levels for both food and cash crops. It
would thus raise rural incomes and employment and contribute toward the
national objectives of achieving economic diversification and increased
production of both import- substituting and export commodities.
5.02      The Project would also address basic institutional weaknesses and
add to the scarce resource of trained manpower in the research and
extension subsectors through its substantial training and technical
assistance components. The extension techniques and organization,
the communication center and the training program under the Project would
be generally beneficial to the entire sector, since experiences gained in
Project areas could be readily applied elsewhere. The pilot extension and
the M&E components in particular will permit further testing and refinement
of extension methods which ultimately would be extended to other parts of
Zambia. Longer-term benefits would also accrue from the review exercises
provided under the Project, leading to the preparation of a possible
follow-up project which would set the stage for future improvements in the
agricultural research and extension subsectors.
5.03      The Project would benefit a wide spectrum of farmers through the
development and application of new technological packages, the main
potential beneficiaries being the 460,000 traditional farm families in the
country. Considering that about 40% of the rural population is estimated
to fall under the poverty level, and that nearly 30% of the families are
female-headed, the Project would have a significant impact on the poor and
women members of the population. As shown in Annex 1, Table T-16, some
24,000 farm families are expected to be reached by the reorganized
extension services through the second year of Project implezentation, and
eventually about 55,900 farmers (49% of the total in the Project areas),
27,200 in Central Province, 14,900 in Lusaka Province, and 13,800 in
Northern Province. Adoption rates of improved technologies among these
farmers are projected to increase steadily from 10% in the second year to



- 40 -
40Z in the seventh year while the full production effect of increased
yields resulting from the new technologies is likely to be obtained by the
fifth year. Hence, the extension component should ultimately bave a
positive impact on the agricultural output and incomes of at least 22,400
farm families (some 30Z of wbich are headed by women) through the extension
component alone, with the full build-up of benefits occurring by the year
2000.
5.04      'vailable data show that crop yields achieved by most traditional
farmers ca. be increased by 50-100Z simply through adoption of improved
practices already being followed by small-scale emergent farmers in the
same areas (Annex 4). Additional technology packages are also expected to
be developed through research supported by the Project. The technology
packages to be recommended by the extension service for use by the farmers
in the Project areas, as well as the yield and production increases
anticipated as a result of their application, will vary according to crop,
agro-ecological zone and type of farmer; they would be further refined
during Project implementation as applied research progresses and
increasingly takes into account on-farm conditions and constraints.
Because of this, and because the outcome of research activities is
inherently uncertain, it is difficult to make an ex ante quantification of
the likely benefits of the Project. In addition, there is often a long and
uncertain gestation period between investment and research findings as well
as between findings and farmer adoption, while farmer adoption rates are
also linked to a variety of factors (such as prices, input availability,
credit and transport) whose influence is difficult to separate from that of
research and extension. Add to this list the fact that the Project
encompasses the total national program for agricultural research with
particularly intensive extension efforts in three out of nine provinces,
spread over several regions with widely varying resource constraints and
potential, and the difficulty, indeed impossibility, of deriving reliable
financial and economic rates of return on Project investments becomes
readily apparent. No attempt has, therefore, been made to compute rates of
return for the Project.
B. Direct Budgetary Impact
5.05      Annex 1, Table T-13 shows the Project's direct budgetary impact.
The Project impact on the budgetary resources would be modest. The
budgetary contributions are projected to increase steadily from about
US$0.1 million equivalent in the first year, to US$1.1 million equivalent
in the eighth year, or about 7X of the budget allocated to research and
extension activities in 1986. After the eighth year, when all investment
expenditures are completed, the budgetary contributions would consist of
recurrent costs and would fall to about US$1.0 million annually, or about
4% of the budget allocations for research and extension activities in
1986. Apart from indirect taxes and duties amounting to about
US$0.6 million during the implementation period, the Project would not
generate any fiscal revenues as there are no taxes or cesses levied on farm
production.
5.06      In addition to contributing an increasing share of the local
investment and recurzent costs as shown in Annex 1, Table T-12, it is
important that the Gove nment continue to ensure adequate availa-bility of
budgetary resources to research and extension services; of particular



- 41 -
importance is the need to increase field travel allowances to cover full
cost in order to enable DOA's staff to devote sufficient time to field
work. To these ends, the Government would be required to maintain
allocations of budgetary funds to the Recurrent Departmental Charges for
these services at the 1985 level (K5.7 million) in real terms, using the
implicit deflator for gross domestic expenditure prepared by the Central
Statistics Office; to contribute a progressively increasing share to the
Project recurrent costs; and, not later than December 31, 1988, to increase
field travel allowances for research and extension staff to a level
sufficient to cover full costs (para. 6.02 (i)).
C. Project Risks
5.07      The Project's main risks are that:  implementation of civil
works, procurement of vehicles and equipment and recruitment of technical
assistance may be hampered by weak management, inadequate local counterpart
funds, or the worsening geopolitical situation in the Southern African
region; adoption of the T&V system may be hindered by unforeseen
difficulties; institution building objectives may be frustrated by some of
the staff leaving for better employment elsewhere; some of the key research
personnel now funded by other donors outside the Project may depart without
suitable replacements; and shortage of complementary inputs such as
fertilizers, seeds and credit, and poor moarketing services may hinder the
adoption of the available technological packages. The Project includes
several measures to minimize these risks.
5.08      To reduce delays in civil works, the Project has provided for a
private firm of architect-engineers to be responsible for design,
preparation of tenders, evaluation of bids and supervision of works, while
all major works would be undertaken by private contractors. It has also
provided for a procurement officer who would be responsible for expediting
procurement of vehicles and equipment, and recruitment of technical
assistance personnel and consultants, and follow-up on the processing of
bid documents through the Tender Board. Moreover, the Project seeks to
ensure timely recruitment of the technical assistance personnel by
providing for engagement of a professional recruitment agency, and by
requiring that all key personnel be recruited prior to Credit effectiveness
in order to ensure that a strong management capability is in place. The
problem relating to local counterpart funds is considerably alleviated by
the fact that most of the Project costs, including a large part of the
recurrent costs, would be funded from external sources; moreover, nearly
40Z of the Government contribution could be financed from a fund that has
been created out of the Swiss grant under the Agricultural Rehabilitat'on
Project. There is little the Project can do regarding the geopolitical
situation which could delay procurement of vehicles, equipment and building
materials and increase Project costs.
5.09      In anticipation of possible difficulties regarding implementation
of the T&V system, the extension component has been designed in two
geographical phases so that, in case of unforeseen problems, the second
phase would not be implemented and efforts would be concentrated on
resolving the problems encountered in the areas under the first phase.
There are no reasons to suggest that the rate of staff turnover is likely
to be much higher in future than the 3-4% experienced during the past four
years. Nevertheless, the proposals recently submitted by MAWD to the



- 42 -
Government would go a long way towards improving terms and conditions of
employment for all research and extension staff. Housing contributes a
significant part of the package of benefits for civil servants in Zambia
and the improvement of staff housing under the Project would offer an added
attraction to a large number of field and research staff. To minimize the
adverse effects caused by the departure of some of the key staff now funded
by other donors in research, the Project has provided a fund to be used for
replacements. Measures now underway to liberalize maize marketing and
fertilizer distribution, and expected improvement of agricultural credit
under a possible Bank supported project would have a positive impact on the
adoption of technological packages.
D. Justification for IDA Financing
5.10      Improvement of research and extension services is critical to the
development of Zambia's agriculture and, in turn, the success of national
efforts to diversify the economy from the heavy dependence on the declining
mining sector. The proposed Project is, therefore, particularly important
and bears significantly on the performance of on-going and planned IDA
supported agricultural projects in the country. Partly because of severe
financial conditions and an acute shortage of qualified manpower, the
country has not been able to achieve the necessary improvements in research
and extension services. Although considerable aid is available from
various external donors, it falls short of the requirements and lacks
coordination to ensure consistency with national development objectives.
There is, therefore, a need to supplement the available aid with regard to
both investment funds and technical assistance. The proposed IDA Credit
would fill this need. Furthermore, IDA's involvement would facilitate the
establishment of a mechanism to coordinate external aid relating to these
services.



- 43 -
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHE AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Conditions for Credit Effectiveness
6.01      During Negotiations, agreements were reached that the following
would be conditions of Credit effectiveness:
(a) Appointment, on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA,
of: consultants to formulate a five-year research action
program and priorities (para. 3.07); Project Implementation
Officer, Project Financial Officer, Manpower Development and
Training Specialist, and Procurement Officer (paras. 3.17
and 3.21);
(b) Establishment of the Project Advance Account and Special
Account and depositing into the former account K350,000
(para. 3.27);
(c) Signing of agreements with AfDB and NORAD (para. 3.26); and
Cd) Identification and selection of sites for all research
station buildings and at least one-half of all extension
staff houses to be constructed during the project first year
(para. 4.11).
During Project Implementation
6.02      Agreements were also reached an the following measures:
(a) All technical assistance personnel and consultants would be
recruited as scheduled in Annex 1, Tables T-5 and T-6,
according to Bank-IDA guidelines with qualification and
experience acceptable to IDA, and long-term personnel would
be provided with Zambian counterpart staff (para. 3.22);
(b)  The Government would annually seek formal agreement with
various bilateral aid agencies regarding continuation of
critical resL. rch personnel; and provided that other sources
are not available to finance replacements for such
personnel, seek IDA approval to use Project funds for
critical replacements (para. 3.23);
(c) Establishment of Provincial Project Implementation Committee
not later than September 30, 1987, with membership and
functions as set out in para. 4.07.
(d) Ensure that MOWS designates a senior architect not later
than June 30, 1987, and District Building Supervisors in the
Project extension areas not later than June 30, 1987 for the
districts covered under the first phase and not later than
September 30, 1989 for the districts covered under the
second phase (para. 4.11);



- 44 -
(e) Always keep the posts of Director of Agriculture, Assistant
Directors of Research and Extension Services, CAROs, CAEOs,
and PADs in Project areas filled with qualified and
experienced staff (para. 4.12);
(f) Not later than December 3:, 1987 establish MSE Units in MAUD
Headquarters and the provinces covered by the Project and
implement MSE system in consultation with IDA (para. 4.16);
(g) Prepare and submit to IDA for review and comments various
reports and policy statements as set out in Annex 1, Table
T-6, page 2, and implement the recommendations of the
reports taking IDA's comments into account;
(h)  Maintain separate records and accounts for Project
expenditures, have these accounts audited by independent
auditors acceptable to IDA, and submit to IDA audit reports,
with specific comments on disbursements made against SOEs
and from Special Account, not later than six months after
the end of each fiscal year (para. 4.19); and
(i) Maintain budgetary allocations to the Recurrent Department
Charges for research and extension services at least at the
1985 level in real terms; to contribute a progressively
increasing share to the Project recurrent costs; and, not
later than December 31, 1988, to increase field travel
allowances for research and extension staff to cover full
costs (para. 5.06).
Becommendations
6.03      Subject to agreement being reached on the above, the Project is
suitable for IDA Credit of US$13.0 million (SDR 10.8 million) on IDA
standard terms to the Government of the Republic of Zambia.



- 45 -
,IK  1
Table T-1
ZAWI
MRCU;L~JAL  RESEAX  AND E=ESI          PR0JECT
Capital EzpFip tures Related to gricultural Reearch and Extensioa, 1980-85
(K '000)-Current Pricem
Actual                   Authorized Estimated
1980      1981       1982        1983       1984        1985
HAND
He.tquarters 1/               9,246.0   9,160.1   15,521.3   14,343.9   26,868.0   22,257.0
Dept. of Agriculture 2/       2,641.9   2,294.2    3,168.0    7,555.2    4,362.1    4,235.2
Agricultural Research         1,404.9     834.5    2,618.7    1,015.3    2,870.6    1,323.0
TrainLng Institudtians        1,320.6   1,237.6       921.1    1,096.6       777.0    2,017.0
National Farming Information    54.1        -           -          -          -         253.0
Office of Prime Minister (Agriculture):-
Lusaka:       Extension          28.3      43.1        26.2        7.7         5.0        -
Research           -          -          -          -           -          -
Copper Belt: Extension           46.3      34.8        20.0       19.9        15.5        6.0
Pesearch          19.8       35.1       20.0        8.3         2.5       35.0
Central:      Extension          50.5      23.3        10.4       10.4       10.0        10.0
Research          20.4       10.0       10.5        8.6         7.0       10.0
b-  - rn:     Extension         101.6     136.1        33.1       37.6       50.0        54.0
Research          19.2       40.9       30.0       24.6        14.1        7.0
Western:      Extension          38.7      45.1        86.6       47.6       61.0        74.0
Research          65.2       69.7        7.6       38.2         3.9       20.0
Eastern:      Extension          99.9     128.7        90.5       42.9        50.0       50.0
Research          30.0       20.0       10.0        5.0         6.0       10.0
Ut3pula:      Extension         221.8     142.8       109.6       51.6       50.0        53.0
Research          57.5       50.4       26.7        18.7       18.0       15.0
North West:   Extensnon          45.2      35.4        28.3       13.3        10.0       10.0
Research          35.2       12.3       19.7        8.0         9.0        9.0
Scuthern:     Extension          52.0      65.6        27.5       12.9        6.0         6.0
Research          21.9       20.5        7.2        7.4        14.3       17.8
Total PMD:   Extension          684.3     654.9       432.2      243.9       257.5      263.0
Research         269.2      258.4      131.7       118.8       74.8      123.8
1/  Includes lst donor-financed projects.
21  mainly               extension and lad use.



-46-                                 AM= I
Table T-2
ZAMIA
ACRlCULTURAL RESEA9H AND EXICNSION PR30W?
Recurrent Expnditures Related to A4hicultural Research end Extension. 1980-85
(1C 000) Current Prices
Actual                      Authortzed  Ea tisted
1980       1981          198Z      1983         1984         1985
1. Readquarters
Personal emoluments         765.4        984.2     1,318.9   1.350.9    1.571.4  l6402.0
Travel allowance            135.0        297.6       278.8      257.4       14.1     200.1
Purchse of goods            124.7         35.1        59.7      364.3      187.0      283.0
Purchase of services         59.4         39.2        46.5      195.6    1.765.0      766.0
Traidnig expens-                                                             -          -
Sub-total             319.1       371.9        385.0     817.3    2.09Z.!   1.249.1
Subsidies and grants   204,873.3   1,e,559.9   153,726.8  M.713.8   33.002.0          638.0
Other payments               91.4         82.3        95.5      433.3      240.0      145.0
Sub-total      '06,964.7 108.64Z.2   153.822.3  45,147.1   33.24Z.0   3 783.0
TOAL          206.049.2   109,988.3   155.526.2  47.315.3   36,905.5   3.434.1
2. Dept. of Agriculture
Personal emolurnent       5,775.4      6.972.7    11.252,9  13,536.8   15,899.5  17,698.9
Traewl allowance            117.9        148.4       300.5      250.5       500.0     510.0
furchase of goods           531,4        276.4       450.2      671.5    1,488.1      913.0
Purchase of services        208.2        194.4       370.7      231.3      635.1      590.3
TrainDig expenses           321.3        155.4       265.6      320.2    3, 16 1:;   2 589 5
Sub-total          FlEETn5        Y T       T 3U7.0   14.5.    stia- TR2ut
Subsidies and grants          8.2        .49.4        43.3       31.2       83.0        3.0
Other payments               50.0         50.0         -        157.0       55.0       57.0
Sub-rotal              58.2       11,.4        =Z4       TENT!       1          6
TOTAL           7.022.4     7.946.7    12,673.2  15,198.5   21,823.8  22,361.7
3. Agricultural Research
Personal emoluaents       1,185.7     1,418.3      2,074.1   2,594.2    2,792.1   3,212.0
Travel allowance             14.9         29.8        42.9       21.4       38.3       67.1
Purchae of goods            627.2       463.2        284.1      357.6      601.6      603.0
Purchase of services         52.8        59.4         54.2       69.3      103.5      171.4
Sub-total             694.9       552T ,    381.2        448.3       743.4     841.5
Crant and other paymets    15.5            1.3        43.4       21.8       22.0       17.0
TOTAL           1,896.1     1,972.0      2,498.6   3,064.3    3.557.5   4.070.5
4. Training Institutions
Personal eoluments          855.8      1.106.2     1,727.0      800.2    1.069.8   1,199.7
Travel allowance             16.5         32.7        32.2       47.4       29.7       46.7
Purchase of goods           470.7       395.2        802.8      369.1       35.3       75.0
Purcbase of services         63.9        136.7       113.4       65.8      106.2      112.7
Student allowac              33.7        133.9       176.5      67.2       553.3     729.6
Sub-total             584.8       698.5      1,I1Z4.9    549.5       724.5     964.0
Subsidies. grants and
other payments             137.0         55.0        55.0       62.0       60.0       50.0
TOTAL           1.577.6     1.859.7      2,906.9   1,411.7    1.854.3   2.213.7
5. National Farm   Information Service
Personal eoluments          201.0        216.9       358.4      484.5      452.4      385.2
Travel allowsnce             19.2         25.2        55.1       27.4        16.8      21.0
Purhae_ of goods             13.3          2.4         2.3       10.9      109.9      176.9
Purchase of servicas         46.5         54.2        60.0       51.5       29.8       53.2
Sub-total                  79                . 811 .4       1        156.5      ME1T
Subsidies. grate*s and
other payments              15.0         13.7        13.9       14.8        15.0       5.0
TOTAL             295.0       317.4        489.7     589.1       623.9     641.3



- 47 -
ANNEX 1
ZAMBIA                       TabTe T-3
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Planned Changes in the Research Station Network
-  New Network -            Shift to
Zonal   Regional   Trial  Another
Station  Station    Site      Use      Timetable
Former Regional Stations
1.  Kabre                                                  XI/    As new zonal
2.  Mocd,ipapa                          X                         anI regional
3.  Misamfu                   X                                   stations are
4.  MonguZ/                             X                         completed.
5.  Msekeraa/                           X
6.  Mwinilunga                                             X         -ditto-
7.  Mansa                               X
8.  Mufulira                            X
9.  Magoye                                                 X         -ditto-
10. Nanga                     x
Former Substations
1.  Luwitu                                                 X      As improve-
2.  Lucheche (Mbala)                                       X      ment of sub-
3.  Malashi                                                X      stitutions
4.  Longe (Kaoma)                                 X                to be
5.  Sesheke3/                                              X      retained is
6.  Kataba Valley                                          X      completed.
7.  Masumbaa/                                     X
S.  ChabiliFila4/
i.  Chalimbana                                             X         -ditto-
Former Trial Sites
1.  Mbala                                         x
2.  Kabompo                                       X
3.  Kalabo                                                 X      End of 1988
4.  Siatwinda                                              X        -ditto-
5.  Jumbe                                                  x        -ditto-
6.  Chiyabi4/
7.  MpongweW/
Specialized Station to Retain
1. Chelston (Plant quarantine)
2. Kawambwa (Tea plantations)4/
To be Added
1.  Mutandab/                           X                         1989
2.  rhirundui (Winter Nursery)5/                  X               1989
Total:           3*       6          5      11
1/ Retain buildings for ARPT but not keep land.
2/ Includes Simulumbe and Manushakende Farms.
3/ On ho.I; no staff or investment; sublet to a farmer.
7/ On hold; no investment.
SI Alternative site needs to be found since land at Chirundu is inadequate.
a  Financing under Eastern Province Agricultural Development Project (World
Bank/IFAD).
bI Financingf under Northwestern Province Agricultural Development Project
(IFAD).
* Including Mt. Makuly/Lusaka-W as the zonal station for the Central
Plateau Zone.



ANNEX 1
Table T-4
ZAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EMENS ION PROJECT
Locations of CRT Team and Experimental Sites
Central        HH//LU
zonal              LW  Nan His
Regional                         Hoc Man Mon Hse  Mut Muf
Trial Site                                                      Mba Kab Mas  Lon  Chi
Maize               0         1   X   X           1    1         1   1I
Wheat/Triticale     0        X                                   1
Rice*                        I         0    1                         1
Sorghum/Millet      0        1    1   1    X    1    1
OiLseeds            0              1         1   X                    1
Grain Legumes                X               1   0    1          1   1    1    1    1
Cotton/Kenaf        0                             1                        1          1
Tree Crops                                   1              0                         1
Vegetables              0    1                    1                                   1
Roots/Tubers                 1         X    1          0              1         1
CoL'ee                       0          1
Tobacco                           X
Sed. Livestock                    0
Tran Livestock                               X
Pasture/Fodder                    X          1
Lrrigation              0
Tillage/Mch'y       X   0
Plant Protec'n  0
Soils Research  0            X
0 - Location of CRT team leader
X - Location of professional member of sub-team of CRT
1 - Location of experimental trials on stations or trial sites
ExperimentaL trials for most crops will also be carried out at other places.(on farms,
at training centers, etc.; Kalabo and Mpongwe are examples). This chart simpLy
represents those trial sites and stations in which resident research staff and
facilities will exist.
*Irrigated rice research will be carried out by a professional at Chanyanya rice
scheme.
MH -  Mount Makulu      Mut - Mutanda (Soluezi)
LW -  Lusaka West       Muf - Mufulira
Nan - Nanga             Mba - MbaLa
His - Kisamfu           Kab - Kabompo
Moc - Mochipapa         Has - Masuuba
Man - Mansa             Lon - Longe
Mon - mongu             Chi - Chirundu
Hse - Msekera



Amcx 1
- 49 -                             Table T-5
ZAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTNION PRWECT
Summary and Schedule of Long-Term Technical Assistance
- 1986                 1987
KANYEARS  ADVERTISE  APPOINT  ADVERTISES  APPOINr
Project Processing
Board Presentation: December 1986
Credit Effectiveness: July 1987
Recruitment Timetable (Latest Dates)
A. Project Management
Project Implementation Officer           4         Done                           Feb 28
Project Financial Officer                4         T'one                          Feb 28
Accoxntant                               2          _                  Jul 31    Sep 30
Project Procurement Officer              3.5       Done                           Feb 28
13.5
B. Research Services
General Maintenance Engineer             3                             Jul 31     Sep 30
Research Service Coordinator             3                             Jul 31    Sep 30
Tillage and Farm Machinery
Researcher                            3                              Sep 30    Dec 30.
Lab Equipment Maintenance
Supervisor                            3                              Sep 30    Dec 30
Irrigation Extension Economist          4                              Jan 31    Apr 30
16
C. Extension Services
Extension Methodologist                  4                             Jan 31    Apr 30
Obnmunication Specialist                3                              Sep 30    Dec 31
Irrigation Extension Economist          3                              Jan 31    Apr 30
10
D. Monitoring and Evaluation (ISE)
NrE Specialist                           4                             Jan 31    Apr 30
Computer Systems Analyst                4                              Jan 31    Apr 30
8
E. Research and Externsion Training
Manpower Development and
Training Specialist                    3        Done                            Feb 28
TOTAL                                         50.5



Annex 1
_ 50 -                         Table T-6
Page 1 of 2
ZAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Summary and Schedule of Short-Term Consultancies
SPECIAL7TY                                           Maimonths
A. Project Management Unit
Civil Sorts - Design and Supervision                 72
Audit                                                 9
Project Preparation
Workshop                                              2
Subtotal                            83
B. Research
Preparation of Five-Year Research
Program and Priorities                              9
Visiting Scientists (for program review)             24
Farming Systems Reserach                              9
Station Management and Administration                 6
Livestock Research & Policy                           6
Subtotal                            54
C.  Extension
Audio-Visual Aid                                      8
Extension Planning and lanagement                     9
Rural Sociological Surveys                           18
Subtotal                            35
D.  Training
Managment/Training Specialist                        12
Subtotal                            12
E.  Monitoring & Evaluation
M & E Specialist
Short-Term Consultancies                              6
Subtotal                            6
TOTAL                              190



-51 -                                  1
Table T-6
Pp 2 of 2
After
MARUS   1986   1987   198    1989   1990   1991    1991
A. Project                                                                                       _
1. Civil bork Desigm & Supervisio        72                      cQntiCws as neded
Appoint                                      one
2. Woiishbp                               2               Jan
B. Research zx d Eetnsi
Services
1. 5-Yr Progrm & PloritIes                9
AdvertiseDne
Appoint                                              2/28
Peport to ID]A                                      12/31
2. Livestock  esearch & Policy            6
Advertise                                            9/30
Appodnt                                                     1/31
port to D6/30
3. IrrIptim Delopzt PoLicy 1/            (36)
Advertise                                            1/3i
Appoint                                              4/30
Report to IDA                                               9/30
4. Lr g-ter .mpxahnr Needs & Traning    12
Advertise
Appoint                                            1I/31   3/31
Report to IDA                                              1231
5. Visiting ScIentist                    24
ki ualvier                             9
Invite Scientist                                    12/31         12/31
Undertake Peviz                                           Jui-Jul        J3mr-Jul Jiu-Jul
Report to MDA                                               9/30           9130    9/30
i',id-teim Revise                    9
Invite ScLentist                                           12/31
Undertke Review                                                  3im-iJu
Peport to IDA                                                      9/30
Final. Armal Fevier                    6
lImite Scientist                                                           12/31
Unertae Revise                                                                    Jun-Jul
Report                                                                             9/30
6. Other Consultants                     41                      to be proEued as meded
190
C. O0r Reports to IDA
1. Proposal on 1bgetaxy and financial
systen (para. 4.19)                                          12131
2. Amnumal Wk Progrm  & Bx1get (para. 4.20)                9/30  9130   9/30    9/30
3. Sezd-Ahmml Prgress Report (para. 4.21)                        1/31   1/31    1/31   1/31
7/31   7/31    7/31   7/31



AGRICLLTURAL RESEARCH I EXTENSION PROJECT
I.PEAlKAII.N Of SUNNARY ACCOUNTS
IIWACHA '000)
PhnilcIl CIninaerncia
Past Costs                         ----------   ----. -------.. --------..Prict Continnncius                                                        Total Incl. CLolt.
Local (ExOi. Dutits I                                 (Exed.  kiIets I                              Local (Cxl. Duttis I                                 Local (Citel. DIuties I
Foa. Exch.       Tx,s,        Tene       lolal        For. Ench, laxes)    iems          Total      Tor. E)ch.    Ies)             laxe       Total    for. EAoh,    lnae)              taF6    To1ta1
1. INVEST1ENT COSTS
. .... ... . ....
A. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
............ .............. ..
LONI  TERM COjEITANIS                          39*961.0         7,992.2               47.953.2        51974,. I5199.5             - .I193.0         12.974,1         2.594.8           - 15,568.9       59.929.2        110795.6            -  70.71541
SHOT IERN CONStLIAT IS                          9,253.0         !.850.6           -  Il103.t          1.388.0    277.6                1*665.5        3.004.2           600.8              3*605.0    313645.3            2,729.0            -  16,374.1
...----   -------   -----   ------    .                   .. --- -----   -----   -----   .. . ..... ... ..   .... ........ ........ ............. ............. ............ .............. .. ...... ... .......... ......... .... .._......... 
Sub-Total IECHICAL ASSISTANCE                     49,214.0          9842.8                59.056.8   ' ,39?.1 l1476.4                 -  B.858.5       15.978.3         30135.7            - 1.°7J3.9       72,574.4        149514.9            -  17*089.2
O. FELLOWSHIPS I TRATNING
.................. ................. .
OVERSEAS IRAINING I IRAWL                      120703,0                -              120703.0               -         -          -          -       39586.3                -              3p596.3      16,2:9.3              0.0           -  36o289.3
LOCAL TRAINING                                          -       4.212.6            -   4.212.6                -        -          -          -              -        1.222.8           -  1.222,8                        5.435.4            -   5.435*4
.......... ............ ........ .........  ........... .......   ...........  ........... ............. .................. .......................... ........  ............. ............ ............ ............................... .......................
Sub-total FELLOWIHIPS I TRAINING                  12*703.0         40212.6            -  16.915.                                      *S586.3                           1.fl2.9               4*809.2    136289,3            5t435,4               210724.81
C. CIVIL  MORIS                                   301291.1        35*175.3   3.445t6   69*911.9          5*686.0 6,617,8         647d  132.953.5        015O7.t6       11,799.0   3,155.6 233113.3          46134.7         53,592,0  5.24819 104|.77.1
D. VEHICLES
NEU VEHICLES                                   32o146.7         2,857,5           -  35*004.1         3t214.7    285.7                3*500.4        9*983.2           987.4           - 101870.6       450344.6         4,030.6               491.5.2
REPAIR EXISTING VEHICLES                        19703.4           151.4           -    13854.9           170.3      15.1          -     185.5          529.0            47.0           -     576.0       2*402.7            213.6           *   21636.3
................. ...................... ...............  ...................... ......................................... ........... ....... ........ ........ .............. ............ ........ ........  .......... ..... . ........ ........ .........
Sub-lotal YEHICLES                                33*950.0         3,003.9            -  36858.9          3.385.0    300.9               3.o65.        10512,2             934.4          I-3446.6          47747.2          4*244.2           -  51,991.4
E. EWUIPNENT a SUWLIES                            23*013.2         4*602.6            -  27*6l5.8        2*301.3    460.3             -  :1761.6        7*151.5         1*430.3            -  9.581.8       32*466.0         6.493.2           -  31959.2
................ .....................................  ...................... ........ ...................................... ........ ........ ........  ..........  ................ ........ ........  .......... ............  _........... ........._
Total INVESTMENT COSIS                               149,071.3        56*942.0   39445.6 2099359,9          189756.4 8.855...       647.7 29*259.5         47385.9        138582.2   1*S55.  67*123.9    215*213.7             54*279.7   5*248.9 3049742,2
11, RECLIRENT COSTS
A. INCREMIENTAL SALARIES A ALLOWAICES                     -       5*211.5       274.3    5.1485.8               --                              -             -        14713         77.4  1*549.8                 -        6,682.8      351*?   7,034.6
8. EJILDING NAINTENIMCE                              617.0        1*563.2                 2180.2                                     -                   279.2           707s4           -     99867          896.3         2*270.6           -   3*1669
Ct YEHICLE OPERATION I MINTENAKCE                32*352.0        7h638,4             -  19*790.4                     -               -          -      3430.8          2.15445           -  5*587,2        15*98259         9094l49           -  251377.6
D. EQUIPMENT OPERATION I MINTENANCE               3*977.1         2,121.1                 60098.?                        -           -                 11122.0           598.9              .172137        51099.9          2*720.0           -   7,11949
E. OFICE MINTIEANCE                                  390.6           555.5           -      946.1                                               -         110.3           156.8          -      267.1         500.9           712.4           *    1213.2
................... .........................................  ....................... ......................................... .............. ....... ........ ........  .......... ............ ........ ........  .......... ............ ........ .........
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                 17*l36.7        1708-9,7      274.3  34.500,                  -         -                     -       4v943,1         50090.9       77.4 10*111.4        22*07949        22*390.6       351.7   44*612.2
Total                                                 166*209.0        73*931.8  30719.9 243,859.7    1S'56.4 8*955.4                647.7 28t259.5        52*329.0        23*673.1   3*233.1 77h235.2    237,293.5            1069460.3  5v600.6 349*354.4
................................................................... ................................................................................................................................... .................................. . ................. ......... ................_..  
Noveer  11* 1936   11:29                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   12ass
-I



ACRICULTIRAL RESEARCH I EXTENSIN PROMECT
Susrv  ccount by ProJect Ceo ot
IlKWCMA '000)
CENTRAL        IONAL       ZOIAL    REGIONAL   REQIONAL   REPIONM.   RESEARCH   REIONAL
PR3ACT         CIVIL WS                        RESEAkCH    RESEARCH   RESEARCH   RESEARCH   RESEARCH   RESEACH   STATION -    RESERC
MlNIORINW  I  TRAINING  IPLEWEENTATION I   DESIGN I           RESEARCH       STATION -    SIATION -  STATIN  -  STATION -  STATION -  STATION -   rtlEN             STATION 
EVALUATION      LNIT    MANACKIENT UNI1   SUPERYISION  HEATIJARIEtS  MOUNT MULU    MNA                 MISAFU   MXOHIAPA   ItLIRA            MIA        VALLEY      NM
11132213ii...    3I333e332   33231323133331                                          ..33 .3.2  .........  .........  .3333.2333    3113233231 2132
1. IWVESTIENI COSTS
A. TEEMIIC.L ASSISTACE
,... . .... .......
LONG TERM CONSUTANTS                         70749.6   2,906.4             19.590.4              -        89719.2         2.906.4                       -           -           -
SHORT IERN COMSIUtANIS                          3p8'6       ,75.            3.378.0              -        3,915,6               -
.. ..........  .......... . ........ ........               ... .. .. .....   -------   .. .. .... .. .........  ............ .........  ....... ........ ............ . ...... ...... *....... ..... 
Sub-lot.l TECNMICAL ASSISTANE                    8,137.2   31.61.6            22#209-4                      I? 63  B         2906--                                           -                       -           -
I, FELLOWSHIPS I TRAININO
OURSEAS IRAINING I IRAuEL                     1,21B.0      504.3                   -                      8.416,3
LOCAL TRAINING                                  477D.      17.4                   -             -          214,0 0                         *           *                                    t           .
Sub-Total FELLOWSHIPS I TRAINIWG                l1.645,       523. 7                  -                      9630,3                - *                     - *  *  *    *
C. CIVIL WIPt.                                   1.290.8                                             -       10737,1        1  .71.7    9.949,5    19330.0   10,399,6    2.173,1            593.0    79410,4    19015.4
0, VEHICLES                                                                                                                                                                                                                   w
NEM YEHICLES                                    724,0      172.2           1665,3         11102,5         3U1.2         41,1.12        B21.4       799,6    10470,7        972.6    1.1641          U646     1,276.9
REPAIR EXISTINO VEHICLES                            -          -                   -             -               -                                            -                  -           -           -           -
..... .... .  ... .... .... ..... ....  ... ..... .  .. ..... ...  .... .....  ... ....  .... .... ..... .... .... ...  . .... ..   . ..... . ... ....
Sub-Total VEHICLES                                 724.0      172.2             I9665.3       1.102.5          861.2         41312       921.4       799.6    1.470,7        9726    1.166,1 U6463    1276.8
E  EOUIPMENI1 I S2PLIES                            38J.3      307.1               180.0         132.0                        4.752,7    2.981.5        674.5    4 8.4986    1,449.1    1,819.4    169NC7    1,994.2
-----------    --------------........  . .......  .. . ... ...  . .. ......  .........  .........  -----...... . ..  -----
Total IN%SIIINT COSTS                              12.190.3   4,484.6             249113.7       1.234,5        23.863.3       2549$2.0   12652.3    2903.1   160350.9    4,494,9    3,573,5    90775#4    4.24646
It. RECURRENT COSTS
A. INCRENTAL SALARIES I ALLOWANCES                565.0      236.4               873.6         241.2           26B.0          161,6                              -           -           - 
I  PJILING  MAINTENANE                             32.7          -                                  -           41.4        1.151,3       133I5        21.3       243,6         46.6           -        59.5        tB.O
C. UEHICLE WERAIION I MAINTENANCE                 590.0      102.6               B97.2         641,3           453.2        2.482.9       591.4       567.7       590.4       533.5        807.1       396.7       54123
D. EQUIPKNT OPERATION I MAINTENtANE                '7.:       51-                22.7          17.3                         896.8        941.5       390.2       993.0       31131        92.5        526.2       552.1
. OFFICE MAINTENANE                                 9.7        9.7                 9.7           9.7          523J2            61.0        30.5        30.5        30.5         30.5        3045        30.5        34.5
.. ...  ..........  ........  ----------...... ...... ............  ............  ................ .........  ........... .........  .........  .........  -----   .... .... ....
Total RECUNT  COSTS                                 102)3.5      399,6             1.794,2         908,4         1.285,8        4,743,6     16969         999,7    IvI39.5         9JJ         919.2    14012.0    19441.9
total MASELIKE COSTS                                l3J453.8   5084.2              25,907.8       29142.9        25.149.1       30.705,6    14,338.2    3.802.3   29107,4    5g488,5    40497,7   10,737*,3    5t.3
Physical Contingencics                            2.509.5      600.2             3.524.9         123.5        21329.7         4.159.?    2.250.0        413.3    2675,9          666         417.2   12718.6         532.2   .h .-g
Price Contingencies                               4.25134   I.604.B              90.39.4         639.9        70765,7        10016.4    4,690.9    .11944    5940,12   10746,9    13987,6    3P5412                1,759,7        b g,
Total  ROJECT COSTS                                 199296.6   7289.1              37,742.1       2,906.2       35.243,5        44.990,7   21,169,1    5i410.5   26,313.5    h7902.2    6,302.4  126047l3                79H02   , 
9::g::342223-J-     Ut 8.188Stsalwg    Essualwaaxs    sasswsssss:ta       a gtletatte    myXss*Jg   astgXSB            LESIZEBS    LZ:IXSBXZ    XBNS "ag 88 g18   Xt8tXg             1.3 1
Taxts                                               135.5       15.2                56.0          155           150.8       1100.7        680.9       202.3       300.1        167.2        45,6       570,1         '.7    °
foreion Exchnge                                  14o395.9   5986.3              30J457.9       29107.3       299275.4        27,304.8   119*02.3    3,460.8   15,693.2    5,095,9    407114    8,421.1    5.10.9
................................................................................................................. .........................................................................................
Nvwb vr li1  129      141122



TRIM. 9211  BECIMLIED                                                                                                                 Fhvslicl
' CHIRMUW    RESEARCH                                                                                  AORICULTURAL                Contilnifnles
TRIAL SIIE -    VINIER        STAIION -   IRIAL 911E   EXIESIO           LUSAtA   CINIRAL   NOR1HERN        FARR      COI CATION                   ...-.--
LONK/E/MA A    IRSERY         CHILSION      - OKALA    EIAMIUAERS  MDVINMCE                FICI  PROVINCE  INSTIIUIES     CENTER        lotol       2    Mioit
13h883*3*31  138113333  338838*wt.  83133h18s aulaumllllu..aa    uuuauuna   Ilhuazuw   I#:33333b1   111#1h1113119  .19183311  1111 letsIn 
-     -                    *             -        3,974.8          -          -                        -         290*6.4   47.953,2  15.0  7.193,0
*             *            -        2.131.2                                                          516.0  1110M.I  15.0  1,665.5
-            -              -            -        6,006.0          -                                   -         3,J:'4,    5?.655.8  I5.O  8,858.5
-            -              *            -        2.532,5          -          -          -             -               -   12,703.0   0.0         0.0
-             -            -           117.1   fool,O     l.610.9       809.0            r                _    41212.    0.0       0.0
-            -              -            -        2.679.6   1.017.3  1610.8         909.0                             *   I95.6   oo 0.0        0.0
527.4      19214.8              -            -        1.492.4   3477.9   7.610.2   3.2,8.7             767.7         I.53.I   60.911,9  19.912 °53,5
683.7        483.1         735.0         .06,9          ?63.8   4,3997.   51548,1   54270.             521.           516.9   35,004,1   10.0  3.500.4
-            -             -             -          330.9      477,4      606.0      440.6             -               -    1,954J8  10.0    195.5
693.7        483.1          735.0        206.9        1.094.5   4967.0   4.154.2   5.947,6             521.2           516.9   34.859,9  10.0  1,695,9
1,20.1       1.105,4          291,0        974.0               -      58.1       122.8       63.0        174.0         2,972.3   27.615.6  lov.0   ,761.6
------------ ~ --- -- --  -- - - - -  -- - -- -  -- -- -- --  I- -- -   --.--..--.--  .........  --- -- --  -- -- - --  -   -- --  --   ---     --------
29331.4      2.893.3       1.016.0       1.092.?       II.'2.5   91.20,4  150497.9   9769.3            1.464,9         9474.6  209,359.9  13.5 2?.259.5
*  -          -            -          377.6      '31.0   1.151,4        680,0            *                -    5.495,9   0.0        r,.o
11.1         30.8              -                        3 35.8     90.4      150.4       59.3          17.6            39.1    2.190.2   0.0         0.0
499,3        547.2         478.8         171.0          444.6   2.709,4   1.950,0  2'q07.0             307.8           307.8   19.790.4   0.0         0.0
204.9        197.3           49.0        204,9               *          *       16.1        9.2         39.2           474.1    4.099.    0.0         0.0
2.2          2.2            2.2          2.2           30.5       26,2         P.7       8.7             -            30.5       946.1   0.0        0.0
717.5        777,5         530.0         379.1          889.5   30756,2   3.276.6   3W*3M2             364.6           951.5   34.500.9   0.0         0.0
3.04899      3P660.8        1646.0       1.461.0       129161,0  13M374,   18774.S  13.431.5           1.129-5         9.326,1  243,859.7  11.4 29o259.5
285.9        409,8          102.6        108.3        1.234,2   1.044.2  12769.2   1,047.4             184.9         1.174.9   28.259.5   0.0         0.0
943.7      1.155,2          465.2        443.0        3,799.7   4.102.'   5.945.1   4.l06,6            5'2.I         2'972.2   77.2'5,2  10,3  7o978,8
4,279.5      50225,9       2.112.8       2.012.3       17v19639  18.523,2  26.399,9  1MM595.5          2.584,5        23.473.2  349.354.4  10.4 36o236.3
40.6         93.5              -            -          134.2      330,0      434,9      246.9          564            120.3    56*00.6  14.9    930,5
3M133.?      3474,8         1701.6    l2o6049          13o456s0  11052.0  14.685.5  1h,900.3           10670.,        100129,5  2379,235   10.1 24.052,?2
............................................................ ......................,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,                                                                                                                . .............................  0  0' 
0I1
'twC
N



AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I EXTENSION PROJECI
ProJ§et Cueonentg by YTar
Totls Including Continstnnies                                                          Totis lcluo; 'i Cuntingtrnces
(LVACKA '0001                                                                           (US1   00I
...... .................. ........................ ....................... .... ..... .. .... .... .. .... ... ....................... .............................. ....... ............ ............... ............... ..
1987     1968      1989      1990      1991      1992      1993      1994    Total        1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    total
A, MiNITORING I EVALIATION                            622.0  2*329.4  3,554,3  3,990.8  3,461.2  24582,8  11575,7  111804  29o296.6               69.1   258,8   394.9   443.4   3814,6   287.0   175.1   131.2  2.144.1
I. TRAINING UNIT                                      235.6    882.1  1,345,8  1,510.7  I.309%2    974.9    591.5    439.4   7o289.1              26,2    98.0   1494.   167.9   145.5   1041.3         5.7    4S.8    80S.9
C. PROJECT IMIP.LEMENTATION I PANASEIIENT UNIT    1,219.7  4,567.4  6968,6  7,22.1  6,178,7  5,048,0  3,062.5  20275.0  37i42,1                  135.5   507,5   774.3   869,1   753.2   560.9   340,3   252.8  4e193.6
D. CIVIL (PRS  DESIGN I SUPERVISION                    93.9    351,7    536.6    602.3    522,0    368,7    235.8    175,2   2M902                10.4    39.1    59.6    66,9    58,0    43,2    26o2    19,5    322.9
E. RESEARCH NEADOUtRIERS                            1.137,0  4,257,7  6o496.4  7,293.4  6I324.0  40716.0  2,872.4  2,146.7  35,243.5    12E.3   473.1   721.6   910.4   702.7   524,0   319,2   238.5  3915.9
F. CENTRAL RESEARCH STATION - MOUNT WrUu            13972  5,242,9  8,037.8  9,092.3  8t000,8  6.131,3  3,939,8  3,038.7  44,S80.7    155.2   582.5   893.1 I,010,3  8U9.0   681.3   437.8   337.6  4986,7
6. ZONAL RESEARCH STATION - NANGA                     677.7  2,538,2  3,873.8  4.352,7  3.783,3  2.838.8  1058.1  10346,5  21,169,1               75.3   282.0   430.    483.6   420.4   315.4   195.3   149,6  2.351.1
Ho ZONAL RESEARCH SIAtION - MISWU                     173.B    652.O      993,4  1.115,8 90 8,8    74,8    445,5    337.4   5,410.5               19.3    72,3   110.4   124.0   107,6    80,5    49.5    37.5    601.2
1, RE6IONAL RESEARCH STAIION - MOCHIPAFA              854.9  3W201,7  4,887,2  5Y4J,0  4,781,7  3.599,9  2.249,4  1144.8  26413.5                 95.0   355.7   543.0   610.4   531.3   400.0   249.9   193,?  2,979.3
J, REGIONAL RESEARCH STATION - KIFULIRA               253,1    948.0  12446,8 1.6:5.6  3,412,7  1.059,5    655.3    50.0   7,902,2               29.1   105.3   160,8   180.6   157,0   117,7    72.6    55.7    878,0
h. REGIONAl RESEARCH STATION - MANSA                  203.7    762,7  10163,7  1,306.2  1.132,0    842,9    511,4    379,9   6.302,4              22o6    84,7   129,3   145,1   125.8    93,7    56.8    42,2    700.3
L  ZIONAL RESEARCH STATION - GOLDEN VALLEY            515.8  19931,7  2,947.9  31311.0  '.874,3  2.149,8  ,1319.7    997,6  160i47,8              57.3   214.6   327.5'  367.9   319.4   238.9   146.6  l10.I 1713.1
hi KGIONA. RESERCH STATION - IIHGU                    257.0    962.5  1.468.'  1649,2   .430'.8  1,0368.          653.0    490,5   7,980,2        28.6   106,9   163.2   283.2   159.0   l1S,7    72.6    54.5           86.7
N. TRIAL SITE - LONGE/KAOMA                           137.7    515.8    787.1    883.8    766.9    572.9    350.5    263.8   4.278,5              15.3    57,3    87.5    98,2    85.2    63.7    38.9    29,3    475.4
De TRIAL SITE - CHIRUINI  WINIER NURSERY              167.4    627.0    956.8  1075.1    934.3    700,7    433.4    331.2   5.22s.                18.6    69,7   10.3   119.5   103.8    77.9    48.2    36,8    580.7
P. SPECIALIIED RESEARCH STATION - CKELSION             68,3    255,7    390.1  ,437.9    379,5    282.6    171.4    127.4   2.2)2.8                7,6    28.4    43.3    48,7    42.2    31.4    29.0    14.2    234.8
0, TRIAL SIIE - IBALA                                  65.0    243.5    3712.       417.1    361.4    269.2    163.3    121.3   29012.3            7,2    2,.1    42.3    46.3    40,2    29.9    18.1    13.5    223,6
Re EXTENSION HEAXUhRIERS                              553.6  2.073.2  3.163,4  39552.1  3.081,3  2M300.3  2.405,2  1,054,7  17.183.9              Fi.5   230,4   35tl,5   394.7   342U    255.o   156,    117.2  1,909.3
6. LUSAA PROVINCE                                     588.1  2.206,0  3,375.8  3.804.3  30321.2  2.500,2  2,551.22   i176.3  18,523.2             65.3   245.1   375,1   422.7   349.0   277.8   172.4   130.7  2.058.1
T. CENTRAL FRWINCE                                    839.9  3460,7  40007.5  5.4)3.1  4.721.9  3,556.7  2222.5  19690.6  26.388.'                93.3   349,6   534.2   601.5   524,7   395.2   245,8   117,8  2932.1
Us NORIERN MROINCE                                    595.2  2.229,5  3404,2  32828.5  3.33123  2,497,9  1,538.0  I6lo2O   18685.5                66.2   247.7   378,2   425.4   370.1   277,5   170.9   12290  2.06512
V. FARM  INSTITUTES                                    82.7    309,9    473.0    531.5    462.1         346.9    215,2    165.2   2.586,5          9,2    34.4    52.6    59.1    51.3    38.5    23.9    28.4  287.4
Vs ACRICLILURAL COMIUNICATION CENTER                  433.5  2,623.6  2,477.5  2.782,2  2,414.4  Ili042  19105.1    832,9  12,473,2               48.2  I2804   275.3   309.1   268.3   200.5   12228    92.5  2,497.0
lotal PROJECT COST1                                  112.73.0 412857.9 63.927,9 7'2,92,7 629553.5 46.95',4 29.015.8 210977.1 349354.4  19241.4 4.650.9 7103.1 7,988.0 6o950.4 5.217,5 3.224,0 2.441,9 38,817.2
;           :                ::::  ::::::: :.::::: :X~~~~~-::::: a: :: ::::  ::  3::: 331?::: :::   ::::3      =::
. .................................. .................................................................... _...... ........ __................. ...... .......... ... ... ... ..... .............. ....................... _..........................................  ............ 
November lit 1986 11'28
% 0



-56 -                           ANNEX 1
Table T-10
ZAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH & EXTENSION PROJECT
Financing Arrangements by Inputs
(US$ Million)
IDA      AfDB        NORAD     GRZ       TOTAL
1. Investment Costs
A. Technical Assistance
Long-term consultants    7.1         -           -        0.7         7.8
Short-term consultants   1.7         --          =        0.2         1.9
Sub-total           8.8       -           -         0.9        9.7
B. Fellowships and Training
Overseas Training and
Travel                  1.8        -          -         -           1.8
Local Training            0.3        -           -        3.3         0.6
Sub-total           2.1        -          -         0.3        2.4
C. Civil Works               0.4        5.6         2.6      3.1        11.7
D. Vehicles                  0.6        3.0         2.0      0.2         5.8
E. Equipment & Supplies      0.6        2.0         1.4      0.3         4.3
Sub-total           1.6      10.6         6.0       3.6       21.8
Total Investment Costs         12.5      10.6         6.0       4.8       33.9
II. Incremental Recurrent Costs
A. Salaries & Allowances    -           0.2         -        0.5         0.7
B. Building Maintenance      --         0.1         0.1      0.1         0.3
C. Vehicles O&M              0.3        1.2         0.8      0.5         2.8
D. Equipment O0&             0.1        0.4         0.3      0.1         0.9
E. Office Supplies           0.1        0.1         -        -           0.2
Total Incremental
Recurrent Costs       0.5        2.0        1.2       1.2        4.9
TOTAL                          13.0      12.6         7.2      6.0        38.8
Foreign                        11.5       9.2         5.7      -          26.4
Local                           1.5       3.4         1.5      6.0        12.4
13.0      12.6         7.2      6.0        38.8



ANNEX 1
Table T-11
-          - ~~~57 -
ZAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH & EXTENSION PROJECT
Financing Plan by Project Components
(USS '000)
IDA     NORAD     AFDB      GRZ       TOTAL
A. MONITORING & EVALUATION   1.9       -        -        0.2        2.1
B. TRAINING UNIT             0.6       -        -        0.2        0.8
C. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
& MANAGMENT UNIT      3.8       -        -        0.4        4.2
D. CIVIL ~1ORKS DESIGN &
SUPERVISION           0.2       -        -        0.1        0.3
E. RESEARCH HEADQUARTERS     3.4       -        -        0.5        3.9
F. CENTRAL RESEARCH STATION,
MOUNT MAKULJ           -       3.6       -        1.4        5.0
G. ZONAL RESEARCH STATION,
NANGA                 1.9      --        -        0.4        2.3
H. ZONAL RESEARCH STATION,
MISAMFU                -       0.5       -        0.1        0.6
I. REGIONAL RESEARCH STATION,
MOCHIPAPA              -        -       2.8       0.2        3.0
J. REGIONAL RESEARCH STATION,
M-UFLIRA               -       0.7       -        0.2        0.9
K. REGIONAL RESEARCH STATION,
MANSA                  -        -       0.6       0.1        0.7
L. ZONAL RESEARCH STATION,
GOLDEN VALLEY          -        -       1.5       0.3        1.8
M. REGIONAL RESEARCH STATION,
MONGU                  -       0.7       -        0.2        0.9
N. TRIAL SITE, LONGE/KAOMA    -        -       0.4       0.1        0.5
0. TRIAL SITE, CUIRUNDU
WINTER NURSERY         -        -       0.5       0.1        0.6
P. SPECIALIZED RESEARCH
STATION, CHELSTON      -        -       0.2        -         0.2
Q. TRIAL SITE, MBALA          -       0.2       -         -         0.2
R. EXTENSION HEADQUARTERS     -        -       1.7       0.2        1.9
S. LUSAKA PROVINCE           0.1       -       1.9       0.2        2.1
T. CENTRAL PROVINCE          0.1       -       2.7       0.2        2.9
U. NORTHERN PROVINCE          -       1.5       -        0.6        2.1
V. FARM INSTITUTES            -        -       0.3        -         0.3
W. AGRICULTURAL COMMUNICATION
CENTER                1.2       -        -        0.3        1.5
Total                       13.0      7.2     12.6       6.0       38.8



ANNEX I
- 58 -                          Table T-12
ZAMBIA
ARAlCLTORAL RESEARCH AND EXMENSION PROJECT
Financig Arrangts by Project Year (US$Mil]ioa)
1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992    1993    1994    TOTAL
IDA,                   0.4    1.6    2.5    2.8    2.5    2.1     0.7    0.4      13.0
AfDB                   0.5    1.9    2.5    2.7    2.4    1.2    0.9    0.5       12.6
NORAD                  0.2    0.8    1.5    1.7    1.2    0.9    0.5    0.4        7.2
GRZ                    0.1    0.4    0.6    0.8   0.9    1.0    1.1    1.1         6.0
TOTAL             1.2   4.7    7.1    8.0    7.0    5.2      3.2    2.4      38.8



59 -                               ANNEK 1
Table T-13
ZAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Incremental Budgetary iulpact (USS Mllion)
Fund Inflow                  1987  1988  1989   1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  & after
External Financing a/    1.1   4.3   6.5   7.2   6.1   4.2   2.1   1.3
Taxes and Duties          -    0.1    0.2   0.2   0.1    -         -              -
Total Inflow           1.1   4.4   6.7   7.4   6.2   4.3   2.1   1.3            _
Fund Outflow
Project Cost  (Minus)   (1.2)  (4.7)  (7.1)  (8.0)  (7.0)  (5.2)  (3.2)  (2.4)  (1.0)
Budgetary Allocations    0.1   0.3   0.4   0.6   0.8   0.9   1.1   1.1    1.0
a/ IMA credit of US$13.0 million and co-financing funds of US$19.8 milli.



Annex 1
- 60 -                     Table T-14
ZABIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXrTENSION
Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
(US$ Million)
IDA FY                                      Annual          Cummulative
1987/88
First Semester                      0.3               0.3
Second Semester                    0.5               0.8
0.8
1988/89
First Semester                      1.0               1.8
Second Semester                     1.2               3.0
2.2
1989/90
First Semester                      1.2               4.2
Second Semester                     1.4               5.6
2.6
1990/91
First Semester                      1.5               7.1
Secow! Semester                     1.3              8.4
2.8
1991/92
First Semester                      1.2               9.6
Second Semester                     1.0              10.6
2.2
First Semester                      0.8              11.4
Second Semester                    0.5               11.9
1993/94
First Semester                      0.5              12.4
Second Semester                    0.4               12.8
1994/95
First Semester                      0.2              13.0
0.2



-61-                                   ARIM  1
Table T-15
Page 1 of 3
7WMBIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENIOK PROJECr
Siumnmry of Extension Staff Deploymnt
1. lSeadquares
Salary Scale     Designation                                    Existing   Proposed   Increment
GPS/6            Assistant Director of Extension                   1           2          1
GPS/7            Chief Agricultural Extension Officer              2           2          -
Chief Animal Husbandry Officer                    1           1
Chief Crop Husbandry Officer                      1           1          -
Chief Horticulture Officer                        1           1          -
Chief Tobacco Officer                             1           1          -
Chief Extension Nhthod. & Training Officer        -           1          1
Chief Farm Mbanagemnt Officer                     -           1          1
Chief, Aid Coordination Unit                      -           1          1
BEL                                                           1          1
Chief Training Officer                            1           _         (1)
GPS/8            Senior Dairy Officer                              1           1          -
Senior Citrus Officer                             1           1          -
Senior Tr-e Crops Officer                         1           1          -
Senior Cotton Officer                             1           1          -
Senior Extension Training Officer                 1           1          -
Senior Poultry Officer                            1           1          -
Senior Oilseeds Officer                           1           1          -
Senior Pig Husbandry Officer                      1           1          _
Senior Aid Coordinator                                        1          1
Senior Training Unit                                          1          1
Senior REID                                                   1          1
Senior Extension Methodology                      -           1          1
Senior Extension Aids                             -           1          1
Senior Prograus & Projects Unit                   -           4          4
Senior Miscellaneous                              -           3          3
GPSC.)           Extension Training Officer                        1           1          -
TS/10            Senior Home Economics Officer                     1           1          -
TS/13/11         Youth Extension Officer                           1           1          -
Home Economics Extension
Officer                                        1           1          -
Subtotal                                                        20          36         16



-62-                                    ANNEt I
Table T-15
Sumssry of Extension Staff Prolections (continued)         Page 2 of 3
Say              Desgntion                                       Existing   Proposd   Increment
2. Central Province
GSP/8            Provincial Agricultural Officer                    I            1
kAi'al Husbandry Officer                           1           1
Crop Husbandry Officer                             1           1
Planning Officer                                   3           2          (1)
Dairy Officer                                      1           1          -
Land Use Planner                                   1           1
Extension Training Officer                         1           1
REI                                                -           1          1
District SS                                        -           3          3
TS/9             Youth Extension Officer                             1          -          (1)
District SMS                                       -           2          2
TS/10            Tobacco Extension Officer                          1            1          -
Agricultural Supervisor                            1           1
L1m Economics Officer                              1           -         (1)
Poultry Offlcer                                    1           1          -
Youth Extension Officer                            1           -         (1)
Assistant Training                                 1           1          -
Assistant RELO                                     -           1          1
Assistant Horticulture Officer                     I           1          -
Assistant Planning Officer                         1           1          -
Assistant Farm MFnagement                          1           1          -
Cotton Officer                                     1           1          -
Agricultural Assistant                             1           1          -
TS/13/11         Agricultural Supervisors                          48          48           -
TS/15/14         Senior Agricultural Assistants                    58          58           -
S/20/16          Agricultural Assistants                           74          50        (24)
AD               Agricultural Demonstrators                        16           -         (16)
)                Coimnmodity Demonstrators                         30           -        (30)
Subtotal                                                        247         180        (67)
3. Lusaka Province
GPS/8            Provincial Agricultural Officer                    -           1           1
S8               Acting P.A.O.                                      1           -         (1)
GPS/9            Horticulture Officer                               2           1          (1)
Farm Management Officer                            2           1         (1)
Extension Training Officer                         2           1         (1)
Irrigation Engineer                                1           1          -
Planning Officer                                   1           1          -
District SM5                                      -            6          6
Cotton Officer                                     1           1          -
TS/9             District SMS                                       -           3          3
lS/10            Farm Management Officer                            1            1         -
Cotton Officer                                     1           1          -
Crop Husbandry Officer                             2           2          -
Assistant Farm Managment and Planning Officer      3           3
HortiCulture Officer                               1           1          -
Animal Hsmbandry Officer                           2           2          -
TS/13/11         Agricultural Supervisors                           8           8           -
TS/15/14         Senior Agricultural Assistants                    33          52          19
CD               Comuodity Demonstrators                            9           _          (9)
Subtotal                                                         70          86          16



-63 -                                   ANNEX 1
Table T-15
Page 3 of 3
Summary of Extension Staff Projecetions (continued)
SaLary Scale     Designation                                     Existing   Proposed   Increment
4. Northern Province
SW               Provincial Agricultural Officer                    1            1
GPS/9           HBrticulture Officer                                1            1          -
Crop Husbandry Officer                             1           1
Animal HusbadLry Officer                           1           1
Assistant PAO                                      1           1          -
District SMS                                       -           3          3
TS/9             District S1S                                       -            3          3
TS/10            Farm Management Officer                             1           1          -
Assistant Farm  anagment                           1           1          -
Assistant Crop Husbandry                           1           1          -
Assistant Animal Husbandry                         1           1          -
TS/13/11         Agricultural Supervisors                           9            9          -
TS/15/14         Senior Agricultural Assistants                     19          26          7
S/20/16          Agricultural Assistant                            32           38          6
CD               Cbmmodity Demonstrators                           19           -         (19)
Subtotal                                                         88          88           0



ANNEX 1
- 64 -                         Table T-16
ZAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Summary of Project Participants (Extension Component)
(number of farming families)
PROVINCE/DISTRICT                    ----          PROJECT YEAR -
1          2           3           4           5
Phase I
Central
Kabwe Urban              200         200         200         200         200
Kabve Rural           10,300      1o,:'o      10,300      10,300     10,300
Subtotal              10,500      10,500      10,500      10,500     10,500
Lusaka
Lusaka Rural           9,700       9,700       9,700      9,700       9,700
Luangwa                  900         900         900         900         900
Subtotal              10,600      10,600      10,600      10,600     10,600
Northern
Kasama West            4,300       4,300       4,300      4,300       4,300
Subtotal               4,300       4,300       4,300      4,300       4,300
Phase I Subtotal        25,400      25,400      25,400      25,400     25,400
Phase II
Central
Mukushi               -           -            5,300       5,300      5,300
Serenje               -           -            5,600       5,600      5,600
Mumbwa                -           -            5,800       5,800      5,800
Subtotal              -           -           16,700      16,700     16,700
Lusaka
Lusaka Urban          -           -            4,300      4,300       4,300
Subtotal              -           -            4,300      4,300       4,300
Northern
Mpika                 -           -            4,400       4,400      4,400
Chinsali              -           -            5,100       5,100      5,100
Subtotal              -           -            9,500      9,500       9,500
Phase II Subtotal       -           -           30,500      30,500     30,500
TOTAL                   25,400      25,400      55,900      55,900     55,900



MIEX I
- 65 -                                     Pqe  of 14
ZA1A
AGn=3MMr REHLRC  A) ENMDIGN P%EB
Status of Ag£±utwal Research
C      ACrIES AND
EF3hN 1/           m     URlR1NlS            KUM AHEVEM                        FUMDE5
nSA
Ibim              - Lack of adapatLon tD       Pratfieartion of paresrt  - Ehmr geip_  eralrntlo
Cml4p jrlty)    diff:erst agro-icgi-    lin of aE-2                      espacialy for tDlem   D
Cal  O                                                 streMs (lowv    Al), St,
and desirable Wg Dn
dmarac  stdcs
- Sub-optium mmeneit   - Developnst of eerliex-        - lDvelop canzDeites and
Practkes                   turirg hybrids and opm      h3trlds sdti  tD stess
p llinated varie=Les       caditloi ad foa r mu Iseaeal
aid emzrget a
- Useses: cob and         - R.ulation of manaemt   - DevLop hprids for hIgh
stalk rots. leaf bligbt,   and pLant jrmectlon         inpur systs and uwre
stmak and mslc            practices for tbe major      breeler seed for seed pLidius
virues                     gro-eaolcical sxies         lil  ZMSEED
- Insects: leaf           - Deination of screening  - Refi  national istig
I'- s, ewr aid root       teldques fxor pests          statey
-oms, temites
- Oa-farm  ials idth AM      - Forwul  optim  lvias of
fertflizw applim, aid
Major aievemEts:  rrlease  otber aroruuc  ad plant
aid seed prdwri  of f752  protion pact   for
(wgraded  -9-52) tgethEr    current and    genpiam bekg
wdth           tractices     developed, tD acMee stable,
bihr yields
Uieat, !&itlicle,  - Dlseases: spot          - DevelopMeat of             - Trrigat  crops: derelop
BULy              bLotch, leaf bligit,      epsimmtal strains for        high yieldirg varieties iLth
(MMim priority)   stae  wst and leaf rust    irrigated ard rinfB          resistance tD nvsts ad plery
corditfons                   miler, laow  production CsOM
trough ismroved water
- IoW pR, leached sils,   - Mapcati testirg for       mmageme, til l1  ractics
high Al                    tter grnoIg conxitions      ad ritations
- Ikotgt stress, or       - Anelioratlon of soil       - Rainfed aoos: identfy
im  humid  at1w           racity (lime)                arems with ore fworabl gmr-
ing citions: imprwe aLap-
tation -espmLaflLy Al tlear-
ance ad prevaluiz dng m ;
encourage oatadofi table.
V f PIbf at eni of this taKe.



F                 ;t  jjX[  dgir 
rii     I!            jIo   il    tillt         gwi0 0    |i Sl 
iI  iSti     '   'w| grw  tlt tltl          W12  Xtit        1IIj  {1E
R~~~~~~~  0.  Ii   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  I ~~~~~~O
p      C        I~~~~O
rT~~~~
El~~~~~~



- 67 -
AIC2
-eP3of 14
CUR ACMMfVTS AM
PFDJGJM 1/          HU    O61RADI1             MUOR ACHEEVEM3                    FUMEJR11J2MTI
- Study agznou1c ard pst
magat prac:f---e
appwprlate for tbe crop
wLth etasas an mdlfDlde
praktion
- CbUect ai teat new
gMnama of firger millet
- DeveLop optmm  podu:rton
practices fc frer miller fBOr
suaUbIoders
- iultJply sis of Ipovied
variet   for relnse to seed
-  (7M)
- DIteIne curret podurtdon
levels and   es for tbe
tree cropz
Sunflomr          - low yields aid yield     - Developmet of v&arietes    - ELrd the gmetic base ad
h prlority)    dteclIe                       axid hys    i%th higibr      cowen=ae on mme suLabl
yLelds and diseae            diarf pLit types sbth yield
- Poor stad estabUsh-    resistanoe                    stability ovr  a rare of
gntgng co&ditions
-De-elopnst of imprcvel
- Ibasitab] , tall        irodurtion pracces           - limrrwe oal axae,t, stress
varieties; low oil                                      mleamra, aid alapla   to
- Major A     slo. iw inpus
-DLms: Altenaria,   prmeiWt in varieties aid
Septoria                  bybrids (reet) -             - Dvelop opcimum production
especially resLstcae tOD      racties fDr diffw$t gmwirg
- Poor marWet develop-    Alinarla                      coditdious - tlae, somDrg
Me=                                       methods, fertetlzer use, w,eed
coritrol, ad cxoppizg systems
for both high aid low inp¢
systens
- Deteie te iDpDtance of
bes for poluiation
- Proude breeler smPi  the
seei inlustry
-   f spot                - lntriductimc aid zetir     - Iltriduc aid evralate
(High priority)                              of PromisinglIn  in          imopreI and wcotic geDOLa
ain z0at X1ct  n~Cs   coll IoratImu iLth TItr,      for aaptati tD Zidan
AM=, and  iOY                ccxxitdomw in 3 matrity
- Ebur naciat                                          classe  (75-95 da; 96-132
dazys; 1-160 das)



-68 -                                    A2c 2
Pae  of 14
CUtEW A nvff1S AD
PCR1M I/            mm  CMUMAM                 MM ACH I'E3                       RIM
- Satarixg                -  1 1imixg deeLopomt of    - Mainrain ad ptwde
optimal mazgeueit            bresier al tD Z
- Uaaptd varleties        practm  fwr the rarue of
gmudxg aiditLoi  In          - Develop free ixnodlatfrg, xa
-  r-k of imnouliu        Zubia (3O mtidty gznups)      fttriz, Al-tlerzat,
desease reste t, axl dotgkt
-  tdeqmtely deeLoped   Mjor kth.eiits.                resstat stcain
cIet                      release of iarovei
varieties:    p    Seb3s,    - e   E optimm mt
ele3a aid JupLter; ide-      and pLIrot ction pmtiees
tification of 2 e,           hr 7Zmhl  coutiobs and
sddely-edated lim               U          fertlimr we,
souipp, madl cotroL, ani
cioppLig s3UCGUs
- Proute a ybea Lee in
ontry ard suppzt t}ha seed
Inhustry
(3ukodts           - lack of aiapted,        - Asembly of a laige         - Praot production md we of
(Mgt jlaity)    stabLe-71ieM3ig              co     on of gem slam        gnwxkats to rwerm tiE
varieties                 from Mrica, Asia wud te       ret 90X decline
kkcas
- Campdtdon fir labor                                  - krosie the gemetic bae
durig havest              - Briautimo of gmetic        thcomh colle±m aid intro-
stocl6 frm  lJIOAr aid      duction; syst.maticaUy
- Roor prahdultm          MlaW                        enaamw stocks
practices and weds
- Prcucti  of linpoel        - nitiaz  a vguis;ts crossizg
- Pests: leaf spot,       seels of gosd quality        pgrmu desigrel fir Zabimi
rrt, aids                                              corxitioDm  dtth idmal plat
- Agmnomic stixes of         sWread, tdgh pod xmitian,
- -&mzition disoLders     cammerciaL varieties:        easy strippLig, anid diea
e.g.. -pDW                       s, fertili rs and     ristance
weed conutrL trials
- Develop optimm production
- Eb.izbiu. Iruicua stuly   practices appropriate m both
in collaoradon wdth         low ad high inputs
WNITL
- GLve special attntion tD
Naor AdcIeeam: devel-    sune  aid ecort
oment ad reLease of 3        reqIretmets: igihin, wel
hnprored varieties           ffl l  pols ard igh oil
(axlimb3na, ladau Ba,        cocrent
ard Nltal emomn) tptber
%ith rec   idl prodction   - Maintain ad muLtiLply bresier
practices                    m
Qatn                 -k of interest ad       - Intrdxuctin., collection    - Reify caercial varieties
(HUgh pr1ority)   asu;rt br research         and eiauation of am          to  irmwe umifrmity of
gplam                        maturit,, ugra  staple
- lack of high qnlity                                   legt1; ! incrm   sempLy
seo  of adapted varietis                               for distrbutim



2M
- 69 -                                  Page 5 of 14
azmRr MVCWES MD
- Iw yLelds aud          -  bridition of edite       - Omxima intrid:mti anmd
uiwafle1e inps           lin  fr bigh  -Id,  ltt    evaLuatLon of improve gSast
quty, bigblr gimir          stolcs f£owr by h!ridiza-
- IDW gind  ost-m        ott-twm, and post           tion of superior prweitals
&tm
- Emy pest  emr                                      - Expmd msciz  of PI I
- Sxzl as. OcZL.            stocls wd  a rarge of
inigmeit iractIc            cl*raic ad  aaic cooitLoxs
- Maintea_ of pest          - DXve'Lop radoul past
azo..- jzizflly d.th        m  g      rae:tktes be ad on
daials                      now, less tk p restcdes
!Kiar Adde ,    I- ixpLore alternadve tise
relea   2cvntral. aetbdls
(nlala acd Cwrem)
cwtWt with renmzId          - hpcrwe gimig out-tm and
peadhtlon Wractices         lint qality
V!naf             - Inturned  xharch        - Vaetal DstIW,             - Etend ecprimeit sadton
(low priority)    aoi proootion (1973-     ixnridlI  stidIes           ffrdgs to on-faz trials
l9B2)                    Aime (md. neeau,ie)
ard retthg qualities        - fotim- testirg of new
- lack of 1ai                                        geerk stod  ad derelop-
str                      - DLrelopnt of praluo-      ment of imprmei proition
tioiratice rcmiela-         practces fir Z7ablan coli-
- BLass anld              ion frcm work at tt.      tcaks (%&th G  support)
r-atudes                 Maliu, Mgo3e, MLsBmfu,
NIS aid Nmsth3exxe          - Pruoie the madetirg and
-hfiDnation on                                       denad kDr tre local product
p  Eg (rettg         Major Ac heo    :           (o2,000 mtfannuo
defeLopme  of a Xou
tlm peaz for a pilot
scsne (rrer fiuded)
RAIN IEMS         -Iucts: bem fly,          - Iutrodurtion  ia test'    - Expand introdur.tLon,
(}  idE t)    sm met, pad                 of both local ard evotic    evalmrtion aid restirg of
bors, plt bN             gnpamn                              gemplmua in this
&au, abuPOs,                                                           oder: bea,  sonpus, aid
Bmwa groud-    - nLms: vfnrec              - Testixg of low inpit      banbra groumiEs
n, flgem         (BGV an eu; CMI          tolkxCgy; fwuize
PM I Qar          on cWeas);               pesticides, village         - Place jrlmay enimasis on
MAtbrEae, argulz        stDre                      lr=easirg ard stbilixig:
Leaf spet, ftmctroda                                 ylelds of vaiedes carr)ftg
- hprvei on-fm  sorage    resistme t pess aol alapted
- lack of bigh mteld-    metDds                      to variable gmnEg coiditiois
ig, alapted varietie
- Evasiwdon of              - Selert fr mprwed qlulity
alteative, less tatic       of prdurt, indulifi  relu:d
pestcldes, erg., RLpcorid    cooddg time in beas and
and RWr                     cowa leaf quality as a gre
vegetable



- 70 -
AEK 2
iTge6of 14
CLRRENr ACfVrIES AND
PFDAM I1             MMKI CM&RADI13             MUOJR AKVE15                       IUU3  lafW.T
- Lc of oitfomtion on   - Stdirs an  natemrgppizg
produrcion prgatic   fr    w reduce labor rezire-
diffwet cmops and         mits ani iirease
growtog reions             effLcielEy
- Selectlon of llnes      - Test leues in vailots
resist.t w dLse     :      croppL% syrn .
Beas - BOf,               especilaly In  uDation
Aitkrame, a xuAw          iLthumip, saiom, ani
leaf spDt, (b1ipeas -      miLlets
&Mr
- Develop more effectLve,
- Development of wre       less tcal methtls of pest
efficient crtrol of       corsrol
beai fly
- Study opiimun peodution
- Studies of intercropp-   pracies for each of the
kg Athh m e (climbirg   lggme snder te rage of
types) aid srgt1um         etvironnetal aid elaikd
cxuitiors of ambla
- UmLtel studies on
bminbra grtodnuts,         - Increa, maintain art
pigeon peas, chick pas,   dstribute breeid  seal of
aid guir                   pranisg arg ud cmnaclal
varieties
(a) 1kee FruLrs:   - High cajitrL requlre-    - Varietal Incriductioms      - Fcus effors an cropical and
(tnw plrrity)      malts                      and ewatations fo:lloied      ab-trojLcal species -
by selection of superior,    especiaLlymaipes and
BEaa,  go,         - Lorg establishment       bigh qiality clones           avocados: yield, si2,
a(s, Pap238,    perai                                                       quaUty, aid aceptabillty in
Avocado, Otbers                               - Studies of produrtdon       Mlddle  acst and awope
- ltck of suftabl , goal   practices ard station
quality varieties          trials at Orgu and Mt.        - Establish a iularion
Ikulu                        pLantizg of citnu  butid
- Lack of hinds for                                     saDrce trees frcm certified
resardi aid prmotion       - Studies on decid9us         sDurres, indeKed permoily
fruits (app es and            fDr peorosLs, eKacortis and
- Lak of infomation an    peawes)                       xylop3rosus
rodiuction
- (brduct variety tests of
- Imnerou. pst diseses   - Studies of roducrtion         superior giusas fra  tlk i ,
practic, inclulirg fer-       RErto Rlx
- DIarth of plati1 dlizatdon, irrigation,
stacle                    spacirg, aid pruairg           - (bntinue a mait prcUas of
introdurtlon and sralutlon of
- MirItlqrg, traspDrta-   - PopIption research           eKDtic aid tropicl fmiLts
tion, ludlirg roblems



- 71 -
AEX 2
Pae 7 of 14
CRUNE hcnvnlTES AID
PROGAM 1/           ML)O  O6IR&MM              MRJC AVEIE1                       Fur=
(b) Vq eth:        - Lek of 1nfomtian om    - TdeitLfication of Im-       - (bnt1inL Intratutn a
(ILV priority)       qon ad gm k               wroadi slecto   of maor    screarg of gem pl      Lth
kactkes                   crop, maiiy at NIRS          grearw attention give tD
Itaneme, hie                                                              local vaietLes, esipcday
t,          -1 11.8 aid inse£s        - Developaat of Impracvu     frco IrA and AWRC
o(rwts. Qklan,    and lack of WniD-adon    maugena prartices fir
I QXa,       an pesticide use           spes aid dffAweit            - llb  pstkldes aid develop
Cbxea. REaldn,                               growig ciiios                rtguLar spraya sctiules in
CuSSwa, Cme       -Lik of hlprVa seel                                     insegrati peat antrol
EbtatD,                                      - QiltLvar Ustig and         IcgrBa
dils              - Ljditad fteis strca      selwtioi tWethe *Lth
EgpLntt, Otbers                              idedrfLcation of o4or        - Godut armic triaLs:
- Ezdedeveloped marlets   pests ard dises in           dates ard da2sLty of plmtilg
rape, kale, cobbqge,        aid crp rotaton amalm at
anarathus, cldee cnin,    raiucirg dsLeases ard netedes
tomaaes, chilies, sweet
pepp!r, olka, puspidn,       - Braluate Irriptim  systrs
melo6, fresh beas, pews,    to -dni-ie sreal of diseses
carrs, ad qgplait
- IaLzsie needs of small and
- Studies of pridur-tion     enegaz farows
arcices for ar,e
vstables for differett       - Swey vwtable production
groiu-  oditLons             and uwets in different
rqious of Zaibia
- Cnrductirg of pest and
disease stdies with          - Pracxure breede ard pre-asic
eumpasis on Iost pLact       seams
reslstrce ad ue of less
tmic pesticides
- 2zltipi1cation of pre-
basic seed stacks
Major Aceveen:  tech
niques and practies far
seed prduction of
aaragths, beans,
carlls, on0oins, pEBS,
peppers, rape, and okra
(c) Potatxs       - lack of storage          - *bgoing prcgra  of germ-    - Gontinaue introduction of
(IDU prior.ty)                               plasn introductimn,          genetic materiaL for  creanitg
- Ixaequate vaietal       scrliOg, anid eauLtion       and aralu.tion at aMlmEataa
iaprow.at for yields      for Local alaptar1i
and quality                                            - Pravide narlonal sippLy of
- Production of fourdartki   fouzaticn seals in coll]orar-
- Diadequace fDundaton    sed stocbs and mcoinr1rg    tLon with ZAMSE
seel stack                of diseases
- Terminate manico rlg of
foumlatlim stccks for viruses
- 2:ansfer res-arch activities
to NIRS



- 72 -                                    A2
e 8 of 14
CUR  ACENUIES ARD
1Am   I/            itJ  026MMW               MM AVEI1                         FUB
(d) Iq,tsftubes:  - TDc Ylds (3-6 tIb)    - OUlls:ti, 1intrWwJ±k,   - OtimE asu-smmt of
ad wralrtlon of gunpim    zaiLs1 joal      A  uxiunmd
Ou(am         - TIk of stwae            (vwIr                        MrKiSas at eAu ad trMIS'
(Hih  iority)                                                       xrlarch acvLes t   h
-       in dA4=          - immmk trials kwo1iv-    (Sdwmd) as mm as fz:litls
kg ii-ti * uAntlz           a re  andable
- ydcxcyui: psijg        Pvulations
gocblin.                                              - Coiduc~t verificatLon
- Somae pets - 'MM1C,                                 inturcmppLz5 suidk
neaLy btp
- Mkxdk,r puts ad dis
aid drelop acintcls
- EBqid adi stbn
COl.ldImtloon sIth both IF
and CIAT
%met Pbtato   - Lttel reeac funds   - Very rew impestigtims         -         tn irg of mwgeo-
have bem cwrisd out im      plm and   ry os  gi
date                        trials In coUl   aticm  %Lth
IffA and A~RD
(e) Coffe:        - Prodrtion prarLCt       - Imgcowaieat In podution   - Incrme  eI aq4pUes of
(arabki       for snaUhoDlders          for both amaUbolders aid     hIWi yleldizg vailetles
- Aiabili,lity of Icnpes                              - Pefie praiu:ti*n practes
'ied osi rIriou; wrlc
- SeeiiQ establisbhmt   - Titrdurdom of catmsr
(rust rerLst.t) slections   - Carry out trials ,it.h ra%d-
- ILmses aid pests                                    gzoswirg  Intemoppsd mulcbes
- Trials on spaings,        (wlmnga. ax.             lr edu
ginx, long-tm fertili-   needs aid costs of produrti
zadon and maxamun yield
-- (bduct agDIm*C trials on
- Estabibent of seal        plat spwcrgs, tiue of
priudrztim plots            irritim, fwtlizes and
liming
MajorAd
ilT       and    p xitLon   - Cornu. tD ass introdmed
parties weil deedopdi       materials, espcially fDr
for lbrtbern rwince         diase reistmane ad drotgit
toleraue



- 73 -
AS2 2
Pae gof 14
CtERENY ACT1rE AM
,{lOM  /             N       mIL               MMAIVE                            FU
(f) T-'            - low wDrd mwImt dA-    - Mbiest effort at lnsa         - Cantinue modeat prgr  udch
(law  riority)                               reearch station              operates mainly fr te beit
-low yiedIs                                            of tie pwasltaal  _awua  1
- gronic trials on           Fstate In iuapula  rwkimce ad
- N*zime probw            F,-iI zw respo   . micro-   is marletEl ecdusively to
nutrient rezLrenents,        Ions-Bmoe HDxz; Sh ft
- Wed atro                mulcthg aid weed otrci       rearb suppDrt tD lla
stelies
(g) Ibbamo:        - Low yields, risEg       - (tLy molest effirts at      - Strorgly rea.d tiht
(TlW Wriarty)     costs of prouctln                  sies ie a major       Zaba coLlabaem idth CA3N
research irgram is idtrn ay  and ad tie tDbacco 4m=Ist
Vigkia (fLue-    -   rletirg pmbl.ans        art KLsa  and Bmiet,          tlEe fru tde t oD the w
cred)                                        Zlmbnebe (GLtral African      liaise ilth tiLt guoup
Buxley (air-       - Txk of credit, inputs   Tobaco Iesearch Itwtgrk)
cwedi)                                                                     - Shift tie tDbacco research
- L-k of fai  twr fir                                   ard ectssian  eadquwartes from
tlimdy operations                                       Yabse tD Mchpapa
- Iack of ftiiwoad
S3 SCM             - OrganiztiondL eaklc     - Heiaiarters at It.  3kzlu  - ecmedatilons coerdrig
EEWAW/             uesss: lark of                                          reozganizxg aid steeanlirW
T    vrLy          cooidixatdon ad Jite-                                   all sDil relatBd reearch
gratim                                                  prqgans ard activities  Dauld
(CWgh priority,                                                            be fmiulatid in a spcial
:.e uoler Future   - Cbsolet equLpment                                      bnsultat's tudy
StmAatios)
- Lak of  1ainsi staff
(A) Sample         -Low output of msple      -Raeives, stores aid pe-
Rection am         amalysis                  pares for axaI6is
MLina
(b) Soil. and stry  - Trw oitput             - Gnxhcts silL analysis fDr
rgoixg research projects
-Dpileted soils, low pH,
bigh Al                   -CoDdurts sDil aIal3is for
otbr resarhi prrans,
various public ard private
agerries aid fanmwrs
- Provides mDutim  oil
demical ala.3ses for tie
&il klvisry Section



- 74 -
AN 2
Page 10 of 14
CURRENr  EMV=S AN
PRXGAM 1/            MMJI OONSRA3S             ML= ACEaWEhIS                     FrURE   IHlIAIt
- (bQxurts nutirt wraLua-
tiow fDr stock feeds axd
berbge (admaL scienne)
(c) Sll Thysics   - Higbly umtberI wils    Cr1es out sDil a0alyses
law In  sater a1i rutrlent  fDr valous reaearch
boldirg caparty           pro ste
- (bniuxts aniLytical
services fDr Soil Ravey
thit, reseaxrh stations,
parastatal oigaii dtor
*d) Son mcr        -  Low warip*iy of      - Studies nitrgti flxadson
bioiL:            plmt nuients; hlgh cost by various lqgs
of parched nitmgen,
pbspborts, aid pDtasshum   -  ra1luates efficieny of
different RbmbiaL strains
- Assesses effectdv s of
different inomALi carriers
(b-d)              - L}kc of availabLe       - QmLfies N-fixatdm snd
Special Proj erts   nitrgen                  related studli  u;irg N-15
in leg
- High cost of impDrted
p-xp-ns                   - Sudies nitrgea and
.ater use efficlency on
- Wrter requirents of    irriptei what Ltth N-5,
!dlnter crs (dry sean)   retron Frobes
- BraluLtes the efficienry
of urm super granules vs prille urea
- BraLates rock phospate
as a Cap soDrCe of
phmptnr  lZg P-32/P-33
(e) Soil 9Szvey    - Ned  Dr orgarzid        - laT  Use franrh of the
Uait (NOAD)                    1  mtion   DM  *mhsizes saaU. seal
an Zanbim  soils          mapplig ard systeatc sDil
- Collets data on sDil
types aid prperties



- 75 -                                     Am 2
%e     of 14
CU= ACITUMES AID
PROGAM 1/           ISI  O61RAIDs              MM  A1VEIT                        IUITE
Mto  d rvm:    Sma
acae  sateibultymp fDr
_ii, w8s
- atftiig cultivatimx is  -  uofruestry resrch lus        TcuzI InP ARPr iDrk ( to
u&Iely practiced          oLy rmitly bem dwdeopI    tie ctent posible) axo
(ou priozity-,                               in 72sia urde tIe SERP         llIsme sth Frestry
ae Bitre          - Prluwy nesi is tbe                                      DIprtment tD:
YM sdmtima)    ricycg of plant
nutrients                                                 - Deveiop a sDuLd bsuidation
fDr c    pemxeur aid con-
- Iay erosion occurs in                                   tivw us fi=mik  sgetr8 at
deaI cultivation systens                                 differt lereLs of teh-
mlcgy in de ttgh rainfaU
-     to  cted total                                    acs of &7bia.. PLae
bdemass JrcxhLn                                           special mvL±SLs on te
-  alididbo    systes, lebir
specific Interts and neds
- lksdgate see  teatments
w suftabe tree spwies
adapted tD te reion
- zwvtigate pra:tiral
nurserymethcds for agro-
Ibrestry species; carry ot
field estabishtet trials of
agroforestry tree species
-    vestigae ad descrlbe
perfDonaces ard suitability
of diffrreir tree species in
morthemn Zambia
- Develop efficient agro-
fOrestry crppLrg systeus
suitale fo te} bigh rainfaU
are  to tialo  for coserva-
tioa of znasture, efficient
uae of slar raliaton, aid
available mnrients
- DeviLopmetlhds tD imprcwe
ad    erve sil lrllrces
unwer Inteasve agroforestry
cmppLr, ezg., rill e
plat±i ithals, crop pro-
tectLon, wee 03atrol, and
fertilizer applcation



- 76 -
AN= 2
Pae 12 of 14
CtUMMAirEVrrYES AND
m  .ff      S      - SM  S s are n    us     - Qoppg sstms remarch           lb be   idsi In A1r
ad opicatm; de.gn    is cawatLvevdy              and      a      of Gf wrl:
(liduk in AWPT   is difficult                centaer  at t13 }dulfra
Station (OppErbelt)           - Deteine the gewailk
- Sytms deperd on bio-                                   -.zup-be   syst8ns in define
lcgical, eccmic, aid      - MIjor trls cad st of on-   arm
eOCI Al f8rtDrs           sAtio  experlnmsts ca ilnter-
czopgi  valots canbnadtom    - Caoer cpoent linIa-
- AdML prduction          of Maui, sDybeis, field        ton aid remarch data fDr
systems are very often    beans, gzoundrLts, coieas,     cmp-brnm  systems aId
lniwolvu in croppLig      soighui, axd cssa              priority tawt aas
- Design on-station trials tk
- Studies reqire intexr-                                   wMe mliions Ikr
petacio by wveraL pro-                                   specific and ptet lnet
fesslonos,: crop                                          problens or generate
sdcntists,  atrdo                                        apppLriate maiifiatlot of
c-mponeBts of tie sym8
scetists, 6coiists,
and others                                                - lxereme cxop ad kiod pro,
ductim tbntgh mmtLfkatkm
of adstiog cmpi jzttra
aid syss
mz:  AND FAU(   - Rmr mllblder: lack    - MinimSaL orDigo   urk at           QTeral aim:
_______            of draft pner;    w       More
slotq  at peak peials;                                   - Ircrease  gricultural
(Hlgh prioxity)    iabereit difflcultLes     - Testirg ad eralumaig in-    prodtLou tirotgh
-.sth timely lai          comtry m-diai t       'appropria  aid efferdtve
prepewatLon               eqiLpmermt                     till1ge techniqus and
equLpuint
- For large fimers:
high cost aid                                            - Derelop fan-g systems in-
labil ity of Inputs                                       valvirg minsmn dcaft pnier
aid soil distumbEite
- ouestlotoble ume of
appropriate tillage                                      - PraiDte Mnre efficdet use
metinds                                                   of draft animals and
assodatel equijpmt
- Overall relatistdlps
of mecJuidcal vs bard ard                                - Improme raze and
draft   ar                                                efficie  of burd-operatd
machinery
- Bcxlore irctcal sethxds
fDr siVg Various sDes ol
energy fr aiule
- Rwxmmd field opwation
pacti:oe a  cdop"Lr
systeps t r rte- eail a
%ater caosvatlon



- 77 -                                    i     4 ^
Pge 13 of 14
-Ra E'IL1S MUD
,*K 1/           n       s 01E1RAUTS           MM  AVEIM                         PUUNE 1JDE
- lYme tiut sitdIs im-
PDZta .ucnyis mi Idb
(a) P3Cnt Protse-  - Neeog dimases and    - Rwlms urk bus                   - Aldee inC.ated pest
tu                 -insect pests of cerels,   -et, ifated m the Meitlfi- ictl for 7ain's maor
oil seat czmp, tee        cation of dieases aid          cmzW
(!Hgh prloity)    cm;, vgetables, aid        inEect pests of mijor crops
rain lqumes                                              - Siirt-teu obJectives:
- Evatustton of pesticides     idetLfy tim natre of t}e
for xtrdl of pes t             prbleu as    tie effica
of valroi peaticidow; ard
Major Ach      t:   wc-        quwaLfy pesdeeatei lasem
mwdatlozs founulate for
pest catrl                     - IOx Dt   objecvies:
ercreei varleties for
resistaec- bread fDr
resistg3e; cETY OMo
epdicaAcd  stuffe; am
dwelop bolcgl  ad
cultiral cmtrols
(b) ibWd   search    weeds ae oftai tbe      - &xeiig of bierblcde fDr   - idtify j tkuBt we!
major Mrables 1imitl      the most conpcwu irobles   Irobis of major czps in
(Hfilu-Wgh             l    r opeatio,    on laq  fanus                     col1boratioa idth caualt
pionity)          ad are tie largest                                        teans and AFM
corsumer of peraml        - aDtedfatioS of opItmm
labor                     weeilg periods                 - Verify berbicide
recamisdid  for Uida, aid
- Research cotxainrts    _      racterizatlon of  the    s       ow on  to deterine
ilxrUe support ard        Wee prCbl= for dLfferet        crop stivity, rates, aid
traiied personnel         crops, seasons, and situ-      times of applicatlon
ticis
- Ebcune metiuds of mud
contrd applicable tD    I
fames, eg., timely
- UIetale spei  peabiem
fDr specfic cmip lii
Rottboellia. einltats
restant tD maim
bkbicMes; aid I u     mi
(St4  a)tM



ANNEX 2
- 78 -                                   Page 14 of 14
c     AC=VTES AMD
PFGAM 1/            MfM OMDAIN                 MUCR /CE3 fIS                     PtMsE        EP  n;
Eao aN9m
AND SMROE
(a) DIbl          -Pst iravest jroblens    - Data co]taion on tin           - CDoinm  caupwadve trial'
(pcaiD         my result in losses of    Ierrb  storage bdn i&th        of the Ferrum  aid
(b) Qanistry       25 percent or greater     miectid fers                   tralidonuL --Ial fimer
(c) P-isules                                                               storae bin
(d) Stozge        -    hsewch is contraim-   - Omantitadve malsis of
Bgine.rg  ei by lalk of t=ane            stDrage of psticides in         - PrCxDe h4i quaity Wain
(e) Exrmdoni/     staff and supprt:          temns of stilf life, reldue    ald fimd-s   tlwcgh
frainlig      fuiixg, miaatenanoe,       I taninait in foids ard        nutrient ard pesticide
and f3cities              tests of psticldes for seed    aaleyes
CreaUnant
-Survey grain bins aLowg th
- Special stuies aon tte       1mzmi boiDe  to guand
lager grain borer             gginst entry of the lacger
gain borer
Major Ac :eveieits  dereLop-
ment of tie Ferrubu grain      - Ebl1d orate widLi pEmoflm
storge bin                     ecrensLon staff in dis:n.
-on of constrxution
D-anlaon ar benefLts of
the Ferrumbu storage bin
Note
lie priorlty ratirgs (-igJh;, 'Miun  -low -) are meant tD irdicAre areed re1atid   impDrtae to be attar
to individuaI research  grans dtriig the flrst ;hase, in rmns of pblic ftitxig and staffhg. A     4AnIigl
CI  prioritf does nt neesarily mem tiat tke pwticular comnodity or specialist remarch prnam is
julgel tD be utnprtant. It indicates tiat otier activities dea    iriozity allocation of sarce reseorces
and/cc thit present koDi&LeJ  is aieqate in relation tD kmln  presnt and meditw-teu  needs, or tbEt ontre
reearch or tie private sector wuld fill a partcuLar void, if any.



- 79 -
Annex 3
Page 1 of 2
ZAMBIA
Agricultural Research and Extension Project
Training of Research and Extension Staff
1.        The proposed Project would support a national long-range training
program for both research and extension staff, as well as training of
farmers in the three provinces covered under the Project. Technical
researrh and extension staff would receive mostly local in-service and
on-the-job training, while research and extension professional-level staff
and managers would receive both post-gra4uate and in-service training in
Zambia ancL abroad. Locally provided in-service training would be mostly
conducted during the non-peak production season and would focus on the
priorities established for research and extension programs. The training
program would emphasize the attainment of knowledge and skills to improve
the technical and managerial performance of staff and to increase their
efficiency, particularly in relation to routine management and
administrative chores which now take up about 40-50% of the time of
research scientists and extension professionals. The Project would provide
the following training program:
A. Research
(a)  Twenty-four manyears of fellowships for post-graduate
training at NSc level, mainly for Commodity Researchers, to
provide them with the necessary academic background to
undertake research work, and 30 manmonths of short-term
training (6-8 weeks) for selected researchers in
international or regional research centers to broaden their
experience of research appropriate to their work program.
(b) Twenty m'anmonths for senior research staff to participate in
international or regional workshops and seminars.
(c) One hundred fifty manmonths for short-term management,
technical and administrative courses and workshops conducted
in the country in order to:
(i)    strengthen research mnnagers' skills in planning,
budgeting and managing of research programs;
(ii)   provide professional and technical officers and
technical assistants with specialized knowledge and
skills to improve research work;
(iii) improve the performance of support staff (laboratory
technicians, equipment operators, research station
administrative officers).
(e) US$250,000 (for airfare, supervision and other expenses) for
selected students to carry out their dissertation or their
research).



- 80 -                   Annex3
Page 2 of 2
2.        The above training program is one phase of a coherent long-term
plan to upgrade the staff in the Research Branch. For the degree program,
the Branch would select individuals based on priorities and complexity of
the commodity research program they would work with. In addition, to make
research exqperience of the candidate more relevant to the needs of Zambia,
the Project would provide funds to selected students to carry out their
dissertation or thesis research in Zambia.
B. Extension Staff
(a)  Eight manyears for post-graduate training at MSc level, and
45 manmonths of short-term fellowships (up to 3 months) for
selected SMSs, in relevant agricultural institutions to
provide them with the skills and expertise needed to improve
the performance of the extension program;
(b) Ninety manweeks of fellowships for study tours (up to three
weeks each) for senior managers and SMSs, to observe
extension programs in countries such as Kenya, Thailand,
India, Israel and Brazil;
(c) Thirty manmonths for senior management at DOA in Regional
Management Centers or institutes (Kenya, Swaziland,
Zimbabwe, Tanzanla-Arusha) and about 180 manweeks of
in-country courses and workshops for extension managers at
national and provincial levels to improve their: management
skills in planning, budgeting and administering extension
programs;
Cd) About 40 manweeks for senior staff to participate in initial
and oid-project review planning workshops designed to review
annual work plans, and define functions and responsibilities
for Project implementation;
(e) About 600 manyears of in-country courses and workshops
(generally 1-3 days each) for about 2,000 selected staff
(national, provincial and district SMSs, block supervisors
and extension workers) to provide them with technical
knowledge and job specific skills needed to disseminate
technical recommendations to farmers; and
Cf) Some 375 manyears training Ci to 2 days each) to about
73,000 farmers over the Project period to improve their
agricultural practices and farm management skills.
C. Other Professional Staff
3.        The Project would also provide 2 manyear fellowships at MSc
level; 15 uanmontha of short-term overseas training and 83 manmonths of
in-country training for staff and enumerators responsible for implementing
the MEX activities funded under the Project, and 2 manyears for fellonsbips
at MSc level for a training officer. Provincial training specialists would
also receive about 56 manweeks of local training during the Project period.



- 81 -                 Annex 3
Appendlx I
Page 1 of 4
ZAMRBIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION
Indicative Training Schedule
P1    P2    P3    P4   Total
(Persons)
I. Agricultural Research Component
A. Degree Training
MSc a/                                      1     4      4     3     12
B. Short-term Training
Training Abroad
International Centers or Universities b/  2       5     5      3     15
Study Yzours, Conferences, Workshops  '7   4    12    12    12       40
Subtotal.            6    17    17    15      55
In-Country Training d/
1. Project Implementation Workshops        20    -     20    -       40
Research Managers Training             20    -     20    -       40
Professional Staff Training
(MSc & BSc)                         25    25    25    -        75
Technical Staff (DIP)                  40    40    40    40    160
Agricultural Assistants (CERT)         -     30    30    30      90
Support and Administrative Staff       -    100   100    -      200
Subtotal           105   195   235    70    605
Total              112   216   256    88    672
al Each NSc - two manyears of training.
b/ Each person up to three months of training.
cl Each person about two weeks.
dJ  Staff in each category would undergo about one and a half weeks of
training during the project period (see Sta'f Establishuent, Annex 1,
Table T-16).



- 82 -
Annex 3
Appendix I
Page 2 of 4
P1    P2    P3    P4   Total
(Person-sT
II. Agricultural Extension Component
A. Degree Training
MSc                                         1     2      1    -       4
B. Short-term Training
Training Abroad
International Centers or Universities a/ -        5      5     5     15
Group Tours to Ag Extension Services bT   5    10    10        5     30
Seminar Management Training cl             -      5     5    -       10
S3 btotal     -T    2- 2 0- -b 10       3
In-Country Training                   Days
_. Project Implementation Workshop
Extension HQ staff                5   20    -      20    -      40
Provincial staff                  5   25    -      30    -      55
District staff                    1  135    -    170    -    305
Subtotal    180    =   220    =   400
2.  In-Service Training
Pre-season technical training    3   80    80   120   120   400
Fornightly training               1  700   700  1000  1260  3660
Monthly workshops for SMSs        1   35    35    63    60   190
SHS refresher coursesa/          10   25    30    35    40   130
Ext. methodology for BSc and
CEWs                          8  100   100   250   250   700
Farm management training for BSc 5   25    25    50    50   150
Selected training in specific
subject matter (M&E,
Extension Methodology,
Communication)                  6   20    20    25    30    95
Subtotal     985   990  1540  1810  5325
3. Management Training for senior
managers at DOA and provinces  5   30    30    30    30   120



- 83 -                         Annex 3
Appendix 1
Page 3 of 4
P1    P2    P3    P4   Total
(Persons)
4. Exchange Visits
Field staff evaluation of
extension method implementation
in other districts               3  80    80    80   120   360
Total      1284  1122  1891  1970  6264
C. Farmer Training
Orientatic                             i  33000 -    40000  -  73000
Specific re.Lresher course in
production techniques                2h, 2000 3000 6000 6000 17000
Farm management courses                 2    500  600  725  875 2.700
a/  Each person up to 3 months.
bI Group tours to visit Extension Services (i.e., Kenya and other African
countries, Israel, India, Thailand).
c/  Special management courses up to 3 months in Regional Management
Institutes, i.e., Swaziland, Zimbabwe, Kenya, Tanzania-Arusha).
d/  Review and/or preparation of Pyl work plans and distribution of project
implementation responsibilities.
e/  4-5 courses per year for 2-21 days each.
fI 2 courses per year of 3 days each.
j/ Divided into sessions of 2-3 hour duration.
h/  Only in areas of project implementation.



- 84 -                          Annex 3
Appendix 1
Page 4 of 4
P1    P2    P3    P4   Total
(Persons)
III. Research and Extension Training Component
A. Degree Training
MSc in Adult Education and
Curriculum Design                               1                  1
B. Short-term Training
In-Country Training
Provincial Training Specialists a/          8    16    16    16      56
Total                8    iT    Tf    16      57
IV. Monitoriug and Evaluation Copmonent
A. Degree Training
HSc                                        -       1     1    -       2
Short-term Training
B. Overseas Training
Short Courses on M&E or related
fields a/                                -      2     3      3      8
Study Tours to observe M&E systems
in other countries c/                    -      2     3      3      8
Subtotal            -      4     6     6      16
C. In-Country Training
Senior Staff Worksho s at HQ d             20          20    -       40
M&E senior officers           b            30    -     30    -       60
M&E Officers Annual Training _/            -     30    30    30      90
M&E Enumerators and District
Extension Supervisors Training 94        60   125   125   125    435
M&E Enumerators Training Sessions  -I  360   360   360   1080
Subtotal    -      110   515   565   515  1T705
Total              110   520   572   521   1723
a/   About 1.5 weeks of organization of training programs, methods and
techniques for Provincial Training Specialists and selected District
Supervisory Staff.
b/   M&E Officers - up to three months - specific training at universities.
cE   Senior Evaluation Officers.
d/   About 3 days for senior staff at HAWD HQ.
e/   One month training for M&E Officers at HQ and Provinces.
fJ   About 3 weeks training each year.
.&/   About one week per year.
h/   Training sessions of up to one day.



- 85 -                           ANNEX 4
ZAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Summary of Available Technical Reconmendations
Central and Lusaka Provinces
1.        Technical recommendations are available for hybrid maize, local
maize, cotton, sunflower, soybeans and groundnuts.
Yield Range
Crop                 Variety                                       (kg/ha)
Hybrid Maize         MM752 New -cleaned up- version of SR52    2,000-3,500
Open Pollinated
Maize              M4V600                                      1,000-2,500
Sunflower            Composite CCA75, Russian Black Giant          500-1,000
Soybeans             Bernon 147, Magoye                            500-1,200
Grounduuts           Hakulu Red, Chalimbana                        350-  700
cotton               Chiala, Chureza                               700-1,200
Northern Province
2.        Technical recommendations are available for hybrid maize, open-
polinated maize, beans, groundnuts and cotton.
Yield Range
Crop                 Variety                                       (kg/ha)
Hybrid Maize         NM752                                       2,000-3,200
Open Pollinated
Maize              MMV600, Population                          1,000-2,200
Cotton               Chiala, Chureza                               600-1,000
Groundnuts           Makulu Red                                    350-  700
Beans                Speckled Sugar                                350-  750
3.        Recommendations are available for three levels of management,
vary with agro-ecological zone, and include improved cultural practices,
use of fertilizer and pesticides where appropriate. Emphasis under the
project will be placed on identifying farmers by' recommendation domain-
and, according to their resources, movlag them up the productivity scale.
Speclal attention will be given to encouraging greater use of seed dressing
ana protection of crops in store. In Central Province, special emphasis
will be placed on encouraging greater use of draught oxen, and in Northern
Province promising trials with lime on some of the soils may lead to a
viable recommendation for wider use during the life of the project. The
ARPTs together with extension SHSs are reviewing appropriate
recommendations for crops such as cassava, millet, sorghum and beans, but
real advances with these traditional crops may well have to await further
applied and adaptive research.



- 86 -                           ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 3
ZAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
The Project Areas
A. Lusaka Province
1        Physical Features. Lusaka Province (area: 22,000 km2) is divided
into three districts, 18 extension blocks, and 17 camps, all of which would
be reached by reorganized extension services under the project. The
province is covered on the west by the highland plateau that extends over
most of Zambia, and on the eastern and southern parts by valleys and
escarpments along the country's three major rivers (Zambezi, Kafue and
Luangwa). Altitudes range from 300-400m in the valleys to 1,200-1,400m on
the plateau. Soils vary in texture from heavy black clays to sand, sandy
loams, and red-brown loams. Annual rainfall ranges from 750 to 850mm,
making it possible to grow most crops under normal weather conditions. The
valley areas, however, receive insufficient rainfall for maize and are
frequently hit by drought. The coldest m')nths are June-July wnen minlmum
temperatures average around 9C and light ground frost occurs.
Temperatures in the hottest months, September-December, can exceed 30°C.
2         Population and Land Use.  In 1980, the province had a population
of some 694,000, of which 22% lived in rural areas. About half the rural
population lives on the fertile plateau lands, while the valley areas are
relatively sparsely populated. About 10% of farms in the province are more
or less mechanized and produce a considerable marketable surplus for the
urban population, while, on the other end of the spectrum, roughly half the
farm households produce barely enough food for their own subsistence. The
province had a total of over 35,000 ha under the major cash crops and
produced some 217,40C bags of marketed maize in 1982183, but in the last
few years of low rainfall it has been meeting only 20-25% of its own
consumption needs. In addition to producing about half the province's
marketed maize, commercial farmers are almost exclusive producers of wheat
and soybeans. Sunflower is grown extensively by emergent farmers. Almost
all subsistence farmers grow some maize, and some 20% also grow groundnuts
and sorghum and some sunflower. Cotton is doing suite well on the plateau
and has potential for increased production in the valley areas where it is
too dry for other crops. The province is also important for livestock
farming, including cattle ranching, dairying, pigs, poultry, sheep and
goats.
B. Central Province
3.        Physical Features.  Central Province (area: 94,400 km2) comprises
5 districts, 36 extension blocks and 111 camps, all of which would be
reached by reorganized extension services under tha project. The
topography is dominated by the fertile highland plateau which covers large
parts of Zambia. Soils in the province show considerable variation



- 87 -
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 3
including red clays, red-brown loams, sandy to sandy loams, and floodplain
soils. The average annual rainfall ranges from 800mm in the south to over
1,100mm in the northeast. Minimum temperatures in the coldest months
(June-July) average around 9C, while temperatures during
September-December can exceed 30C.
4.        Population and Land Use.  The province had a population of some
513,800 in 1980. It generally 1 _s an agriculturally-oriented economic
base, with over 200,000 ha under cultivation of major cash crops and
producing some 35% of total marketed maize in Zambia in 1982/83. Over
72,000 households (58Z of the total) live in rural areas, and about 40,000
of these are estimated to produce a surplus of staple foods. Some 400
large-scale commercial farmers cultivate an average of 200 ha each, mainly
based on rainfed cropping but with some irrigation from dams, weirs and
boreholes. The cropping pattern is dominated by maize, supplemented by
beef, cotton, sunflower and tobacco and, to a lesser extent, wheat and
dairying. Traditional farms, ranging in size from 0.8 to 2 ha, use hand
cultivation and only occasionally produce a surplus for market. Maize,
cassava, finger millet and sorghum, and sometimes rice, are the major
smallholder crops. About 4,000 emergent farmers, cultivating 2-5 ha each
with ox and tractor hire, grow maize as the staple crop for marketing and
supplement their incomes by growing millet and fishing. An EEC-funded
Maize Production Project is providing infrastructure and services in credit
and ox-extension. With proposed strengthening under the project of Mt.
Makulu as the main research station for the central zone, the Kabwe
Regional Research Station in Central Province will be phased out.
C. Northern Province
5.        Physical Features. Northern Province (area: 147,510 km2)
comprises ten districts, of which three would be reached on a pilot basis
by reorganized extension services under the project. The province is
covered over a large part by a gently undulating plateau varying between
1,200 and 1,700 m. Most soils are heavily leached and acidic, with low
inherent fertility sZi light texture. They can lose their fertility,
organic content and physical structure quite rapidly under prolonged
cultivation, and therefore require careful management under a relatively
intensive, settled agricultural system. The province receives higher
rainfall than the rest of Zambia (900-1,300 -m annually), and its lack of
frost gives it an advay;tage over southe:n Zambia for horticultural
production in the cool season. Temperatures range from 10-30°C, with a
mean of 15.40 and average of 20°.
6.        Population and Land Use.  The province's population in 1980 was
estimated at 678,000, of whom about 560,000 Cincluding some 93,000
estimated farmers) lived in rural areas. The province had over 40,000 ha
under major cash crops and produced 653,000 bags of marketed maize in
1982/83. Farm sizes vary; an estimated 5% of holdings are up to 50 ha and
the rest are 2 ha or less. Cassava, beans, sweet potatoes, rice, maize and



-88 -                        ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 3
groundnuts are the main crops grown. The traditional farming system which
dominates Northern Province is a type of shifting ('chitemene') axe and
plow cultivation on the plateau. There are also some areas of river valley
and lake basin agriculture, where, in the absence of tree cover on the
partially water-logged soils, a semi-permanent hoe system of agriculture is
practised based on cassava cultivation, and in restricted locations rice is
of minor importance. Major on-going projects in the province include SIDA
and ODA-funded Integrated Rural Development Programs (IRDPs), an EEC-funded
rice program and a NORAD-funded Village Agricultural Program, all of which
aim at development of rural infrastructure and institutions. The Misamfu
Regional Research Station in Northern Province is proposed to be upgraded
under the project to the zonal station for the northern high-rainfall zone.



ANNEX 6
- 89 -                  Page 1 of 5
ZAMBIA
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSIJN AND RESEARCH PROJECT
Terms of Reference of Key Technical Assistance Personnel
A. Project Implementation Officer (PIO)
Job Description
1.        The PIO would play the major role in assisting the Director of
DOA and his staff in the overall implementation of the Project. He would
be a member of the National Project Implementation Committee (NPIC), and
serve as its Executive Officer. His substantive terms of reference are
described in para. 4.03.
Qualification and Experience
2.        The PIO would have at least a Master Degree in either
engineering, agriculture, agricultural economics, or related fields. He
would have a minimum of five years in at least medium level management
position related to agricultural development project in developing
countries, preferably in Africa.
B. Manpower Development and Training Specialist (MDTS)
Job Description
1.        The primary responsibility of the MDTS would be to advise and
support the Principal Training Officer of the RETU in all matters relating
to the functions of RETU as set out in para. 4.10.  In addition, he would
be responsible for:
(a) Preparing, togeLher with the short-term consultancy under
the project, long-term projections of manpower needs for
professional staff for the agricultural sector as a whole,
and a coriesponding training program to meet the
requirements;
(b)  Reviewing the curriculum and enrollments in the various
local agricultural training institutions for the purpose of
ensuring that they are consistent with the country's needs;
(c) Organizing implementation of the training program and, as
necessary, conducting training course under the Project;
(d) Maintaining records of the training program; and
(e)  Conducting periodic evaluation of the training program, and
assess the progress of the local counterpart staff towards
taking over from the expatriate staff.



- 90-                    ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 5
Qualification and Experience
2.        The MDTS would have a minimum of a post-graduate degree in
agriculture or related fields. He would also have at least five years of
experience in agricultural education and training, preferably in developing
countries.
C. Extension Methodology Specialist (EMS)
Job Description
1.       The main responsibllity of the EMS would be to advise and asslst
DOA staff, both at the HQ and in the Project areas, implement a suitable
extension methodology along the T&V system, modifled to reflect Zambian
conditions.  To this end, he would liaise closely with the MDTS with regard
to the training of all staff in extension methodology, and with the
Agricultural Communication Specialist with regard to the design and
production of audio-visual aids.  Sore specifically, the EMS wou'd:
(a) Design an extension methodology, along T&V system, suitable
for Project areas and supervlse its implementation;
(b) Coordinate a two-way flow of information on training
necessities and opportunities between the Extension Branch
and the Research and Extension Training Unit;
(c) Advise in the production and/or provision of extension aids
approve their use in the Extension Branch;
(d) Assist and advise, whenever necessary, in the adaptation of
the T & V system to specific local conditions;
(e) Participate in the monitoring and evaluation exercises; and
(f) Conduct courses, seminars and workshops ln extension
methodology.
Qualifications and Experience
2.       The EMS would have a post-graduate degree in Agricultural
E=tension and at least five years' experience in a leading position related
to field extension management in a developing country, preferably under the
T & V system. Knowledge and understanding of the Zambian agricultural and
extension system would be an advantage.
D. Agricultural Communications Specialist (ACS)
Job Description
1.       The main responsibility of ACS would be to assist and advise DOA
on improving the Agricultural Communication Center for the purpose of
supporting extension services with audio-visual aids through mass medla,
posters and handouts; and for the purpose of strengthening the linkage



- 91 -                     ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 5
between research and extension services. He would closely liaise with EMS
and t1DTS. More specifically-, the ACS would:
(a) Supervise the preparation and production of various kinds of
extension literature and audio-visual aids for use by
extension workers;
(b) Advise in the use of extension aids of all kinds, by
extension personnel;
(c) Devise ways and means for the quick and timely transfer of
agricultural technology to extension workers and farmers;
(d)  Assist in the management of the Agricultural Communications
Center; and
(e) Train local staff in agricultural communication techniques.
Qualifications and Experience
2.        The ACS would have a post-graduate degree in Agricultural
Communications, or Agricultural Extension; and seven years' experience in
preparation and production of extension literature and audio-visual aids,
including slides, film strips, and video recordings. He would also have a
working knowledge and experience of radio and film script-writing,
recording, and broadcasting, as well as experience in organizing
agricultural exhibitions and fairs.
E. General Maintenance Engineer and
Laboratory Equipment Maintenance Specialists
Job Description
1.        These specialists would be responsible for planning and
implementing an efficient system of maintenance of all physical facilities
of the Research Branch, including buildings, vehicles, farm machinery and
scientiEic equipment. To this end, they would assist DOA to:
(a) Develop and update, as needed, a comprehensive plan for the
routine maintenance of the facilities, especially for the
research services;
(b) Establish and maintain workshops, complete with equipment,
spare parts and supplies, adequate to carry out the needed
maintenance;
(c) Recruit qualified mechanics, carpenters and other workers to
maintain an adequate cadre to do proper maintenance;
(d) Give and/or arrange for regular on-the-job training of the
maintenance crew members;
Ce) Prepare specifications for procurement of vehicles and
equipment;



ANNEX 6
-92-                         Page 4 of 5
(f) Set up and implement a system, within government
regulations, to clear out the accumulation of unserviceable
and inoperable vehicles, machinery, and equipment on
research stations, and to establish and implement procedures
for routinely boarding off non-serviceable equipment; and
(g) Arrange for and supervise implementation of an efficient
system of maintenance and repair of scientific equipment.
F. Services Coordinator
Job Description
1.        The Services Coordinator would be responsible for assisting DOA
to:
(a) Be aware of the service needs of the various CRTs in the
Research Branch and the needs of the Extension Branch for
assistance from research staff in in-service training of
extension staff and in farmer training and education
programs;
*b)  Program the service functions, in consultation with CRT
coordinators and their supervisors, to maintain a proper
balance between the time individuals spend in support
functions and other duties;
(c) Carry out the above, assure that strong linkages are built
and maintained between the research and extension branches;
and
(d) Supervise forward planning and the preparation of budgets
for the service units.
Qualifications and Experience
2.        PhD degree in fields related to technical agricultural research
services, and at least seven years' experience in research programming and
budgeting, and coordination.
G. Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist (f&ES)
Job Description
1.        The M&ES would assist DOA in establishing effective M&E units at
the HQ and in the Provinces under the Project, in implementing an M&E
system capable of guiding the day-to-day management of the Project and
periodically assess Project impact on macro-objectives and institution-
building goals. For the latter aspects, he would closely liaise with the
Planning Division. More specifically, the M&ES uould:
(a) Design and supervise implementation of a second M&E systelu;



ANNEX 6
- 93 -                         Page 5 of 5
(b) Help technical officers in the Department to define their
work programs in the context of the overall project strategy
and to develop suitable indicators which may be used to
monitor and assess Project's performance;
(c) Train M&E officers to mount provincial monitoring programs
and to conduct surveys that will yield rapid and relevant
information;
(d) With the support of the Computer System Analyst, compile
periodic summary reports from the provincial M&E surveys and
disseminating the survey findings to senior officers in the
Department and to the National Agricultural Research and
Extension Council (NAREC); and
(e) Take a leading role in annual and mid-term reviews.
Qualifications
2.        The M&ES would have an advanced degree in economics, statistics,
or relevant social science, with at least five years'experience of
conducting rural surveys or of monitoring and evaluation in Africa or in
Asia. A knowledge of survey systems (sampling, data collection, data
processing and analysis) is essential, as is familiarity with the use of
micro-computers. Experience of managing an agricultural development
project and of the application of modern management techniques to such
projects would be a distinct advantage.
R. Computer Systems Analyst (CSA)
Job Description
1.        The CSA would be responsible for advising DOA on all aspects of
computerized data processing and analysis of the M&E surveys. He will,
wherever possible, make use of commercially available software rather than
write them himself. Re would work closely with the data processing unit of
the Planning Division. His primary responsibilities would include:
(a)  Developing a data base, a data analysis system, and
undertaking the required analysis;
(b) Training of the local M&E officers and M&E assistants in the
use of micro-computers and analysis of M&E data;
(c) Providing technical backstopping to the Provincial M&E
offices; and
(d) Assisting the X&ES in preparation of reports.
Qualifications
2.        A degree in Computer Sciences or Statistics or in a related field
with at least Eour years' experience of computerized survey data
processing. He would also have at least three years' experience in
developing and running micro-computer systems.



- 94 -
-ZAMBIA                       ANNEX 7
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
SelecteA Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Selected Reports and Studies on the Sector
A-1  IBRD:  -Zambia - Agricultural Research and Extension Review-; November
29, 1983 (Report No. 4591-ZA)
.x-2  IBRD:  -Zambia - Policy Options and Strategies for Agricultural
Growth-; June 11, 1984 (Report No. 4764-ZA)
A-3  IBRD:  -Zambia - Agricultural Pricing and Parastatal Performance
Study-; May 1, 1985 (Report No. 5556-ZA, confidential draft)
A-4  :IAD:  -Annual Agricultural Statistical Bulletin, 1983-; December 1984
A-5  MAWD:  -Comparative Assessment Study of Zambia Integrated Rural
Development and Agricultural Development Programs; 1March 1984
(Planning Division Special Study No. 6)
A-6  NCDP:   The Policy Implications of the Roles of Women in Agriculture
in Zambia; August 1984 (Constantina Safilios-Rothschild, The
Population Council)
A-7  GRZ:   -Blueprint for Agricultural Development in Lusaka Province;
November 1984 (Provincial Planning Unit)
B. Selected Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
B-1  MAWD:  -Zambia - Strategy for Agricultural Research; November 1984
B-2  MAWD:  -Zambia - Strategy for Agricultural Extension; November 1984
B-3  MAWD:  -Zambia - Investment Program:  Agricultural Research and
Extension"; November 1984
B-4  VAWD:  -Zambia - Agricultural Research and Extension Project:
Inventory of Research Facilities and Equipment; November 1984
(the above reports were produced with the assistance of International
Agricultural Development Service, U.S.A.)
C. Project Implementation Volume (Selected Working Papers)
C-1 through C-4: Technical Papers
C-1 Agricultural Extension
C-2 Training
C-3 Civil Works
C-4 Monitoring and Evaluation
C-5: Detailed Cost Tables



ill                                                                   'Iiipil
'ItiI  _i II ei                                                                          XI
iii9 ii



ZAMBIA                                                 Clinrt 2
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Ministry of Agriculture and Water Development
Proposed Structure of the Department of Agriculture
, . .N. .
Penronl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Prjc
Smfeforv
MAMD
Utndetm aokiV
I 
|MIS                            Cvoormd                                                                               nlot|
Account"n Socilon
rfaining      _lnanclul Otnfu
Unil                                                  |CanltraIlk
RESEANCII BRlANCH                                                            EXItIN    IANCII
I                                                                                 I5hal II H^N 
Assistant                                                                     Assistant
Director of                                                                   C)rocklof c
Agricullure                                                                   Acrcuffuio
(Resourch)                                                                   (}ki br)n)
CARO                             CARO                                   CAEO                                         CAEO
Rosoorch                        fItvC,Caj                               Exktwon     I                                 Goneral
Programs                          Semcos                                ProOrI                                        sofrvicas
CRT                Resocarch               Service,clt                                     Agr culuO
C00id0olatsr            Statico.s            Coorciiator                                         Ofjrar                  Units
V.'orld flonk -306891



I~~~~~~~~~~~
I:H tl
I~ _______        i
T~~~~~~~~~~11 ii7X



I
-            'A'!  II p11     I 
I~~~~~I
9  ~ ~ I              I                       I I
''i   111   iI
I           III 
ill    If~~~~~~~~  I
II          1511~~~~I 



- 99 -
ZAMBIA                                                      Chart 5
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXFISION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
VW       1t16          1967                                       1019                         1992
AC11PAWJUARMI                             1  2  3  4    1  2  3  4   It  2  3    I 12  3    1         21 3  4  1j2   3  4  1t  2   31
PROJECr-EFFECTlVENESS                    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ 
RESEARCH CrVI WORK~S 
Ao0ointment of Design Crsuflonts                            I                        i
- Prearotion or Designs & Tenoer Do asuents
Zoncs Stations I
-Pe,n  Statoons
Tral Sites
Preaual.tloation of Contractors
Tenoe-Vn
ZorKo Statons
Regional Steon s
Tfot Sites
Construction
noa                     I  I  I              z                     I  I  ~~I  I      I
Zonci S      5  ations                                                                            1    _ 
LusakaO WVestmi                                                       mi
Ncongo
Regiona Saions                                                        II          *imimL Oo. _|
Nek"lrthemPn-¢tno e                 I  |  I  II 1
Tril" Sites
Longe                                                            .{        I
Chrrunou
EXTENSION & TRAIt*1G WORKS
PTearatlo ant fDesigns & Tender DocuirtlkInts
Tendering
Prxase I
Phose I
CoinstructionI
HedouQurters                                                           UEU
Lusako Province                                                    UUII
Northem Pru.tnce                                                                               .~J
EQUIPMENT & VEHKL:FS
Trepnderng  ofTIa Ccf-
TIenowotio    TeorDouet
kiduding 15e first ftsae dweelnornn at Golden VolIev Form                                                                WroBn-08-



:2          Z ZAM B I A    t
AG.37RICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSION PROJECT
RESEARCH STATIONS AND SITES
EXTENSION PROIECT ARrA                           NATIONAL PARKS
REGIONAL STATIONS. PHASE-OUT                 -    MAN ROADS
*  REGIONAL STATIONS. RETAINED                        RAILWAYS
13  REGIONAm STATIONS TO BECOME ZONAL STATIONS   *   INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT
0   CENTRAL STATION TO BECOME ZONAL STATION  t   AIRFIELDS
o  SUBSTATOONS 7o BFCOILf TRIAL SITES            -   RIERS
C   SUBSTATIONS. PHASE-OUT                       -   SWAMPS
N               A   tRIAL SITES. RETAINED                        *   NATIONAL CAPITAL
A   tRtAL SITES. PHASE-OUT                       0   PROVINCE CAPITALS
*   SPECIALIZED STATION                         - -  DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
;O   NEW ZONAL STATiON                           -   PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
o3  NEW REGIONAL STATION                              INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
A   NEVW TRIA. Si.ES
r-
t*  __                      x                 Z         A          I        R          E
/    _AWINILUNGA    %.l.
n~~~~~~~~~~~
')      M.ungo           ,                         5 S,
A N GC O  L A                        I                                -
-  MW/4NILUNGA j
K                        ~~~~~~~~So6ez'
.  \    j          ~~~~5 0 L W/ Z   
MUTANDA0J
(.     }   i -IR        F 
j~~ ~ ,*T~                                     PTs ;  ;Zrs         
; X  KAEOO               TN H
A E.E',          '    y7-    N.
!            -           K A L &  O
\~- '.A        I       -,                           . '-
L                         - -                                    - 1 KA -
\ ~ ~ ~ L~L              - E   -. 1                          >Sj> G                    
*                                                                    -l*/iC           
\                                                         M\\  MM;bWZ  1   '   
,KYALAFO                             NGE
Ko6bd  pjo-,LOGE U
*KALABO   r f Ld
NAMUS~JA  E%ITh~A            ALLEY-' ~         4 
!j/,   Lc  T  -,E-              i                            Non/\I
1 G       ) NAMWaL    MA
S E ~1j - 
__No-ges  NGA M                                                                     % B I -   A1
tr  2,2-                    2r .~~-i;TSWANAc            KX~ E
~SESHEKE,    fSIATWI ND.-
N.!    /  /    \\IJ               ~~~~~~~K ALOMO         S@azae
A N GOCLA  N.                                                         *
Wu  2~2                               z 



IBRD 18916
I>                                         T A N  Z A N  I A
Lf/ f)                                                       _ 
K                       S~~~~MALA Nt
M 6 A A
CHABILIKA       I OK.RYOC                             -B\ 
-g ''AIA5WA.     
I    A =     ME161SA FU       Af
E  )~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
t 5 L U NV I.N   5   U   \   jB               I 1
_                        %    j< ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ H A          g
MALASHI AAp *kMALAV--
I PrrJ       IRA                          T       M           k A JM    4,
b   (A A L AW I
9 0 LB A B                                              W                   A RJUME
-7C.-ONGW                               I                                             ' 
gr _   .\    _Mla,sh,   5         . >-~~~ \    MSEKER;Kk
z ~    ~~ Taer           R      C                     -a.eKTr
K-AB Ih E             M KJ  U te|/?-
=-,b.................. i ABWE .....   
R     U P. A                                                                                I-
y- -ba-.
_ l    ~~GCOLDEN  '5{                5'       -
%tVPALEY FARSJ M*
-  r_r  MOU NT1LUAKA RURA 
__                     t~~~~~UtSAKA 2 UAN iW.A
MAzlJK-*tr K      R       UNDU                      -      ~     i *-,,.O-                -s*
P.. N                                                  ..O  ,                 *, -     -
S~~~~~~~~~~~s..- .Monze  -       r, .neTU  a ..et .w -; __ee jt. *e:'e saeaef 
-ZE  _ GwEN13E,                                                             _/_
.tI.¢.z S. Z   I  AA   B   A    B   W    E              L..  - . L 7    Jh C &  7
IA C.rac. -wi ? ; N x  'EOA '.   '                       '   A 
APA E  AUz GUS im
Jt                                             *t*t'; S   1s _ ,J  ,.!G         -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UGUT 90



|  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
Z A M B I A                                                      - -
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH & EXTENSION PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION DEVELOPMENT                                                      )
PROJECT AREA
Project Area                                Moir Roads                       N /  NCb
Phose I                                     R ilwNay
ii  Phase h. . IIntemational Airports
Regional Stotion. Phase-out             +  Airfields
|  Regional Stations                          - Rivers
to becorne Zonol Stotions                                                   l N   C
National Capital                     r f  K1 
Q    Centrol Station
to become Zonal Station               i   Province Capitols
- - District Boundaries                       '5
CR Substotions. Phase-out
*    Speciolized Station                   -- Province Boundorie.
Q    New Zonol Station                      -. - Intemational Boundories
Elevations in Meters:
Less thon 1219 m.
1219-1828 i.
-?    ~~~~~~~>~1829-2438n jm.
T -  ; g.           ' L1
r o    nto,     Z    A    I   R    E  yl BLubumboshi
<    j   *                                                  ?      A ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N   - A
2                                             -         HILILABOMBW
/   ;-  -- - >   s < ,   - -   ! : - -   t7FUL~~~~FUIRA
-s )           -     \                h7N                         ro
N O               R     I- TCI S -r-TWE
To Z61bez                                                                                     NDOLALa
NSH  ---,. -
V9' .tE S   R-N-'.                                         -do- R Nj
J   -        ,-,-    *                    -f t  y  N D O  L A  Ru
.  -      v              >   (-PC      R U R A L ,<j
N A M1 W¶X..A 
'~~''    Nomwolo         -Mozobuk 
1~~~2'ToLntn 



IBRD 18917
3                                                                            .-
-~ ~~                 J  Jkp@   lL ,.                                                  _-     '
:/                                          c Jv'yorT A  N  Z A  N  I A
K A P U T A  .     ,-  -         OIJIECHE
7               -  -M            p  uA,u    o     -                                            -  -    S
: t - - M P  OR  O K O O0-1    
4A M B W                       MA5
N G1
CH A M A>        -
N.~.  3~~iOchbab    ?7                                        Co
>WHAB44 4 CH AS A
> ~~.'/'-                   r- ,,,gfr\z>
-.,  U~~(<A1  F'   OChisotno    -.     C. .Cpoto
-,i +; SA, f Y A X   } ;Xto'    >                  t    gM A L A W I
vAi;  &A .nALAS14v;Ls-"       /       V      ' i
MPLYA                                                     12--~~~~~~~~*lOC~<NY 
f= ~ ~~~~~                   ~~~~~       UNe,  D  A Z 
50                                        LAMC IAP AT 
a -IL R -       -  - >///wo/Sf;K*TI -E
-fjAAku"                                                   GABOPSMILJS     \:..o'
M 0    Z A f,         I Q   U E
ZIMBABWE                                                                 *->XR Kfv  -E TER
'igR ~~1 5iJE,,/y,'          10       II'
w_    So,vp~~0        ,,          s-                     \J
SOUTH-
ZIMBA gffs. s          -                          C H I P A T A            AFRICA o -
JUNE 1985



