CONFORMED COPY
OFFICIAL
NJ;V I  i-14
NORWEGIAN GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 1746-ZA
Agreement
for
the Administration of Certain Funds
to be made available by the
GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF NORWAY
in Conjunction with the
Agricultural Research and Extension Project
in the
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
Dated December 15, 1987


﻿NORWEGIAN GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 1746 ZA
AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated as of December 15, 1987 between the
GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF NORWAY (hereinafter referred to as
the Government) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(hereinafter referred to as the Association) to provide for the
administration by the Association of certain funds to be made
available to the Republic of Zambia (hereinafter referred to as
Zambia).
WHEREAS (A) by the Agreement dated October 2, 1986, between
the Kingdom of Norway and International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development and International Development Association provides
the framework for cofinancing of development projects by the
parties thereto;
(B) the Government wishes to make available to Zambia a
grant not exceeding fifty-two million five hundred thousand
Norwegian kroner (NKr 52,500,000) (hereinafter referred to as the
Grant) to assist Zambia in financing part of the cost of goods and
services related to the Agriculture Research and Extension
Project (hereinafter referred to as the Project) which is being
cofinanced by the Bank under a Credit to be extended by the
Association to Zambia pursuant to a Development Credit Agreement
(Agriculture Research and Extension Project), dated March 19,
1987, between Zambia and the Association (hereinafter referred to
as the Development Credit Agreement);
(C) the Government wishes that the proceeds of the Grant
shall be incremental to the Credit extended for the same purposes
by the Association to Zambia pursuant to the Development Credit
Agreement; and
(D) the Association has agreed to administer the Grant upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Section 1.01. The Association, as Administrator on behalf of
the Government, shall enter into such agreement or agreements with
Zambia, as it may deem appropriate but consistent with the terms
and conditions of the Development Credit Agreement (excluding the
debt service provisions thereof) for the purpose of assisting in
the financing of the Project. Such agreements with Zambia shall,
inter alia, provide that the proceeds of the Grant may be with-
drawn by Zambia to finance reasonable cost of goods and services


﻿- 2 -
required for the Project and otherwise eligible for -financing
under the Development Credit Agreement, and that the amounts to be
withdrawn need not be repaid and shall bear no interest or other
charges. A copy of each agreement shall be furnished by the
Association to the Government.
Section 1.02. The Association, as Administrator on behalf of
the Government, shall have the sole responsibility for the super-
vision of the Project.
Section 1.03. The administration and enforcement of any
provisions of any agreement entered into between Zambia and the
Association for the purposes of this Agreement shall be handled
solely by the Association, and the Association specifically
reserves the right, at its discretion and without notice to the
Government, to exercise, refrain from exercising or waive any
rights under such Agreement or to modify any provision thereof,
provided, however, that before suspending the right of Zambia to
make withdrawals of funds under such Agreement, the Association
shall inform the Government and afford the Government a reasonable
opportunity for consultation with the Association.
Section 1.04. The Association shall exercise the same care in
the discharge of its functions under this Agreement as it exer-
cises with respect to the administration and management of its own
affairs and shall have no further responsibility to the Government
in respect thereof.
ARTICLE II
Section 2.01. (a) The Government shall, subject to
Parliamentary appropriations, deposit an amount of fifty-two
million five hundred thousand Norwegian kroner (NOK 52,500,000) in
a trust account with the Bank of Norway in the name of the
Association (hereinafter referred to as the Trust Account) for the
purpose of financing vehicles equipment and civil works set forth
in the Schedule to this Agreement. The funds in the Trust Account
shall be freely exchangeable by the Association with other
currencies as may facilitate their administration.
(b) The said amount shall be deposited in four annual
tranches from calendar year 1987 through 1990 as follows:
(i)    an amount of seven million kroner (NOK 7,000,000)
in calendar year 1987;
(ii)    an amount of twenty-two million four hundred
thousand kroner (NOK 22,400,000) in calendar year
1988;


﻿-3-
(iii)    an amount of sixteen million eight hundred thousand
kroner (NOK 1.6,800,000) in calendar year 1989; and
(iv)    an amount of six million three hundred thousand
kroner (NOK 6,300,000) in calendar year 1990.
(c) It is understood that the amount of each such tranche is
based on the planned implementation schedule for the Project and
may, after consultations between the Government and the
Association, be adjusted to reflect actual progress made in
Project implementation.
Section 2.02. The Association shall disburse from the Trust
Account such amounts as from time to time shall be needed to meet
the reasonable costs of goods and services financed or to be
financed pursuant to Section 1.01 of this Agreement.         Such
disbursements shall be effected on the basis of withdrawal
applications for eligible expenditures submitted by Zambia to the
Association in accordance with the Association's normal procedures
for withdrawal and disbursement of proceeds of credits made by the
Association.
Section 2.03. In order to assist in the defrayment of the
costs of administration and other expenses incurred by the Asso-
ciation under this Agreement, the Association may invest and
reinvest the funds in the Trust Account pending their disbursement
to Zambia and may retain for its own account the income from any
such investment or reinvestment.
ARTICLE III
Section 3.01. (a) The Association shall maintain separate
records and accounts in respect of the funds in the Trust Account
and disbursed by the Association pursuant to the provisions of
this Agreement, and promptly after the end of each fiscal year
furnish to the Government a statement of account on such records
and accounts.
(b) The Association shall cause such accounts and records to
be audited and certified by the Association's external auditors
for each fiscal year that funds shall remain in the Trust Account
and shall furnish the report of such audit by said auditors to the
Government.


﻿4-
ARTICLE IV
Section 4.01. The Government and the Association shall con-
sult from time to time, at the request of each other, on all
matters arising out of this Agreement.
Section 4.02. The Association shall keep the Government
informed of the progress of the Project. To that end, the Associa-
tion shall furnish to the Government all relevant progress,
performance and assessment reports relating to the Project.
Section 4.03. The Association shall inform the Government of
any forthcoming major missions and meetings in connection with the
Project and shall afford representatives of the Government the
opportunity to participate in such missions and meetings.
Section 4.04. The Association shall inform the Government of
any proposed significant modifications to the Development Credit
Agreement and shall afford the Government a reasonable opportunity
to exchange views with the Association before effecting any such
modifications.
ARTICLE V
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall become effective as of the
date first above written and, subject to the provisions of this
Article, shall continue in effect until all disbursements have
been made from the Trust Account to Zambia.
Section 5.02. If at any time it appears to either party that
the purposes of this Agreement can no longer effectively or appro-
priately be carried out, this Agreement may be terminated at the
initiative of such party on ninety (90) days' notice in writing.
Section 5.03. Upon termination of this Agreement, unless the
parties agree on another course of action, any agreement or
portion thereof entered into by the Association, as Administrator
on behalf of the Government, shall be transferred to the Govern-
ment, and any funds or other property of the Government held here-
under by the Association shall be returned to the Government, and
the Association's administration shall be considered terminated.
Section 5.04. Promptly after termination of this Agreement,
the Association shall furnish to the Government a final report and
a financial statement on the Trust Account, together with an
opinion of the Association's external auditors on such statement.


﻿- 5 -
ARTICLE VI
Section 6.01. This Agreement may be amended only by written
agreement of the parties hereto.
Section 6.02. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement, and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable or telex to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified
or at such other addresses as such party shall have designated by
notice by the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
For the Government:
The Royal Ministry of Development Cooperation
P.O. Box 8142, Oslo Dep.
0033 Oslo 1
Norway
Cable address:                  Telex:
NORAD-N                      74256 NORAD-N
Oslo
For the Bank:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address                  Telex:
INDEVAS                     440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.             248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-6-
IN WITNESS, WHEREOF, the undersigned duly authorized thereto,
have signed this Agreement.
GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF NORWAY
By /s/ Kjell Eliassen
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿-7-
SCHEDULE
Amount of Norwegian            a of
Grant Allocated (Expressed    Expenditures
Category        in Norwegian kroner-N0K)     to be Financed
(1) Central Research           27,300,000       100%
Station at Mount
Makulu
(2) Zonal Research              3,500,000       100%
Station at
Misanfu
(3) Regional Research          4,900,000        100%
Station at
Mufulira
(4) Regional Research          4,900,000        100%
Station at Mongu
(5) Trial Research             1,400,000        100%
Site at Mbala
(6) Research Activities        10,500,000       100%
in the Northern
Provinces
TOTAL                52.52a.0Q


