OFFICI L 2< 6
DOCUMENTS
rF /2 06
GRANT NUMBER TF012066
USAID Grant Agreement
(Second Sustainable Employment Development Policy Operation)
between
REPUBLIC OF KOSOVO
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
acting as administrator of the USAID Trust Fund for the
Kosovo Sustainable Employment Development Policy Program
Dated        M, 1         2012


﻿GRANT NUMBER TF012066
USAID GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT dated                 ,4 2012, entered into between:
REPUBLIC OF KOSOVO ("Recipient"); and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION ("World Bank"), acting as
administrator of funds provided by the US Agency for International Development
("USAID"), for the purpose of providing a Grant (as hereinafter defined) in support of
the Program (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).
WHEREAS the World Bank has entered into a Sustainable Employment Development
Trust Fund Grant Agreement ('SEDTF Grant Agreement') as the administrator of the
Kosovo Sustainable Employment Development Trust Fund, respectively, for the Second
Sustainable Employment Development Policy Operation, of even date herewith, in
support of the Program. The World Bank has decided to provide this financing on the
basis, inter alia, of: (a) the actions which the Recipient has already taken under the
Program and which are described in Section I of Schedule I to this Agreement; and (b)
the Recipient's maintenance of an appropriate macroeconomic policy framework; and
WHEREAS the European Communities, the Government of the Swiss Confederation, the
Italian Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Czech
Republic, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Denmark, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of
Finland, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Estonia, the Norwegian
Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and the Swedish Ministry of Foreign Affairs, ("Donors",
individually referred to as "Donor") have agreed to co-finance the Program on the terms
and conditions set forth in the administration agreements entered into between the
respective Donor and the World Bank, as administrator of the funds provided by the
respective Donor, and in the MDTF Grant Agreement, of even date herewith between the
World Bank, as administrator of the funds provided by the respective Donors, and the
Recipient.
The Recipient and the World Bank therefore hereby agree as follows:
Article I
Standard Conditions; Definitions
1.01. The Standard Conditions for Grants Made by the World Bank Out of Various
Funds, dated February 15, 2012 ("Standard Conditions"), with the modifications
set forth in Section II of the Appendix to this Agreement, constitute an integral
part of this Agreement.


﻿-2-
1.02.  Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Standard Conditions or in
the Appendix to this Agreement.
Article II
The Grant
2.01. The World Bank agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equal to one
million eight hundred and seventy six thousand six hundred and sixty seven
United States Dollars ($1,876,667) ("Grant") to assist in financing the Project.
2.02. The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Article III
Program
3.01   The Recipient declares its commitment to the Program and its implementation.
To this end and further to Section 2.08 of the Standard Conditions:
(a)   the Recipient and the World Bank shall from time to time, at the request
of either party, exchange views on the Recipient's macroeconomic policy
framework and the progress achieved in carrying out the Program;
(b)    prior to each such exchange of views, the Recipient shall furnish to the
World Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress
achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail as the World Bank
shall reasonably request; and
(c)    without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this
Section, the Recipient shall exchange views with the World Bank on any
proposed action to be taken after the disbursement of the Grant which
would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of the
Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any action
specified in Section I of the Schedule to this Agreement.


﻿-3-
Article IV
Additional Remedies
4.01.  The Additional Events of Suspension referred to in Section 4.02 (k) of the
Standard Conditions consist of the following:
(a)    a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program,
or a significant part of it, will be carried out; and
(b)    Event prior to Effectiveness. The World Bank has determined after the
Effective Date referred to in Section 5.03 of this Agreement that, prior to
such date, but after the date of this Agreement, an event has occurred
which would have entitled the World Bank to suspend the Recipient's
right to make withdrawals from the Grant Account if this Agreement had
been effective on the date such event occurred.
Article V
Effectiveness; Termination
5.01. This Agreement shall not become effective until evidence satisfactory to the
World Bank has been furnished to the World Bank that the conditions specified
below have been satisfied, namely that the World Bank is satisfied with the
progress achieved by the Recipient in carrying out the Program, and that the
Recipient's macroeconomic policy framework is appropriate.
5.02.  Except as the Recipient and the World Bank shall otherwise agree, this Agreement
shall enter into effect on the date upon which the World Bank dispatches to the
Recipient notice of its acceptance that the conditions under Section 5.01 have been
met ("Effective Date"). If, before the Effective Date, any event has occurred which
would have entitled the World Bank to suspend the right of the Recipient to make
withdrawals from the Grant Account if this Agreement had been effective, the
World Bank may postpone the dispatch of the notice referred to in this Section
until such event (or events) has (or have) ceased to exist.
5.03. This Agreement and all obligations of the parties under it shall terminate if it has
not entered into effect by the date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement, unless the World Bank, after consideration of the reasons for the
delay, establishes a later date for the purpose of this Section. The World Bank
shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later date.


﻿-4-
Article VI
Recipient's Representative; Addresses
6.01.  The Recipient's Representative referred to in Section 7.02 of the Standard
Conditions is the Minister of Finance.
6.02.  The Recipient's Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard Conditions
is:
Ministry of Finance
Mother Teresa Street
10000 Pristina
Republic of Kosovo
Facsimile:
+38 138 213 113
6.03.  The World Bank's Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard Conditions
is:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable:              Telex:               Facsimile:
INDEVAS             248423 (MCI) or      1-202-477-6391
Washington, D.C.     64145 (MCI)


﻿-5-
AGREED at Prisitna, Republic of Kosovo, as of the day and year first above
written.
REPUBLIC OF KOSOVO
By
Authorized Representative
Name:
Title: EEW IFM- ?A
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION
acting as Administrator of the USAID Trust Fund for the
co-financing of the Second Sustainable Employme t
Development Policy Operation
By
Authorized Representative
Name: j1N-'ETe O Ek$
Title: CONJAITE'1   HANA-GEP


﻿-6-
SCHEDULE
Program Actions; Availability of Grant Proceeds
Section I.   Actions under the Program
The actions taken by the Recipient under the Program include the following:
1.    The Recipient, through the Public Procurement Regulatory Commission, has
adopted secondary legislation to implement the Public Procurement Law No.
04/L-042, published in the Official Gazette on September 19, 2011. The
Recipient has adopted the Rules of Procedure for the Central Procurement
Agency to conduct consolidated procurement on behalf of the Recipient for
selected procurement categories.
2.     The Recipient has introduced a monitoring and review system for monitoring and
reviewing financial and physical progress of capital expenditure starting in 2011.
3.     The Recipient has included all major capital projects (i.e. those to be financed
with public funds and exceeding EUR I million in cost) approved in the
Recipient's 2012 budget in the Public Investment Program database for 2012.
4.     The Recipient has introduced a mechanism requiring all Ministries to prepare
program performance indicators with their budget submissions, and all Ministries
have included program performance indicators with their respective 2012 budget
submissions.
5.     The Recipient has adopted the Regulation on Classification of Jobs in Civil
Service No. 05/2012 on March 2, 2012, specifying the coefficients in the
Recipient's new civil salary grid.
6.     The Recipient, through the Ministry of Trade and Industry and the municipalities,
has established 'one-stop-shops' for business registration in at least 22
municipalities.
7.     The Recipient has enacted the amended Law on Business Organizations No.
04/L-006, published in the Official Gazette on July 22, 2011, and the Law on
Internal Trade No. 04/L-005, published in the Official Gazette on July 21, 2011,
to reduce barriers to business registration.
8.     The Recipient, through the Governing Board of the Central Bank of Kosovo, has
approved the Regulation on Credit Registry, dated February 24, 2012.
9.     The Recipient has submitted to its Parliament the draft Law on Banks,
Microfinance Institutions, and Non-Bank Financial Institutions.


﻿-7-
10.   The Recipient has enacted the Law on Labor No. 03/L-212, published in the
Official Gazette on December 1, 2010, which regulates employment and labor
relations.
11.   The Recipient, through the Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare, has
implemented the Public Works Program of 2011, and has revised the operation
manual for the Public Works Program of 2011 to promote labor market activation
for Category II social assistance beneficiaries and long term unemployed.
12.   The Recipient, through the Steering Committee of the Kosovo National
Qualifications Authority, has approved the National Qualifications Framework.
13.   The Recipient, through the National Qualifications Authority, has issued a call
for accreditation applications from vocational training providers.
14.   The Recipient, through the Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare, has digitized
all social assistance registries.
Section II.  Availability of Grant Proceeds
A.     General. The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance
with the provisions of: (a) the Standard Conditions; (b) this Schedule; and (c)
such additional instructions as the World Bank may specify by notice to the
Recipient.
B.     Allocation of Grant Amounts. The Grant is allocated in a single withdrawal
tranche, from which the Recipient may make withdrawals of the Grant. The
allocation of the amount of the Grant to this end is set out in the table below:
Allocation            Amount of the Grant Allocated
Single Withdrawal Tranche              $1,876,667
TOTAL AMOUNT                           $1,876,667
C.     Withdrawal Tranche Release Condition
No withdrawal shall be made of the Single Withdrawal Tranche unless the World
Bank is satisfied: (a) with the Program being carried out by the Recipient; and (b)
with the appropriateness of the Recipient's macroeconomic policy framework.


﻿-8-
D.     Deposits of Grant Amounts. Except as the World Bank may otherwise agree:
1.    all withdrawals from the Grant Account shall be deposited by the World Bank
into an account designated by the Recipient and acceptable to the World Bank;
and
2.    the Recipient shall ensure that upon each deposit of an amount of the Grant into
this account, an equivalent amount is accounted for in the Recipient's budget
management system, in a manner acceptable to the World Bank.
E.     Excluded Expenditures. The Recipient undertakes that the proceeds of the
Grant shall not be used to finance Excluded Expenditures. If the World Bank
determines at any time that an amount of the Grant was used to make a payment
for an Excluded Expenditure, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the
World Bank, refund an amount equal to the amount of such payment to the
World Bank. Amounts refunded to the World Bank upon such request shall be
cancelled.
F.     Closing Date. The Closing Date referred to in Section 3.06(c) of the Standard
Conditions is May 31, 2012.


﻿-9-
APPENDIX
Section I.   Definitions
1.    "Excluded Expenditure" means any expenditure:
(a)    for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national or
international financing institution or agency other than the World Bank
has financed or agreed to finance, or which the World Bank has financed
or agreed to finance under another credit, grant or loan;
(b)    for goods included in the following groups or sub-groups of the Standard
International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published
by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3
(1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups under future
revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by notice to the
Recipient:
Group            Sub-group         Description of Item
112                               Alcoholic beverages
121                               Tobacco, un-
manufactured, tobacco
refuse
122                               Tobacco, manufactured
(whether or not containing
tobacco substitutes)
525                                Radioactive and associated
materials
667                                Pearls, precious and
semiprecious stones,
unworked or worked
718              718.7             Nuclear reactors, and parts
thereof; fuel elements
(cartridges), non-
irradiated, for nuclear
reactors
728              728.43            Tobacco processing
machinery
897              897.3            Jewelry of gold, silver or
platinum group metals
(except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths' or
silversmiths' wares
(including set gems)


﻿- 10 -
Group            Sub-group         Description of Item
971                                Gold, non-monetary
(excluding gold ores and
concentrates)
(c)    for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for luxury
consumption;
(d)    for environmentally hazardous goods, the manufacture, use or import of
which is prohibited under the laws of the Recipient or international
agreements to which the Recipient is a party;
(e)    on account of any payment prohibited by a decision of the United
Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the
United Nations; and
(f)    with respect to which the World Bank determines that corrupt,
fraudulent, collusive or coercive practices were engaged in by
representatives of the Recipient or other recipient of the Grant proceeds,
without the Recipient (or other such recipient) having taken timely and
appropriate action satisfactory to the World Bank to address such
practices when they occur.
2.     "Program" means the program of actions, objectives and policies designed to
promote growth and achieve sustainable reductions in poverty and set forth or
referred to in the letter dated March 20,2012, from the Recipient to the World
Bank declaring the Recipient's commitment to the execution of the Program, and
requesting assistance from the World Bank in support of the Program during its
execution.
3.     "Single Withdrawal Tranche" means the amount of the Grant allocated to the
category entitled "Single Withdrawal Tranche" in the table set forth in Part B of
Section II of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section II. Modifications to the Standard Conditions
The Standard Conditions are modified as follows:
1.     Sections 2.01 (Project Execution Generally) and 2.07 (Financial Management;
Financial Statements; Audits) are deleted in their entirety, and the remaining
Sections in Article II are renumbered accordingly.
2.     Paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph I above
and relating to Use of Goods, Works and Services) is deleted in its entirety.


﻿- 11 -
3.     Paragraph (c) of Section 2.04 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph I
above) is modified to read as follows:
"Section 2.04. Documents; Records. The Recipient shall ensure that:
...    (c)   all records evidencing expenditures under the Grant are
retained until two years after the Closing date;"
4.     Paragraph (b) of the Section 2.05 (renumbered as such pursuant to paragraph I
above and relating to Program Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation) is
modified to read as follows:
"Section 2.05. Program Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation. The
Recipient shall:
...    (b)   ensure the preparation and delivery to the World Bank,
not later than six months after the Closing Date, a Completion Report of
such scope and in such detail as the World Bank shall reasonably
request, on the execution of the Program, the performance by the
Recipient and the World Bank of their respective obligations under the
Grant Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the Grant."
5.     Sections 3.05 (Designated Accounts) and 3.06 (Eligible Expenditures) are deleted
in their entirety, and the remaining Sections in Article III are renumbered
accordingly.
6.     The following terms and definitions set forth in the Appendix to the Standard
Conditions are modified or deleted as follows, and the following new terms and
definitions are added in alphabetical order to the Appendix as follows, with the
terms being renumbered accordingly:
(a)    The definition of the term "Eligible Expenditure" is modified to read as
follows:
"'Eligible Expenditure' means any use to which the Grant is put in
support of the Program, other than to finance expenditures excluded
pursuant to the Grant Agreement."
(b)    The term "Financial Statements" and its definition as set forth in the
Appendix are deleted in their entirety.
(c)    The term "Project" is modified to read "Program" and its definition is
modified to read as follows:
"'Program' means the program referred to in the Grant Agreement in
support of which the Grant is made."  All references to "Project"


﻿- 12-
throughout these Standard Conditions are deemed to be references to
"Program".


