                     PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID)
                               CONCEPT STAGE
                                                                               January 26, 2012

                                                                    Report No.: AB6845


Operation Name                     Second Sustainable Employment Development Policy
                                   Operation
Region                             EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA
Country                            Kosovo
Sector                             Central government administration (40%);General industry
                                   and trade sector (25%);Tertiary education (14%);Other
                                   social services (14%);Health (7%)
Operation ID                       P129327
Lending Instrument                 Development Policy Lending
Borrower(s)                        REPUBLIC OF KOSOVO
Implementing Agency                MINISTRY OF TRADE AND INDUSTRY
Date PID Prepared                  December 12, 2011
Estimated Date of Appraisal        February 15, 2012
Estimated Date of Board            April 3, 2012
Approval
Corporate Review Decision          Following the corporate review, the decision was taken to
                                   proceed with the preparation of the operation.

I.     Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement

Kosovo is one of the poorest countries in Europe with almost 35 percent of the population lives
below the poverty line of €1.55 per adult equivalent per day. Around 12 percent of people live in
extreme poverty – less than €1.02 per adult equivalent per day. Youth are disproportionately
poor; 60 percent of poor people are less than 30 years old.

Poverty status is closely linked to labor market status. Among households that include an
unemployed head-of-household, about 57 percent are poor; among households in which the
head-of-household is employed with a salary, only 37 percent are poor. A 10 percent drop in
unemployment would reduce poverty by roughly 6.0 percent.

Kosovo has one of the highest unemployment rates in the world – 45 percent in 2009. Kosovo
has an employment rate of 25 percent, the lowest in Europe compared to an average of 66
percent for EU27 countries and far from the 75 percent Europe 2020 target. Female employment
rates are alarming – only 11 percent of the working age population based on the 2008 Labor
Force Survey (LFS). Unemployment is particularly high among young persons (15-24 year olds),
women, and individuals with limited education (lower secondary education or less). The
unemployment rate among youth is 70 percent; women, 60 percent; and people with limited
education, 65 percent. The school-to-work transition is very slow. Kosovo’s labor statistics are
considerably worse than those in Europe and most developing countries around the world.
Poor labor outcomes are the result of low labor demand and skills mismatches. Barriers to firm
entry are high, and most firms operate in the informal sector. In addition, most firms are stagnant
and do not experience revenue growth. Skills mismatches are also prevalent. Despite large
numbers of unemployed workers, some firms are finding it difficult to recruit workers with the
appropriate skills.

The SEDPO 2 is an important part of the World Bank Group Country Partnership Strategy (CPS)
for The Republic of Kosovo FY12-15. One of the two pillars of the proposed FY12-15 CPS is to
accelerate inclusive growth and employment generation, which are precisely the areas supported
by SEDPO 2, which would focus on improving public financial management, thus transparency
and accountability of public finances, and improving the investment climate, together with
implementation of the Employment Strategy.

The proposed operation is the result of the World Bank Board approval (on July 3, 2008) to use
US$40 million of the IBRD FY08 surplus to provide grant support for Kosovo, which was
expected to serve as seed money for other donor contributions. The Board approved the grant
funds for a programmatic series to be administered by IDA. The Bank donation raised an
additional US$50 million from 10 bilateral and multilateral donors who have partnered with
Government and the Bank.


II.    Proposed Objective(s)

The two program development objectives are:
(i)   maintain a stable macroeconomic framework through strengthened budget/fiscal
         management and increased transparency, and accountability of public expenditures;
(ii)  lay institutional and legislative foundations for sustainable employment and growth.


III.   Preliminary Description

This operation is the second in support of the Sustainable Employment Development Policy
Program (SEDPP). It supports the Government’s sustainable employment reform agenda. An
Inter-ministerial Committee for Sustainable Employment was created in 2009 to coordinate
policies and to ensure that policies are evaluated. The Committee, headed by the Deputy Prime
Minister, also includes the Ministers of Finance; Labor and Social Welfare; Trade and Industry;
and Education, Science and Technology. The operation supports measures to promote
sustainable employment through five elements (MILES framework): (i) Macroeconomic stability
and Public Financial Management; (ii) Investment climate; (iii) Labor market policies,
institutions, and programs; (iv) Education, skills, and training; and (v) Social protection policies.

This operation supports specific actions within the MILES framework to promote
macroeconomic stability and sustainable employment. Actions to improve macroeconomic
stability and PFM and investment climate are expected to increase domestic and foreign business
investment, which will increase employment opportunities and raise incomes. Reforms in
business and credit regulations are expected to support increasing formalization of enterprises,
and in turn, formal employment opportunities. These measures are fundamental and needed, but
take time to realize. As a result, Government is also taking steps to increase employment rates in
the short run to reduce skill erosion about the long term unemployed. Employment registry
digitization is expected to improve employment service provision because employment officers
can focus their efforts on the active unemployed. Accreditation of vocational education training
providers is likely to improve training opportunities and employment outcomes as workers build
skills to meet changing labor force demands and benefit from formal certification, which can
signal to potential employers. Finally, measures to digitize the social assistance registry are
likely to lead to more accountability and oversight of social assistance beneficiaries and can link
beneficiaries with labor market programs when appropriate.


IV.    Poverty and Social Impacts and Environment Aspects


Poverty and Social Impacts

The operation is expected to have primarily positive poverty and social impacts. The
following components are expected to have positive poverty and social impacts, although
existing data make it impossible to quantify anticipated impacts.

       •   Actions to improve the investment climate—such as one-stop-shops for business
           registration, streamlining licensing and permitting, and harmonizing business
           numbers—are expected to increase domestic and foreign business investment, which
           will increase employment opportunities and raise incomes. Actions emphasize easing
           business registration outside of Pristina, which should enhance their poverty-reducing
           impact.
       •   Reforms in business and credit regulations are expected to support increasing
           formalization of enterprises, and in turn, formal employment opportunities.
       •   New civil service job classification/salary scales are expected to have some positive
           effects on poverty. Most civil servants earn above the poverty line, but some live
           below the poverty line due to lower salaries and/or a larger number of dependents to
           support. Salaries within-grade are generally being equalized by adjusting low salaries
           upwards; high salaries will remain constant. The only anticipated income losses are
           for civil servants identified as grossly under-qualified for their positions; they will be
           reassigned to lower-paying positions.
       •   Employment registry digitization is expected to improve provision of employment
           services to the unemployed, although caseload levels will remain very high.
       •   Accreditation of vocational education training providers is likely to improve training
           opportunities and employment outcomes as workers build skills to meet changing
           labor force demands and benefit from formal certification.
Environment Aspects

Specific policies supported by the operation are unlikely to have significant effects on
Kosovo’s environment, forests, and natural resources. Most measures supported under the
operation are geared to increasing sustainable employment and improving public financial
management. These will cover improvements in business licensing, property rights, access to
finance, and improvements in education, labor market policies, institutions, and regulations, and
in pension and social assistance provision. The public financial management reforms will focus
on increasing transparency and accountability in public finances and improved public wage bill
management. None of the sectors included in the operation are expected to have any significant
links to the environment.


V.     Tentative financing

Source:                                                                             ($m.)
Borrower                                                                                0
Special Financing                                                                     23
Borrower/Recipient                                                                      0
IBRD                                                                                    0
Others (multi-donor trust fund)                                                      13.5
                                                                     Total           36.5

VI.    Contact point

World Bank
Contact: Mohamed Ihsan Ajwad
Title: Senior Economist
Tel: (202) 473-7861
Fax: (202) 522-3665
Email: majwad@worldbank.org

Borrower
Contact: Mimoza Kusari-Lila
Title: Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Trade and Industry
Tel: +381 38 200 36 504
Email: mimoza.kusari.lila@rks-gov.net

VII. For more information contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-4500
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
