 IEG
                                                                                           Report Number: ICRR14831

                   ICR Review
                   Independent Evaluation Group


1. Project Data:                                           Date Posted: 09/30/2015

               Country: Kosovo
                        Is this Review for a Programmatic Series ?                                    Yes    No
                           How many operations were planned for the                               3
                          series?
                           How many were approved ?                                               2
             Series ID: S129327
       First Project ID : P129327                                              Appraisal                Actual
        Project Name: Second Sustainable          Project Costs (US$M):                    30.0                  30.0
                          Employment
                          Development Policy
                          Operation
 L/C Number:                                       Loan/Credit (US$M):                     0                       0
      Sector Board:       Social Protection        Cofinancing (US$M):     see P112227 below          no information

          Cofinanciers: See P112227 below            Board Approval Date :                               05/03/2012
                                                            Closing Date:            05/31/2012          05/31/2012
           Sector(s):   Central government administration (32%); Other social services (22%); General finance
                        sector (18%); General industry and trade sector (14%); Tertiary education (14%)
          Theme(s):     Public expenditure; financial management and procurement (35%); Regulation and
                        competition policy (29%); Improving labor markets (14%); Social safety nets (14%);
                        Education for the knowledge economy (8%)
     Second Project ID :P112227                                                 Appraisal              Actual
         Project Name:  First Sustainable          Project Costs (US$M):                    30.0               30.0
                        Employment
                        Development Policy
                        Operation
 L/C Number:                                         Loan/Credit (US$M):                     6.3                 6.3
       Sector Board:    Social Protection            Cofinancing (US$M):                    33.4      no informaiton
                                                                              covering SEDPO-1
                                                                                   and SEDPO-2
                                                     Board Approval Date :                               09/30/2010
            Cofinancers:UK, Finland,                        Closing Date:            12/31/2011          01/31/2012
                        Switzerland, the
                        European
                        Commission, the
                        Czech Republic, Italy,
                        Sweden, Estonia,
                        Norway, Denmark, and
                        the US
           Sector(s):   Central government administration (43%), General industry and trade sector (29%), Other
                        social services (14%), Tertiary education (14%)
          Theme(s):     Public expenditure, financial management and procurement (44%), Social safety nets (14%),
                        Macroeconomic management (14%), Education for the knowledge economy (14%), Other
                        Private Sector Development (14%)
Evaluator:               Panel Reviewer:        ICR Review                  Group:
                                                Coordinator:
Hjalte S. A. Sederlof    Aghassi Mkrtchyan      Lourdes N. Pagaran         IEGPS2
2. Project Objectives and Components:

a. Objectives:

    The Sustainable Employment Development Policy Program (SEDPP) consisted of two DPL operations,
    SEDPO-1 and SEDPO-2. The program development objective (PDO) set out in the Program Document for
    SEDPO-1 (p. 42) was to support (i) maintaining a stable macroeconomic framework through strengthened
    budget/fiscal management as well as increased transparency and accountability of public expenditures; and (ii)
    laying the institutional and legislative foundations that Kosovo needs for sustainable employment and growth.

    The same PDO was set out in the Program Document for SEDPO-2 (p. 26).

    The SEDPP was originally a programmatic series of three operations. The third operation was subsequently
    merged with SEDPO-2 (see Section 2c and Section 3b).

 b. If this is a single DPL operation (not part of a series), were the project objectives/ key
associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
No

c. Policy Areas:
The SEDPP supported two main policy areas:
  Public financial management.to maintain macroeconomic stability This included improving key elements of
    public financial management - budget planning and execution, better procurement procedures, and stronger
    wage bill management (including grading reform and improved payroll processes).
  Sustainable employment. This included improving the investment climate; increasing the effectiveness of labor
    market institutions and expanding public works; strengthening quality assurance mechanisms for graduates from
    education and training programs; and improving safety net benefits and easing the transition from welfare to
    work.

Neither the PDO nor the Policy Areas were substantively changed from SEDPO-1 to SEDPO-2. An intended third
operation, SEDPO-3, was merged with SEDPO-2. Completed triggers for SEDPO-3 became prior actions for
SEDPO-2, new indicators were introduced and adjustments were made to existing indicators for SEDPO-2 in light of
the experience under SEDPO-1. These changes strengthened the results-orientation of the program.


d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

    Project cost and financing. The commitment to SEDPO-1 was US$ 30.9 million drawn from IDA (US$ 6.3 million)
    and a trust fund created for Kosovo and drawn from the IBRD surplus (US$ 24.6 million). The commitment was
    fully disbursed, albeit with a delay due to deterioration of macro and fiscal situation. The commitment for
    SEDPO-2 was US$ 30.0 million, drawn from the trust fund, which was also fully disbursed. In addition, 10
    bilateral and multilateral donors (UK, Finland, Switzerland, the European Commission, the Czech Republic, Italy,
    Sweden, Estonia, Norway, Denmark, and the US) committed Euro 33.4 million equivalent in various currencies.

    Dates: SEDPO-1 was approved on September 30, 2010, and closed on December 31, 2011. Disbursement was
    delayed until December, 2011, due to macroeconomic concerns and extraordinary parliamentary elections.
    SEDPO-2 was approved on May 3, 2012, and closed on May 31, 2012.


3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:
    Relevance of objectives is rated high.

    With high poverty, low labor force participation and high unemployment, employment creation was a major
    challenge for Kosovo at the time of program preparation, while macro-economic stability and efficient public
    financial management were seen as essential ingredients for sustaining growth and job creation. Macroeconomic
    stability and employment were included in the Government’s reform agenda as priorities reflected in its Public
    Financial Management Reform Action Plan (PFM RAP) and its Employment Strategy (ES) of 2009. These
    objectives remained valid at program's completion, reflected in the economic action plan for 2012-2014, the main
    strategic document guiding economic policies. It is also prominently featured in the Bank strategy: Pillar 1 of the
   most recent Country Assistance Strategy for Kosovo (FY12-FY15) includes the policy areas covered in the
   SEDPP.


b. Relevance of Design:


   Relevance of design is rated substantial.

   The SEDPP design was substantially relevant for achieving the PDO. It adopted the Bank’s MILES framework
   for sustainable employment creation used in the Government’s two strategy documents (MILES=macro
   economy, investment, labor, education, social protection). The framework provides a comprehensive multi-sector
   approach to job creation and productive employment, combining policies for macroeconomic stability with key
   demand and supply side actions for job creation. The framework guided the setting of SEDPP objectives and the
   choice of policy areas and specific prior actions for moving towards those objectives. The resulting design
   included a large number of legal, regulatory and policy actions in several sectors. To address possible
   weaknesses in absorptive capacity in view of a still relatively inexperienced Kosovo administration, the design
   relied on technical assistance drawn from other Bank operations and donors.
   The choice of the instrument was appropriate, building on the IMF stand-by arrangement to support economic
   recovery and macro stability in the aftermath of the international economic crisis that had affected Kosovo’s
   external environment. The programmatic approach under which three operations were initially planned was
   based on recognition of the still formative nature of the institutional and organizational environment, and provided
   needed flexibility to adapt the SEDPP to circumstances on the ground. This approach helped delay the
   preparation of the second operation as a result of deteriorated macroeconomic situation due to excessive public
   expenditures in the run-up to parliamentary elections. It also allowed to consolidate SEDPO-2 and SEDPO-3 as a
   result of satisfactory reform implementation (14 of 22 triggers identified in SEDPO-1 for releasing SEDPO-2 and
   SEDPO-3 had been met) and mitigation of macro and fiscal risks. It allowed the results framework to be modified
   by introducing several new and adjusting some existing outcome indicators in SEDPO-2 (ICR, pp. 5, 16-34). IEG
   assesses that these changes significantly strengthened the results chain of the program. That said, new
   outcomes and indicators introduced for civil service reform and social protection point to a less robust focus on
   results in these two areas.


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

   The following assesses efficacy on the basis of the two objectives.

   Objective 1: maintain a stable macroeconomic framework through strengthened budget /fiscal management as
   well as increased transparency and accountability of public expenditures

   Modest

   The SEDPO-2 focused on improving three areas in public financial management that were considered significant
   for maintaining macroeconomic stability – strengthening budget planning and execution; improving public
   procurement processes; and strengthening payroll management.
   The key indicator for budget planning and execution, measured as the deviation and variance annually of
   budgeted from actual capital and recurrent expenditures over the 2009-2012 period. The deviation was to be
   less than 10 percent in any year and the variance less than 5 percent. Baseline values (in 2008) for deviation for
   current expenditures were 12 percent, and for capital expenditures 14 percent. The variance in expenditure
   composition was 20.7 percent. The target for deviation was met each year over the project period, and this
   continued to be the case in 2013 and 2014. This was mainly due to a fairly stable recurrent budget performance;
   while the more volatile capital budget expenditures have consistently underperformed planned spending, with
   deviations of over 10 percent from the approved budget during the project period. Consequently, the target for
   variance in expenditure composition exceeded the target of 5 percent in two of the three target years. Volatility
   subsequently further increased, due to disruptions resulting from local elections in 2013 and subsequent
   parliamentary elections in 2014.
   There were shortcomings in achievement in the two other areas as well - procurement and payroll management.
   The aim to apply consolidated procurement by the 2013 budget year was only partly achieved. While the public
   procurement law and secondary legislation were passed (SEDPO-2 prior action), and the rules for a central
   procurement agency were adopted, no actual implementation, that is, consolidated procurement through the
   central agency, occurred. The target that had been set aimed at including at least two consolidated procurement
items in the 2013 budget.
Likewise, wage bill management – in this case job classification for core civil servants at the central level – was
only partly achieved by project closing. At that time, the necessary regulation (a SEDPO-1 prior action) was in
place, but job classification had been slow to start. The job classification has only recently been completed, and
was approved by the Government in February, 2015. It was yet to be applied at the time of this review


Objective 2: lay the institutional and legislative foundations that Kosovo needs for sustainable employment and
growth

Substantial

The achievement of this objective is rated based on the efficacy rating of each policy area associated with this
objective as set out below.
1. Improving the investment climate
A number of measures contributed to improving the investment climate:

    Following the passage of laws on business organizations and internal trade, and the introduction of one-stop
shops for business registration and laws on (both SEDPO-2 prior actions), the number of days to register a
business declined to 52 days in 2012, from 58 days in 2009. A target of 40 days had been set for 2012. The
number of days has subsequently declined to a current 11 days, according to the Doing Business Report for
2015.
 With the introduction of a new law on leasing (SEDPO-1), banks’ leasing portfolio increased from zero in
2009 to Euros 20 million by July 2012, exceeding the target of Euros 15 million. In July, 2014, it amounted to
Euros 22.5 million (information provided by the project team).
 With the introduction of a strategy and business plan for the Kosovo cadaster agency (SEDPO-1 prior
action), the number of registered transactions through the Kosovo Cadaster Agency increased from around
55,000 in 2009 to 74,000 in August 2012. In 2014, some 43,000 new registered transactions were recorded.
The value of mortgages registered in the new system increased from Euros 540 million in 2010 to Euros 870
million in 2011. In 2014, the total value of mortgages registered was over Euros 1 billion. No specific targets had
been set for this activity.
 Governance standards of banks were strengthened by an April 12, 2012 law on banks (its submission as a
draft to parliament was a prior action under SEDPO-2), through the introduction of single shareholder and
borrower exposures, and resident board representation, as required.

Partly reflecting these changes, Kosovo’s Doing Business (DB) ranking rose from 126 in DB2012 to 98 in
DB2013. By 2015, it had risen to 77.
2. Improving the labor market
Based on a labor law and a strategy for sustainable employment, both introduced as prior actions under
SEDPO-1, the Government had implemented 92 percent of the measures envisaged under the strategy by the
closing of the project, compared to a target of 75 percent. These included starting to address key constraints,
such as the investment climate, skills challenges, and labor market institutions. For short term job creation, a
prior action under SEDPO-2 included developing a targeted public works program. A target had been set that at
least 33 percent of public works participants would be Category II social assistance beneficiaries in 2011 and in
2012, up from less than 10 percent in 2010. The target was exceeded, as in 2012 it reached 46.3 percent. Data
was also disaggregated by gender, with some 98 percent of participants being male. No target had been set.
3. Enhancing education, skills and training
Following efforts to seek accreditation applications from vocational training institutions (SEDPO-1 prior action),
11 had been accredited as of October, 2012, compared to a target of 6 and a baseline of zero in 2009. Following
an accreditation review of all private tertiary education facilities (SEDPO-1), all such facilities have introduced
internal quality assurance mechanisms, meeting the target, and starting from a baseline of zero. These two
efforts are in turn based on the national qualifications framework that was introduced as a prior action under
SEDPO-2.
4. Improving social protection
In order to reduce the effects of eroding pensions and family benefits, the two safety net benefits were increased
by 5 euros per month each, over their level in 2008 (40 euros per month for a basic pension, and an average of
61 euros per month for social assistance), the two benefits were set at 45 euros and 66 euros per month,
respectively, in 2012, meeting the target. (The key indicator is SEDPO-2 - Monthly pension and benefits for
   children in social assistance beneficiary families have increased by at least €5 and €5 per child per month,
   respectively, compared to the level in 2009. Was incorrectly defined – family benefits are paid on a per family
   basis, and the base year was 2008). Assuming an average annual rate of inflation of 4 percent (World Bank Data
   Bank), both benefits would roughly keep pace with inflation.



5. Efficiency (not applicable to DPLs):


6. Outcome:

    The relevance of the PDO was high, tailored to both Government and Bank priorities; the relevance of design
   was substantial: it responded to the objectives well although target setting in civil service reforms and social
   protection had some weaknesses. Efficacy of the first objective was rated modest reflecting modest results on
   procurement and civil service reform. The second objective was rated substantial as intermediate objectives and
   outcomes were largely being met. The SEDPP transferred resources on the basis of legal and regulatory
   measures that are contributing to better fiscal management, and that over the medium term also can be assumed
   to contribute to a more effective job market and higher levels of employment. Given the short time-frame of the
   SEDPP, short-term effects were mainly in the form of intermediate outcomes. The analysis in Section 4 adds
   some perspective of developments beyond project closing.


a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

    Since the SEDPP was initiated, the political environment in Kosovo is likely to have stabilized, as the country
   pursues closer relations with the EU. Macroeconomic stability remains a risk factor: having unilaterally adopted
   the Euro, macro stability mostly depends on sound fiscal policy. While the Government is committed to
   maintaining medium-term fiscal sustainability, the need for broad sector reforms and continued public investment
   will require choices that may be difficult to make on purely economic grounds. The reforms that were put in place
   under the SEDPP in many instances still have to be operationalized. This may well turn out to be a challenging
   agenda in the face of still modest implementation capacity in the administration. This is likely to be moderated
   by continued broad donor support in the form of technical assistance. Moreover, the Bank program going forward
   includes both demand and supply-side investments following up on elements of the SEDPP. On balance,
   however, future risk still appears significant.

  a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Significant

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:

    In designing the SEDPP, the Bank team drew on extensive prior analytical work, and the availability of
    technical assistance in all the relevant policy areas. Collaboration with the Government and donors allowed
    the team to design a program where the objectives, policy areas and prior actions all were selected to
    address the main strategic concerns of the Government for employment development. The choice of a DPL
    was appropriate in view of short-term risks to fiscal stability at the time; and the programmatic approach
    proved correct. The programmatic design allowed the the DPLs to be adjusted as implementation progressed:
    this is reflected in the changes that were made in moving from SEDPO-1 to SEDPO-2. At the same time, the
    Program might have been more selective: while significant progress would be made in putting in place the
    legal, regulatory and organizational elements of the SEDPP, it also left the country with an agenda for
    implementation that seems ambitious when juxtaposed with the relatively limited experience of the Kosovo
    administration. Much depended on the internalization of the technical assistance. The Bank team had
    assessed the macroeconomic situation as adequate for moving ahead, although it quickly would unravel, in
    part due to unexpected political development, delaying disbursement of SEDPO-1. A similar assessment was
    made at the outset of SEDPO-2, and then macro stability was maintained. M&E design initially suffered from
    inconsistencies (see Section 10a), but these were addressed in preparing SEDPO-2.
  Quality-at-Entry Rating:                     Moderately Satisfactory


b. Quality of supervision:


   Project supervision was able to revise project elements between SEDPO-1 and SEDPO-2; and monitor
   implementation on a continuous basis throughout the two phases. The team maintained good working
   relations with the Government and with donors.


  Quality of Supervision Rating :              Satisfactory

  Overall Bank Performance Rating :            Moderately Satisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:


   Government commitment to the reform agenda was strong throughout the period, and many of the successful
   outcomes under the MILES framework attest to that. At the same time, there were issues: (i) change in
   political leadership that took place almost immediately after approval of SEDP-1 gave rise to spending
   initiatives which put the macroeconomic framework at risk, albeit stability subsequently being restored and
   maintained throughout the project period; and (ii) efforts to meet fiscal management objectives under the
   project fell short (Section 4). For the SEDPP, the Government established an inter-ministerial committee that
   performed well: it provided leadership and facilitated communications between the various agencies affected
   by the Program.



  Government Performance Rating :                             Moderately Satisfactory


b. Implementing Agency Performance:
   Not rated separately from Government

  Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                    Moderately Satisfactory

  Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                       Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

   Monitoring design included indicators covering the full SEDPP period. They had initially been drawn up in
   preparing SEDPO-1 and also were to cover SEDPO-2 and SEDPO-3. With the consolidation of the two latter
   operations into SEDPO-2, and progress on implementation, they were adjusted in the light of available data to
   become more measurable; some new indicators were introduced, and baseline values were introduced. All the
   indicators contributed to measuring progress on the relevant components of the MILES framework for moving
   towards the PDO.

b. M&E Implementation:
       Monitoring was based on supervision missions, and it was supplemented with continuous interaction between the
       supervision team and implementing ministries and agencies. Reporting on project monitoring indicators was
       coordinated through an Inter-ministerial committee headed by the Offices of the Prime Minister and Deputy Prime
       Minister.

    c. M&E Utilization:

       Regular monitoring facilitated discussions with the Government and signaled potential problems
.
     M&E Quality Rating: Substantial


    11. Other Issues

    a. Safeguards:
        No safeguard policies were triggered

    b. Fiduciary Compliance:
        There were no fiduciary concerns

    c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):
        None

    d. Other:
        None


    12. Ratings:                            ICR                  IEG Review                  Reason for
                                                                                      Disagreement/Comments
                        Outcome: Moderately                 Moderately
                                 Satisfactory               Satisfactory
             Risk to Development Significant                Significant
                        Outcome:

                Bank Performance: Satisfactory              Moderately          The IEG assessment emphasizes
                                                            Satisfactory        selectivity in the context of Borrower
                                                                                capacity, and early issues with M&E
                                                                                design
          Borrower Performance : Satisfactory               Moderately          Change in political leadership that gave
                                                            Satisfactory        rise to weakness in sustaining macro
                                                                                performance, advancing on
                                                                                procurement, and civil service reform
                    Quality of ICR:                         Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

    13. Lessons:

       This review highlights the following lesson from the ICR:

            Government ownership and commitment is necessary for the success of budget support operations . The
             SEDPP series was able to support specific, important, clearly defined prior reforms that were identified
           through substantial consultation with the development community, and the Government owned it
           completely. This facilitated parliamentary approval even with short timeframes, and maintained structural
           reform momentum even when the macroeconomic framework had gone off-track.

          In countries with little or no experience with budget support operations , the underlying policy program
           should be selective with dedicated supervision and TA resources to support implementation of the
           reforms. Although very successful in meeting legislative prior actions, SEDPP did not achieve all of the
           more challenging implementation objectives, mainly because of the lack of capacity in the count

    IEG's review adds two lessons:

          In post-conflict countries , where capacity is weak , development policy operations can be effective
           instruments when accompanied by a critical mass of technical assistance . It is, however, also important
           to ensure that the technical assistance is designed to provide transfer of knowledge as well as advisory
           services. This becomes especially important in circumstances where large amounts of technical
           assistance are provided. Then, careful analysis needs to be made of the capacity of the recipient to
           usefully absorb that technical assistance.

          The introduction of a programmatic DPL into a relatively uncertain environment allows for adjustments
           later on. Facing situations of weak capacity and potential uncertainties in implementation of policy
           changes, a learning-by-doing process can be a constructive way to proceed. However, that does require
           that close attention is paid to maintaining the objective focus even in the face of revisions to indicators and
           triggers


14. Assessment Recommended?                   Yes      No

Why?

    The program that consists of two operations supported an impressive list of reforms in a newly independent
    country where success of the reform is heavily dependent on technical assistance through donors. We have
    some inkling of this TA having had a positive impact from the progress that has been made to date – largely with
    TA in place. However, the crucial element is not the TA per se, but the transmission of knowledge that is
    supposed to take place. This is an essential feature of most DPLs, but is sufficient attention being paid to the
    human capacity-level changes that are supposed to take place? The Kosovo DPLs, with their heavy
    legal/regulatory agenda, would seem to offer an opportunity to look into the effectiveness of that transmission of
    knowledge.




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:



    While the ICR was internally consistent, followed guidelines, and extensively discussed program development,
    reporting of results indicators under the first operation is missing. Hence, the ICR quality is satisfactory, but
    marginally so.
a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
