FILE COPY
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. 261a-SO
APPRAISAL OF THE
TRANS-JUBA LIVESTOCK PROJECT
SOMALIA
January 10, 1974
Eastern Africa Project Department
Agricultural Credit and Livestock Division
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuracy or completeness of the report.



CUKRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  =  Somali Shilling (So. Sh.)
So. Sh. 1.00   =  US$0.16
US$1.00        =  So. Sh. 6.23
So. Sh. 1,000  =  Us$160
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 hectare (ha) = 10,000 m = 2.47 acreE (ac)
1 kilometer (km) = 0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)   100 ha = 0.39 square mile (sq mi)
1 kilogram (kg) = 2.20 poundE (lb)
1 liter (1) = 0.26 gallon (gal)
1 cubic meter (m3) = 35.31 cubic feet (cu ft)
ABBREVIATIONS
LDA     =  Livestock Development Agency
WDA     = Water Development Agency
MMFR    =  Ministry of LiveEtock, Forestry and Range
SDB     =  Somali Development Bank
SNB     =  Somali National Bank
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



SOMALIA
TRANS-JUBA LIVESTOCK PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  .................  .  .......i - ii
I.    INTRODUCTION  ......................................                        1
II.   BACKGROUND                 ................................                 1
A.    General  . ...........................  . .*..1
B.    The Agricultural Sector              ..................        2
C.    Livestock Development Agency  .............                    4
D.    The Kismayu Meat Factory  .......... .....                     5
E.    Banking and Credit  .......................                    5
III. THE PROJECT AREA  ...................................                        6
IV.  THE PROJECT          ....................................... .               7
A.    General  .......         ...........................           7
B.    Detailed Features  .....           ...................         8
C.    Project Cost  ......          .......................         13
D.    Financing  ......        ...................... i...          14
E.   Procurement  ......           ........................         14
F.    Disbursements  ......         ......................          15
G.   Accounts and Audit  .....            ................. *       16
V.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  .....              ...................        16
VI.   PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND LDA OPERATIONS  .............                      17
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION  ..                .......................       19
VIII.RECOMMENDATIONS  ....................................                       21






ANNEXES
1.   The Agricultural Sector
Table 1   Estimated Size and Distribution of Labor Force, 1963.
Table 2   Exports, 1963-1971.
Table 3   Exports of Live Animals and Livestock Production 1965-1971.
2.   Markets and Prices
Table 1   Cattle Weights and Assumed Weight Losses on Stock Routes.
Table 2   LDA Cattle Purchases and Sales, 1969-1972.
Table 3   Cattle Flow Projection.
Table 4   Cattle Purchase and Sale Projection in the Project Area.
Table 5   Cattle Flow Projection for Grazing Ranches and Feedlot.
Table 6   Cattle Prices and Weights.
3.   Livestock Development Agency
Table 1   Income Statement, 1966-1972.
Table 2   Projected Cash Flow without Project, 1973-1980.
4.   The Kismayu Meat Factory
Table 1   Incremental Investment Required to Process and the
Additional Volume Resulting from the Project.
Table 2   Assumptions for Computing Sales Revenues.
Table 3   Assumptions for Computing Operating Costs.
Table 4   Slaughtering and Production Projection.
Table 5   Financial Projection
5.  Banking and Credit
Table 1   Loans to Private Sector by Branches of Economic Activity.
6.   The Project Area
7.   Cattle Markets, Stockroutes and Holding Grounds
Table 1   Cattle Markets -- Investment Cost.
Table 2   Stockroutes -- Investment Cost.
Table 3   Afmadu Holding Ground -- Investment Cost.
Table 4   Operating Costs.
Table 5   Projected Stock Flows by Origin and Herdsmen Requirement.
Plan      Proposed Cattle Market.



Annexes (Continued)
8.   One Grazing Ranch
Table 1   Investment Cost.
Table 2   Cattle Sales and Operating Costs.
Table 3   Herd Projection.
Table 4   Operating Costs -- Basic Assumption.
9.   Irrigated Fodder Farm and Feedlot -- Irrigation Component
Appendix 1  Consultants Draft Terms of Reference for Engineering
Aspects.
Table 1  Monthly Flows of Juba River at Gimama Station.
Table 2  Water Requirements.
Table 3   Investment Cost.
Table 4   Operating Costs.
Chart 1  Work Schedule.
10. Irrigated Fodder Farm and Feedlot -- Production Component
Table 1   Investment Cost.
Table 2   Tractor Operating Assumptions.
Table 3   Tractor Use Assumptions and Projected Performance Analysis.
Table 4   Total Annual Dry Matter Production.
Table 5   Cattle Sales and Operating Costs.
Table 6   Operating Costs -- Basic Assumptions.
Table 7   Cattle Feeding and Growth Rates Assumptions.
Table 8   Annual Throughput of Cattle and Incremental Liveweight
and Carcasse Weight Gains.
Chart 1  Land and Tractor Critical Use Chart.
11. Disease Control
Table 1   Investment Cost.
Table 2  Operating Costs.
12. Project Construction and Maintenance Unit
Table 1   Investment Cost.
Table 2   Operating Costs.
Table 3   Construction Program.
13. Project Development and Training Unit
Table 1   Investment and Operating Costs.
Table 2  Training Cost of Local Counterparts.
14. Project Cost
15. Sources and Annual Phasing of Investments



Annexes (Continued)
16. Government's Incremental Revenues From Taxes and Duties
17. LDA's Estimated Cash Flow from Project
18. Allocation and Disbursement of Credit
Table 1  Estimated Allocation of the Proceeds of the Credit.
Table 2  Estimated Expenditure and Disbursement Percentage by
Project Components.
Table 3  Estimated Schedule of Quarterly Disbursement.
19.  Organization and Management
Appendix 1 Draft Terms of Reference, Duties, Responsibilities and
Qualifications for IDA Project Staff; Project Director;
Senior Grazing Ranch Manager; Irrigation Specialist;
Irrigated Fodder Farm and Feedlot Manager; Master Mechanic;
Project Finance Officer.
Chart 1    Ministry of Livestock, Forestry and Range, Department
of Animal Health and Production.
Chart 2     Livestock Development Agency and Department of Animal
Health and Production -- Existing Organization.
Chart 3     Livestock Development Agency - Organization Chart (a)
During Development (b) Full Development.
Chart 4     Livestock Development Agency -- Marketing Department --
Organization Chart.
4' Chart 5     Technical Assistance and Staff Training.
20. Projected Financial Results of LDA Including the Project
Table 1  Projected Cash Flow of LDA Including Project -- 1974-1980.
Table 2   Balance Sheet of LDA as of December 31, 1972 Actual and
1973-1976 Projected.
21. Financial Analysis
Table 1  Marketing, Financial Rate of Return.
Table 2  Two Grazing Ranches and Irrigated Fodder Farm and
Feedlot, Financial Rate of Return.
Table 3  Total Project -- Financial Rate of Return.
22. Government's Estimated Cash Flow from Project Excluding Taxes and Duties
23. Annual Government Revenues from Taxes and Duties at Full Project
Development
24. Balance of Payments Impact
Table 1  Foreign Exchange Costs and Revenues.
25. Total Project -- Rate of Return to Economy
MAP       (IBRD 10398R) -- Project Area
(IBRD 10430R) -- Irrigation System.






SOMALIA
TRANS-JUBA LIVESTOCK PROJECT
SUMLMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Livestock production is the most important economic activity in
Somalia, providing three-quarters of the value of the country's exports and
a livelihood to nomads representing about 70% of its population. Traditional
methods of production and marketing largely prevail, however, and Government
has given priority to increasing productivity and expanding and diversifying
exports of livestock and livestock products.
ii.       The proposed livestock Project would be the first Bank Group
assistance to the agricultural sector in Somalia. Since 1965 IDA has
extended six credits to Somalia, totalling about So.Sh. 220 million (US$35
million). Three of these were for development of the transportation network,
including the construction of two trunk roads, Afgoi-Baidoa in the Central
region and Hargeisa-Berbera in the North. Others included one for education
and two for port development. Performance under these projects has been
generally satisfactory in spite of some initial delays.
iii.      The Project would over five years include construction of five cattle
markets and improvement of over 1,000 kIn of existing stockroutes. It would
establish two grazing ranches of 80,000 ha each, as well as an irrigated fodder
farm and feedlot. Provision would be made for a disease control program, tech-
nical services , training and future project preparation. The Livestock Devel-
opment Agency (LDA) would be responsible for the Project's execution, except
for the disease control program and feasibility studies for future agricultural
projects which would be the responsibility of Government. The LDA would engage
in Livestock trading, improve and manage stockroutes and holding grounds for
the better marketing of livestock; and carry out a large scale cattle fattening
operation based on irrigated fodder production.
iv.       Total Project cost would be So.Sh. 71.8 million (US$11.5 million),
of which So.Sh. 45.6 million (US$7.3 million) or 64% represents foreign
exchange requirements. An IDA Credit of US$10 million would finance 87% of
total Project cost. The Government contribution would be US$1.5 million, or
about 13% of total Project cost. The Project would generate during the
development period about US$0.6 million from taxes and duties leaving
Government net of tax contribution at about US$0.9 million or 8% of total
Project cost net of taxes and duties. IDA funds and Government's contribution
would be onlent to LDA at 7 1/4% per annum for a term of 20 years with a 5-year
grace period. Interest payment during the erace neriod will be deferred and
capitalized to enable LDA to build up adequate cash balances during tL.  i.iiLial
years of the Project.



- ii -
v.        A Project Development and Training Unit (PDTU) would be established
within LDA which would be responsTble for Project implementation and accounts,
procurement, maintenance and supervision. PDTU would also train local count-
erpart staff and organize in-service training.
vi.       Procurement for irrigation and drainage civil works, irrigation
equipment, access and farm roads, tractors, trucks and vehicles amounting
to about US$2.8 million would be by international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines. Contracts for boreholes, the feedlot,
buildings and water development facilities on the Afmadu holding ground,
as well as for the grazing ranches and the irrigated fodder farm and
feedlot amounting to about US$0.8 million would be subject to local compet-
itive bidding in accordance with Government procurement procedures, which
are satisfactory.
vii.      The estimated financial rate of return to LDA would be 14%.  The
rate of return to the Somali economy would be about 25%. At full development
in year six total annual marketed production through the Project would be about
52,000 head of cattle: 25,000 fattened, 19,000 canners and 8,000 for live
export. At full development incremental carcass weight resulting from the
Project would be about 3,900 tons annually and incremental exports of live
cattle, chilled, frozen, and canned beef would amount to US$6.6 million
annually, representing net foreign exchange earnings of about US$3.8 million.
viii.     About 20,000 nomadic cattle-raising families owning about one mil-
lion cattle (1/3 of total Somali cattle) would benefit from the Project.
Estimated annual cash income per family would increase on average by about
50%, from So.Sh. 600 (US$100) to So.Sh. 900 (US$150). The Project would provide
permanent employment for 600-700 persons within LDA, and an additional 200
would be employed for five years in Project related construction.
ix.       Contingent on receiving the required assurances, the Project would be
suitable for an-IDA Credit of US$10 million.



SOMALIA
TRANS-JUBA LIVESTOCK PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Livestock represents the most important economic activity in
Somalia and provides a livelihood for three-quarters of its population. The
industry, however, remains traditionally organized and is dependent on no-
madic pastoralists who are very poor and have a low level of productivity.
The Government's objectives, to which this project would make an important
contribution, are to improve the income of the nomads by modernizing cattle
production and, at the same time, utilize this valuable resource more effi-
ciently to increase exports and foreign exchange earnings, which are crucial
to the further development of the country. To achieve these goals, emphasis
is being placed on improved marketing facilities and on the introduction of
cattle fattening operations, which would enable a diversification of production
into chilled and frozen beef for export. The Trans-Juba region, wlhere the
proposed project is located, contains one-third of the country's total cattle
population, and is located near one of the country's major ports. The Juba
river assures the water supply necessary for the Project.
1.02      This would be the first Bank group assistance to the agricultural
sector; however, since 1965 IDA has extended six credits totalling about
So.Sh.220 million (USS35 million) to Somalia. Three of these credits were
for development of transportation, including the construction of two trunk
roads - Afgoi-Baidoa in the Central region and Hargeisa-Berbera in the North.
Others included one for education and two for port development. Performance
under these projects has been generally satisfactory, although initially
they presented problems causing some delays.
1.03      This Project was prepared by Government with assistance from the
IBRD permanent mission to East Africa (PMEA). This report is based on the
findings of an IDA appraisal mission to Somalia in January/February 1973
composed of Messrs. S. Silbiger, G. Ablasser, T. Baddar and C. Wolffelt (IDA),
and V. Ashworth and J. Moller (consultants).
II. BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Somalia is located in the eastern corner of Africa and has a total
area of about 637,000 km2. Rainfall is low and uncertain, ranging from 200-600
mm, and the country is generally arid to semi-arid. The population is estimated
at about three million, and is growing at a rate of 2.4% per annum.



- 2-
2.02      GNP in 1971 was about US$200 million, with a per capita income of
about US$70. There are no national accounts available; however, it is estimated
that between 1960 and 1970, the per capita income remained static. Total export
earnings have not shown any significant increase over the last nine years, and
in 1971 totalled about So.Sh. 246 million (US$39 million). Generally non-
livestock exports declines have been offset by rising livestock exports.
About two-thirds of the 1971 total exports were derived from livestock and
related products, and one-quarter from bananas and fruit. Total value of
imports rose from So.Sh. 364 million (US$58 million) in 1969 to So.Sh. 457
million (US$73 million) in 1971.
B. The Agricultural Sector (Annex 1)
2.03      In the absence of known significant mineral resources, the country
is dependent on the agriculture sector for its economic development. However,
with the exception of bananas and sugarcane, commercially produced, production
is mainly subsistence. About 70% of the population are pastoralists, some
of whom engage in subsistence cultivation; an additional 15% are engaged in
sedentary agriculture, forestry and fishing.
2.04      Although most of Somalia is arid or semi-arid, there are considerable
areas of potentially productive land suitable for agriculture and livestock
production. Of some eight million ha of potentially arable land (13% of total
area), only about 600,000 ha are now cropped. Of this approximately 100,000
ha is under irrigation from the Juba and Shebeli rivers. In addition to the
arable land, some 35 million ha (or about 55% of the total land area) is used
for seasonal grazing. All land belongs to the State, and is largely used
traditionally by nomadic herdsmen who move according to the seasons and the
availability of grass and water in Somalia and adjacent countries. All natur-
al and Government-constructed stock watering facilities are for common usage
and are mostly free of charge.
Livestock Population
2.05      The country's main resource is its extensive livestock population;
this totals about 2-1/2 - 3 million cattle (mostly located in the South),
the same number of camels, and about 12 million sheep and goats. Cattle
are well adapted to the generally harsh environment and without further genetic
improvement, fertility and growth rates will respond to improved disease control
and nutrition. The most pressing needs are for measures designed to increase
production and offtake and improved facilities for marketing and disease control.
Livestock Markets and Prices (Annex 2)
2.06      Although the traditional marketing system provides cattle markets
in most towns and villages, the marketing facilities in the Trans-Juba area



- 3 -
are inadequate. In the more remote areas traders use trucks or camels to
visit the nomads. The Bardera-Kismayu road is not serviceable for 6-8 months
of the year, and there are not enough staging points and watering facilities
along existing stockroutes. Consequently, mortality and weight loss on the
stockroutes are high - about 1-1/2% and 13% respectively on an average nine-
day route. Very little is known about the proportion of cattle marketed
through middlemen, transactions among middlemen, or the price structure prior
to purchase by the Livestock Development Agency (LDA). LDA is a Government
agency engaged primarily in the purchasing of livestock for live export and
sale to the Kismayu meat factory (paras. 2.10 and 2.13). It is estimated that
of the 58,000 cattle purchased by LDA in 1972, 20-40% were bought directly
from nomads and 60-80% from traders. In addition, about 90% of those cattle
not purchased by LDA (i.e. sales to Kenya estimated at about 30,000 annually
and sales of about 5,000 to local slaughter houses) are traded through middle-
men. Prices received by nomads from middlemen fall probably within the range
of So.Sh. 0.63 to 0.67/kg liveweight.  LDA pays So.Sh. 0.81/kg for canner
cattle (of which the seller receives So.Sh. 0.75/kg after deduction of taxes          A
and fees), and sells to the Kismayu meat factory at the agreed price of   
So.Sh. 0.98/kg. Cattle for live export are purchased by LDA at So.Sh. 0.92/kg
and sold at about So.Sh. 1.53/kg. These margins have been sufficient to cover
costs and give LDA a profit but the prices to the nomads are not believed to
be attractive enough to stimulate greatly increased sales by them in the future.
To induce nomads to sell more cattle in order to meet increasing demands, LDA
increased prices to So.Sh. 0.87/kg for canners and So.Sh. 1.00/kg for live
export in late summer, 1973 increasing the prices received by nomads to about
So.Sh. 0.77/kg or by about 18%.
Exports
2.07      Livestock exports have increased rapidly, rising from So.Sh. 109.2
million (US$17.5 million) in 1967 to So.Sh. 162.4 million (US$26 million) in
1971; their share of total exports increased over the same period from 55% to
66%. About 56,000 live cattle were exported in 1971 at a value of So.Sh. 18.5
million (US$3 million) and about 81,000 in 1972 at a value of So.Sh. 28 mil-
lion (US$4.5 million); most of these were shipped from Berbera due to the
port's proximity to Saudi Arabia and other Gulf states where the cattle are
marketed. In spite of the established trade, shipping is poorly organized and
losses are high. In order to alleviate these problems, Government is estab-
lishing the Somali Shipping Agency, which will be responsible for improving
ocean transport of both livestock and bananas, and tentatively at a later date
a Livestock Trading Agency which will eventually assume responsibility for all
live animal exports.  With the opening in 1969 of the Kismayu meat factory,
the supply of processed meats available for export has more than tripled,
reaching a value of So.Sh. 21.4 million (US$3.4 million) in 1971 1/. The
USSR is the factory's major customer, but in 1972 small quantities were ex-
ported to African and Mediterranean countries (para. 2.13). Exports of
chilled and frozen beef to these markets are expected to become one of the
factory's main activities, but this will be dependent on an improvement in
the quality of cattle.
1/ Figures for 1972 are not available.



-4-
Animal Health
2.08      Disease control is a continuing, though lessening constraint on
improved productivity in the livestock sub-sector. Until recently Rinderpest
was the principal disease affecting the cattle population. An eradication
and mass vaccination program is now being carried on throughout the country
with assistance from the Federal Republic of Germany. About 800,000 head
or 80% of the cattle in the Trans-Juba area have been treated thus far.
Foot and Mouth Disease (FMD) is endemic, but in spite of sporadic outbreaks is
not a serious threat to indigenous cattle. Trypanosomiasis is a major problem
in the Juba valley area, causing considerable stock losses. Government has
decided to concentrate disease control measures within a limited area, pro-
gressively expanding its program until the entire country is covered. The
program will initially focus on the Lower Juba region, part of which is with-
in the Project area, and the long-term plan calls for the eventual establish-
ment of a disease free zone (}Map, IBRD 10398). In 1972 Government introduced
a program to supply veterinary drugs free of charge - primarily to increase
producer acceptance of animal health control measures - but it is too early
to assess results.
Water Supply
2.09      The Water Development Agency (WDA) was set up in 1970 within the
Ministry of Mineral and Water Resources to design and implement the siting,
drilling and equippping of boreholes on a contract basis; it presently has
some 25 drill rigs and other auxilliary equipment, and its staff includes
four qualified hydrologists. A lack of Government funds has restricted
operations over the past two years to about 40 drillings per year, and little
effort has been expended in the maintenance of existing boreholes.
C. Livestock Development Agency (Annex 3)
2.10      The Livestock Development Agency (LDA) was established in 1966 as an
autonomous Government agency to coordinate and promote livestock development
and marketing and export of livestock and livestock products. To finarce
LDA's activities, Government has appropriated So.Sh. 4.0 million (US$640,000)
between 1966 and 1972. LDA initially concentrated on providing holding
grounds and marketing facilities along the Shebeli and Juba rivers but in
1967 also became responsible for all port veterinary work as well as the
issue of health certificates and collection of livestock inspection fees.
In 1969 LDA started livestock trading, mainly to supply the Kismayu meat
factory, and its trading operations have since expanded rapidly.



2.11      LDA is headed by a General Manager, and has headquarters in Mogadishu
and six regional offices throughout the country. Its major constraint at pre-
sent is the lack of qualified and experienced staff, particularly in financial
management; any accurate financial evaluation of its individual activities is
therefore difficult. Based on LDA's available data, its net income from live-
stock trading amounted to about So.Sh. 1.0 million in each of 1971 and 1972
compared with So.Sh. 0.5 million in 1970 and a net loss of So.Sh. 0.5 million
in 1969.
2.12      Government reviewed the financial situation of public agencies in
the context of development fund requirements and availability and found these
largely unsatisfactory.  Accordingly it passed a law (effective January 1,
1973) which provides for various improvements including some fiscal simplifi-
cation and strengthening of financial management and accountability of public
agencies.  The principle measures include:  making the magistrate of accounts
responsible for audit of the agencies (no audit requirement existed previously)
and replacing income tax by a turnover tax at a rate to be determined annually
by the Ministry of Finance. Further, cash generated annually which is surplus
to the enterprise's requirements, after specified permitted appropriationsis
paid to Government. The law appears to be satisfactory and although it is too
early to judge its effect it should lead to increased efficiency in operations
and the use of funds in Government agencies.
D. The Kismayu Meat Factory (Annex 4)
2.13      The Kismayu meat factory came into operation in 1969; its total cost
of about So.Sh. 43 million was financed-mainly by the USSR under an agreement
providing for management by Russian experts until 1976. It has a slaughter
capacity of 50 head/hour, and a canning capacity of about 250 head/day and
produces mainly stewed steak for the USSR. The factory is required to export
16 million cans (equivalent to about 5,300 tons of dressed carcass meat or
50,000 head of cattle) of stewed steak per year to the USSR at a price which is
negotiable annually. In 1972 the factory also sold 600,000 cans of cooked
corned beef to African and Mediterranean markets. Total 1972 sales were
about So.Sh. 32.4 million (US$5.2 million). The plant is well designed and
allows a good production flow, although in some respects it does not reflect
modern sanitary practices and standards. Government plans to expand the
factory's capacity to increase production of chilled, frozen and canned beef.
It does not wish to mingle other external financing with the USSR investment
para. 6.07).
E. Banking and Credit (Annex 5)
2.14      Somalia's banking system consists of a Central Bank - the Somali
National Bank (SNB) - two commercial banks and the Somali Development Bank.



-6-
The two commercial banks, the Somali Commercial Bank and Somali Savings
and Credit Bank, were created in 1970 following the nationalization of the
four foreign-owned commercial banks operating in the country. Each of
these has a capital of So.Sh. 2.5 million (US$400,000), equally subscribed
by the SNB and Government. The commercial banks extend short-term loans to
the small private trading sector at an interest rate of 9% which accounts
for 71% of their total credit outstanding, while agricultural credit amounts
only to 5%. However, certain Government agencies receive preferential rates
to encourage development in particular sectors e.g. 7-1/2% to the National
Banana Agency, 6% to LDA, and 5% to the Agriculture Development Corporation
(ADC). ADC is a Government Agency and although it does not provide credit
it supplies farmers with agricultural inputs, extension and marketing service
on a small scale.
2.15      The Somali Development Bank (SDB) provides nedium and long-term
loans to both the public and private sectors. It does not normally lend
for agriculture. Up to the end of 1972 its sources of funds have been its
paid up equity capital of So.Sh. 20.6 million (US$3.3 million) and an eight
year loan from Iraq at 2-1/2% for the equivalent of US$1.3 million. SDB
lending was about So.Sh. 7 million in 1971, compared with So.Sh. 1.3 million
in 1970. This increase was attributed to an improved business climate in
the private sector after a period of uncertainty. As its activities are
increasing, SDB's operational efficiency needs strengthening.
III. THE PROJECT AREA (Annex 6)
3.01      The Project Area covers some 65,000 km ; it is bounded in the east
by the Juba river, in the north and west by Kenya and in the southeast by
the Indian Ocean. For the most part the area is arid to semi-arid rangeland
subject to recurrent droughts; it has low shrubs and infrequent trees, and
water supply is widely dispersed, seasonal and often brackish. Nevertheless,
the area contains an estimated 0.9 to 1.0 million cattle, one-third of the
country's total cattle population, the main outlet for which is the Kismayu
meat factory.
3.02      The majority of the population in the area is made up of traditional
pastoralists who are almost wholly dependent on livestock. In the past these
nomads had raised cattle mainly to satisfy consumption, prestige, or other
family needs. Attitudes are now changing, however; availability of better
educational and medical facilities has in many cases caused the nomads to
establish semi-permanent homes, and the herdsmen more often now vief their
cattle simply as a source of income. The banana plantations are the only
large employers within the area, and it is estimated they employ about 8,000
persons. The small farmers along the Juba provide the main source of this
labor, and they keep small herds of livestock to supplement their incomes.



- 7 -
3.03      All the administrative centers are linked by roads of varying qual-
ity; these are generally poor, however, and the majority are impassable to
vehicles for up to five months or more every year. With the exception of the
bridge across the Juba at Gelib, the only other crossing points are the ferries
at Lugh Ferrandi and Barbera. Kismayu harbor was reconstructed with a loan
from USAID in 1969 and is now capable of handling vessels of up to 10,000
gross tons.
3.04      The proposed Project envisages the irrigation of the fodder farm
from the Juba river. It enters Somalia from Ethiopia but no agreement exists
between the two countries for the use of the water of this common river. It
is unlikely, however, that the Ethiopian river basin would be developed in
the foreseeable future since its topography and soils are unsuitable for
agricultural development, and there is as yet limited demand for power. The
irrigation component of the proposed project would require only about 4% (22.5
million m3) of the average flow over 14 years (1951-1964) near the site of
the proposed farm area. The question of water rights between the two countries
was discussed with the Somali Government who indicated that they objected to
making formal notification to the Ethiopian Government as the border is disputed
and it considers the Juba river basin in Ethiopia an integral part of Somalia.
3.05      Within Somalia the use of irrigation water for fodder production has
also to be weighed against other possible competing demands. However, the Juba
at present has a potential for irrigation of about 40,000 ha of which only
about 6,000 ha is now utilized, mainly for banana plantations; moreover this
potential will increase to about 75,000 ha when a barrage at Fanole financed
by the USSR is completed. The Project's modest water demand for a 1,200 ha
farm would therefore not conflict with other possible uses in the foreseeable
future. However, to protect Project water requirements for the future,
Government should enact legislation regulating the use of Juba waters which
would stipulate that water rights for irrigation be allocated on the basis
of prior use. During negotiations assurances were obtained that such legisla-
tion would be enacted within one year of credit signing.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. General
4.01      The Project would over five years provide an improved and extend-
ed marketing system for the purchase of livestock from nomadic pastoralists;
the Project would also establish a cattle fattening operation which in conjunc-
tion with the marketing system would increase and diversify production from
the existing Kismayu meat factory. The Project would include:



-8-
(a)  construction of five permanent cattle markets, one new
holding ground, and development of water supplies and
staging points on over 1,000 km of existing stockroutes;
(b)  two grazing ranches of about 80,000 ha each;
(c)  one irrigated fodder farm for feed production on about
1,200 ha, and a feedlot with a capacity of 5,200 head;
(d)  a disease control program;
(e)  technical services, training, feasibility studies and
future project preparation.
Apart from the disease control program, and feasibility studies which would
be directed by the Veterinary Department of the Ministry of Livestock,
Forestry and Range (MLFR), and Government respectively, the Project would be
executed by LDA under the general direction of MLFR. LDA would discharge its
Project responsibilities through a Project Development and Training Unit (PDTU).
4.02      The total area required for the major Project components would be
about 1,900 km2. The Government proposes to assign these areas to LDA for
an unlimited period without charge and the Government does not consider this
to be a significant social problem. Assurances were obtained during negotia-
tions from Government that as a condition of credit effectiveness about 1,900
km2 land in the Project area would be made available to LDA for its exclusive
use at no charge for an unlimited period.
B. Detailed Features
4.03      The Project's marketing and production components are largely inter-
dependent. About one-half of the livestock purchases from nomadic pasto-
ralists - 26,000 - would at full development be sold either live or to the
Kismayu meat factory for canning. The other half, representing the better
quality animals, would first be prepared for fattening on the two grazing
ranches proposed under the Project and would subsequently be finished off
at the feedlot using high quality fodder produced under irrigation. The
feedlot production would be sold to the Kismayu meat factory for processing
as chilled or frozen beef to be sold in the more lucrative export markets.
Markets, Stockroutes and Holding Grounds (Annex 7)
4.04      The Project would establish organized marketing facilities for live-
stock in the Project area in order to increase offtake and reduce losses.
These would facilitate the orderly purchase and movement of cattle. The mar-
keting component would specifically include:



(a) construction of three large new permanent cattle markets
at Tabda, Maskati and Gelib, and two small markets at Lugh
Ferrandi and Busar;
(b) development of water supplies and staging points on over 1,000 km
of existing stockroutes;
(c)  construction of one 20,000 ha new holding ground near Afmadu;
(d) bush clearing of over 12,000 ha and development of two
water points on the existing LDA cattle holding ground near
Kismayu;
(e) vehicles and equipment for the LDA marketing teams in the
Project area.
The markets would be located so as to allow purchases from areas with the
greatest concentration of cattle. The stockroutes would connect the perman-
ent markets with the holding grounds at Afmadu and Kismayu, and staging posts
and water points would be established approximately every 30 km. The new
holding ground icear Afmadu would be primarily used for regulating the Kismayu
meat factory's intake of slaughter cattle and would also be used for select-
ing and sorting of immatures for the grazing ranches and the irrigated fodder
farm and feedlot. The expansion of the holding ground at Kismayu would pro-
vide additional facilities for quarantine and veterinary procedures, and
would enable cattle to be retained until ready for export or slaughter
at the Kismayu meat factory.
Grazing Ranches (Annex 8)
4.05      Two ranches would be established on natural grasslands in areas
virtually free of bush. One ranch would be located in the vicinity of the
irrigated fodder farm and feedlot (para. 4.08) and the other near the Afmadu
holding ground. Each ranch would have a perimeter fence, be sub-divided by
firebreaks and roads into about 30 fields, and watering points would be con-
structed where necessary.  One ranch would be established in each of the first
two Project years, and at full development in year three, each would provide
about 10,000 cattle for the feedlot.
4.06      The ranches would be established in order to provide additional
market outlets for young immature cattle.  Thev constitute an essential
intermediate step which would help prepare range cattle for subsequent in-
tensive fattening in the feedlot, as an adequate number of cattle suitable
for intensive fattening would not be available from within the nomadic herds.
Cattle would enter the ranch at about 210 kg liveweight and would reach some
300 kg before being transferred to the irrigated fodder farm and feedlot.
All animals would be vaccinated and regularly treated for parasites. After
one year on the grazing ranches, the immature cattle would show substantial
growth and weight gain, as well as significant quality improvement; they
would then be ready for subsequent "finishing" in the feedlot.



- 10
Irrigated Fodder Farm and Feedlot (Annexes 9 and 10)
4.07.     The irrigated fodder farm and feedlot would provide a continuous
regular supply of high quality meat essential to the diversification of beef
exports. The farm would be used for feed production (but would be so de-
signed that if necessary, the irrigation system could be applied to the
production of other crops) and it would provide almost the total feed require-
ments of cattle in the feedlot. There are no alternative feed sources avail-
able and improved rainfed grassland has yet to be established in Somalia as
a feasible basis for quality beef production.
4.08      Government has selected and put forward in the credit application
a possible site for the irrigated fodder farm and feedlot. The design and
cost details shown in Annex 9 are based on construction at that site. The
proposed location seems to be favorable as basic requirements such as: topo-
graphy, soil quality, distance from the river and the paved highroad are se-
cured. However a survey of alternative locations could prove thaft better
(and probably cheaper) solutions could be found. The proposed farm would be
located some 80 km north of Kismayu adjacent to the Kismayu-Gelib highway and
the Juba River. Water would be pumped without storage from the Juba to a
surface border irrigation system on the 1,200 ha farm using either ditches
or dykes depending upon the topography after levelling. The water lift would
be about 10 m. After the water was conducted to the farm through a 2 km
supply canal, it would be distributed to the fields through primary, secondary
and tertiary canals. ,Sprinkler irrigation was not found to be feasible, partly
due to the high winds which are a feature of the area.
4.09      Consultants would be required to determine the location of the
irrigated farm, to advise LDA on the engineering aspect of the irrigation
component and to prepare bidding documents. This work would comprise
topographical surveys, detailed design and supervision of construction. The
topographical survey would include a soil survey 1/ and water sampling 2/.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that LDA would, not later than
four months from credit effectiveness, employ a firm of engineering consultants
acceptable to IDA upon terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA.
4.10      Construction would require about two years.  On completion of the
irrigation system, the 1,200 ha farm would gradually be brought into culti-
vation; based on a crop rotation of 600 ha of corn (double cropped) and 600
1/   A general soil survey of the reconnaissance type is available for the
Project area. However, a more detailed soil survey with density of about
one pit every 25 ha is required, as its result might influence the techni-
cal design of the system, specifically the land levelling. According to
available soil classification, the Project area is almost homogenous and
is classified as arable land good for irrigation.
2/   In the period 1963-1965 thirteen water samples were taken and analyzed for
the main chemical characteristics; these have been found satisfactory.
However, systematic sampling during one dry and one rainy season is
required to provide more detailed analysis, as this could influence the
sequence of irrigation. One year's observation would be sufficient, as the
incidence of irregularity of dry and rainy seasons thus far has been low.



- 11 -
ha of Alfalfa and Rhodes grass pasture at any one time, full development
would be reached in year six. The irrigated fodder production proposed calls
for an intensive mechanized system since it is unlikely that sufficient labor
of the required quality could be obtained to replace a significant amount of
the mechanization. The Funds necessary for the proposed mechanized system
are therefore provided under the Project. However, the consultants terms of
reference would include a requirement to investigate the possibility of re-
placing some of the mechanization with labor.
4.11      The feedlot would have a simple open air design consisting of
covered troughs, pens, corrals, and dips. About 25,000 cattle would be
fattened annually in full production from year six. Approximately 80% of
these (20,000) would come from the two grazing ranches and the balance of
about 5,000 would be selected from local markets. It is estimated that about
2,000 cattle would enter and leave the feedlot every month in lots of about
500 per week. All cattle entering the feedlot (average weight 300 kg) would
be tested for Contagious Bovine Pleuropneumonia and vaccinated against FMD.
They would be fattened over 75 days and the incremental liveweight gain annually
would be about 1,700 tons - equivalent to about 1,400 kg per irrigated ha.
When finished, the 370 kg animal would have a dressing out percentage of at
least 50%. The result of the fattening operation would be animal gains of 23%
liveweight, 31% carcass weight, and about 90% in sale value.
4.12      The irrigation system would not have an appreciable effect on the
ecology of the area. As Shistosomiasis (Bilharzia) and Malaria are prevalent,
however, any water development would tend to increase their incidence unless
precautions were taken (Annex 9). Assurances were obtained from Government
during negotiations that:
(a) the irrigation component would be designed so as to control
the incidence of disease; and
(b) the recommendations of the consultants would be considered by
IDA and the Government prior to implementation.
Disease Control (Annex 11)
4.13      To complement the ongoing program designed to eradicate Rinderpest
and Contagious Bovine Pleuropneumonia (para. 2.08), the Project would in-
clude measures to control the incidence of Trypanasomiasis and other diseases.
Government eventually plans to establish a disease free zone; however, as
it would be unrealistic to attempt to cover all cattle producing areas
simultaneously, Government is concentrating on the lower Juba area. The
Project would support this effort by providing one regional veterinary
center at Kismayu, four district veterinary centers at Afmadu, Gelib, Gimama
and Brava, and five small veterinary centers at Bulo Haji, Goba, Anjail,
Beles Gogani and Tabda. The regional center would be headed by a qualified
veterinarian, and provision would be made for supporting staff, equipment,
vehicles and buildings. The disease free zone would give Somali exports of
chilled and frozen meat access to certain European markets presently ex-
cluded on sanitary grounds. Meanwhile, Somalia will continue to sell its
production to other overseas markets (para. 6.07) (Map, IBRD 10398).



- 12 -
Technical Services (Annexes 12 and 13)
4.14      Technical services to be provided under the Project would include:
(a) Project Staff and Equipment: The Project Development and Training
Unit (PDTU) would be established in LDA to develop and implement the Project
(para. 5.02). It would comprise a total of 12 professional staff, six of
which would be expatriates to be internationally recruited. The Project
would require design and construction of markets, water supplies, staging
points on existing stockroutes, a new holding ground near Afmadu, the
expansion of the holding ground near Kismayu and construction of buildings
needed for disease control. This would consequently involve a number of
different construction works in various scattered locations where local
contractors are not available. In the opinion of Government the Ministry
of Public Works is organized to execute works for ongoing highways and port
projects,,but the type of construction work required under the water supply
portion of the Project could be executed by the Water Development Agency
(WDA). WDA's facilities would not be adequate to do the other construction
work required however and it does not have experience in this type of
work. Accordingly, a Construction and Maintenance Unit equipped with bull-
dozers, trucks and other machinery and equipment would be established within
the PDTU.
(b)  Training:  The Project would provide for overseas postgraduate and
diploma training and short term study tours. Four graduates would receive
training overseas and about ten other students would be given diploma train-
ing in countries with similar ecological conditions. The four graduates to be
trained overseas would be the Somali counterparts of expatriate staff of LDA
who would require training in order to eventually take over responsibility
for Project execution. It is assumed that about half of the diploma students
would become directly involved in Project implementation, while half would
strengthen the staff of other Government agencies within the livestock sub-
sector. The Project would thus benefit directly from a large portion of the
training; the remainder of the training would yield more general benefits to
the livestock industry.  Candidates would be selected by LDA in conjunction
with MLFR. In addition sums would be available for LDA staff to travel on
short term study tours to observe ranch development in other African coun-
tries. During negotiations assurances were obtained from Government that the
training program would be established after agreement with IDA.
(c) Feasibility Studies: Provision would be made for studies for
future agricultural projects preparation. Government feels that probably
initial areas of investigation should be development of the Mbgadishu Dairy
and improvement of livestock marketing in the North, as it wishes to give
these priority.  During negotiations assurances were obtained from Govern-
ment that it would consult with IDA and obtain its concurrence before the
studies are carried out.



- 13 -
Operating Expenses
4.15      The Project would include the first three years of operating expenses
for all Project components, as during this period revenues earned would be in-
sufficient to cover them. These would total about So.Sh. 16 million (US$2.6
million) and are included under the various Project components in the Project
cost (para. 4.16).
C. Project Costs
4.16      Total Project cost is estimated at So.Sh. 71.8 million (US$11.5 mil-
lion) of which So.Sh. 45.6 million (US$7.3 million) or 64% represents foreign
exchange requirements. The estimated costs are summarized below:
Foreign
Exchange
So.Sh. '000             US$ '000             Per
Local  Foreign   Total   Local  Foreign Total  centage
LDA Operations:
Markets, Stockroutes
and Holding Grounds   3,001    3,805   6,806        482      610  1,092      56
Grazing Ranches          3,746    4,186   7,932       601      672  1,273      53
IIrrigated Fodder Farm
and Feedlot            9,237   16,293  25,530   1,482   2,616  4,098         64
Construction and
Maintenance Unit       1,888    3,124   5,012       302      502    804      62
Development and
Training Unit          1,195    1,624   2,819       191      261    452      58
Consultant Fees            540    4,858   5,398        86      780    866      90
Total LDA Operations 19,607   33,890  53,497   3,144   5,441  8,585          63
Government Operations    -
Disease Control             818      745   1,563       132     120    252      48
Non-project related
Training                 245       570      815      40       90    130      70
Feasibility Studies         400    1,600   2,000       64      256    320      80
Total Government
Operations           1,463    2,915   4,378       236      466    702      66
Total LDA and Govern-
ment Operations    21,070   36,805  57,875    3,380  5,907  9,287          64
Contingencies
Physical                 2,107    3,680   5,787         338    591    929      64
Price                    2,950    5,153   8,103        474    827  1,301       64
Total Project Cost26,127   45,638  71,765    4,192  7,325 11,517          64
) - _



- 14 -
A more detailed breakdown of Project cost is available in Annexes 14 and 15.
Costs have been estimated at prices prevailing in January 1973. Allowances
have been made for a physical contingency of 10% and a price contingency of
14% (equivalent to 5.6% p.a. on the amount invested). The above cost esti-
mates include duties and taxes totaling about So.Sh. 3.5 million (US$0.6
million).
D. Financing
4.17      The financing of Project costs would be as follows:
------------_---- US$ '000 
Government       %        IDA      X     Total
LDA Operations              1,170         11       9,480    89    10,650
Government Operations         350         40         520    60        870
Total Financing         1,520         13      10,000    87    11,520
In addition to the above financing of Project cost, the Somali Development
Bank would provide an overdraft to finance approximately 2/3 of the value of
Project stock held by LDA. Assurances to this effect were obtained dur-
ing negotiations. The overdraft is expected to be required only from years
one through four and would be, at a maximum, So.Sh. 4 million (US$640,000).
4.18      The IDA Credit of US$10.0 million would be on standard terms to
Government and would finance about 87% of total Project cost. Government's
contribution (US$1.5 million) would amount to about 13% of total Project
cost; this would be offset to the extent that Project cost includes about
US$0.6 million for taxes and duties. Government's contribution excluding
taxes and duties would be about 8% of total Project cost (Annex 16).
4.19      Except for funds for disease control, training of non-Project
related staff (para 4.14) and feasibility studies which would remain with
Government, IDA and Government's funds would be onlent to LDA at 7-1/4% per
annum. This rate is higher than the customary rate for borrowing by LDA so
far (para 2.14) and somewhat better reflects the value of finance to LDA.
The loan would be for a term of 20 years with a five-year grace period.
These terms would allow LDA a sufficient margin to allow for slippage due
to possible delays in project implementation and revenue generation and also
for flexibility in its purchasing activities (Annex 17). During negotiations
it has been agreed that it would be a condition of credit effectiveness that
Government and LDA had signed a Project financing agreement (subsidiary Loan
Agreement) acceptable to IDA.



- 15 -
E. Procurement
4.20      Civil works for irrigation, drainage, access roads and procurement
of equipment (US$1.5 million), and tractors, trucks, cattle truck trains and
vehicles (US$1.3 million) would be by international competitive bidding in
accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines. Contracts for construction of boreholes,
buildings, water and stock handling facilities on the new Afmadu holding
ground, as well as for the grazing ranches and the irrigated fodder farm
and feedlot (US$0.8 million) would be subject to local competitive bidding,
since the diversity of items and their dispersed location would not attract
international bidding. These amounts do not include contingencies. Procedures
for local bidding are satisfactory and there is sufficient competition for
works of this size and kind. Draft tender documents for all contracts exceeding
US$30,000 would be submitted to InA for approval before invitations are issued.
Because of the small size of individual purchases, items such as single tractor
attachments, furniture, office equipment, veterinary equipment, etc., would
be procured locally; supplies are adequate and competition between firms
is satisfactory. Due to the non-availability of suitable contractors, construction
of numerous small and dispersed facilities for marketing and disease control
would be carried out by the Construction and Maintenance Unit of LDA (para.
4.14).
4.21      LDA, with the assistance of the consultants for the irrigation of
the fodder farm and feedlot, would be responsible for the preparation of all
contract documents, evaluation of bids and award of contracts. Government
would grant LDA promptly on request the necessary import licenses for Project
requirements. Appropriate assurances that the above procurement procedures
would be adhered to were obtained from Government during negotiations.
F. Disbursements
4.22      Disbursement of the Credit would cover 92% of total expenditures
for buildings and vehicles, equipment and building material, consultant
services, LDA staff training and LDA's Project related operating costs for
the first three development years. It would also cover 70% of the capital
cost of disease control program, total expenditures for training of Govern-
ment staff and feasibility studies. Disbursement for expenditures in respect
of feasibility studies and of items procured through international or local
competitive bidding would be subject to IDA standard disbursement procedures
requiring full documentation. In the case of LDA's operating costs, expendi-
tures would be approved by the Project Director, certified by the General
Manager of LDA and disbursed against a certified statement, the documentation
for which would not be submitted for review but would be retained by the
Borrower and available for inspection by the Association during the course
of a Project supervision mission. Any funds remaining in the Credit Account
upon completion of the Project would be available for reallocation for fi-
nancing of supplementary expenditures at the discretion of IDA. The es-
timated schedule of disbursements is shown in Annex 18.



- 16 -
G. Accounts and Audit
4.23      LDA does not have a satisfactory system of accounts and financial
control. It has no professionally qualified accounting staff, and there is
a general lack of understanding of the use and value of management informa-
tion. The finance officer provided under the Project would be charged with
the design and implementation of an accounting and management information
system and financial controls for all Project related activities.
4.24      There are no private accounting firms in Somalia.  As of January 1,
1973 all Government agencies are required to have their accounts audited by
the Magistrate of Accounts (para. 2.12), whose activities are now being stren-
gthened under United Kingdom technical assistance. Audit by this department
has previously been agreed by IDA (for the Mogadishu Port Project), and would
be acceptable for this Project. During negotiations it has been agreed that
LDA would submit to IDA its first audited financial statements for the year
ended December 31, 1972 as a condition of Credit effectiveness. Assurances
have also been obtained during negotiations that LDA's subsequent audited
financial statements would be submitted within six months of the end of each
fiscal year.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT (Annex 19)
5.01      Apart from the disease control program which would be under the
direct control of MLFR, LDA would be responsible for Project execution. Al-
though LDA has some experience in livestock trading, staff capability will
need to be substantially strengthened.  In addition, as it has no production
experience, expertise will also be required in this area.  Assurances were
obtained from Govermnent during negotiations that it would consult with the
Association prior to any proposed change in or appointment to the position of
the General Manager of LDA sufficiently in advance for the Association to have
adequate opportunity to comment thereon.
Project Development and Training Unit
5.02      A Project Development and Training Unit (PDTU) would be establish-
ed as a separate department within LDA. This Unit would be located in Kismayu
and would be responsible for Project execution, coordination, and supervision.
PDTU would be headed by a Project Director assisted by three senior officers:
the Senior Ranch Manager, the Irrigated Fodder Farm and Feedlot Manager and
the Project Finance Officer; the last would be located in Mogadishu. An
Irrigation Specialist and a Master Mechanic would be under the direct super-
vision of the Irrigated Fodder Farm and Feedlot Manager. A description of
the responsibilities of each and draft terms of reference are in Annex 19.
Candidates for these posts would be recruited internationally in view of the
lack of suitably trained and experienced local staff. Local staff would
receive both professional and in-service training and at full development in
year six, they would assume responsibility for these posts (Annex 19, Chart 5).



- 17 -
It would be advantageous if one firm were engaged both for the design and
engineering of the Project's irrigation component (para. 4.09), and to provide
management expertise required for LDA. Preference would therefore be given
to the employment of an international firm of consultants which would be
capable of filling the six posts and also carrying out the work required for
the engineering aspects of the irrigation component. Terms of reference,
conditions of employment and qualifications of the individuals would be mu-
tually acceptable to the Government, LDA and IDA. Employment of the Project
Director, Senior Grazing Ranch Manager, Project Finance Officer and Master
Mechanic would be a condition of Credit effectiveness.
5.03      A Project Construction and Maintenance Unit would be established
within PDTU to carry out all development work required in conjunction with
the marketing component of the Project. The execution of the work required
for the Disease Control component would also be carried out by the Project
Construction and Maintenance Unit under contract to Government. It would be
headed by a local construction officer, and staffed with two field construction
officers, a surveyor, draftsman, mechanics, drivers, and semi-skilled con-
struction workers (para. 4.14).
5.04      The Picoject Director would be responsible for Project evaluation,
during implementation and at full development.  The basic data for such evalua-
tion would be available from the accounting and management information system j
to be designed for the Project (para. 4.23).
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND LDA OPERATIONS
Production
6.01      The Project is principally concerned with marketing and fattening
and has no breeding component. At full development in year six LDA's total
annual marketed production from the Project would increase from about 30,000
to 82,000. Of this incremental 52,000 head marketed, 18,000 would represent
additional offtake from the available herd while the balance would be animals
which would have been previously sold through other channels. Without the
Project, the 18,000 head of cattle would not be marketed by the nomads. Of the
total 52,000 about 19,000 would be canned for export, 8,000 would be exported
live, and 25,000 would be exported as chilled or frozen beef. These would be
the equivalent of about 2,200 tons, 1,200 tons and 4,600 tons carcass weight
respectively, or a total of 8,000 tons. In addition, about 1,600 tons of edible
by-products would be produced annually. The incremental amount of carcass
weight produced by the Project and included in these figures would derive
from three sources: from the incremental offtake of 18,000 animals, from the
weight gains in the fattening operation, and from reduction of weight loss
and mortality on stockroutes. The additional carcass weight production from
these would be respectively, 1,900 tons, 1,800 tons and 200 tons annually,
a total of about 3,900 tons.



- 18 -
LDA Operations
6.02      LDA has recently increased the purchase price of cattle from
So.Sh. 0.81 to So.Sh. 0.87 for canning cattle and from So.Sh. 0.92 to
So.Sh. 1.00 for live export. The increased prices would also apply for the
purchase of cattle needed for the two grazing ranches--So.Sh. 0.87/kg--and
for the feedlot So.Sh. 1.00/kg. (The prices in each case are shown before
deductions for taxes and fees.) LDA would subsequently sell cattle to the
Kismayu meat factory at prices of So.Sh. 1.20/kg for canners and 2.20/kg for
fattened cattle; cattle for live export would be sold at So.Sh. 1.53/kg. The
proposed price margins are reasonable but the returns to the Project's
marketing component are sensitive to prices. Accordingly, assurances were
obtained from Government during negotiations that it would, in respect of
the Project, exchange views annually with IDA on Government's pricing of
cattle and beef.
6.03      At full development LDA would, for Project purposes, purchase about
53,000 cattle annually, 1,000 more than its sales due to normal stock losses.
Average liveweight would be about 260 kg for canners, 370 kg for fattened
and 320 kg for live cattle as compared with present weights of about 240 kg
for canners and 300 kg for exported live cattle. The increased liveweight for
canners and live cattle for export would be due to reduced losses during trans-
portation on improved stock routes. The value of LDA's annual purchases of
livestock would thus increase by about So.Sh. 13.4 million (US$2.2 million)
at full development, and its sales would increase by about So.Sh 30.7 million
(US$4.9 million). With annual incremental operating costs of So.Sh. 7.5 mil-
lion (US$1.2 million), LDA's incremental annual net income before interest and
depreciation would be about So.Sh. 9.8 million (US$1.6 million) (Annex 17).
At the Project's full development (year six) LDA's net profits from all oper-
ations (including the Project and veterinary fees) would be adequate and would
amount to about So.Sh. 6.2 million (US$1.0 million) per annum which would be
sufficient to ensure LDA's continued financial viability (Annex 20).
6.04      The Project would yield LDA an estimated financial rate of return
of 14%. A 10% rise in prices paid for cattle would reduce this to about 10,
and a 10% decline in selling prices would reduce it to 6%. The estimated
return of the marketing component is about 16% and that of the grazing ranches
and the irrigated fodder farm and feedlot combined 13% (Annex 21).
Marketing
6.05      The Project's total production (para. 6.01) would be exported ex-
cept for about 800 tons of edible by-products which would be locally consumed.
Local demand for beef is small (Consumption averages about 3 to 4 kg per cap-
ita annually) as iwst Somalis prefer sheep or goats, and the small incremental
demand over the next few years is expected to be provided from traditional
sources.



- 19 -
6.06      Export markets for livestock developed by Somalia in the Middle
East and adjacent countries show an increasing demand for beef and are capable
of expansion. Markets for live Somali cattle depend on their size and condi-
tion. Younger, lighter animals are shipped to the Arab Republic of Egypt,
while heavier, well finished animals are required for outlets on the Arabian
Peninsula. With the implementation of the Project Somalia would be able to
diversify its exports by moving into the more sophisticated and profitable
markets for chilled and frozen beef. Its marketing of these products would be
directed toward African countries and the Middle East, where disease control
requirements are not stringent. Somali veterinary standards have been improved
in recent years, and the country's beef exports are now acceptable to several
major importing countries. A trial shipment of frozen beef has recently been
made to Zaire (Annex 2).
6.07      At the Project's full development LDA would sell 85% of the Project's
annual production to the Kismayu meat factory for processing into canned and
frozen beef (para. 6.01). At estimated world market prices (see Annex 4,
Table 2), this would increase annual sales revenues of the Kismayu meat factory
from US$5.2 million to US$11.3 million. The factory's profit margin would
increase from 1T5$370,000 to US$1.1 million. Although details of the meat
factory's financial obligations are not available, operating costs appear
to be reasonable and selling prices are in line with international market
prices for similar products. The factory's total output would be exported,
except for about 800 tons of edible by-products which would be sold locally.
In order to handle this increased volume, the meat factory would be required
to expand its facilities (para. 2.13), requiring an additional investment
of about So.Sh. 5.0 million (US$0.8 million). Veterinary standards and sanitary
practices also need to be upgraded. Assurances were obtained from Government
during negotiations that the required expansion would be carried out within
three years of credit effectiveness (Annex 4). Assurances were also obtained
that Government would take steps necessary to improve veterinary standards
and sanitary practices at the Kismayu meat factory.
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Income Effects and Employment
7.01 -    The principal benefits of the Project would stem from two basic
sources: the increased number of animals from nomads and increased weight
added by the fattening operations on the ranches and feedlots (para. 6.01).
7.02      Nomads represent about 70% of the population of Somalia.  They are
in general very poor and their livelihood is mostly dependent on livestock.
The income of those in the Project area would increase as a result of reduced
losses due to improvements in the market and stockroute system (about 40%
reduction), increased liveweight prices received (an average price increase of
about 18% from So.Sh. 0.65 to So.Sh. 0.77/kg net of taxes and fees) (para.
2.06), and incremental cattle sales (about 18,000 head annually at full
development). The combined effect of these factors would be to increase



- 20 -
annual cash income per family by about 50%, from So.Sh. 600 (US$100) to So.Sh.
900 (US$150) - a total increase of US$1 million to about 20,000 families.
The Project would provide permanent employment for 600-700 persons within
LDA and a further 200 would be employed for five years in Project-related
construction.
7.03      The increased prices which IDA is paying to nomads reflect higher
export prices for live animals and Kismayu meat factory products and take
into account the need to provide LDA and the factory with adequate opera-
ting surpluses. Nomads and LDA each would receive about one-third of Project-
related incremental income 1/. The remainder would be nearly equally dis-
tributed between the Kismayu meat factory and Government.
Government Revenues
7.04      Over the first twenty years Government's annual net cash inflow from
the Project would average about So.Sh. 5.7 million (US$0.9 million) excluding
taxes and duties (Annex 22). At full development the Project is expected
to generate about So.Sh. 2.9 million (US$460,000) in taxes and duties annu-
ally (Annex 23), of which about two-thirds would be remitted to the Central
Government and one-third to the municipalities. Furthermore surplus revenues
of LDA would be deposited with Government. It would also receive additional
revenues from the Kismayu meat factory.
Balance of Payments Impact (Annex 24)
7.05      At full development the Project would generate additional foreign
exchange earnings of So.Sh. 41 million (US$6.6 million) annually from ex-
panded exports of live cattle, beef and beef products. The combined oper-
ating costs of LDA and the Kismayu meat factory would have a foreign exchange
cost of about So.Sh. 17 million (US$2.7 million), thus leaving a net balance
of So.Sh. 24 million (US$3.9 million) in export earnings before debt service
on the IDA Credit.
Rate of Return to the Economy (Annex 25)
7.06      The Project's rate of return to the economy is estimated at 25%;
it has been computed from the financial rate of return with some following
adjustments. The financial cost of LDA's cattle purchases from nomads has
been adjusted downward as purchases will include increased offtake from the
traditional herd which would not have occurred without the Project.
A small proportion of its unskilled labor has been shadow priced at 50% of the
market wage rate as it is assessed not to be fully employable outside the
Project. The remainder would have alternative employment opportunities and
its cost has been charged in full. The rate of return of the production
component is 21% and that of the non-production related marketing 39Z. In
calculating these individual rates of return the production components con-
sisting of the two grazing ranches and the irrigated fodder farm and feedlot
have been treated as representing one operation. Separation of the sub-
components from each other would be arbitrary and misleading.
1/   Incremental income includes nomads' cash income, LDA's and the Kismayu
meat factory's profit and Government's income from taxes and duties.



- 21 -
7.07      A 10% increase in input costs would lower the rate of return of
the whole Project to 20Z while a 10% decrease in selling prices also to 20%.
The rates of return are satisfactory. The Project is not without risks,
however, particularly in the operation of the irrigated fodder farm and
feedlot, which constitute a sophisticated investment for Somalia at its
present stage of development. Finally, the country has an acute shortate
of experienced staff, which may present difficulties in Project implementa-
tion and management in spite of the expatriate management proposed under
the Project.
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      During negotiations agreement was reached on the following
principal points:
(a)  within one year of credit signing, a law would be enacted to
regulate the use of the Juba water providing inter alia that
waL,r rights for irrigation would be allocated on the basis
of prior use (para. 3.05);
(b)  within four months of credit effectiveness, LDA would employ
consulting engineers to determine the location of the irri-
gated farm to advise LDA on the engineering aspect of the
irrigation component and to prepare bidding documents (para.
4.09); and
(c)  Government would, in respect of the Project, exchange views
annually with IDA on Government's pricing of cattle and
beef (para 6.02).
8.02      Conditions of credit effectiveness would be:
(a)  assignment to LDA of about 1,900 km  of land in the Project
area for its exclusive use at no charge for an unlimited
period (para 4.02);
(b)  a project financing agreement acceptable to IDA would be
signed between Government and LDA (para. 4.19);
(c)  LDA's first audited financial statements for the year ended
December 31, 1972 would be submitted to IDA (para. 4.24);
(d)  employment by LDA of the Project Director, Senior Grazing
Ranch Manager, Project Finance Officer and Master Mechanic.
Terms of reference, conditions of employment, and
qualifications of the indlviduais would be mutually
acceptable to the Government, LDA and IDA (para. 5.02).
8.03      Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the Project would
be suitable for an IDA Credit of US$10 million.






ANNEX 1
Page 1
SOMALIA
TRANS-JUBA LIVESTOCK PROJECT
The Agricultural Sector
1.        Somalia is located in the extreme eastern corner of Africa and has
a total area of about 637,000 km2. Its location near the equator and the
prevailing monsoon winds determine the climate, making the country generally
arid to semi-arid. Two rainy seasons (the main one from March to June and
another from September to December) yield an annual precipitation of from
400-600 mm in the regions between the Juba and Shebeli Rivers in the South
and in the Hargeisa Highlands in the North. Precipitation over the remainder
of the country averages about 200 mm. Most of the country is flat with an
elevation of under 300 meters, although altitudes in the northern Highlands
along the Gulf of Aden range up to 2,000 meters. The ecology varies from
desert scrub in the Northeast, grass and low shrub plains and coastal sand
dunes in mid-Somalia, to the open grass savannas of the Fafadun plains west
of the Juba River. The population of about 3 million is composed almost en-
tirely of homogenous Somali of Hametic stock with a common religion and cul-
ture.
2.        The agricultural sector provides employment for some 85% of the
total population and produces about 90% of export earnings in the form of
live animals, hides and skins, meat and meat products, bananas and fruit
(Tables 1, 2 and 3). Except for bananas and sugarcane commercially produced
the agricultural sector is almost entirely subsistence; some 70% of the
population is comprised of nomads or semi-nomads engaged in livestock
production. These agriculturalists and livestock producers are a hardy
independent people who have developed a high degree of agricultural skill
within a generally difficult environment.
3.        Although most of Somalia is classified as arid or semi-arid, there
are large areas of potentially productive land suitable for agriculture or
livestock development. Of some 8 million hectares considered suitable for
cultivation only about 600,000 hectares are now being cultivated.



ANNEX1
Page 2
Million     Percent
Hectares    of Total
Estimated Potential:
Suitable for cultivation                         8.0          12.5
Suitable for stock production                   35.0          54.9
Other areas                                     20.8          32.6
Total Land Area                                      63.8         100.0
Estimated Present Utilization:
Under dryland cultivation                        0.6           1.0
Under irrigation                                 0.1           0.2
Under indigenous forests and bush                8.8          13.8
Total - Presently Utilized                  9.5          15.0
Source: Somalia Statistical Abstract, 1968.
About 2 million ha of arable land in the inter-river area (at present largely
bush covered) have sufficient rainfall (400-600 mm) to allow dry land farming.
In lower rainfall areas full or partial irrigation would be required for cul-
tivation. Irrigation development is centered on the two major rivers, the
Juba and the Shebeli; other streams are seasonal torrents. This irrigation
has been undertaken both on a more commercial basis (by banana and sugarcane
producers) and on primitive basis in the case of many small-scale mostly fruit
and vegetable producers along the river banks.
4.        All land is owned by the Government and although some land regis-
tration mostly for non agriculture purposes (sites for houses etc.) was prev-
iously undertaken in the Northern region, agricultural land in particular is
held largely by traditional right of usage. The vast rangelands are used by
the nomadic herdsmen, and although the exact territory is sometimes difficult
to ascertain, particular areas are retained exclusively by specific tribal
groups.
5.        The rights to cultivable land and water 1/ are more clearly defined.
Cultivable land, whether or not actually cultivated, is used by specific clan
groups and in some cases is divided among clan sections. All aatural and Gov-
erpment constructed water facilities are for common usage. Wells or pans dug
by individuals belong exclusively to those individuals, but no one may be
refused water for himself or his family. The owner of the well may, however,
refuse water for livestock.
1/   Used for people and animals.  There are no laws or traditions that
regulate water usage for irrigation.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
A. Agriculture
Irrigated Crops
6.        Bananas were for many years the predominant export crop and Somalia's
largest single source of foreign exchange (Table 2). They still corntribute
approximately 26% (1971) of export earnings. Production of sugar, the most
important commercial crop for domestic consumption, is under the control of
the Societa Nationale Agricule Industriale (SNAI). Sugarcane is grown in
the irrigated areas (with water drawn from the Shebeli river) of the Jowhar
region. Government is considering the extension of the sugarcane industry
into the Juba river region, and establishment of sugarcane plantations is
now being examined. Potential exists for the production of citrus, rice,
cotton and groundnuts. Plans for establishment of state farms for produc-
tion of these commodities, particularly in the Juba river region, are either
in the process of implementation or being examined.
Dry-Land Crops
7.        Maize millets and sorghum are all predominately subsistence crops,
and any small surpluses are sold on local markets. Yields are normally low;
extensive losses are generally the result of both adverse weather conditions
and damage from insects, birds, and other pests. Recent research work at Afgoi
has demonstrated that local crop varieties have excellent production poten-
tial, and improvements in fertilizer distribution, coupled with Government
initiative in marketing and favorable weather have resulted over the last
two years in surplus production. Surpluses are at present purchased and
stored by Government.
8.        Cotton is grown throughout Somalia, but the industry is beset with
problems of seed supply, pest and disease control, inadequate extension and
marketing services, high ginning costs, and poor organization. Yields are
low but there appears to be no inherent technical reasons why cotton pro-
duction should not be further developed.
9.        Oilseeds include mainly sesame and groundnuts, with some safflower,
sunflower, soya, and coconut. Some are used for edible oil purposes (sesame,
groundnut, coconut) in a number of small oil expressing plants. Cottonseed
is likely to become increasingly important in the future.
B. Livestock Sub-Sector
10.       Most of Somalia's land area is suitable only for extensive live-
stock production, and the majority of the people are traditional pastoralists
who are not only wholly dependent on livestock, but who have long experience
of the difficulties of handling stock under the often harsh conditions im-
posed by sparse grazing and water supplies. Estimates of total livestock
population are 2-1/2 to 3 million cattle, about the same number of camels,
and about 12 million sheep and goats.



ANNA 1
Page 4
11.       The most pressing needs in the sub-sector are for measures to re-
lieve present constraints on increased production and offtake by improving
facilities for marketing and disease control and the introduction of cattle
fattening operations. Livestock fattening would in particular open up new
export markets in chilled and frozen meat for the livestock industry which
is of special importance in view of the limited scope for the expansion of
live animal exports.
12.       60% of the estimated cattle population are found in the Southern
part of Somalia, south and west of Mogadishu. The four main breeds, the
Boran, Jiddu, Ghave and Abgal are all derived from the Zebu type (Bos Indicus).
The Ghave and Abgal breeds are used mainly for milk production. The Jiddu
afid Boran are dual purpose animals, used for milk and meat production as
well as for draft purposes. The Boran is well known in East Africa, and is
found in Kenya and Ethiopia as well as Somalia.
13.       Somali cattle are hardy and well adapted to the generally harsh
environment and without further genetic improvement, fertility and growth
rates of beef cattle would respond to improved disease control and nutri-
tion.  Further genetic upgrading is necessary however to improve milk pro-
duction.
14.       Little is known of herd age and sex composition, but observation
and discussion with producers indicate a high percentage of female stock.
This is due to a number of factors: first, the environment demands that in
difficult times breeding stock get preference for food and water; second,
the social prestige attached to large cattle numbers; third, the lack of mar-
ket outlets for young immature cattle; and fourth, the nutritional needs of
the family, which among nomadic pastoralists includes a large proportion of
meat. Thus, when cattle are killed for human consumption young male calves
are slaughtered first, followed by older males and aged cows. Such are the
vagaries of the climate that often all but the most valuable female breeders
must be sold, killed, or simply allowed to die. No reliable figures are
available but the cattle offtake is probably about 9 to 10% (see Annex 2).
Sheep and Goats
15.       There are 4 million small fat-tailed, black-faced sheep, useful
for milk and meat production but of no value for wool. Eight million goats
make use of otherwise virtually worthless rangeland, and are a valuable source
of meat, skins, contributing to export revenues. Weaning percentages in sheep
and goats are about 50% p.a. and losses from disease and parasites are very
high (in excess of 20% p.a.). Annual sales and slaughterings total approx-
imately 4 million head of sheep and goats an offtake of some 30%.
Camels
16.       The camel is the most common mark of individual wealth among the
pastoralists and is afforded priority in respect of grazing, water and man-
agement. Camels are valuable beasts of burden, and supply the bulk of sub-
sistence milk requirements. Some are also slaughtered or exported live for
meat, and the total offtake rate is estimated at 5%.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
Disease Control
17.       Disease control is a continuing, though lessening constraint on im-
proved productivity in the livestock sub-sector. Government now supplies in-
dividual livestock owners with all veterinary drugs and vaccines free of charge.
This program, provided it is reinforced by expanded extension services, should
result in increased producer acceptance of animal health control measures.
18.       Until recently Rinderpest was the principal disease affecting cat-
tle. Vaccination of all cattle is now compulsory and an eradication and mass
vaccination program should greatly reduce the incidence of the disease.
This program is concurrently being conducted by Kenya, Ethiopia and
Somalia, and is financially and technically assisted by the Federal Re-
public of Germany.
19.       Foot and mouth disease is endemic, and although sporadic outbreaks
occur, it is not a serious threat to indigenous cattle under present grazing
conditions. It is, however, a serious constraint to the export of livestock
and meat, particularly to the more lucrative European markets.
20.       Trypanosomiasis is a major problem in the Juba valley area, caus-
ing considerable losses to stock owners every year, particularly in the dry
season. At this time livestock which have been widely dispersed during the
rains concentrate in the riverine areas which are widely infested with tsetse
fly. Other diseases affecting the herds are Contagious Bovine Pleuropneumonia
and Contagious Caprine Pleuropneumonia (which causes heavy losses in the goat
herds and for which no vaccine has been produced). Various tick-borne diseases
are also present; Anaplasmosis and Heartwater often pose a threat to cattle and
sheep. Anthrax and East Coast Fever are now known to exist in some areas.
Constraints to Improved Livestock Production
21.       Major constraints to increased livestock production are summarized
below:
(a) Inadequate nutrition in the form of both feed and water, par-
ticularly in the drought years which occur about 2 years in
five;
(b) Incidence of disease and parasite infestation affecting fer-
tility, growth rates, and mortality;
(c) Lack of reliable and properly distributed animal (and human)
watering facilities over the arid rangelands, resulting in
heavy livestock concentrations and severe rangeland over-
grazing near pernanent water points during dry periods;
(d) Inadequate marketing facilities affecting all classes and
ages of livestock;



ANNEX 1
Page 6
(e) Absence of a specific market for young immature animals,
resulting in substantial slaughtering of very young mostly
male calves and an economic loss in uncontrolled exports of
potential feeder cattle to Kenya; and
(f) The absence of any fattening operation, the provision of which
would in turn generate a demand for feeder or immature cattle
and offer an opportunity for cheap growth on ranches and in-
tensive finishing in feedlots.
C. Training, Extension Services and Research
Training
22.       Training in the Ministry of Livestock, Forestry and Range (MLFR)
is concentrated upon the Training School for Animal Health Assistance (TSARA)
in Mogadishu, assisted by the United Nations Development Program. The TSAHA
provides a 2 year training course of Diploma standard in elementary animal
health control, animal husbandry and management, and range improvement and
management. The course includes a reasonable proportion of practical and
field experience, and diplomates are generally well-regarded. The school
has a capacity of some 80 students, and about 60 graduates are now employed
in the Department of Animal Health and Production of the MLFR. A recent in-
novation at the TSAHAhas been the introduction of short "in service" train-
ing courses for those who previously graduated or who joined the Department
field staff without prior training.  The School also undertakes adaptive re-
search in range improvement and animal production and a small feedlot was
recently established to provide information on beef cattle fattening in
Somalia based on feeding molasses, bagasse, silage, hay and concentrates.
Extension Services
23.       Agricultural extension services are poorly developed and confined
mainly to the activities of the Department of Animal Health and Production
within the MLFR. Veterinary services (Annex 19) are provided by some 400
veterinary field staff, including about 60 TSAHA graduates and foreign-
trained technicians. Extension is largely confined to vaccination and
disease treatment. Veterinary centers are under-equipped and for the most
part lack adequate transport facilities - both of which impede effective
operation.
24.       The increase in available trained staff has led to the launching
of the "Extended Programme of Intensification of Animal Health", which is
aimed primarily at disease control and the eventual establishment of a disease
free zone in the Lower Juba Area. The concept of concentrating limited re-
sources in the area with greatest potential for improved livestock produc-
tion is basically sound. In conjunction with the Rinderpest eradica-
tion program, good progress is being made. The proposed Trans-Juba Livestock
Project would provide further assistance for this animal health control Pro-
gram.



ANNEX 1
Page 7
25.       Diagnostic services are provided at the TSAHA in Mogadishu, and at
a center established at Hargeisa which is staffed with three qualified Somali
veterinarians. Within the Department, vaccine production is carried out by
the Serum and Vaccine Institute in Mogadishu.
Research
26.       Adaptive research is being conducted at the TSAHA and the Serum and
Vaccine Institute in Mogadishu. Further work is being conducted in connec-
tion with dairy cattle, crops, pastures and irrigation at the "21st October
Dairy Farm" at Afgoi operated by the Livestock Development Agency (LDA) (Annex
3). Livestock improvement programs, including management and adaptive research
are being conducted with cattle breeding at Hargeisa and sheep breeding and
range management at Asura. Agricultural and horticultural research using irri-
gation and a wide variety of fodder, grain and agricultural crops (including
citrus, papaya and cotton) is conducted at the Afgoi Research Station, which
was initially established with USAID assistance. However, that research gen-
erally lacks the direction and understanding necessary for a sustained ef-
fort; these, coupled with a dedicated extension service, are essential if
effective results are to be achieved.
27.       In 1970 a UNDP project was initiated in the Northern region.  This
was designed to survey and classify range lands, initiate selective bush con-
trol techniques, determine sociological patterns, investigate water resources,
and develop acceptable range management techniques. Plans are now in hand
for the extension of this program to other parts of the country.






AX 1
Table 1
SOMALIA
TRANS-JUBA LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Estimated Size and Distribution of Labor Force, 1963
Percent
Economic Sector                               Estimated          of
Labor Force       Total
Employed:
Agriculture                               30,000            3.4
Fishing and forestry                       5,000            o.6
Mining and quarrying                       1,000            0.1
Mamufacturing                              8,ooo            0.9
Construction                              10,000            1.1
Electricity, Water, etc.                   1,000            0.1
Commerce                                  20,000            2.3
Transport, Storage, Communications        16,000            1.8
Services                                  30,000            3.4
Total Estimated Employed                      121,000           13.7
Self-Employed:
Agriculture, forestry & fishing          717,000           81.6
Other sectors                             41,000            4-7
Total Estimated Self-Employed                  758,000          86.3
Total Estimated Employed                       879,000         100.0
April 30, 1973



SOMALIA
TRANS-JUBA LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Exports, 1963-71
(So. Sh. million)
1963         1964          1965          1966           1967          1968           1969           1970          1971
V4alue    7.  Value    7.  Value      %7  Value    7.  Value    7.  Value    7.  Value    7.  Value    7.  Value    7.
Bananas                                     101.3   45    70.4   33    62,9   33    78.6   37    68.4   34    59.7   28    56.0   24    63.0   28    64.0   26
Live animals                                90.9   40   108.0   50    80.7   42    96.2   45    97.9   49   124.4   59   132.0   57   119.0   53   123.0   50
Hides asd skins                              13.4    6    12.6    6    14,8    8    11.0    5          8.9    5    11.7    6    17.0    7    15.0    7    18.0    7
Wood products and
charcoal                                  7.0    3       '.1    3    12.0    6       5.0    3    11.4    6        5.0    2       6.0    3      -       -      -       -
Fish and fish products                        4.9    2      ;.4    1       1.5    1      0.4    -      0.3    -       0.2    -      3.0      1     2.0    1       3.0    2
Meat and meat products                        n.a.   -      na.    -       2.3    -      1.2    -       2.4    -      3,0    -      3.0    1       6.7    3    21.4    9
Other                                         9.6    4    14.2 -/ 7    19.8   lo    21.5   10           9.0    6      8.0    5    15.0    7    18.3    8    16.6    6
Tutal                                 227.1  100   215.7  10C   192.0  100   213.9  100   198.5  100 - 212.0  100   232.0  100   224.0  100   246.0  100
1/ For the period 1963 and 1964 figures for meat and meat products are not available however they were insignificant and are included in others. The figures
from 1969 for meat and meat products reflect thc operations of the Kismayu meat factory.
Source: Ministry of Planning and Coordination, Central Statistical Department.
(SM
M - 



ANNEX 1
Table 3
SCMALIA
TRANS-JUBA LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Exports of Live Animals and Livestock Products, 1965-1971
Hides   Meat and             % of
Live Ani-al                    &        Meat               Total
Year     Cattle   Sheep/Goats   Camels   Total   Skins   Products   Total   Export
Volumes -            1,0O0 head -                     tons  tons
1965      16.0          66o.6      15.0      -      4,638        838
1966      25.9        1,021.7      31.2      -      2,269        707
1967      23.3          868.9      31.3      -      2,520      1,069
1968      38.4        1,224.9      17.8      -      3,253      1,022
1969      34.3        1,406.5      25.3       -     3,644      1,104
1970      35.2        1,150.0      25.5             4,343     2,159
1971      56.1        1,184.0      23.7       -     5,931     5,020
Values     ----------    --------- So.Sh. million ------------------------------
1965      14.5           52.7      13.5    80.7      14.8       2.3       97.8    51
1966      11.9           69.2      15.1    96.2      11.0       1.2      108.4   51
1967      12.3           64.2      21.4    97.9       8.9       2.4      109.2    55
1968      14.3           98.6      11.5   124.4      11.7       3.0      139.1    66
1969      11.8          104.5      15.7   132.0      17.0       3.0      152.0    66
1970      15.5           84.5      19.0   119.0      15.0       6.7      140.7    63
1971      18.5           87.4      16.6   123.0      18.0      21.4      162.4    66
Source:  Ministry of Planning and Coordination, Central Statistical Department,
Statistical Abstract, 1971, and Somali National Bank-Yearly Bulletins.
August 8, 1973






ANNEX 2
Page 1
SOMALIA
TRANS-JUBA LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Markets and Prices
General
1.        Somalia has a well established traditional livestock marketing
system. Most towns or villages have a cattle market where buyers (traders,
butchers) and sellers (stock-breeders, farmers, nomads) gather daily. Sales
are generally carried out through middlemen or brokers, who are paid from
2-3 percent of the sale price by both buyer and seller. In the Juba Region,
auction sales are also popular. The auctioneer, or "delal", sells the
animals to the highest bidder. Payment is generally made at the town
council offices, where the animals are registered together with the price
and the names of the parties concerned. In more remote areas, traders use
trucks or camels to visit the nomads. Slaughter cattle are purchased
either for cash or in exchange for consumer goods, but the prices paid
nomads in barter deals are lower than those paid at the markets. Breeding
stock sales are informal and independent of the market place. These are
general barter sales in exchange for other stock.
Cattle Population and Offtake
2.        Since there are no accurate figures for livestock population in
Somalia, available estimates vary widely. The usually quoted figure of
2-1/2 million cattle is probably conservative, as this estimate is outdated,
and there has been a marked increase in herd size over the past two years
(Annex 1, para. 10). This increase has led to overstocking in some areas
and serious range deterioration. About 10% of Somalia's cattle migrate
seasonally into Kenya and Ethiopia. In 1972 total offtake was estimated to
be about 250,000 head, or over 9%; domestic consumption accounted for about
110,000 head, live exports 80,000 head and exports of processed meat another
60,000 head.
3.        According to estimates obtained during the Rinderpest vaccination
campaign, there are now approximately 700,000 and 850,000 head of cattle in
the Lower and Upper Juba areas respectively. The cattle markets and stock-
routes proposed under the Project would draw cattle from 80-85% of Lower
Juba area and 40-50% from the Upper Juba area - a total herd of between
900,000 and 1 million head. Present offtake in the Project area is esti-
mated at about 65,000; 30,000 head are purchased by LDA for sale to the
Kismayu meat factory or for live export, 5,000 head are processed in



ANNEX 2
Page 2
municipal slaughterhouses, about 30,000 head are sold overland into Kenya,
and a small nuwiber are moved toward the North for live export. With an
improved offtake rate of about 10%, some 90,000 head would thus be available
from the area. The estimated additional 53,000 head to be purchased by LDA
under the Project would be available from additional offtake and by the
reduction of sales to non-LDA buyers.
Marketing Infrastructure in the Trans-Juba Area
4.        Although cattle density is highest in the central part of the Lower
Juba region stretching from Kismayu to the southern edge of the Dujuma sub-
region, cattle are found practically everywhere in the Juba region with
the exception of tsetse fly infested river areas. The main flow of cattle
to Kismayu comes from east of the Juba River and includes some cattle from
the western bank and adjacent areas crossing over along the way. LDA's
buying activities in Hadweineh, Afmadu and Badada have in recent years
increased the number of cattle coming from the southern half of the Lower
Juba region.
5.        The climate necessitates seasonal movement of nomadic Somali herds
into Kenya and Ethiopia and the sale to Kenyan buyers has been a traditional
practice. Prices, paid in Kenya Shillings, are probably low but established
ties with traders, who also supply a range of consumer goods unavailable in
Somalia, and the dearth of alternative outlets in Somalia have sustained
this trade. The Kenya Meat Commission provides a ready market for canner
cattle and ranches and feedlots for store cattle. In the more remote parts
of the Lower Juba and throughout all of the Upper Juba region, suitable
buying points and market channels are lacking; it is therefore nearly
impossible to channel surplus animals through Kismayu for processing or live
export.
6.        With the completion of the Kismayu meat factory and Kismayu Port,
the demand for cattle for canning and live export has risen sharply in the
past few years, and LDA has set up permanent markets in Badada and Kismayu
to secure the required supply. A holding ground near Kismayu has been
partially developed and some improvements have been made to stockroutes.
The new marshalling yard near the Kismayu port has helped export of live
cattle while a new holding ground near Gelib and a system of stockroutes
east of the Juba river, established with EEC assistance, are expected to
improve the flow of cattle from that region (Annex 3).
7.        The marketing facilities in the Trans-Juba area are inadequate,
however, even at the present demand for cattle: the Badada-Kismayu road is
not serviceable for 6-8 months of the year; the unfinished Kismayu holding
ground is too small to handle present LDA purchases; there are not enough
staging points and watering facilities along the existing stockroutes, which
cover only a relatively small part of the area between the Kenya border and
the Juba river. As a result, mortality on the stockroutes is presently



ANNEX 2
Page 3
estimated at 1.5%, while weight losses of arriving cattle are nearly 13%.
With the Project, mortality of cattle for canning and live export would be
expected to decline to 1% and weight losses to 7.5%. Weight losses for
cattle destined for the two grazing ranches or the feedlot of the Irrigated
Fodder Farm would be less than 7% due to shorter walking distances (Table 1).
Finished cattle would be delivered to the meat factory by truck.
Prices
8.        Prices paid to producers vary widely, both geographically, seasonal-
ly and according to market destination. In the North where exports have been
regular and fairly well organized, prices have at times been twice as high
as in the South. But a slackening in export sales invariably depresses
prices to producers in all parts of the country. Furthermore, forced sales
in dry seasons produce gluts on the markets, and coincidental with the
generally poor condition of the animals, bring about producer prices far
below the annual average.
9.        The Livestock Development Agency (LDA) (Annex 3) is a Government
agency engaged primarily in the purchasing of livestock for live export and
sale to the Kismayu meat factory (Annex 4). Its current purchase prices are
based on the following schedule but are varied to meet circumstances at the
time of purchase:
Cows for canning    Any weight         So.Sh.0.81 per kg liveweight
Bulls and steers    220-350 kg         So.Sh.0.81 - 0.88 per kg liveweight
Steers               350 kg and over  So.Sh.0.92 per kg liveweight
It is estimated that 40% of LDA purchases are now made directly from cattle
producers and 60% from middlemen. LDA purchases and sales for the period
1969-1972 are shown in Table 2. Projected sales resulting from the Project
are presented in Tables 3 and 4.  Table 5 provides details on the cattle
purchased for fattening.
10.       LDA is the sole supplier of slaughter cattle to the Kismayu meat
factory.  Negotiated fixed prices are currently So.Sh. 0.98 per kg liveweight
for canning animals with an average weight of 250 kg, and So.Sh. 1.60 for
cattle qualifying for freezing. Purchase and selling prices are at present
too low to guarantee a continued supply to the meat factory as well as for
live export, and LDA intends to increase them in 1973. It has been assummed
at appraisal, therefore, that buying prices from nomads for canning animals
would increase per kg liveweight to So.Sh. 0.87 from the present So.Sh. 0.81;
prices for steers for live export or the feedlot of the Irrigated Fodder Farm
would increase to So.Sh. 1.00 from the present So.Sh. 0.92 bought for live ex-
port. Furthermore, it has been agreed that the price of canners sold by LDA
to the Kismayu meat factory would inczease per kg liveweight from So.Sh. 0.98
to So.Sh. 1.20. The sale price for emport live cattle (So.Sh. 1.53 per kg
net of export charges) would practically not change, and fattened animals



ANNEX 2
Page 4
would be sold to the meat factory for So.Sh. 2.20 per kg 1/. A complete
list of buying and selling weights and prices for cattle is provided in
Table 6.
11.       As LDA would in future be buying cattle at much greater distances
from their destination than at present, it would have to absorb some of the
cost of the weight losses now incurred by private traders and producers
(even though total weight losses would be reduced, Table 1). To cover these
losses, purchase prices in remote markets would have to be somewhat lowered.
Such differential prices are prevalent in the private sector where middle-
men buying cattle at higher weights in the hinterland pay lower prices
than producers moving cattle down the stockroutes themselves would receive.
Marketing Taxes and Fees
12.       Although the type and level of charges vary, the following taxes
and fees are those generally effective:
Brokerage fee                             2-3% of value
Market fee                                So.Sh.5 per head
"Zariba" charge 2/                        So.Sh.2 per head
Drovers charges to quayside               So.Sh.5 per head
Municipality tax                          5% of value
Export charges:
Customs duty                            So.Sh.27 per head
Veterinary Certificate                  So.Sh.10 per head
Shorehandling and Stevedoring fees    So.Sh.9 per head
Harbor tax                              1.5% of value
13.       LDA has had a special arrangement with the Kismayu municipality,
and pays a fixed charge of only So.Sh.4 per head in taxes on the cattle it
exports instead of the 5% required by law. This amount is expected to be
increased to So.Sh.10 per head (and has been included in Project estimates).
There are no export taxes on processed meats, although the meat factory
pays a slaughter tax of So.Sh. 8.50 and a market tax of So.Sh. 3.00 per
head. Private traders collect a minimum fee of 15% of the value of the
sale. LDA's cost of marketing also includes mortality and weight losses
(para 11) and the cost of operating and maintaining infrastructure such
as stockroutes and holding grounds.
1/   ihis price is based on the 1973 Kenya Meat Commission prices and a 50%
killhiig out ratio which is less than yielded in Kenya.  These elements
are acceptable as guidelines as: animals to be fattened in Somalia are
nearly identical to those in Kenya; technology of fattening and type of
feed would be almost the same in both countries, and the chilled or
frozen beef produced from fattened animals in Somalia would be competitive
with similar type of meat from other countries on foreign markets.
2/   For feeding and other care while in transit.



ANNEX 2
Page 5
Domestic Meat Consumption
14.       Meat is an important part of the Somali diet, particularly among
the livestock-raising population, and ranks second only to milk. Camel and
goat meat are preferred. In 1971 municipal slaughterhouses slaughtered
about 440,000 sheep and goats, 105,000 cattle and 31,000 camels. Nationally,
municipal cattle slaughter increased by 25% over the preceding 2-year
period; in the Juba region, however, it decreased by 13%, largely as a
result of the Kismayu meat factory coming into full production. About
5,000 of the estimated 9,000 cattle slaughtered in municipal slaughter-
houses in the Juba region are assumed to have originated in the Project
area. It was estimated that in the Juba region cattle slaughter would
increase by about 1% annually, while regional slaughter, outside this
region, could rise at a faster rate. Incremental domestic meat consump-
tion would be mostly covered by sheep, goat and camel meat and by increased
local utilization of edible by-products from the Kismayu meat factory.
Exports of Livestock and Livestock Products
15.       Exports from the livestock sector have been increasing rapidly
in recent years, rising in value from So.Sh. 109.2 million in 1967 to
So.Sh. 162.4 in 1971. Over the same period, the share of processed meats
increased from 2% to 13% of livestock exports. Exports for the period
1965/71 shown in Annex 1 do not include unrecorded livestock exports from
small Somali ports and by land into Kenya.
16.       The majority of live animals are exported from the northern port
of Berbera because of the port's relative proximity to the importing states
such as Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, the Gulf States and, in earlier years, the
Arab Republic of Egypt. But despite the well established trade in live
animals, ocean shipping is poorly organized and losses are high due to
the use of unsuitable ships, insufficient provision for feed on board,
and irregular service at short notice. With the intention to alleviate
the problem, the Government recently established the Somali Shipping
Agency which will be responsible for improving ocean transport of livestock
and bananas. The Agency will probably acquire one or two cattle carrying
ships, but purchase plans and financing arrangements are not firm at this
time. Government has also decided to establish the Livestock Trading
Agency (LTA) which, when sufficiently organized and staffed, will assume
LDA's present responsibility for live animal exports. It is anticipated
that LTA would not only be involved in the commercial aspects of foreign
trade but would also organize and coordinate efficient transport to
importing countries.
17.       Demand for Somali livestock in Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and adjacent
Gulf countries has been increasing and is expected to remain strong. Trade
with the Arab Republic of Egypt, the largest potential market, has recently



ANNEX 2
Page 6
come to a standstill over a dispute concerning Somalia's preference for
payments made in hard currencies instead of the traditional barter arrange-
ments. In addition to the cattle sold overland to Kenya (and not in accordance
with Somali export regulations), a small but increasing number have also
been sold to Kenya through Kismayu Port. Live cattle exports from Somalia
increased from about 34,000 in 1969 to 81,000 in 1972. There is a strong
demand for Somali live cattle expecially in Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and in
other oil producing Gulf countries. Total numbers of live animals exported
through Kismayu Port are as follows:
Year        Cattle            Camels       Sheep/Goats
1966        2,260               -
1967        4,255               -
1968        1,854               -
1969        2,236               -
1970        3,022              402           1,801
1971        9,515            1,046           1,150
1972        5,567              687              -
18.       Until the opening of the Kismayu meat packing plant, the
privately owned small canning plant in Mogadishu and one in Merca, now
closed, were rhe only sources of processed meats for export. With the
Kismayu plant now in full production, the supply of processed meats available
for export has more than tripled. The USSR is the major importer of the
plant's present main product line, canned stewed steak, and has a long-
term contract for 16 million tins annually. At present Italy is also
importing a small quantity of processed (cooked) meat. Production of
corned beef at Kismayu is to be expanded. Export of chilled and frozen
beef, recently initiated at Kismayu, is expected to become one of the
factory's major activities, particularly in view of the expected
volume of feedlot - fattened steers and the completion in the near future
of a modern airport at Kismayu that would eventually enable air-transporta-
tion of meat. Higher quality chilled meat would be sold in Somalia's
traditional livestock markets such as Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and other oil
producing Gulf States, in Mediterrenean countries such as Libya, the Arab
Republic of Egypt, Lebanon, Cyprus, Greece, Italy, and in some African
countries e.g. Zaire. Veterinary standards in Somalia have been raised
to a level acceptable to those countries and no problems are anticipated
in exporting chilled or frozen beef.
19.       World prospects for processed meats in 1980 are estimated to
range from equilibrium in supply and demand to a sizeable supply deficit.
Prices would thus tend to remain stable or move upwards. However, as
Somalia is neither a major exporter of beef nor a supplier of the pre-
dominant import markets in Europe and North America, future prospects
for its exports are regionally determined. As indicated above, there



ANNEX 2
Page 7
is demand for live cattle and beef in countries within economic shipping
distance of Somalia. Total supply in regional markets will partly depend
on the ability of competitors to enter European markets. The additional
supply of 4,000 tons of chilled or frozen meat and 2,400 tons of canned
meat produced annually in Somalia (Annex 4, Table 3) will not be large
enough to affect prices. The additional proposed live export of 8,000
head of cattle by LDA is less than the average annual increase of 12,000
in the period 1969-1972, but larger increases are not likely because of the
limited availability of bulls and steers. A law prohibits the export of
females but this may have to be changed if a sufficient supply of animals
are to be made available for export. Government feels however that this
could be done only at a later stage when breeding animals would be pro-
tected from eventual export and slaughter. To this end, efforts must be
undertaken to reduce the slaughter of male calves.
20.       Somalia does not, as yet, have a disease free zone which would
enable the export of uncooked beef to European and other markets with
high sanitary requirements.  However, veterinary services now control
the spread of contageous diseases and guarantee selection of suitable
cattle for slaughter. Live cattle for export are quarantined on the
Kismayu holding ground using the following procedure:
(a) On reception, animals are held for 24 hours and then
inspected by the Veterinary Officer; he accepts or
rejects these after inspection for Trypanosomiasis,
Foot and Mouth Disease and Bovine Pleuropneumonia;
(b) Animals are marked or ear-tagged and sprayed, vaccinated
for Rinderpest, Anthrax, Foot and Mouth, and treated
against Trypanosomiasis;
(c) After being kept for 7 days in isolation paddocks the
cattle are moved to the grazing areas and retained for
a further 7 days. Twenty-four hours before release
animals are re-examined and a certificate issued.
Rejected animals fit for slaughter are sold to the meat
factory.
August 20, 1973






ANNEX 2
SOMALIA                          Table 1
TRANS-JUBA LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Markets and Prices
Cattle Weights and Assumed Weight Losses on the Stock Routes
(Per animal liveweight)
I. Wlthout the Project
Loss         Live Export        Canners
%              kg               kg
Weight at origin                                          344               278
Loss to seller                        10.3              35                29
Weight purchased by LDA                                  309                249
Loss to LDA                             2.8               9                7
a/                 b/
Weight at destination                                     300               242
Total loss                         12.9              44                36
II. With the Project at Full Development
For Immediate Resale             Imbatures for Production
Loss       Live Export  Canners      Loss         For         For
%            kg          kg         %         Grazing     Feedlot
____  __                  ~~~~~Ran~ches    k
'kg          kg
Weight at origin                              344         278.0                  225         322
Loss to seller               2.4              8          7         1.3           3           4
Weight purchased by LDA                       336         271                    222         318
Loss to LDA                  5.1             17         14         5.5          12          18
Weight at destination                         319 v       257                    210  /      300
Total loss                7.4             25         21         6.7         15           22
Reduction in Total Weight e/
Loss as Result of Project                     19         15                     n.a.        n.a.
a/ At Kismayu port
bJ At Kismayu meat factory
c/ At Grazing Ranch
d/ At Feedlot
e/ Calculation based on a reduction in losses from 1.5 percent
per walking day to 1.0 percent, and in the weighted average
walking distance per animal from 260 km to 220 km for canning
and live export cattle, and to 200 km for cattle going to the
ranches.
0c toN-- 1 1 , 107 1.



SOMALIA                           ANNEX 2
Table' 2
TRANS-JIJBA LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Markets and Prices
1/
LDA Cattle Purchases and Sales, 1969-1972
2/
1969       1970       1971      1972 _
Canning Stock
No. purchased                 3,687       15,234    42,350    50,378
No. sold                      2,595       10,536    38,295    48.,803
Average liveweight (Kg)        n.a.          283       265        265
Average purchase price
So. Sh./head                  253         221        214       212
Average sale price                              3/
So. Sh./head                  284          221       260        236
Live Exports
No. purchased                    -         1,291     6,025      7,,471
No. sold 4/                      -          n.a.     4,747     4,125
Average l1veweight (Kg)          -           262       305        309
Averageipurchase price 5/
So. Sh./head                   -           278       365        304
Average sale price
So. Sh./heed                   -           n.a.      527        562
Total Stock Purchased         3,687      16,525    48,375    57,849
1/ The data do not include some sales to cattle traders.
2/  January to November only.
3/ In 1970, IDA acted as a Commission agent for the meat factory
and, before charging comnission, selling prices equalled
buying prices.
h/  The difference between numbers purchased and sold is largely
explained by the slaughter of some of these animals for freezing
purposes in the Kismayu meat factory, see also footnote 1/.
5/  The fluctuation of purchase prices is due to the practice of
mixed buying by auction and weight, and occasional overpaying
at auctions (10 to 20%).
October 23, 1973



SOMALIA
TRANS-JUBA LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Ca
Markets and Prices
x-c                                            Cattle Flow Projection
(Number of Cattle)
Pre-              ------ ----------  YEAR ----------__- - -----------
development
1         2         3         4         5        6-20
IDA Cattle Purchases
For feedlot                                              -          -         -         -       3,147     5,176
Immatures for grazing ranches        -                 6,424    17,131    21,,414    21,414    21,414    21,414
For live export                    5,076               5,380     5,473     6,063      9,090    13,130    13,130
For canning                       25,381              25,253    25,253    27,980    34,953    42,766    43,737
Total Purchases               30,457              37,057    47,857    55,457    65,457    80,457    83,457
Deaths
On the Stockroutes
Feedlot cattle l/              /                          -         -         -         -          32        51
Immatures for grazing ranches 1      _                    64       171        214       214       214       214
Live Export Cattle 2/                 76                  54        55         61        90       130       130
Canning cattle 2/      /             381                 253       253        280       350       428       437
On the grazing ranches                -                  180        480       600       600       600       600
On the feedlot 4/                     -                   -           6        45       100       115       125
Total Losses                      457                 551        965     1,200     1,354     1,519     1,557
LDA Cattle Sales
Fattened Cattle                       -                    -      1,300     9,000   19,200    23,000    25,000
For live export                     5,000               5,326     5,418     6,002     9,000    13,000    13,000
For canning from market            25,000              25,000    25,000    27,700    34,603    42,338    43,300
For canning - culled on ranches       -                  180        480       600       600       600       600
For canning - surplus on ranches      -                    -      1,878     2,782       280        -        -
For freezing - surplus on ranches     -                    -      2,816     4,173       420        -        -
Total Sales                    30,000              30,506    36,892    50,257    64,103    78,938    81,900    -|
Herd Build-up On Grazing hanches        -                 6,000    10,000     4,000        -         -        -       C x
1/ One percent of purchases.
7/  1.5 percent of purchases without the Project;  1.0 percent with the Project.
T/ 2.8 percent of cattle intake.
/ 0.5 percent of cattle intake.



c1F                                                      SOMALIA
TRANS-JUBA LIVESTOCK PROJECT
CD
Markets and Prices
Cattle Purchase and Sales Projection in the Project Area
----------------------------   YEAR    --------------------------------
Pre-
development
_1           2          3          4           5          6-20
LDA Livestock Purchases
For Feedlot                                     -           -          -          -          1,001       1,646
Inmatures for
Grazing Ranches               _             1,240       3,306      4,133      4,133       4,133        4,133
For live export              1,568            1,808       1,839      2,037      3,054        4,412       4,412
For canning                  5,508            5,960       5,960      6,603      8,249       10,093      10,322
Total Purchases           7,076            9,008      11,105     12,773     15,436       19,639      20,513
Incremental Purchases           -             1,932       4,029      5,697      8,360       12,563      13,437
LDA Livestock Sales
Fattened cattle                 -               -         1,058      7,326     15,629       18,722      20,350
For live export              2,295            2,620       2,666      2,953      4,428        6,396       6,396
For canning from market      7,250            7,700       7,700      8,532     10,658       13,040      13,336
For canning - culled on
ranches                      -                50         132        166        166          166         166
For canning - surplus on
ranches                                       -          676      1,002        101           -           -
For freezing - surplus on
ranches                      -                -        1,352      2,003         202          -           -
Total Sales               9,545            10,370     13,584     21,982     31,184       38,324      40,248
Incremental Sales                                825      4,039     12,437     21,639       28,779      30,703



SOMALIA
Markets and Prices
Cattle Flow Project for Grazing
Ranches and Feedlot
(Number of Cattle)
Stockroutes                                        Grazing Ranches                                                          Feedlot
Initial              1/ Available                                       2/  Culled     Available   Surplus        Received    Received                Finished
Year       Purchases    Mortality    for          Ranch 1    Ranch 2    Mortality    Animals  3/ at Mid of   Sold to          from        Directly   Mortality  Cattle Sold
Ranches                                         Slaughtered    Yoar        Meat  4/  Grazing          from          5/      to Meat
or Feedlot      ___                                                         Factory      Ranches      Market                 Factory
1           6,424          64       6,360        6,360          0          180         180          6,ooo          0              0           0           0           0
2          17,131         171      16,960       10,600      6,360          480         480         16,000      4,694          1,306           0           6       1,300
3          21,414         214      21,200       10,600     10,600          600          600        20,000      6,955          9,045           0          45       9,000
4          21,414         214      21,200       10,600     10,600          600          600        20,000        700         19,300           0         100      19,200
5          24,561         246      24,315       10,600     10,600          600          600        20,000          0         20,000      3,115          115      23,000
6 - 20       26,590         2$5      26,325       10,600     10,600          600          600        20,000          0         20,000       5,125         125      25,000
1/ One percent of purchases.
2/  2.8 percent of cattle received.
3/  2.8 percent;  sold for canning to meat factory.
4/ To be utilized for canning - 40%, for freezing - 60%.
5/ 0.5 percent of cattle received.



ANNEX 2
SOMALIA                                       Table 6
TRANS-JUBA LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Markets and Prices
Cattle Prices and Weights
Pre-development               With Project, at Full Dfevelopment
Average      Price       Average        Average      Price        Average
Weight        per          Value        Weight        per          Value
per         Kilo-          per           per        Kilo-          per
Animal     __rat         Animal         Animal       gram         Animal
kg        So. Sh.       So. Sh.         kg        So. Sh.      So. Sh.
Purchases
For feedlot                                     -            -             318        1.00           318
lmmatures for grazing
ranches                         -           -             -             222        0.87          193
For live export a/                309         1.00          309            336        1.00           336
For camning b/                    249         0.87          217            271        0.87           236
Intra-Agency Transfers
To feedlot                                       -           -            300         1.20           360
To grazing ranches                 -            -            -            210         1.20          252
Sales
Fattened cattle                    _             _                         370        2.20 d/        814
For live export                   300         1.53 e/       459 e/         319        153 fi/        492 f/
For canning from market           242         1.2C &/       290            257        1.20 E/        308
For canning - cu3led on ranches   -       -                  -             230        1.20           276
For canning - surplus on   1 h/   -              _           _             300        1.20           360
For freezing - surplus on
grazing ranches h/                 -            -            -            300         1.60          4 480
/  LDA pays at present producers So.Sh. 0.92/kg.  However it was assumed that it would increase prices
without the Project to So.Sh. 1.00/kg.
b/  LDA pays at present producers So.Sh. 0.81/kg.  However it was assumed that it would increase prices
without the Project to So.Sh. 0.87.
e/  Assimed weights and accounting prices for cattle supplied to the feedlot and the grazing ranches
by LDA's market teams.
d/  Price to the meat factory, based on Kenya Meat Comnission prices and grading, and a 50% killing-out ratio:
Choice             25% Q So. Sh. 4.67/kg cold dressed weight
FAQ                67% @ So. Sh. 4.41/kg  IT
Standard            5% @ So. Sh. 3.42/kg            I f
Manufacture         3% @ So. Sh. 1.58/kg            i tI
e/ Net of export charges:  300 kg per head @ So. Sh. 1.75 per kg - So. Sh. 525; less So. Sh. 66 per head =
So. Sh. 459 per head = So.Sh. 1.53
f/  Net of export charges:  319 kg per head @ So. Sh. 1.75 per kg = So. Sh. 558; less So. sh. 66 per head =
So. Sh. 492 per head = So.Sh. L.55
/  Prices paid for canners by the meat factory; assumed to incre^se from current So 11n.9&F-rerl *   per kg.
h/  Cattle off grazing ranches are assumed to be 40% canning quality and 6%/. freezing quality.
1/  Current meat factory prices for unfinished cattle qualifying for freezing.
October 2R. 19TI



ANNEX 3
Page 1
SOMALIA
TRANS-JUBA LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Livestock Development Agency
1.        The Livestock Development Agency (LDA) was established by
Presidential Decree on February 16, 1966, as an autonomous Government
Agency. Its primary functions were to promote the marketing and export
of livestock and related products and to coordinate the development of
the livestock industry (Annex 19).
Livestock Marketing and Export Development
2.        In June 1967, the quarantine of animals before export became
compulsory. This necessitated the construction of marshalling yards and
quarantine stations at the three main ports of Berbera, Mogadishu and
Kismayu. LDA initially provided holding grounds and livestock marketing
facilities along the Shebeli and Juba rivers, particularly near Kismayu
and Mogadishu to hold export stock before entering the quarantine stations
and to collect and hold cattle destined for the Kismayu meat factory. In
Mogadishu, the Port Authority agreed to provide watering facilities and
also alloted land for the extension of the LDA constructed marshalling
yard. The Kismayu holding ground was partially completed in 1969, and
contained a cattle marketing facility and a race to brand, vaccinate and
spray the purchased stock against ecto-parasites. A second holding
ground was also established in Warmahan near Mogadishu. Two new holding
grounds designed to serve the northern port of Berbera are presently under
construction - one at Hargeisa and one at Burao. A second marshalling yard
at Berbara was equipped to hold about 2,000 cattle under cover for 14 days and
approximately 30,000 sheep and goats for a period of 48 hours. It had
standing facilities for about 1,000 camels for 48 hours before certifica-
tion for export. The third marshalling yard was completed at Kismayu and
an area of about 260 ha to serve as quarantine station. Early in 1967
LDA was given responsibility for all port veterinary work and the issue
of health certificates for animals and animal products exported from Somalia.
LDA now controls the export of live animals through all major and most of
the minor ports.
3.        In July 1966 LDA became responsible for the management and
development of the Serum and Vaccine institute in Merca and in 1967 it
received a Government grant of Sot Sh. 3.2 million (US$0.5 million) for the
construction of a new Serum and Vaccine Institute and a Hides, Skins and
Weather Development Center in Mogadishu which were completed at the end of
1969. Although the operational control of both projects has been given to



ANNEX 3
Page 2
the Directorate of Animal Health and Production in MLFR, financial responsi-
bility remained with LDA 1/. In 1967 LDA took over from the Government a
project for the establishment of 42 parasite treatment centers. A joint
parasite treatment program was negotiated with the British Consulting firm,
Cooper Mac Dougall, and FAO. It was not feasible to construct the 42 centers
originally proposed to be implemented in one year (1967) and a three year
program for the construction of 32 centers was therefore adopted. Only
three centers were ultimately established, two in 1967 and one in 1968. The
Veterinary Department has now taken over the operation of this program from
LDA.
4.        LDA started trading in drugs in 1969 and negotiated a loan of
So. Sh. 800,000 from the Somali Development Bank to develop this activity.
LDA's efforts to exempt drugs from import duties were unsuccessful. Due
to heavy import duties, high overhead charges, keen competition from the
private sector and finally the distribution of free drugs in the drought
stricken areas by the Veterinary Department, the sales, which had started
on an encouraging scale, slowed down and showed a heavy decline towards
the end of 1969. All trading in drugs ended early in 1972 when the
distribution of drugs free of charge became the responsibility of the
Veterinary Department.
LDA's Trading Activities
5.        In 1969 LDA became mainly engaged in the supply of slaughter
cattle to the Kismayu meat factory and in export of livestock. LDA was
supposed to sell slaughter cattle to the factory at the rate of 2,000
animals per month, but at that time the factory was able to process only
about 250. As a result of this limitation of capacity, combined with a
severe drought, increased weight losses both during cattle movement and
holding, LDA suffered considerable financial losses. In 1969 LDA sold only
about 1,600 animals to the factory, and about 1,000 for export. To avoid
further financial losses, LDA at that time began buying animals for the
factory's account using factory funds advanced to LDA. It charged a
2-1/2% commission on the purchase price plus an overhead charge of So. Sh. 53
(US$8.5) per head to cover purchase, quarantine and holding expenses.
The factory is now operating at almost full capacity and LDA is buying
cattle for its own account and reselling them to the factory at an agreed
price. Sales to the meat factory in 1972 totalled about 53,000 head, and
these are expected to rise to 60,000 in 1973 - the factory's full
processing capacity. LDA's livestock trading operations showed in 1969
a net loss of approximately So. Sh. 0.5 million (US$80,000), however in 1970
a net profit of about So. Sh. 0.5 million (US$80,000) and in each 1971 and
1972 So. Sh. 1.0 million (US$160,000).
1/   LDA continues to pay the Government counterpart contribution out of
its own earnings.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
Other Activities
6.        As part of the livestock improvement program, LDA took over the
management of the cattle breeding farm at Gedkedbleh, the poultry farm at
Aoorein and the sheep breeding center at Asura. The cattle and sheep
breeding facilities were experimental in nature and are still in operation.
The poultryfarm, however, proved unsuccessful and was closed down. Two new
breeding ranches for sheep and goats are provided for under the 1974-78
five-year plan. In August 1971 the Government took over the Afgoi Dairy
Farm established under the German Technical Assistance Program and handed
it over to LDA. Provisions were made to develop this dairy farm as a
supplier of milk to the Mogadishu Milk Factory.
Accounts
7.        LDA particularly suffers from a shortage of qualified and
experienced staff in the accounts section. LDA's records have been kept
basically on a cash receipts and payments basis. For organizational purposes
the country was initially divided into zones serving the major ports.
Some form of distinction was made between capital and revenue expenditure
in the early stages and in 1967 and 1968 attempts were made at preparing
balance sheets showing the assets and liabilities of the Agency; these
efforts were later abandoned, however. An attempt, to prepare a balance
sheet for LDA was again made in 1970, but since no records were kept of
capital expenditures, these were omitted except for an insignificant amount
of about So. Sh. 100,000 (US$16,000). The inadequacy of LDA's accounts
staff resulted in a lack of accurate records and of any form of management
information. Furthermore, inconsistent allocations of expenses makes a
meaningful comparison of the Income Statements and the results of the
different activities for the years 1966-1972 extremely time consuming and
to a large degree misleading. Moreover, LDA does not have an internal audit
section and hitherto no external audit has been performed on its accounts
(Table 1).
Financial Position
8.        Government initially began by allocating to LDA So.Sh. 1 million
in 1966 and contributed a further So.Sh. 3 million over the following six
years, part of which was to cover the expenses of the Serum and Vaccine
Institute and the Hides and Skins Center (para. 3).
9.        In January 1967, the Government transferred to LDA the right to
collect dues for port veterinary work, and these now provide a sizeable
part of LDA's income. In 1967, collections for port veterinary work amounted
to approximately So. Sh. 2.0 million (US$320,000) and these averaged
So. Sh. 3.0 million (US$480,000) over the following four years. In 1972,
income from this source exceeded So. Sh. 4.0 million (US$650,000).



ANNEX 3
Page 4
10.       During appraisal LDA's staff prepared a balance sheet as at
December 31, 1972 based on available information and the balances outstanding
on that date - some of which were arrived at by extrapolation (Annex 20, Table 2).
The- item "Fixed Assets" represents capital expenditure during 1972 only. The
item "Accounts Receivable" represents mainly amounts due from the only meat
factory of So. Sh. 1.2 million plus advances to agents of LDA of So. Sh. 3.1
million for the purchase of cattle. In addition the balance of "Cash on
Hand and at Banks' amounted to So. Sh. 1.9 million 1/, thus bringing the total
liquid cash on that date to So. Sh. 5.0 million (US$800,000).
11.       LDA's long-term debt is made up of three loans from the Somali
Development Bank totalling So. Sh. 3.2 million (US$510,000): So. Sh. 2.2
million was for the construction and development of the Warmahan holding
ground near Mogadishu, So. Sh. 800,000 was to assist LDA on developing its
drug trading activity (which ceased in 1971), and So. Sh. 200,000 was for
fodder trading (which did not develop as anticipated); all loans will be
completely repaid by 1975.
LDA's Financial Projections Outside the Project
12.       LDA's projections for the period 1973 to 1980 were based on the
assumption that: (a) inspection fees would remain constant; (b) the number
of inspected animals would increase annually by 1.5% for sheep and goats,
2% for cattle; (c) the sale of livestock to the meat factory would remain
constant at 60,000 head per annum, the present processing capacity of the
meat plant; and (d) the total of exported live animals would increase at
the rate of 5% per annum.
13.       In 1973, the Government introduced a turnover tax (Law No. 58
of July 31, 1972) based on sales and services rendered by public enterprises
and agencies, the percentage of which will be determined by the Secretary
of State for Finance for each fiscal year. The law stipulates that the
profits of an enterprise should be appropriated for the following purposes
in sequential order: (a) for the planned increase in the working capital;
(b) for setting up a personnel reward or incentive fund; (c) for setting
up a social and housing facilities fund; (d) for financing of non-centralized
capital investments; and (e) the remainder should be transferred to the
State budget. Certain provisions of the law are at present not clear and
it is also not known what percentage would be applied in assessing the
turnover tax or in the allocation of profits. Since all profits of
Government agencies would revert to the State, the turnover tax was, for
practical purposes, ignored in arriving at LDA's projected net profits.
LDA's projected cash flow was prepared as far as practicable along the
procedures prescribed, assuming an allocation of 5% and 7% of net profits
to the incentive fund and housing fund respectively (Table 2).
1/   LDA requires large sums of cash to carry out its cattle trading
activity which is necessitated by the long distances without adequate
communications and the lack of banking facilities in remote areas.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
14.       The same law also stipulates that each organization would create
a depreciation fund, a part of which (presently undetermined) would be
transferred to the Government Development Fund and the balance would be
used by the enterprise for major repairs of fixed assets and financing
of non-centralized capital investments. The amounts appropriated to this
fund appear in the balance sheet net of any amounts utilized for replacement
of fixed assets.
15.       LDA's projected cash flow shows that without the proposed Project
it would continue to have a net income of approximately So. Sh. 2.0 million
a year (US$320,000). Its cash generation would be sufficient (a) to service
its long-term debt; (b) to invest about So. Sh. 6 million (US$960,000) over
a period of five years in the development of two new sheep and goat farms
and the expansion of its livestock development schemes; (c) to repay the
bank overdraft; and (d) to contribute more than So. Sh. 5 million (US$800,000)
to the Central Budget over the period 1973-1980. It was assumed that the
Government's contribution to LDA would cease and that the Agency would con-
tinue to finance the Serum and Vaccine Institute and the Hides and Skins
Center from its own resources; this annual allocation would be about So.
Sh. 1.6 million (US$260,000). Furthermore, LDA would annually contribute
So. Sh. 100,000 to its staff incentive fund and about So. Sh. 150,000 to
its housing fund.
16.       With the implementation of the Project assumed to commence in 1974,
LDA's operations would increase considerably at full development in year six.
Sales would be about So. Sh. 49 million annually and cost of sales about
So. Sh. 38 million leaving a gross profit of about So. Sh. 11 million. Live-
stock inspection fees and other miscellaneous income would bring in approx-
imately So. Sh. 6 million giving a total gross income from all operations of
about So. Sh. 17 million. Net income after interest and depreciation would
amount to about So. Sh. 7 million with an adequate debt service ratio of
1.7x. (Annex 20, Table 1).
Summary
17.       LDA has now been in operation for seven years.  Although it has
developed some expertise in livestock trading it remains an inefficient
organization. In the past it mainly carried out designated Government
functions without adequate recompense, and the profitability of livestock
trading was determined to a great extent by prices received at the Kismayu
meat factory, another Government agency (Annex 4). The most important
constraints on more efficient operation are poor staffing, lack of expertise
in business organization and management, limited financial autonomy and
the absence of livestock production expertise. LDA's organization and
management would, however, be substantially improved under the proposed
Project (Annex 19).






ANNEX 3
Table 1
SOMALIA
TRANS JUBA LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Livestock Development Agency
Income Statement, 1966 - 1972 1/
(So. Sh. '000)
1966         1967         1968          1969         1970         1971          1972
LIVESTOCK TRADING
Livestock Sales                             -              -            -            811        1,588        8,185       15,323
Less Livestock Purchase Costs 2/            _              _            _         1,259         1,014        7,009       14,145
Net Revenues - Surplus (loss)                              -            -           (448)         574        1,176        1,178
OTHER REVENUES
Livestock Inspection Fees                   -            2,377        3,171       3,339         2,937        3,225        4,256
Other Income                                  3            -            348         188           640        1,167           752
Sub-Total                                   3         2,377         3,519       3,527        3,577        4,392         5,008
TOTAL REVENUES                                    3         2,377        3,519       3,079         4,151        5,568        6,186
NONLIVESTOCK TRADING EXPENDITURES
Administration of Port Services 3/          227          1,361        1,930       1,611         2,493        1,975        2,383
Hides and Skins Center                       26            111          219         401           398        1,003        1,508
Serum & Vaccine Institute                    70            210          178         336           338          282          248
Animal Health Program                       118            310          431         222           220            8          -
Veterinary Training School                  -              202          556         688           513          -            -
Interest and Bank Charges                   -              -            -           106          ill           213          254
Depreciation 4/                             -              -            -           -             -            -            136
Miscellaneous                               -               59           75           26          112            8            34
Sub-Total                                 441         2,253        3,389        3,390        4,185        3,489         4,563
Net Income Before Government
Contribution                             (438)          124           130        (311)          (34)       2,079        1,623
Government Contribution 5/                1,090            670          500         620           273          520          220
NET INCOME AFTER GOVERNMENT
CONTRIBUTION                                652            794          630         309           239        2,599        1,843
1/ The accounts of the Agency have not been audited.
2/ Includes Cost of Animals and Trading Expenses.
3/  These amounts cover administrative expenses of LDA's branch offices and include also capital expenditure for purchase
of vehicles and eouipment and construction of holding grounds, marshalling yards, watering facilities, etc.
4/ LDA has since inception maintained its records basically on cash basis. Therefore, no depreciation was charged prior
to 1972.
5/  No Government contributions are expected after 1972.
October 11, 1973.



ANNEX 3
Table 2
SOMALIA
TRANS JUBA LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Livestock Development Agency
Projected Cash Flow Without Project, 1973-1980
----------------------------------------     So.   Sh.   '000----------------------------------------
1973          1974         1975          1976          1977         1978          1979           1980
CASH INFLOW
Cash from  livestock sales                   17,365        17,526       17,696        17,873        18,060        18,256        18,461        18,677
Less cost for livestock purchase             15,844        15,977       16,118        16,265        16,420        16,582        16,753        16,932
Net cash inflow from Li-estock             1,521         1,549        1,578         1,608         1,640         1,674         1,708         1,745
Livestock inspection fees                     4,321         4,386        4,453        4,519          4,590        4,660          4,731         4,803
Other income                                    750           750          750           750           750           750           750           750
Sub-total Income from operations            6,592         6,685        6,781         6,877         6,980         7,084         7,189         7,298
Bank overdraft                                  171           182          -             -             -             -             -             -
Funds for replacement of assets                 -             -            -             -             101           114           114           114
Total cash inflow:                          6,763         6,867        6,781         6,877         7,081         7,198         7,303         7,412
CASH OUTFLOW
Expenditure on non-trading activities         3,818         3,923        4,034         4,150         4,273         4,401         4,536         4,678
Interest and bank charges                       242           228          189           133            94            53            16           -
Depreciation fund                               229           322          415           509           601           601           601           601
Capital investments                           1,038         1,038        1,038         1,038         1,038           -             -             -
Replacement of assets                           -             -            -             -             101           114           114           114
Loan repayments:
Long-term                                     479           504          529           -             -             -             -             -
Bank overdraft                                -             -            581           617           656           697           514           -
Increase in working capital                     187           187          187           187           187           -             -             -
Distribution of profits: *
incentive fund                                -             115          111           107           104           101          101            102
Housing fund                                  -             161          155           150           146           141           142           143
State budget                                  -             494          399           -             -             -          1,089         1,277
Total cash outflow:                         5,993         6,972        7,638        6,891          7,200        6,108        7,113          6,915
Zurplus/(Deficit)                                 770          (105)        (857)          (14)         (119)        1,090          190            497
Opening cash balance                          1,922           -            -             -             -             -             -             -
CUMULATIVE SURPLUS/(DEFICIT)                    2,692         2,587        1,730         1,716         1,597         2,687         2,877         3,374
* Net profits of any year are distributed in the following year. Net profits represent:
income from operations less expenditure on non-trading activities, less interest and
bank charges, less depreciation fund.
October 8, 1973.



ANNEX 4
Page 1
SOMALIA
TRANS-JUBA LIVESTOCK PROJECT
The Kismayu Meat Factory
1.        The meat factory at Kismayu became operational in 1969.  It was
financed by the USSR at a total investment cost of So.Sh. 43 million
(US$6.9 million), with a provision that the Plant would be managed by a
team of Russian experts until 1976. Under the financing agreement the
Plant is required to export a total of 16 million round cans (250 grams each)
of stewed steak per year to the Soviet Union at a price of So.Sh. 1.68
(US$0.27) per can fob; negotiations are underway to increase this price
to So.Sh. 1.80 (US$0.29).
2.        The Plant has a total slaughtering capacity of 50 head/hour and
can process a maximum of about 250 head/day for canning. The Plant is
well designed and allows a good production flow, although in some respects
it does not reflect modern sanitary practices and standards. Construction
is of good quality with smooth concrete floors, adequate drains, tiled
walls and flat concrete slab ceilings. The equipment, in general, is well
maintained and most surfaces in contact with edible product are of stainless
steel.
3.        In 1972 the Plant not only met its quota for export to the Soviet
Union but also sold 600,000 cans of cooked corned beef (CCB) to African
and Mediterranean markets. The value of total sales was approximately
So.Sh. 30 million (US$4.8 million). The total kill in 1972 was 52,621 cat-
tle, with an average liveweight of 242 kg/head; dress-out yield was 44% and
boning yield for canning was 72%. Volume fluctuated from a minimum of 3,428
head in November to a maximum of 5,391 head in May (equivalent to 220 head/
day during this peak month).
Volume Under the Proposed Project
4.        At full development the proposed Project would significantly in-
crease the annual volume to be processed at the Plant. The increase would
include:
(a)  25,000 head of fattened cattle from the proposed
feedlot; these would average 370 kg/head and would
be intended for export, bone-in or boneless, in
chilled or frozen condition;
(b)  18,300 head of canner cattle similar to the cattle
currently processed at the plant, with an average
liveweight of 257 kg/head;



ANNEX 4
Page 2
(c) 600 head of canner cattle of lighter quality with
an average liveweight of 230 kg/head.
5.        About 25,000 head of the current canner volume of the Plant are
drawn from the Project area. With the improved stockroutes and watering
points, cattle transit losses would be reduced and average liveweight at
destination should increase from the present 242 kg to an estimated 257 kg.
The aggregate improvement in live weight of canner cattle now coming from
the Project area would thus amount to 375 tons.
Capacity Constraints
6.        The additional volume produced under the Project at full develop-
ment (in year six) would represent an increase of 84% over the number of
cattle slaughtered in 1972, and an increase of 127% in the production of
bone-in meat (assuming a dress-out yield of 50% for the feedlot cattle).
The availability of additional canner cattle would be subject to seasonal
fluctuations; in the peak month (May) the total daily kill would increase
from the present average of 220 head/day to 295 head/day. Feedlot cattle
would, however, be supplied evenly throughout the year, with an average
of 2,080 head per month or 80 head/day. With the additional volume under
the Project, the average daily kill during the peak months would thus be
375 head per day. In view of this increase there would be capacity
constraints in various operating areas of the plant, and expansion would
be required (Table 1).
7.        Cattle pens.  The present capacity of up to 1,000 head would be
sufficient to handle the increased volume as long as cattle are not held
over 48 hours. The individual liveweight scale would, however, be too
slow and a second scale would have to be provided.
8.        Killing floor.  The peak daily kill of 375 head per day could be
handled on the existing floor. However, larger work platforms, an addi-
tional carcass splitting saw, and head and viscera handling facilities would
have to be furnished; changes should also be made to provide a more efficient
allocation of existing space.
9.        Chill rooms.  There are 162 m of chill room railage available
in three coolers. Allowing time for loading and unloading, the actual
chilling cycle requires about 20 hours per day. The three existing coolers
would be allocated for canner beef 1/. One of the three coolers would,
however, have to be set aside for loading the fresh kill in the morning. The
remaining two coolers would have a capacity of 250 canners. This would be
sufficient to meet present needs (220 head), but would not be adequate to
allow for the increased volume of 295 head/day which would be generated under
1/ Hanging carcasses at the rate of 2-1/2 head per lineal meter would
allow a total capacity of 400 head per day.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
the Project. Another cooler would have to be constructed to provide for
this increase. An additional 80 head/day of heavier feedlot cattle would
also be made available under the Project. This would be exported as chilled
or frozen beef, and would have to be chilled in a separate cooler from the
canner beef. A second additional cooler would therefore have to be built.
Half of the 80 head/day feedlot cattle would be exported as chilled beef
and half as frozen, bone-in or boneless (Table 4).
10.       Freezing.  After chilling, a 48-hour freezing cycle would be
required. There are now two blast freezers, which have sufficient capacity
to freeze the 80 head/day of heavier feedlot cattle. Existing freezer
storage facilities have a capacity of 300 tons at -18C. This corresponds
to approximately 21 days production of bone-in carcass beef and 30 days of
boneless beef. Although frozen meat would possibly be air-freighted to
some markets, the freezer store capacity is too limited to provide for
increased requirements. The situation could be improved slightly by
converting an unused chamber which would be able to carry an additional
75 tons at -18C. Plans for increasing the freezer storage capacity to
1,000 tons by 1974 are now being developed by Government.
11.       Chiller beef.  As it is a highly perishable product, certain
precautions must be taken if feedlot beef is to be exported in chilled
form. Carcasses must be spaced at 1-1/2 head per m and kept in a separate
cooler from the canner beef. Spear temperatures must be brought down to
0C, which can only be reached by exposing the carcasses to a two-day
chilling cycle; this would curtail present capacity by the equivalent of
one cooler every other day.  To avoid building a third new cooler, an
existing holding room of equal capacity could be converted into a regular
chill room by installing the necessary refrigerating equipment. Chilled
beef (either 4s bone-in carcass or boneless cuts in cartons) would have to
be regularly air-freighted with a short storage period at the Plant.
Storage requirements (at 0C) could be allocated to a separate section of
the proposed expansion of the present refrigerated storage (para 10). If
the entire feedlot livestock outturn were to be marketed as chilled beef,
one of the freezers could be used as a reserve cooler for chilling or
holding by installing the necessary temperature controls.
12.       Meat Boning.  Existing facilities would be inadequate to handle
the 127% increase in the total meat boning volume which would result if
feedlot carcasses were marketed as boneless cuts. The room should be
expanded and refrigerated so as to maintain a maximum temperature of 10C
at all times. Additional stainless steel boning tables and related equip-
ment should also be provided.
13.       Stewed steak filling line.  Under present conditions the existing
line can process up to 240 head of canners per day in two shifts; this
estimate takes into account increased canner weights resulting from
improved stockroutes. This capacity would be sufficient to meet overall
requirements for the foreseeable future. As there is no ready market for



ANNEX 4
Page 4
stewed steak outside the USSR, it is projected that the line would process
only about 200 head/day - an amount sufficient to produce the 16 million
cans which the Plant is committed to ship to the USSR annually.
14.       New CCB filling line.  Once equipment on order from Germany is
installed, the line would have a capacity of 130 canners per day in two
shifts. CCB represents a production outlet for the canner cattle not
required for stewed steak; as a total of 295 head/day of canners are.
available, the present capacity should prove sufficient. However, two
sterilizing retorts would have to be added to handle the peak volume.
15.       By-products.  In order to process all the material from the in-
creased volume of heavier animals, an additional melter with percolating
pan, a grinder and a continuous press would be required.
Production Parameters
16.       On the basis of the expected volume to be generated as a result
of the Project, the following production program parameters appear feasible
during the peak month:
(a) 200 head/day to produce the 16 million cans of stewed
steak (250 grams each) for the USSR annually;
(b) additional canner cattle up to 95 head/day destined
mainly for CCB production;
(c) 80 head/day feedlot cattle to be exported fresh
bone-in or boneless, chilled or frozen.
Utilities
17.       There are 3 diesel-driven generators of 500 KVA capacity each;
these would provide adequate power generation and capacity to meet projected
needs. There are 3 boilers for steam generation with a capacity of
2,500 kg steam per hour; these are also completely sufficient for the
forseeable future. There are 4 ammonia compressors of 100,000 kcal each
and 1 of 115,000 kcal available to meet present refrigerator needs. Two
additional units of 100,000 kcal each would, however, be necessary to
maintain present stand-by capacity. This would be in addition to the
equipment provided above for expanded freezer facilities (para 10). Water
is supplied through a 6" line from the new municipal treatment plant.
Capacity is 364 m per hr or 96,000 U.s. gal/h, well in excess of the
consumption of the town of Kismayu and the plant combined.
Sanitation
18.       Sanitary conditions, whether with regard to general cleanliness,
work procedures or product handling, are unsatisfactory. Neither the
foreign experts nor the local supervisors have an adequate knowledge of
modern sanitary standards and procedures. Veterinary inspection is also



ANNEX 4
Page 5
inadequate, not only due to the performance of the officers themselves
but also as a result of limitations imposed by the antiquated design or
lack of necessary facilities, particularly on the killing floor. Wash-hand
basins and sterilizers are lacking. It is strongly recommended that
Government take immediate steps to upgrade veterinary standards and
sanitary practices.
Operating Procedures
19.       Neither the foreign experts nor local supervisors are fully
acquainted with proper meat processing plant procedures relating to
slaughtering, edible by-product handling, manipulation of product in the
coolers and freezers, and the processing of by-products. Furthermore,
the staff involved lack the knowledge of yields and procedures that would
permit upgrading of by-products to obtain a better return and reduce waste
to an acceptable minimum. At present many by-products are downgraded
either because they are not saved or because they are allowed to deteriorate
due to poor processing.
20.       The canning facilities were not in operation during the appraisal
mission's visit. It appears, however, that the most efficient canning
procedures are not always followed. The Plant has acquired Russian equip-
ment for producing CCB, including a French (HEMA) filler and a German
can-closing machine. The filler is sui:able for the round cans now used
for stewed steak. However, change parts for the truncated pyramidal cans
(12 oz and 7 oz) to be used for CCB production have been ordered; these
cans would be bought in France. The expanded CCB production would almost
certainly prove unprofitable unless steps are taken to ensure adequate
recuperation of the meat extract. Indications were given that the Italian
firm "Star" would supply extract making equipment, payment for which would
be made in CCB shipments.
21.       Except in 1972, the Plant has generally operated at a loss.  The
operating margin in that year was reportedly over So.Sh. 2 million (US$320,000),
which should be adequate to service the debt to the USSR on a long-term
basis. Financial projections have been made on the assumption that a similar
profit margin would be maintained. This would imply that the USSR commitment
would be met at an average fob price of So.Sh. 1.80 per can of stewed steak;
that price would be compatible with the price of So.Sh. 1.20/kg for canner
cattle delivered to the Plant assumed under the Project.
22.       Slaughtering and production projections for the Plant are indi-
cated in Tables 2, 3 and 4. At full development in Year Six it is assumed
that all feedlot cattle would be marketed as fresh beef - 50% as chilled
boneless cuts packed in cartons and 50% in frozen bone-in quarters wrapped
in polybags. The meat would be exported to African, Southern European and
Middle Eastern countries. As there is no market for stewed steak outside
the USSR, it is assumed that all canner cattle generated by the Project
would be processed into CCB; this would then be marketed by the Italian
firm "Star" through its own marketing organization.



ANNEX 4
'1 6
Financial Implications
23.       At full development total yearly sales revenues are estimated
to increase from a pre-Project level of So.Sh. 32.4 million (US$5.2 million)
to So.Sh. 70.1 million (US$11.3 million); the corresponding operating
margins are So.Sh. 2.3 million (US$370,000) and So.Sh. 6.8 million (US$1.1
million) respectively (Table 5). The entire production of the Plant would
be exported, except 50% of the by-products which would be sold locally.
Accordingly, total yearly export earnings would increase from a pre-Project
total of So.Sh. 31.3 million to So.Sh. 68.1 million. The incremental
exports of So.Sh. 36.8 million would be in convertible currency equivalent
to US$5.9 million 1/. Foreign exchange required for imported fuel and
production materials would account for an estimated US$2 million, leaving
the yearly projected net incremental export earnings at US$3.9 million.
The estimated cost of the expansion of the factory would be about
So.Sh. 5 million (US$0.8 million), of which the foreign exchange component
would be slightly over 80%.
1/ At present the major part of the meat factory's production is sold to
the Soviet Union under the financing agreement (para. 1).



ANNEX 4
Table 1
SOMALIA
TRANS-JUBA LIVESTOCK PRDJECT
Kismayu Meat Factory
Incremental Investment Required to Process the Additional Volume
Resulting From the Project
Main Items 1/                              Cost           Foreign Exchange
So.Sh.          C    aomponent %
Cattle pens, killing floor                     180,000               90
Chill rooms                                    740,000               75
Freezer and chiller storage                    820,000               75
Boning room expansion                          420,000               75
Canning processing and Meat extract
equipment                                   760,000               90
By-products processing                         500,000               90
Utilities, refrigerating equipment             380,000               90
Engineering and Organization                   200,000               90
Sub-total                               4,000,000                82
Price Contingencies                            600,000
Physical Contingencies                        400,000                82
Total                                   5,000, 000
1/ All equipment items include crating, freight and installation.
no7t>eeX 9, 1'73



ANNEX 4
Table 2
SOMALIA
TRANS-JUBA LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Kismayu Meat Factory
Assumptions for Computing Sales Revenues
Average Yield %                            Average FOB Price per Unit
Feedlot Cattle
Canned Meats                        Condemnation   Slaughtering   Boning
Chilled Boneless Cuts                    0.5             50            75                   7.50  So.Sh./kg
Frozen Bone-in Quarters                  0.5             50             -                   5.10  So.Sh./kg
Frozen Variety Meats
Fillet                                0.5                3.0 kg/head                      9.00  So,Sh./kg
Liver                                 30.0               2.4 kg/head                      2.10  So.Sh./kg
Kidney                               10.0                0.5 kg/head                      2.10  So.Sh./kg
Heart                                 0.5                0.6 kg/head                     2.10  So.Sh./kg
Tail                                  0.5                0.5 kg/head                      2.10  So.Sh./kg
Tongue                                 2.0               1.2 kg/head                      5.00  So.Sh./kg
Tripe                                  2.0               1.0 kg/head                      1.80  So.Sh./kg
Fresh Meats                       Canner Cattle      Feedlot Cattle
Stewed Steak                        0.24 kg meat/can                                        1.80  So.Sh./can
Cooked Corned Beef                           -          0.50 kg meat/can                    2.50  So.Sh./can
Meat Extract                                 -          0.02 kg/kg meat                    40.00  So.Sh./kg
By-Products                                      All Cattle
Hides                                            13 kg/head                                 2.00  So.Sh./kg
Tallow                                             3 kg/head                                0.60  So.Sh./kg
Meat/Bone Meal                                    20 kg/head                                0.60  So.Sh./kg
Dry Blood                                         2 kg/head                                 0.80  So.Sh./kg
41.40 So.Sh./head (composite price)
August 6, 1973



SOMALIA
TRANS-JUBA LIVESTOCK PROJECT
59
C                                                                       Kismayu Meat Factory
Assumptions for Computing Operating Costs
Rate or Weight per Unit                                 Average Price per Unit
Direct Costs
Livestock
Present Canner Cattle                                                        242 kg/head                                       1.20  So.Sh./kg liveweight
Project Feedlot Cattle                                                       370 kg/head                                       2.20  So.Sh./kg liveweight
Project Canner Cattle                                                        257 kg/head                                       1.20  So.Sh./kg liveweight
Project Canner Cattle                                                        230 kg/head                                       1.20  So.Sh./kg liveweight
Project Canner Cattle                                                        300 kg/head                                       1,20  So.Sh./kg liveweight
Project Freezer-Canner Cattle                                                300 kg/head                                       1.60  So.Sh./kg liveweight
Project Reduced Transit Loss on 50% Present Cattle                            17 kg/head                                       1.20  So.Sh./kg liveweight
Cattle Market Tax                                                                                                              3.00  So.Sh./head
Slaughtering Tax                                                                                                               8.50  So.Sh./head
Present                Incremental(years 6-20)
Direct Labor
Unskilled                                                      170 men                         100 men                      220.00  So.Sh./month
Skilled                                                        270 men                         160 men                      330.00  So.Sh,/month
Canned Products              Fresh Meat Products
Utilities
Diesel Oil, Lubricants, etc.                                12 kg/head                      6 kg/head                          1.10  So.Sh./kg
Fuel Oil, Water Treatment, etc.                             14 kg/head                      7 kg/head                          1.00  So.Sh./kg
Ammonia, Lubricants, etc.                                                                                                      2.00  So.Sh./head
Water                                                                      1.5 m3/head                                         2.85  So.Sh./m
Stewed Steak                        CCB                            Stewed Steak                  CCB
Materials, Freight
Salt, Ingredients, etc.                                                                                                        0.05  So.Sh./can        0.10  So.Sh./can
Cans                                                     0.24 kg meat/250 gr can       0.50 kg meat/12 oz. can                 0.30  So.Sh./can        0.40  So.Sh./can
Cartons                                                       48 cans/carton                24 cans/carton                                3.00  So.Sh./carton
General Materials                                                                                   -                                    10.00  So.Sh./head
Freight Plant to Port                                                                                                                     6.00  So.Sh./ton
Fixed Costs
Supervisors, Tectnicians, Administrative Clerks                  50 men                          10 men                                 700  So.Sh./month
Manager                                                            -                               -                                  2,000  So.Sh./month
Repairs (materials only)                                           -                               -                                     2%  of Plant Cost
Insurance                                                          -                               -                                     2%  of Plant Cost
Administration Expenses                                            -                               -                                     2%  of Total Sales                      E
General Expenses                                                   -                               -                                     2%  of Total Sales                    a m
Note: Slaughtering and Boning yields are shown on table 4.



SOMALIA
TRANS-JUBA LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Kismayu Meat Factory
Slaughtering and Production Pro jection
Average        Slaughtering 2/
Liveweight         Yield                   Year 1         Year 2         Year 3         Year 4         Year 5         Year 6-20
7,               Kg.
PRESENT VOLUME
Canner Cattle                                      head 1/              242                -                    52,600         52,600         52,600         52,600         52,600           52,600
Dressed Carcass Meat                            tons                   -                44                     5,601          5,601          5,601,         5,601          5,601            5,601
Stewed Steak                                     '000 cans 3/          -                -                     16,803         16,803         16,803         16,803         16,803           16,803
INCREMENTAL VOLUME 4/
Feedlot Cattle 5/                                  head                 370                50                       -           1,300          9,000         19,200         23,000            25,000
Canner Cattle                                      head                 257                45                       -             -            2,700          9,600         17,340            18,300
Canner Cattle                                      head                 230               43                        180           480             600           600             600              600
Canner Cattle                                      head                 300                47                       -           1,878          2,782             280            -
Freezer Cattle                                     head                 300                47                       -           2,816          4,173            420             -
Weight Gain on Present Cattle 6/                   head                   17               45                       -          10,000         20,000         26,300         26,300            26,300
Sub-total Cattle                                head                   -                -                        180          6,474         19,255         30,100         40,940           43,900
Sub-total Dressed Carcass Meat                  tons                   -                -                          18         1,027          3,169          5,020          6,520            7,001
Sub-total Chilled Boneless Meat                  tons                  -                -                        -               90            624          1,332          1,595            1,734
Sub-total Frozen Bone-in Quarters                tons                  -                -                        -              121            833          1,776          2,128            2,313
Sub-total Dressed Carcass Meat for                                     -                -                          18           786          1,504          1,468          2,265            2,376
Cooked Corned Beef                            tons                   -                -                         26          1,132          2,166          2,114          3,262            3,421
Sub-total Cooked Corned Beef 7/                  '000 cans             -                -                           0.3          12.5           23.8           23.3           35.9              37.6
Sub-total Meat Extract 8/                       tons
TOTAL VOLUME
Total Slaughtering                              head                   -                -                     52,780         59,074         71,855         82,700         93,540           96,500
Total Dressed Carcass Meat                       tons                  -                -                      5,619          6,628          8,770         10,621         12,121           12,602
Increase in Slaughtering                           %                     -                 -                          0.3           12.3           36.6           57.2           77.8             83.5
Increase in Dressed Carcass Meat                   7,                    -                 -                          0.3           18.3           56.6           89.6          116.4            125.0
1/ Present volume assumed to remain constant to meet export requirements of stewed steak to the U.S.S.R.  Dressed
carcass meat and stewed steak result from canner cattle.
2/ Boning yield has been estimated at 72% for all types of cattle except feedlot-  75%.
3/ Based on 0.24 kg. raw trimmed meat per can of 250 grms.
4/ All incremental cattle except feedlot assumed destined to be processed into cooked corned beef.
5/ 50% assumed processed as chilled boneless cuts and 50% as frozen bone-in quarters, all for export.
6/ Number of cattle passing through improved stockroutes built under the project.
7/ Based on 0.5 kg. raw trimmed meat per can of 12 oz.
8/ Based on 2.2 kg. extract per 100 kg raw trimmed meat.



ANNEX 4
Table 5
SOMALIA
TRANS-JUBA LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Kismayu Meat Factory
Financial Proection
(So.Sh. Million)
Pre-Project  Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Years 6-20
Sales Revenues
Chilled Boneless Meat                                    -          -         0.7        4.7       10.0       12.0       13.0
Frozen Bone-in Quarters & Variety Meats                  -          -         0.7        4.6        9.9       11.9       12.8
Canned Stewed Steak                                     30.2       30.2      30.2       30.2       30.2       30.2       30.2
Canned Cooked Corned Beef                                -          0.1       2.8        5.4        5.3        8.2        8.6
Meat Extract                                             -          -          0.5       1.0        0.9        1.4        1.5
Inedible Bt-products                                     2.2        2.2       2.4        3.0        3.4        3.9       4.0
Sub-total Incremental Exports                            -         0.1        3.7       15.0       25.6       33.2       35.7
Sub-total Present Sales                                 32.4      32.4       32.4       32.4       32.4       32.4       32.4
Sub-total Incremental Sales                              -         0.1        4.9       16.5       27.3       35.2       37.7
Total Sales Revenue                                     32.4       32.5      37.3       48.9       59.7       67.6       70.1
Operating Costs
Direct Costs
Present Livestock                                     15.3       15.3      15.3       15.3       15.3       15.3       15.3
Incremental Livestock                                  -         -          3.2       11.3       19.1       24.2      26.2
Slaughtering and Market Tax                           0.6        0.6        0.7        0.8        1.0        1.1       1.1
Labor                                                  1.5        1.5       1.6        1.9        2.1        2.3        2.4
Utilities                                              1.8        1.8       2.0        2.3        2.5        2.8        2.9
Materials                                              7.5        7.5        8.3       9.0        9.1       10.0       10.1
Sub-total Present Direct Costs                        26.7      26.7       26.7       26.7       26.7       26.7      26.7
Sub-total Incremental Direct Costs                     -         -          4.4       13.9       22.4       29.0      31.3
Sub-total Direct Costs                                26.7      26.7       31.1       40.6       49.1      55.7       58.0
Fixed Costs
Manager, Supervisors, Technicians & Clerks             0.4        0.4       0.4        0.5        0.5        0.5        0.5
Repairs                                                0.9       0.9        0.9        1.0        1.0        1.0        1.0
Insurance                                              0.9       0.9        0.9        1.0        1.0        1.0        1.0
Administration Expenses                                0.6        0.6       0.7        0.9        1.2        1.3        1.4
General Expenses                                       0.6       0.6        0.7        0.9        1.2        1.3        1.4
Sub-total Present Fixed Costs                          3.4       3.4        3.4        3.4        3.4        3.4       3.4
Sub-total Incremental Fixed Costs                      -         -          0.2        0.9        1.5        1.7       1.9
Sub-total Fixed Costs                                  3.4       3.4        3.6        4.3        4.9        5.1       5.3
Total Operating Cost                                    30.1       30.1      34.7       44.9       54.0       60.8       63.3
Present Operating Margin/i                             2.3        2.3       2.3        2.3        2.3        2.3        2.3
Incremental Operating Margin                           -         -          0.3        1.7        3.4        4.5       4,5
Total Operating Margin                                   2.3        2.3        2.6       4.0        5.7        6.8        6.8
/1  Before debt service to the USSR on which information is not available
October 2 1973






ANNEX 5
Page 1
SOMALIA
TRANS-JUBA LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Banking and Credit
1.        At independence in 1960, four foreign-owned commercial banks had
branches in Somalia: National and Grindlays, Banca di Roma, Banca di Napoli
and the Bank of Port Said. The Somali National Bank (SNB), organized in
1960, was given general control over the country's banking activities and
was also authorized to engage in commercial banking functions. The Credito
Somalo, another Government commercial banking institution, also performed
a dual function; it extended short-term credit and, through its Development
Loan Section, medium- and long-term credit. In 1968 a third Government
banking institution, the Somali Development Bank (SDB), was established to
provide financing to the private sector in the form of medium- and long-term
loan and equity participation. In 1968 Government decided to reorganize
and streamline the banking system.
2.        In May 1970, the Government nationalized the four private
commercial banks and from May to December 1970, these acted as agencies of
the Somali National Bank. On January 1, 1971, the combined assets and
liabilities of National and Grindlays, Banca di Roma, and Banca di Napoli
were merged to form the Somali Commercial (SCB). At the same time, the
Somali Saving and Credit Bank (SSCB) was formed from the consolidated assets
and liabilities of both the Bank of Port Said and the commercial banking
section of Somali National Bank.
3.        The two commercial banks are wholly state-owned, each having
a capital of So. Sh. 2.5 million equally subscribed by SNB and Government.
Both banks are engaged primarily in commercial banking operations and 24
branches of the new banks have been opened and are now in operation.
4.        Both commercial banks offer between 2-1/2 and 4-1/2% interest
annually on deposits depending on the period. Against this, the rate of
interest charged on short-term loans to the private sector is 9%. Govern-
ment agencies however enjoy preferential rates: the Livestock Development
Agency obtains credit at 6% to encourage the development of the livestock
sector; the Agricultural Development Corporation 5% and the Banana Board
(from SCB) at 7-1/2% annually to promote the development of the banana
industry.  The distribution of short-term credit granted by the Somali
banking system by types of economic activity as at December 31, 1971 shows
that trade (which also includes livestock trading) accounts for 71% of
total credit outstanding, industry and crafts 12% and agriculture 5%
(Table 1).
5.        The required security for loans is invariably either buildings or
personal guarantees; land alone is not acceptable since all land belongs to



ANNEX 5
Page 2
the state. This requirement limits the ability of the majority of farmers
and livestock traders to take advantage of the credit facilities offered
by the banks. However, livestock exporters may obtain credit to the extent
of 70% of the value of any opened letter of credit.
Somali Development Bank (SDB)
6.        The SDB was set up in March 1968 to provide financing to the
private sector in the form of medium- and long-term loans and equity
participation. In November 1968, following the liquidation of Credito Somalo,
the SDB took over that institution's Development Loan Section and is now
the only institution providing medium- and long-term loans. Subsequent to
the nationalization of the Somali banking system and other enterprises in
May 1970, the role of SDB was modified and it is presently committed to
support and finance sound and viable development projects originating in
the private as well as in the public sectors.
7.        SDB is controlled by a Board of Directors under the chairmanship
of a President who is appointed by Presidential decree for a term of five
years. The day-to-day operations of the Bank are the responsibility of the
General Manager, who is also appointed by Presidential decree on the
recommendation of the Board. SDB has two main departments: a technical
department and an administration department with a total staff of 25.
8.        SDB is prohibited from accepting savings or demand deposits, and
its only source of funds until recently has been its own equity paid up
capital of So. Sh. 20.6 million (US$3.3 million). 54% of this is held by
the Somali Government, 45% by the Somali National Bank and 1% by the Somali
Commercial Bank. In 1972 the Bank obtained a loan from Iraq of i 500,000
(US$1.3 million), repayable over 8 years at an annual interest of 2.52.
Another source of funds is the Somali Government which appropriated
So. Sh. 22 million (US$3.5 million) in its 1973 budget for this purpose.
Under Law No. 58 of July 1972, Government agencies are directed to create
depreciation funds to be paid over to the Ministry of Finance: these are
expected to be channelled through SDB and utilized for development purposes.
9.        In 1971 total SDB financing expanded to So. Sh. 7.0 million
(US$1.1 million), the same level as in 1969, after falling sharply in 1970
to So. Sh. 1.3 million (US$0.2 million). This improvement was attributed
to an improved business climate in the private sector after a period of
uncertainty following the change in Government and to the increased
operations of several public agencies whose role in industrial planning and
project implementation had not come up to expectations in the previous year.
Since under present circumstances private capital is cautious and entre-
preneurship is lacking, the Bank has been assigned the task of planning,
promoting and implementing viable projects to be eventually handed over
to prospective owners on a turn-key basis. Two such projects were promoted
in the first half of 1972. Although its activities are increasing, SDB's
operational efficiency is hampered by a shortage of qualified and experienced
staff and a scarcity of suitable projects.



ANNEX 5
Table 1
SOMALIA
TRANS-JUBA LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Banking and Credit
Loans to Private Sector by Branches of Economic Activitv -
(So. Sh. '000)
IDIWSTRY
PERIODZ/   AGRICUILURE  AND CRAFTS    TRADE    OrHER LOANS   TOTAL
1960       4,464        6,607       17,527       2,586      31,184
1961       4;538        6,194       27,068       4,736      42,536
1962        8,253      10,464       48,789       8,163       75,669
1963       5,257       13,608       50,4j38     20,734      90,037
1964        7,595      19,427       94,470      20,964     142,456
1965      13,946       23,888       94,987      26,968     159,789
1966      20,621       26,173       105,308     17,037      169,139
1967      22,426       28,610       108,293     17,839      177,168
1968      28,102       39,808      115,396      22,548     205,854
1969      22,204       35,823       112,702      36,123     206,852
1970       9,105       26,980       123,630     22,316      182,031
1971      13,319        31,166      180,191      28,883     253,559
Source: Somali National Bank Bulletin.
1/ From 1971 includes commercial banks credits to public entities.
2/ As of December 31. Data for 1972 not available.
July 31, 1973






ANNEX 6
Page 1
SOMALIA
TRANS-JUBA LIVESTOCK PROJECT
THE PROJECT AREA
1.        The proposed Project Area (Area) covers some 65,000 km2 and is
bounded in the east by the Juba River in the north and west by the Kenya
border and in the south east by the Indian Ocean. The Area includes some
80% of the Lower Juba and some 40% of the Upper Juba administrative regions.
On a geographical basis it can be divided roughly into two regions:
(a)  The Uplands Region                         Area in km2
Mander-El Wak Uplands                        20,000
Upper Juba Valley                             2,000
(b) The Central and Coastal Region
Dugiuma Sub-Region                            3,000
Marine Plain                                 12,000
Lower Juba-Shebeli Flood Plain                2,000
Fafadun Plain                                13,000
Lac Dera Plain                               11,000
Dudumali Plain                                2,000
Total Project Area                      65,000
2.        The Area can be broadly characterized as a relatively featureless
plain, interrupted by river valleys and tracts of rougher relief. For the
most part it is arid to semi-arid rangeland subject to recurrent droughts;
it has low shrubs and infrequent trees. Rainfall and soil variations are
reflected in the composition of the types and species of the shrubs and
trees. Rainfall in the two rainy seasons is unreliable and yearly or
seasonal averages can be misleading. Temperatures are high but relative
humidity is low. Water supplies for the most part are sparse, seasonal,
unreliable widely dispersed and often brackish and the only permanent
supply is the Juba River. Nevertheless, the Area contains an estimated
0.9 to 1.0 million head of cattle for which the main market outlet is the
Kismayu meat factory currently geared mostly to canning for exports.
Soils and Topography
3.        The tUplands Regions in the north is mostly hilly, with high country border-
ing Kenya to the northwest.  In general they are arid with sparse vegetation with a
limited grazing potential confined, because of sparse water supplies, to during and
shortly after the rains. Up to 25% of the total area is bare earth. It is estimated



ANNEX 6
Page 2
that the total annual forage production per km2 is about 14 tons, with an
annual carrying capacity of 4 animal units (cattle) per km2. Total grazing
area is about 5,600 km2 1/. Altitudes range from 300-500 meters above sea
level. Erosion has created a rolling to undulating pattern with scattered
erosional remnants. To the east lies the Marine Plain, a flat featureless
area with underlying marine sediment. The plain slopes gently towards the
south except where incised by the course of the Lac Dera drainage system
and around the Descek Uama 2/. The Area supports dense semi-arid woodland
which gives way over large tracts to an open shrub and tree steppe. The
hills are formed from calcarious stratifications and soils are shallow and
dry.
The Central and Coastal Region
4.        The Dugiuma Sub-Region, is a part of the Eluviated plain which
stretches as a band across the south central section of the Area from
west of the Juba River almost to the Shebeli River. Soils are mainly
clays but there are large areas of outwash, composed of sandy clay loams
overlying the clay. The vegetational pattern is grassland of a more open
type.
5.        The Marine Plain, of about 12,000 km2 has adequate rainfall for
good grass production and the grasslands cover some 600 km2. However,
dense woodlands and shrub steppe cover some 80% of the area reducing the
potential for forage production. It is estimated that the plain has an
annual carrying capacity of some 13 animal units (cattle) per km2 with a
fodder production of around 50 m tons per km2 3/.
1/   No general ecological study of Somalia is available though studies
have been made of limited areas, one of the former British Protec-
torate, and two of the inter-riverine area between the Juba and
Shebeli rivers. The agricultural and water survey carried out by
FAO in 1968 also contains much useful information on ecology and
using these studies together with observations of previous workers,
a broad classification of the Area is possible.
2/   "Desceks" - slack water depressions lying back from the river at
flood time. These depressions fill with water which recedes slowly
back towards the river.
3/   In areas of pure grass stand, Bothriochloa insculpta, Cenchrus
ciliaris, Eragrostis caespitosa, Hyparrhenia dissoluta and Sporobolus
helvolus are the common species though, Chloris, Brachiaria, Sorghum
and Echinochloa species are also to be found. In areas of dense tree
and bush cover - up to 70% coverage - the common grass species are
confined to Dactyloctenium aegyptium, Eragrostis caespitosa and
Sporobolus helvolus. Acacia, Cordia, Dobera and Grewia species
constitute the main tree and bush cover, with Sensevieria species
replacing much of the grass.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
6.        The land slopes gently towards the south giving way to the Fafadun
Plain which lies at an altitude ranging from 7 to 300 meters, the soils for
the most part being brown to dark-brown Solonetz, cracking when dry and
supporting a cover of semi-arid tree and shrub steppe. The Fafadun Plain,
covering some 13,000 km2, is generally speaking good open rangeland capable
of supporting some 11 animal units (cattle) per km2. Trees and shrubs,
mainly acacia species, comprise up to 30% of the total area. The area of
browse is estimated at 8,000 km2 and the annual estimated forage production
40 tons per km2 1/.
7.        West of the Marine Plain is the Lac Dera Plain which ranges in
altitude from 30 to 80 meters. The soils are considerably intermixed and
classified generally as Solonchak-Solonetz soils. The profiles exhibit
salinity and have a high sodium content throughout the sub-surface and sub-
soil horizons. The natural vegetation is used extensively for grazing or
browsing and supports a large domestic and wild animal population. The Lac
Dera Plain is characterized by its "park-like" appearance with grassland
and scattered tree and patches of tree shrub steppe. It is an area of good
natural rangeland. In the more open areas grass cover comprises over 90%
of the area. The plain is estimated to be capable of supporting 21 animal
units per km2 and producing 75 tons of forage per km2. The Dugiuma Sub-
Region provides good open grazing for the greater part but the bush tends
to become more demse in the west, the general ecology being the same as that
of the Marine Plain 2/.
8.        The Dudumali Plain, lying to the southern end of the Area, is
gently sloping and lies at an elevation of approximately 30 meters. The
soils are non-saline, fine textured, dark red to dusky red sandy clays
developcd in a shallow mantle of weathered coral limestone underlain by
weathered coral at depths which are variable but most commonly exceed 50 cm.
The naturaA. vegetation is semi-arid tree and shrub steppe. Lying immediately
behind the shore line is the sand dune area comprising stabilized and active
sand dunes. The areas are of little significance but provide grazing for
sheep and goats on the stabilized areas a topographical feature common to
all areas is the Juba River which forms the eastern boundary. Along the
riverine belt are deeper alluvial soils which support a heavy tree and
shrub cover.
1/   The common grass species are Bothriochloa insculpta, Cenchrus
ciliaris, Eragrostis caespitosa, Hyparrhenia dissoluta and
Sporobolus helvolus. Chloris, Brachiaria and Echinochloa species
are also to be found. The main tree and shrub species are:
Acacia bussei, Acacia etbaica, Acacia nilotica and Ehretia.
2/   The tree and shrub species comprise Acacia millifora, Acacia
sperocarpa, Commiphera, Cordia, Grewia and Terminalia species.



ANNEX 6
Page 4
Communications
9.        Roads in the area are generally poor and the majority are impass-
able to vehicles for up to five months or more every year. With the con-
centration of irrigated banana farming in the area between Gelib and Kismayu,
however, a 114 km paved road connecting these two towns has recently been
completed. All the administrative centers are linked by roads of varying
quality, but rivers present a barrier; with the exception of the bridge
across the Juba River at Gelib, the only other crossing points are ferries
at Lugh Ferrandi and Bardera.
10.       Kismayu harbor has recently been reconstructed by USAID and is
now capable of simultaneously handling two banana boats of 2,000-4,000 gross
ton and two other vessels up to 10,000 gross ton along side the deep water
docks. The reconstruction involved the building of cargo sheds, adminis-
trative buildings, cold storage and freezing facilities; the provision of
equipment such as a tug, forklift and trucks; and the installation of a
good water supply. Kismayu, the regional administrative center, is served
by the DC-3 service of Somali Airlines and the recently improved landing
strip is now all-weather. A new airport capable of handling the biggest
passenger and cargo planes is under construction and will be completed in
1975. The only other landing strip for light aircraft is at Afmadu. All
administrative center and police stations are interconnected by wireless,
but police facilities are confined to Kismayu. The inhabitants of these
towns are mostly employed as shop and restaurant-keepers, traders, etc. and
maintain a few cattle and a small plot of land for subsistence purpose.
11.       The settlers who farm along the banks of the Juba River, although
generally static, still maintain small herds of livestock. These people
provide one of the main sources of agricultural labor on the banana planta-
tions - the only large employers of labor within the Project Area.  It is
estimated that these estates give employment to some 8,000 people.
12.       In the past the nomadic livestock were designed not pre-
dominantly for sale but to satisfy needs for prestige, meat, animal fat,
milk and the transport of family goods. Attitudes are now changing, how-
ever. The desire for better educational and medical facilities is now
strong and there is a greater tendency to establish permanent homes near
such facilities, keeping a small herd for subsistence while grazing the
remainder under the traditional pattern. Semi-permanence instils greater
material needs, and the herdsman now tends to look upon his livestock as
potential income and will sell animals readily at the most advantageous time
rather than in emergency brought about by droughts or other natural catas-
trophies.
October 10, 1973.



ANNEX 7
Page 1
SOMALIA
TRANS-JUBA LIVESTOCK PROJECT
CATTLE MARKETS, STOCKROUTES AND HOLDING GROUND
1.        The proposed Project would establish organized marketing outlets
for livestock in the Project Area in order to increase off-take rate and
reduce losses. The additional infrastructure would facilitate the orderly
purchase, movement and storing of cattle, and allow extension of the neces-
sary veterinary supervision to a much larger number of cattle.
Cattle Markets
2.        Three new permanent cattle markets (Tabda, Maskati and Gelib) would
be located so as to service those areas with the greatest concentration of
cattle. The markets are simple in design (Plan), and one each would be
established in Project years one, two and three. The site in Gelib would
replace the one originally proposed in Garsei Warshan; the former was
selected because of its proximity to the existing EEC holding ground east
of the Juba River and the very poor road conditions in the Garsei Warshan
area. The choice of sites is tentative, however, and the final decision
would be left to Project Management. LDA (from its existing financial
resources) has recently constructed one additional market at Badada.
3.        It is estimated that the majority of about 30,000 head of
Somali cattle presently marketed each year in Kenya enter it in the
south-western corner of the Project Area (Annex 2, para 3). The pro-
posed markets would gradually reduce this flow. An undetermined num-
ber of cattle, however, move across the border towards the north of
the Project Area. It is proposed that two smaller markets be estab-
lished at Lugh Ganana and Busar in an effort to provide incentives for
nomads to sell more cattle locally, and also as a means of exploring
the feasibility of establishing more permanent markets. These would
operate either periodically or until it was known whether the estab-
lishment of more permanent and regular markets would be justified.
4.        These markets, to be constructed in Project years two and three,
are much the same design as the larger markets, although on a reduced scale.
They are capable of future expansion should this prove feasible. Market
construction would include housing for the market teams. The markets would
be constructed and maintained by the Project Construction and Maintenance
Unit (Tables 1 and 4).
Stockroutes
5.        About 1,000 km of mostly existing stockroutes would be improved
to connect the permanent markets with the holding grounds at Afmadu and



ANNEX 7
Page 2
Kismayu. This would be done by establishing simple staging posts every 30 km
- each comprising three thornbrush paddocks and drovers' shelters. A water
point would be stablished at each staging post, either by re-activating
existing boreholes, establishing river pumping units or constructing new
boreholes, stock ponds (of 20,000 m3 and known locally as "Uars") or dams
(Tables 2 and 4).
6.        Some 450 km of the proposed stockroutes have been surveyed in
detail and the balance is under survey and would be completed before dev-
elopment commences. The Project would provide a phase development program
over four years, and the Water Development Agency or local private contract-
ors would construct new or renovate existing boreholes. The Project Con-
struction and Maintenance Unit would carry out the remaining work.
7.        In order to facilitate the movement of cattle from the EEC holding
ground and the new Gelib market to Kismayu, the existing ferry approaches
would be renovated. Replacement of the existing ferry is not warranted as
carrying capacity and operating condition are satisfactory. Also included
in the cost of developing the stockroutes are minor improvements to parts
of the Badada-Kismayu road and to the road linking the Kismayu holding ground
with the town. These improvements are limited to installing culverts and
drifts, and making realignments so as to afford the marketing staff better
access during the rainy seasons.
Holding Ground
8.        Because the existing LDA operated cattle holding ground at Kismayu
is already overloaded, the Project would establish a new 20,000 ha holding
ground between Afmadu and Dif, about 10 km north of Beles Gogani, where
there is a good probability of obtaining reliable supplies of potable water
from boreholes. The holding ground would comprise a perimeter fence sub-
divided by firebreaks into nine paddocks - roads, three boreholes, one
cattle dip, three sets of yards, housing for ground attendants and a market
team, office, stores, thorn-brush night pens for the cattle, and operating
equipment (Tables 3 and 4).
9.        The carrying capacity of this holding ground is estimated at
eight ha per animal or around 2,500 head per year. Since cattle would
normally only be held for about one month, the throughput would be around
30,000 head per year. The holding ground would be used primarily for
regulating the supply of slaughter cattle to Kismayu but would also be used
for the selection and sorting of immatures for the two grazing ranches and
the Irrigated Fodder Farm and Feedlot. On arrival at Kismayu, slaughter
stock will go through the normal quarantine and veterinary procedures and
will be held until dispatched for export or for slaughter at the meat plant.
To facilitate export of live cattle, a weighbridge is to be installed at
the Kismayu marshalling yard.



ANNEX 7
Page 3
Market Teams
10.       To improve the marketing system, it is necessary to strengthen
the field marketing section of LDA's Kismayu Field Unit. For this purpose
the Project includes three new cattle purchasing teams: A mobile team
would be located at the new Afmadu holding ground and operate the markets
at Tabda and Maskati; the other teams would be based at Lugh and Busar and
would separately operate these markets.  Each team would consists of a
market master, brander, head herdsman and vaccinator. The mobile team would
also have a clerk, sorter and driver. An existing marketing team located
at the Kismayu holding ground would operate the markets at Hadweineh and
Gelib and also purchase cattle at the Afmadu town market. Supervision of
the new marketing teams would be the responsibility of an Assistant Marketing
Officer stationed on the Afmadu Holding Ground, assisted by an animal health
assistant, senior clerk and driver.
11.       The projected number of cattle to be purchased at each market,
based on estimated concentration of livestock, and the manpower required for
herding is shown in Table 5. The calculation of herdsmen requirements has
been based on regular market purchases, driving the cattle to holding grounds
and their subsequent movement from the holding grounds to the port or to
the meat factory in Kismayu.
12.       A Ranch Manager would be in charge of the holding ground in
Afmadu, assisted by the necessary maintenance and operating staff and herds-
men. Purchased stock would be moved down stockroutes to holding grounds,
depending on actual numbers being held or grazing capacity, and cattle would
be moved as and when required to the Kismayu holding ground or the ranches.
August 17, 1973






ANNEX 7
Table 1
SOMALTA
TRANS-JUBA LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Cattle Markets, Stockroutes and Holdin- Ground
Cattle 1arkets - Investment Cost
(So. Sh. 000)
Foreign    Number of -------                 YEAR --------------
Unit Cost   Ebchange          Units                                             Subtotal
Component    Required          l             2             3
Buildings  (Tabda, Maskati, Gelib)
Sale ring, office, pens, races and crush                    50           50                          50           50            50         150
Market Attendant'a House                                      7           50            3             7            7              7          21
Traders' Shelters                                            6            50            3             6            6              6          18
Vendors' Shelters                                            6            50            3             6            6              6          18
Toilet and Kitchen                                           1           50             3             1            1             1            3
Marketing Staff Rest diouse                                  6            50            3             6            6              6          le
Water Connection, Storage & Drinking Facilities             14            70            3            14           14             1-4         42
Site Clearing and Levelling                                  1           20             3             1            1             1            3
Zariba Fence                                                 1           10             3             1            1             1            3
Subtotal                                                          52           92            92           92             92         276
1/
Buildings (Lugh, Busar) -
Sale ring, office, pens, races and crush                    25           50             2             -           25             25          50
Market Attendant's House                                     7            50            2             -            7              7          14
Marketing Staff Rest House                                   6            50            2             -            6              6          12
Site Clearing and Levelling                                  1           20             2             -            1              1           2
Zariba Fence           2/                                    1           10             2             -            1             1            2
Market Masters House    2/                                   7            50            2             -            7              7          14
Market Team Staff Hqyse                                      4           50             8                         16            16           32
Vaccinator's House -                                         4            50            2             -4                          4           8
Subtotal                                                          49                                      67             67         134
FAuipment
3/
Cattle weigh-bridge                                         10            90            6            2')          20             20          60
Office Furniture and Safe                                    2            50            5             2            414                       10
House Furniture                                              1            20            5             1             2             2           5
First Aid Equipment                                          1            90            5             1            2              2           5
Radio Telephone                                               8           90            5             8           16             16          40
Petrol Generator                                             4            uo            5             4            8              8          20
Branding Irons, Tools, etc.                                   4           90            5             4            8              8          20
Subtotal                                                          86                         40           60             60         160
Total                                                             61                        132          219            219         570
l/ Materials only; work carried out by Project Construction Unit.
2/ Housing for market teams.
T/  Includes one weighbridge for Kismayu Marshalling Yard.
October 2. 1973



SOVALIA                                                                     M  4be
TSS-JIUBiB LIVm3TOGXCK PEJSOT              7
Cattle Karkets, Stokcroute  nd Holding Ground
Stockroutes - Invese ot Coat
(So. 00. 0001
Foreign      Number of  ------------ __R ----_________
Unit Cost Ewohange         lnits                                                        Subtotal
Componnet   Reqoired          1            2          3            4
Section No. 1
Badad. - Ximsu3,7u(143 ke)
Staging pointo                                          2          20            4           8            -           -           -            8
Pump, tank, t5.ugh Tpd piping for one
20,000 m  Car                                     10          60            1         10             -           -           -          10
Boreholea                                             110          75            2         220            -           -           -         220
Repairs to Bulo U,Ji Dam, cost of masonry
works only -                                      10          30            1          10            -           -           -          10
Pump, trough, tank and pumphouse at Balo Haji          10          60            1          10            -           -           -          10
Improvimomt to the Hadsda&-Kiss,yu Road S/            200          30            1         100          100                       -         200
Pump operator's House                                   4          50            4          16            _           _           -          16
Subtotal                                                   53                     374           100                                 474
Section No. 2
Afmadu - Ximruya (128 km)
Staging points                                           2         20            3           6            _           _           _            6
Reactivating of boreholes (Afmadu, Mido,          6/
Soia), pump nets, ergine house, tank & troughs    110           75            3        220          U1            -            -         330
Improve watering facilities at Anjail - pumping
equipment, tank and trough  7/                      10          75            1          10            _           _           _          10
Widening of routn Afeado - Ida                                                  45           -
Pump operator's house                                              50            3           8            4           -           -          12
Subtotal                                                   73                     244           1i4          -            -         358
Section No 3
Maskati - Afmado Holding Gromnd (60 km)
Staging poir,t                                          2          20            1           _            2           _           _           2
Boreholes 3/                                         1no           75            2           -          22C           -           -         220
Pump Operator's House                                   4          SO            2           _            8          -            _           8
Subtotal                                                  73                                    230                                 230
Section lo. 4
Tabda - Af-adu (90 Im)
Staging P2)nt                                           2          20            2           -            1           -           -           4
burehole                                   3   2/    110           75            1           _          110          -            -         110
Poop, tank, trough and piping for 20,000 m Oar          10         60            1           _           10           _           -          10
Pamp operator's House                                   4          50            2                        a 8         -           -           8
Subtotal                                                   70                                   132                                 132
section No. 5
Gelib - Soi. (90 k)
Staging P    a3Pte                                      2          20            2           -                                                4 _  _  b
Borehole J/                                           110          75            1           _          110           -           -         110
Ferry approaches, g?lding pmls, pinp,
tank and trough -                                    20          75            1          -            20                       -          20
ramp operators and ferry guards' houses                 4          50            2           -            8           _           -           8
Subtotal                                                  72                                    142                                .142
Section -o. 6
Busar - Atrcad. 300 km)
Staging po37ts                                          2          20            9           _            -          18           -          18
Borehole s                                            n 3  110     75            8                        -         660          220        880
Foop, tank, troughs, piping for 20,000 m
Oaro ordaest' >10                                                60            2           _            -          20           -          20
Foop Operator's Houses                                  4          50           10           _            -          32            8         40
Subtotal                                                   73                                               730          228        958
Section No. 7
L2gh - Fa_adu  (15 be
Staging Poh)t.                                           2         20            6          _             -           12           _         12
B.reholes 3/                                          110          75            3          -             -            -         330        330
p,tank, troughs, piping for 20,000
eJ Uar or d_ ZT                                   10          60            1          _             -          10            -         10
Pump, tank, trough, piping for river water
ontreotion                                         12          60            3          -             -           -           36         36
Pump operator's houses                                  4          50            7          -             -            8          20         .a
Subtotal                                                   70                                                30          386        416
Total                                                     69                      618           71          7_           614       2710
I/ MateriOlo only; work carried out by Project Conetroction Unit.
2/  320 hrs heavy tractor and scraper cost included in ProJect Construction mcit.
aFully equipped, drilling and equipping contracted out.
50 hro. heavy trawtr and scraper cost included in Project Construction tUit.
Contracted out,
6/ May require deepeoing to 200 m and casing against salt intrusion.   Contracted out.
7/ 135 hro. hesvy tractor cost included in Project Construction Unit (45 kon @3 iro. per ke)
8/ Kateriala only; 40 hroe hoavr tractor and scraper cost included in Project Conatrootion ;hit.
b/ 320 hro. per Uar or da  of heavy trator and scraper cost included in ProJect Construction Unit.
Occoteb 11, 1973.



30TVLLt                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~ANNTEX 7
S0OMALIA
Table 3
TRANS-JUBA LIVESTOCKC PR5JECT
Cattle Markets, Stockroutes and Holding Ground
Afmadu Holdine Ground - Investment Cost
Foreign     Number of  -------   R- ----- Subtotal
Unit Cost   Erchange       Units
Caomonent   Required        1
Buildings (Holding Ground)
Manager's House                                               20           50          1          20            -         20
Animal Health Assistant, House                                 7           50          1           7            -           7
Headman                      "                                 6           50          1           6            -           6
Herdsmen                    "                                  4          50          25          50           5^        100
Labour                       "                                 4           50          4           8            F         16
Driver                      "                                  4          50           3          12                      12
Office                                                        12           50          1          12            -          12
Store, shed, workshop                                        12           50           1          12            -         12
Pump Houes                                                     4          50           3           4            8         12
Labour-                                                                    _                      66           34        100
Subtotal                                                              50                    197          100         297
2/
Baildings (Market Team)
Assistant Marketing Officer House                             20           50          1          20            -          20
Market Master's House                                          7           50          1           7            -           7
Market Team Staff House                                        4           50          4          16            -          16
Animal Healtb Assistant's House                                7           50          1           7            -           7
Vaccinator's House                                             4          50           1           4            -           4
Office and Store                                              12          50           1          12            -          12
Subtotal                                                             50                     66            -          66
Water Development
Equipped boreholes                                          110           75           3         110          220         330
Reservoirs                                                    20           70          3          20            40         60
Pipe (300 m.)                                                  -          70           -           3             5          8
Troughs                                                        2          50           6           4             8         12
Subtotal                                                             73                    137           273         410
Livestock Handlinc Facilities
Dip                                                          15           50           1          15             -         15
Yards and Crush                                                9          30           3           9            18         27
Subtotal                                                             37                     24            18          42
Fencing, Firebreaks, Roads
Fencing (ring fence) (km)                                      4          70          60         120           120        240
Firebreaks            (km)                                    o.6         20         120          36            36         72
Roads                 (km)                                     2          20          30          30            30         60
Thornbrush Night Pens(km)                                      2          10          20          20            20         40
Subtotal                                                             48                    236           206         412
Vehicles and Equipment (Holding Ground)
4-Wheel Drive Vehicle                                         36          90           2          72             -          72
7-Ton Truck                       3/                         69           90           1          69             -         69
Tractor, Harrow, Blade, Trailer                               51          90           1          51             -          51
Furniture, Office Equipment                                   3           50           1           3             -           3
Tools and Veterinary Equipment                               10           90           1           5             5          10
Weighbridge                                                   10           90          1          10             -          10
Subtotal                                                             90                    210             5         215
Vehicles and Equipmernt (Market Team)
4-Wheel Drive Vehicle, Winch, PTO                            36           90           2          72             -          72
Trailer                                                        3          90           2           6             -           6
Office Furniture and Safe                                      1          50           1           1             -           1
House Furniture                                                I          .O           1           '             -           1
Office Equipment                                                           90          1                         -           3
Radio Telephone                                                8           90          1           8             -           8
Petrol Generator                                              4           90           1           4             -           4
Tentage, Camping Equipment                                     4          90           1           4             -           4
Veterinary Equipment                                           4           90          1           2             2           4
Subtotal                                                             89                    101             2         103
Total                                                                                      941           604       1,545
1/ One-third of total building cost.
2/  Materials only.   Work carried oat by Project Construction Unit.
3/ Small HP tractor, So.Sb. 39,000; harrow, So.Sh. 4,800; grader blade, So.Sh. 3,200; trailer, So.Sh. 4,000.
Ortober 2 1923



SOMIOLIA                                                                   ANNE7
TRAKS-JUBA LIVESTOOK PROJECT
Cattle Markets, Stookroutes and Holding Ground
Operatirg Costs
Foreign    Nunber of  ------------ -                           ---------------___----- Y--R -----______________-_____
Unit Cost  Smchange        Units         1          2           3             4           5         6-20
Cumpmant  Required
Stockroutes
Maintenance of Fixed Assets                 2/           -           69           -            -         15.5       33.4         52.4          67.7       67.7
Spares, Fuel, Oil, Grease for Pump Operating    3/      6.0          60           9          12.0        18.0       36.0         54.0          54.0       54.0
Spares, Fuel, Oil, Grease for Borehole Operating       10.0          60          21          50.0       100.0      160.0        210.0        210.0       210.0
Salaries: Pump Operators                                 5.5           0         30          38.5        71.5      121.0         165.0        165.0      165.0
Ferry Attendant                               5.5           0           1            -          5.5        5.5          5.5           5.5        5.5
Ibiforms                                                0.25         30          31           1.8         3.5        5.8          7.8           7.8        7.8
Subtotal                                                                           102.3       214.0      361.7        494.7        510.0       510.0
4/_
Cattle Markets
Maintenance of Fixed Assets                               -           51                       -          2.3        5.6          8.8           8.8        8.8
Spares, Fuel, Oil for Radio and Gemerator               1.0          6o           5           1.0         2.0        4.0          5.0          5.0         5.0
Water Cost                                              2.0            0          5           2.0         4.0        8.0         10.0          10.0       10.0
Cleansing Naterials                                     0.2          40           5           0.2         0.4        o.8          1.0          1.0         1.2
Salaries:  Market Attendant                             5.5           0           5           5.5        11.0       22.0         27.5         27.5        27.5
Uniforms                                                0.25         30           5           0.3         0.5        1.0          1.3          1.3         1.3
Subtotal                                                                             9.0        20.2       41.4         53.6         53.6        53.6
Market Toass
Maintenance of Fixed Assets                              -            50                       -          1.6        2.2          3.0           3.0        3.0
Spares, Fuel, Oil, Grease for Vehicles                  18.0         60          2           36.0        36.0       36.0         36.0         36.o       36.o
Spares, Fuel, Oil, for Radio & Generators                1.0         60          1            1.0         1.0        1.0          1.0          1.0         1.0
Office Requisites and Mleensing )aterpls                 -           40           -           0.3         o.6        0.9          0.9          0.9         0.9
Dipping Fluid and Vet7yinorY Supplies-
For live exports - 8/                                             80        -            3.3         4.4       10.9         44.2         88.6        88.6
For Factory Cattle                                   -           80           -            -           -        10.l         38.2         69.5        73.4
Salaries,  Assistant Marketing Officer                  11.6          0           1          11.6        11.6       11.6         11.6         11.6        11.6
Market Masters                                       7.6          0          3            7.6        15.2       22.8         22.8         22.8        22.8
Senior Clerk                                         8.7          0          1            8.7         8.7        8.7          8.7          8.7         8.7
Clerks                                               6.8          0          1            6.8         6.8        6.8          6.8          6.8        6.8
Branders                                             6.0          0          3            6.o        12.0       18.0         18.0         18.0       18.0
Sorters                                              3.0          0          1            3.0         3.0        3.0          3.0          3.0        3.0
Drivers                                              5.5          0           2          11.0        11.0       11.0         11.0         11.0       11.0
Guards                                               3.3          0          1            3.3         3.3        3.3          3.3          3.3        3.3
Head Herdsman     9/                                 3.0          0          3            3.0         6.o        9.0          9.0          9.0         9.0
Temporary Herdswen                                    -           0           -          16.5        43.5       62.5         87.5        125.0      132.5
Animal Health Assistant                              7.6          0           1           7.6         7.6        7.6          7.6          7.6        7.6
Vaccinators                                          5.0          0          3            5.o        10.0       15.0         15.0         15.0        15.0
Uniforms                                                 0.25        30         17           3.0          4.3        4.3          4.3          4.3        4.3
Subtotal                                                                          133.7        186.6      245.0        331.9        445.1      456.5
4/
Afsadu Holding Ground
Maintenance of Fixed Aseete            10/                -          57          -             -         12.b       26.5         26.5         26.5        26.5
Spares, Fuel, ail,,Q:ease for Vehicles                  58.0         60          _          58.0         58.0       58.0         58.0         58.0       58.0
Tractor Operating "                                      9.5         60          .1           9.5         9.5        9.5          9.5          9.5        9.5
Borehole Operating 2-                                   20.0         60          3           20.0        40.0                    6o.o         60.o       60.0
Office Reqaisitas and cleansing mtearials                 -          40           -           0.3         0.9        0.9          0.9          0.9        0.9
Salaries: Manager                                       17.6          0          1           17.6        17.6       17.6         17.6         17.6       17.6
Animal Health Assistant                        7.6          0          1            7.6         7.6        7.6          7.6          7.6        7.6
Headman                                        3.3          0          1           3.3          3.3        3.3          3.3          3.3        3.3
Herdmran                                       3.0          0         25          15.0         45.0       57.2         63.0         75.0       75.0
Labourers                                      3.0          0          4           12.0        12.0       12.0         12.0         12.0       12.0
Drivers                                        5.5          0          4          22.0         22.0       22.0         22.0         22.0       22.0
Subtotal                                                                           165.3       228.3      274.6        280.4        292.4      292.4
Total                                                                             410.3        649.1      922.7      1,160.6      1,301.1    1,312.5
Number of pumps operated on stockrsutes                                                          2           3          6            9            9           9
Number of boreholes operated on stockroutes                                                      5          10         16           21           21         21
N-lber of cattle mrkets in operation                                                             1           2          4            5            5          5
Total nouber of cattle purchased by market tomeas                                              6,600      17,400     25,000       35,000       50,000     53,000
Nomber of cattle passing through Afiadu holding ground                                         6,000      17,000     22,000       25,000       30,000     30,000
&,/ iatenialo only, 2.5% ot capital cost.
2/ 2,000 houws per punp O So.Sh. 3.00 per homr, i.e. So.Sh. 6,330 per pgng0 year.
3/ 2,000 hours pr year per boreholo3 1 So.Sh. 5.00 per hour, i.e. So.Sh. 10,070  per pump year.
-k Excluding market toas.
r/ 20,000 Ice per year (0 So.Sh. 0.90 per ke, i.e. So.Sh. 18,000 per vehicle year.
F/ Treatment cost for fatteniq cattle included in ranth omponent
It So.Sh. 11.00 per head (Ftl, BPP, Anthrax, dippirg, drench end mindry)
b/ So.Sh. 4.00 per head (CBPP, dipping, drach and eandry).
3/ So.Sh. 2.50 per head; for calculation see Table 5.
/ Two 4-wheel drive vehicles, 20.000 kl per year a So.Sh. 0.90 per ln,  So. Sh. 36.000
Truck, 20,000 to per year @ Sc. Sh. 1.10 ko:                          So. Sh. 22 000
Combined operating cost per year                                So. Sh.
a' 1000 howre per year, 0 So. Sh. 9.50 per hour, i.e. So. Sh. 9,500 per tractor year.
12/ 4000 hours per year per borehole a So. Sh. 5.00 per hour, i.e. So. Sh. 20,000 per pump year.
October 2, 1973.



SO-ALIA
TRANS-JtUBA LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Cattle I4arkets, Stockroutes and Holding Ground
4                                                    EProjepted Stock Flows by Origin and Herdsmen Requirement
2/                               3/       Average      /
Route                        Distance    Trekking             Stock Flow                  fob Treks            Herdsman Requirement        Herdsman Cost
Days         Initial      Final          Initial     Final         Initial       Final        Initial   Final
'OTff                       Head/year                    Days/year-                  Days/year               So.Sh./head
Maskati-Afmadu                   60            2             5,00')    15,700            120         380           360         l,lLO           2.64    2.41
Tabda - Afmadu                   )o            3             5,00 0    15,700            180         565           5Lro         1,700         2.64    2.41
Busar - Afmadui                 300           10             5,000     10,65(            600       1,280        l,O0          3,840           2.64    2.41
Lugh  - Afmadu             1/   440           15             5,000     10,650            900       1,920         2,700          5,760          2.64    2.41
Afnadu - final destination      100           45            20,000     52,700            960       2,530         2,800         7,590           2.64    2.41
Gelib/Garisei W'arshan -
final destination      100            4            2,800      10,800            135        520           L05          1,560          2.64    2.41
Badada - Kismayu                1150           5             7,700     20,000            560      1,200         1,380          3,600           2.64    2.41
5/
30,500     83,500          3,355       8,395         9,985        2,5190          2.64      2.41
1/ Kismayu holding ground, Grazing Ranches, or feedlot.
2/ Assuming mobs of 100 head per trek and a 20% contingency.
T/ Assuming 3 herdsmen per mob.
:/  At So. Sh. ;;. per day;  includes allowance and retiun time.
_   An average cost of So. Sh. 2.50 has been assumed in computing  operating costs (Table 4).                                                                    CD






ANNEX 7
Plan
SOMALIA
TRANS-JUBA LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Cattle Market
PEN WALLS  TO BE CONSTRUCTED IN STONE OR CEMENT BLOCK  2 0
METRES HIGH. GATES TO BE MADE OF IVi2 GALVANIZED PRPING
MiXiNG S 2        INHOUCTUiLATIO0No             SALES RING, OFFICE AND WEIGHBRIDGE. TO BE COVERED BY C I ROOFING
TANK ,   SHUTE, 200.                           SECTION OVER SALES RING AND WEIGHBRIDGE TO BE COVERED
VETY  i 2                                        TRANSPARENT SHEETING.
VETY 
SHELTER i    t                                    VERANDAH. FLOOR TO BE RAISED 0 40 METRES ABOVE GROUND LEVEL.
WEIGHBRIDGE  TO BE A 2,000 KG. DIAL SCALE
OFFICE. TO BE CONSTRUCTED  AS A CAGE COVERED  WITH EXPANDED
METAL ONE  DOOR AND THREE SMALL WINDOWS. '
INOCULATION SHUTE  TO BE CONSTRUCTED OF I '/I  GALVANIZD PIPING
AND KEE KLAMPS. 3 CONCRETE FLOOR. SMALL TANK
CONSTRUCTION FOR MIXING OF SPRAY FLUID
> D  /                             CATTLE PENS, PASSAGES, AND SALES RING  SHOULD BE FLOORED
WITH HARDCORE
BUYERS          1              BUYERS
PEN           I     I          PEN           c
10 0                           100 
60             60               60              60
BUYERS                         BUYERS  
PEN                           PEN           O
BU S           0             BY R                 SELLERS   o    ELLERS    S ELLERS  N    SELLERS  N
* 5 0          5 0           PEN      a       PEN    -        PEN     -       PEN 
BRA NDIN G
BAY
PEN   0    PEN    0
AUCTIONEERS.
STAND
LES   W.B BY PASS  *                                                                           ENTRANCE
PLAN
VERANDAH                                                    11OFFICE iq iP   \  0    2    6   8S
METRES
April 30, 1973                                                                                                            Wo,Id Bank - 7697






ANNEX 
Table 1
SOMALIA
CRJS-JOBA LTVESTOIK CRUJECT
(Sue TraoSn Ranch - (60.000 ha)
Investment Cost
Unit Cost    Foreign  --     YEAR                                   Total
Are,>      Cost         So.Sh.         Exchange        1          2         3      Nusiber      Cost
15         m2            00             %            ------ So.-Sh. 000 ---       Units     So.Sh.OO
BEildi.us
Hoo.s -Sentior Ranch Manager                            130        800         104               70           52        -         -        0.5            52
house - Ranch Manager                                    95        700          66               50           66        -         -        1              66
House - Arial He.alth Assistant                          00        500          40               50           80        -         -        2              80
H.us- Drivor and Vaccinator                              30        300           9               50           27       18         -        5              45
Hous -.  Hadnan                                          30        300           9               50           18       18         -        4              36
House- Labor                                             30          -           6               50           10       18         -        6              36
House - Cottle herders                                    -          -           3               30           75       75         -       50             150
Office    Vet. Lab.                                      80        500          40               50           40        -         -        I              40
Store - Machinery Shed                                 280         200          56               50           56        -         -        1              56
hay shed                                               300         100          30               30           90       00         -        6             180
ump house                                                -          -            6               50           18       12                  5              30
Sub-tot                                             -          -           -               43          540      231          -       _             771
Water Developnent
Borehole (complete with pump
tank and troagh)                           -          -         110               75          110      110         _        2             220
Storage tank - 20,000 gal t                                          -          20              70            20        -         -        1              20
Storage  tank - 40,000 gal                                -          -          40               70           80       e0         -        4            160
Pip, lin-                                                 -          -          15               70           45       45         -        6km            90
Drie,kiag Troughs                                         -                      2              50            32       32         -       32              64
Pump and rotor                                                                  10              90            20       20         -        4              40
sBb-total                                           -          -           -               70          307      287                  -             594
Livestock Handling Facilities
Swi., Dip                                                 -          -          15              50            15       15         -        2              30
Yards and Crush                                           -          -           8               30            8       A          -        2              16
Slb-total                                          _          _            -               45           23       23         -        -              46
Fencing. Fire Breaks, Roads
Fencing -                                                 -          -           3.3             70           24       24       366 /   120 km          414
Firobreaks and tracks                                     -          -           0.6             20           60       48         -      180 kn         108
Access - Road All Weather                                 -          -           5              30            75       75         -       30 km         150
sub-total                                           -          -           -               48          159      147       366       -              672
Vehicles and Euiponent
4 wheel drive vehicle                                     -          -          36              90            72        -         -        2             72
7 ton loy                                                 -          -          69              90            69        -         -        1             69
45 H.P. Tractor                                           _          _          39              90            39                           1             39
Maraw                                                     -          -           4.8            90             5        -         -                       5
Grader Blado                                              -          -           3.2            90             3        -         -        1               3
Treiler                                                   -          -           4              90             4        -         -        1              4
Mower                                                    -          _            5.6            90             6       -          -                       6
Rake                                                                             6              90             6                  -        1              6
Baler                                                     -          -          15              90            15        -         -        1             15
5 KVA Generator                                           _          -          10              90            10        -         _        1             10
Radio                                                     -          -           8              90             8        -         -        I              8
Cattle weigh  bridge                                     -           -          10              90            10                           I -  1        10
House and Otfice Furniture 1/                             -          -          12              20            12        -         -        1             12
Farm tools and Vet Eqoipment                              ,          -          14              70             7        7         -        -             14
Spare Parts (15% of 257,000)                             -           -           -              90             -       20        19       -              39
Sub-total                                           -             -        -               S5          266       27        19        -             312
Field Trials
Tractor                                                   -                    20               90             -       20         -        I             20
Fencing                                                   -          _           4              70             -        5         5       2.5 km         10
Water Supply                                              -                      3               70            -        8         7        -             15
Fertili-er                                                -          -           -              90             -        5         5        2 to-s        10
Grass  log-s  seed                                        -          -          20              90             -        5         5        -             10
Fertili-er Spreader                                       -          -           6              90             -        6         -        1              6
Sundry tasls,Equipsep t                                                         14              90             -       14         -        -             14
Sub-total                                           -          -           -               85            -       63        22        -              85
TOTAL                                                                                      5     J1.295     778       407        _          2,480
1/ On bhth ranches fence construction in year three.
2/ Etpatriate hesse - 12,000 (0.5), Manager 4,000, Office 2,200.
3/  char-gd to each Model.
No-vebeo 19, 1973.



SISSALIA
TRAUN  -JUBA LIVISOC3 K   1R0JSCT
n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i _e"aiirf Hanoi -2 184n hia;
Cattle  Salon an   Perstln.z  Can;
-----;---------------.-------------- YEARS -------------------------------------
Li-essight kg       Price/9 SolSh.    Price/Heac                                           1                   2                  3                   4                  56 -20
so.sh.         Foreign E.h.ange          Head   So.Sh.    Head   So.Sh.   Head   So.Sh.    Head    So Sh.    Head   So.Sh.                     head    So.Sh.
%_____________  ________4  000         _       000               000         _       000         _       000              _       000
lncome
Cattle Sales,5                                                                                                                                                                                           ,6      1,0         ,2
Fatt-enig e.rn                                   300                   1,44               432                    -                 1           -    1,306       564     4,523   1,954       960   4,169                                 10,000   4,320
Canning                             ~~~~~~~~300            1.20)              360                    --                           -    1,878        676     2,191       789       140        00       -           -            -          -
Cois fo   ano                                    3                     .026-180                                                             50        300       83        300       83       300        83       300        83            300        83
C.11. for  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a--ing  230  1.20  276~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2.1                             132       aa&    L22            20      22
Fre friag                                        300                   1,60               480_                                                      2,816   1352        3,286   1,577         210      -LO      _         __                      _
TOTAL                                                                               -                   -                             50       -      2675                             -        4                4403                     4 40_
Op-ntiniCet
Li-estok Parh C                                    210                   1.20                252                   -               6,360    1,603    10,600   2,671    10,600    2,671    10,600    2,671    10,600    2,671             10,600    2,671
H-nges    t and LPurcaso                                                                      -                  25                   -       257        -        363        -        363       -         240       -         240            -        240
Animal Health Control                                                                         -                  60                   -       16         -        26                  276                 276 _              276                      276
-            ~~~~60                -        24        -         38       -          38       -          38       -          38                      3
Tractor Operating                                                                                                                              35        -         63                  76                  76                  76
Vehicle Operating                                                                             -                  60                   -         33       -         63       -          76       -          76       -          76            -         26
Pomp Operatin8                                                                                -                  60                   -        33       -          73       -H                  -o                  -         H             -          HO
Fertili-er end Seed for Field Tlils                 -                               -                            60                   -         I       -           1       -           1       -           1       -           I           -
Offinn and sandry
Maintenance of Fixed Asnets 1/                                           - _                                                         _              -              26       -          43       -          43       _         43            -          43
TOTAL                                                                             -                  12                   -       _      _     -   3.51               135_4                3,430        - 3 .40                        3.430
1/ 2.5% of fixed assets.



SOMALIA
TRANS-JUBA LIVESTOCK PROJECT
One Grazing Ranch - (80,000 ha)
Average                         Project Year -----------
Liveweight kg          1                 2             3 - 20
Purchases                                              210              6,360           10,600          10,600
Mortality (3%)                                            -               180              300              300
Culled for Canning (3%)                                230                180              300              300
Sales                                                  300                  -            6,000          10,000
On hand End of Year                                       -             6,000           10,000          10,000
Annual Liveweight Gain/Animal I/ (L.W.G.)                90                 -                _                _
Incremental Liveweight Gain (tons) 2/                    -                544              906             906
m x
(DX
1/  Assumes average daily L.W.G. of 0.25 kg.                                                                          LOC
2/ Allows for deaths and culls for canning.



ANNEX 8
Table 4
SI1MALIA
TRANS-JUBA LIVESTOCK PROJECT
One 3razing Ranch - (80.000 ha)
Operating Costs - Basin Assumptions
MANAGEMENT AND LABOR
---------YEAR                
N-bner     A.nual Salary         1         2         3        4 - 20
------o------------------ So.Sh. - -----------------------------
- 000 -
Senior Ranch Manager                      0.5           123.0           123.0    123.0    123,0          -
Ranch Masager                             1              18.0            18.0      18.0     18.0       18.0
AMi-al 1na-th As-istant                   1               7.0             3.5       7.0       7.0        7.0
Drivers                                   4               5.5            15.0      22.0      22.0      22.0
Laborer.                                  6               3.0             9.0      18.0      18.0      18.0
He-d-en                                   4               3.3             6.6      13.2      13,2      13.0
H-rdsmen                                 50               3.0            90.0    150.0    150.0       150.0
Rese-roh Aosiat-nt                        1               7.0             7.0       7.0       7.0        7.0
Va-cinator                                1               4.5             _         4.5       4.5       4.5
TOTAL                         _              -             272.1    362.7    362.7       239.5
ANIMAL HEALTH CONTROL
iryponnsonla-     --                                                                             SEAR -.- -- ------------
min-ral  .Ad  wormm  and Fluke  F. M. Disease!-'  C.B.P.P.           sis              Anthrax      blackquarter       Dipping        lToti C.t         11 2                              2.
Sal        No.       So-Sh. No..       b.   No,   So.Sh.   N..    So,Sh.   N..   S.                   SoSh.   No.   So,Sh.        per head    Np.   So.Sh.  "No.   So.Sh,.    o.  S0,Sh.
So .sh.               ___     _            __             __             _       _       _       __                                 So.. S00. 00                        000            0oo
5,00        4         4.00   2        6.00    2      4.00    1.0       2.00     1      1.00      1    1.00       6     3.00         26.00    6360    165.4  10600   275.6  10600   275.6
VSHICLE OPERATING                                         -------------------------------.---  YEAR ----------------------------------
1                             2                          3-20
So.Sh  in        Veh. km/Annm   So.Sh.         Veh. km/Annup   SoSh.         Veh. WIAnnum   Sn,SO.
_________         000          _                000          _                 000
4 oheel drive                              0.90            1    20000       18.0        1.5   45000       40.5         2    60000        54.0
7 ron lorry                                1.10            1    15000       16.5        1     20000       22.0         1    20000       22.0
TOTAL                                         -                34.5         _    _           62 .5        -    ___          76.0
T1ACTOR OPERATING
Se. Sh./hour     Hrs/Annun      So.Sh.    Hrs/Aesum      SB. Sh.      Hrs/Anno       So, Sh.
000                      000        _     _         000
45 h.p. Tractor (1.5)                        9.55            2000         19.1         3000         28.7         3000          28.7
Haybaler (1)                                 9.55             500          4.8         1000          9.6         1000           9.6
TOTAL                                                        23.9           -          38.2           _           38.3
WATER PUMP OPERATING
Berehole pumps (2)                           5.00            3S50         18.3         7300         36.5         7300          36.5
water panpo (4)                              3.00            5000         15.0        12000         36.0        14600          43.8
TOTAL                             -              -           33.3          -           72.5          -            80.3
1/  F.ot and Month Disease.
2/ Cosbagio2s 1ovino Pleurn-Poupoonia.
Octnber 23, 1973



ANNEX 9
Page 1
SOMALIA
TRANS-JUBA LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Irrigated Fodder Farm and Feedlot - Irrigation Component
The Juba River Basin
1.        The Juba River is the largest perennial river in Somalia.  Its head-
waters lie in the highlands of Ethiopia in the north, where it receives most
of its flow from three main tributaries; the Uebi Gestro, the Canal2 Doria and
the Daua Parma. The river has a watershed area of about 275,000 km , 98,000 of
which are within Somalia. The river in Somalia follows a general north-south
direction, finally discharging into the Indian Ocean near Kismayu.
2.        Permanent gauging stations were established by FAO in 1963 at Lugh
Ganana (731 km from the river mouth), Bardera (496 km), Kaitoi (220 km), and
Gimama (59 km).  Synthetic hydrographs at these stations were computed for the
period 1951 to 1964. Flow records were not kept after 1965. 1/
3.        Monthly flow values at Gimama, about 30 kilometers downstream of the
irrigated fattening farm site, are shown in Table 1. The mean areual dis-
charge recorded at this station is 172 cubic veters per second (m /sec), with
maximum average monthly flows exceeding 400 m /sec and minimum flows of 2m /sec.
The proposed point of irrigation water diversion lies on one of two channels
of the Juba river bifurcated by Mombasa Island at a point about 4 kilometers
upstream. Flow proportion estimates through these channels have not as yet
been made. Examination of aerial photographs available in the area indicates
that the major channel lies west of Mombasa Island where extraction will
take place. It is estimated that 75% of the total flow will pass through
this channel.
4.        Samples of Juba River water were taken at the Gimama station by FAO
and others. The chemical quality of the water in general is good for irriga-
tion. Although total dissolved solids are higher during the low flow months
and in the initial flushing stage preceding high flows, a portion of these
salts are gypsum (Calcium sulfate), which Is the most common chemical addi-
tive used to reclaim alkali soils. Its use increases permeability, and there-
fore use of the Juba water for irrigation may improve soil conditions. Vari-
ous samples reveal that although the alkali hazard of the water is low, the
salinity hazard is high for sensitive crops such as tree fruits and bananas,
but low for most grain and forage crops, an important factor for this project.
1/ In October 1969 the stations at Lugh, Bardera and Gimama were rehabilitated.
Intermittent water level records are available for these stations for the
period October 1969 to Devember 1972 but are not believed to be of high
standard due to the absence of reliable field transport.



ANNEX 9
Page 2
5.        A soils survey in the Lower Juba area was first conducted by the
former International Cooperation Administration (now USAID) and published in
their report "Inter-River Economic Exploration - the Somali Republic" in
1961. This survey was later extended by FAQ from 1962 to 1966, and by
Selchozpromexport of Moscow in 1965. Soils classification maps for the Lower
Juba basin are now available. The Lower Juba area is divided into six major
land classes (I to VI) ranked in terms of arability and suitability for ir-
rigation. The availability of Class I level (arable: very good for irrigation)
was limited, since most of this land has been developed for banana plantations.
The selection of a suitable site for the irrigated ranch had therefore to
be confined to Class II land (arable: good for irrigation). The surface
soils on the proposed irrigated fattening farm are clay loam with a silty
clay to clay texture. They are moderately well drained, and have an effective
depth of over 150 cm. The salinity of alkali content is negligable. Never-
theless, without drainage the subsoils would probably contribute to the salin-
ity and alkalinity of the surface soils. Therefore, along with a program
of green manure, deep plowing, and fertilization with nitrogen and phosphates,
a drainage system is a necessity.
6.        The air temperature in the Lower Juba region is high throughout the
year. The yearly 12 months average is about 28C, Lowest in July 25'C and
highest in March 30'C. This is the most important single factor that governs
the water consumptive use of plants. Estimated water consumptive use at the
proposed site is shown in Table 2. The high potential evapotranspiration rates
result in a net water deficit for crop consumptive use in every month of the
year. Irrigation is therefore essential for feed production to supply the
fattening operation.
Existing State of Irrigation Practice
7.        Despite its high annual flow, very little use is presently made of
the waters of the Juba River in Somalia. This is due to the fact that live-
stock has been the mainstay of the country's economy and agriculture has been
confined to a restricted area. The absence of tributary streams in the Lower
Juba valley requires all water for irrigation to be extracted from the river
itself, and this has limited irrigation to a narrow strip of land along the
river banks. The high cost of water conveyance to areas located away from
the river precluded small scale irrigated farming in these areas; where
land is fertile, rainfed crops - principally maize - are planted with rather
poor yi"elds.
8.        Irrigation is mainly confined to about 5,000 ha devoted to banana
plantations; the plantations line both banks of the river to a width of
about two to three kilometers, and occupy the most fertile areas in the
region. Individual plantations differ in size, and some larger plantations
extend up to 100 ha. The water is supplied by means of semi-portable
dieseldriven horizontal centrifugal pumps, usually of standard manufacture,
located at the river bank. The pumped water is discharged immediately into
a stilling basin leading into an elevated ditch for conveyance to the fields.
Usually no shelter is provided for the pumping equipment.



ANNEX 9
Page 3
9.        During the early years of irrigation when there was no form of drain-
age, the salts in the subsoils evidently entered the soil-water solution of the
surface soil causing a gradual reduction in crop production.  In most of the
plantations is has been necessary to install deep drainage systems at intervals
as close as 30 meters; in this way soils could be leached by excessive irriga-
tion to restore and retain higher production levels.
10.       The Agricultural Development Corporation, under the Ministry of
Agriculture, operates a small 55 ha fodder farm near the village of Zunguni
for the production of hay and hay pellets used in shipping live cattle for
export. The main crop sown is Sudan grass. The land was not properly
levelled prior to cultivation, and this has required irrigation water to be
applied on divided small plots over an area of about 25 m . There is no
established crop watering pattern, and production is poor.
11.       Proposals for the large-scale use of water from the Juba River were
first advanced in 1961 by USAID and subsequent studies were conducted by FAO
and Selchozpromexport of Moscow (para. 5). The proposals involved the eventual
development of irrigation systems to serve existing and new farm lands on an
area of some 150,000 ha. The first phase of this scheme has now been approved
by Government; it involves construction of an irrigation dam at Fanole and
development of 8,300 ha of state farms for the production of cotton and oil
seeds.
12.       A proposal has also been put forward by FAO for the development of
3,000 ha of irrigated farms in the Afgoi-Mordile area using water from the
Shebeli river. Crops would be cotton, groundnuts and upland rice and a
pilot project of 108 ha is now under construction.
13.       Irrigation farming is still in its early stages in Somalia.  Its
development however is advancing, as it is evident that the country's agri-
cultural potential could be better realized by making more efficient use of
the water now flowing unused into the ocean.
I Description of the Irrigation System
14.       Government had selected and put forward in its project proposal a
possible site for the irrigated fodder farm and feedlot. The proposed loca-
tion seems to be favorable as basic requirements such as topography, soil
quality distance from the river and the paved highroad are secured. However,
a survey of alternative locations could prove that better sites exist. The
engineering conslutants (Appendix 1 para 2) determine the final location of
the irrigated farm and to prepare the design of the irrigation system which
would follow the preliminary schemes outlined below. The proposed irrigation
system would occupy a gross area of some 1,300 ha out of which a net area of
1,200 ha would be irrigated. In addition a feedlot and building site of
about 15 ha would be located adjacent to the irrigated area and near the
Kismayu-Gelib highway. Water would be pumped from the Juba River into a sup-
ply canal and conducted under the highway by an inverted syphon. The water
would then be divided at the northeast corner of the farm and distributed to
the fields through a primary, two secondary, and two tertiary canals (Map 10430 R)



ANNEX 9
Page 4
The main supplv canal would run from the pumping site for an estimated
distance of 2 km.  (Map IBRD 104309).
15.       Four vertical pumps, each capable of delivering 440/sec. (7,000
U.S. gal/min), would be housed in a pumping station designed with a small
work shop and a storeroom for spare parts, lubricants and other maintenance
material. Each pump would be powered by a direct connected diesel engine
capable of delivering 104 hp continuously at 15 m above sea level. Considera-
tion was given to use of electric powered pumps from one generator. However
this scheme was discarded because of the higher investment and operating costs,
and the fact that even though a standby pump would exist, a breakdown of the
generator would de-commission all of the pumps. Water requirements were com-
puted using the Blaney-Creddle formula (Table 2). An overall irrigation ef-
ficiency of 65% was used which takes into consideration ditch losses, evapora-
tion and deep percolation. Although 70% efficiency is possible under furrow
irrigation, this figure would probably not be attained - at least during the
early years of operation. It can be seen from Table 2 that peak demand occurs
during the month of January and requires a pumping capability of 2.89 million
cubic meters; this means that three pumps operating three shifts per day and
26 days per month would be able to meet the demand. Under maximum conditions
at least one pump would be on standby in case of a breakdown. The pump house
should be of reinforced concrete frame with steel mesh between columns, and with
a trussed roof covered with corrugated metal or asbestos cement. Base walls and
partitions should be concrete block. A concrete intake with trash rack and head-
gate would lead from the river to the pump gallery. Each pump sump should have
a gate or stop logs so that it can be dewatered when repairs are underway. The
building should be designed so that the floor and pump bases, as well as the
discharge structure and canal, would well above anticipated flood level (high-
water marks in the vicinity of the site are 35 cm above ground level.) The
designated point of diversion is on the branch of the Juba River west of
Mombassa Island and some seven kilometers downstream from the highway bridge
near Cansuma.
16.       Soils in the area have a low seepage factor making it unnecessary
to line the canals. The supply canal and a portion of the primary canal
should be in embankment section for flood protection as well as functional
purposes. Other canals would be in balanced cut and fill section, designed
with the water level above the natural ground so that a minimum of checking
wouild be required. Canal structures such as division boxes, turnouts, etc.
would be of reinforced concrete. Due to the topography, drop structures are
not contemplated.
17.       The fields would generally be irrigated by the border method,
either ditch or dyke, depending upon the topography after levelling and the
experience of the irrigators. The pasture should be irrigated by the border
dyke method unless the side slope is excessive where border ditches' would
be used. Corn would be irrigated bv border ditches, furrows or corrugations,
depending on whether it is planted for silage (border ditches or corrugations)
or grain (furrows). Borders should be spaced as far apart as possible,
depending on the side slope, and irrigation runs should not exceed 400 meters
in length wfith well-graded surface drains at the end of each run; in this way



ANNEX 9        y
Page 5
as much surface water as possible is carried away before reaching the subsoils
and thus contributing to any subsurface drainage problem that may exist. Con-
sideration was given to sprinkler irrigation, but due to excessive cost and
the high winds which are a feature during extended periods during the year,
this idea was abandoned.
18.       Available soil analyses and profiles indicate a necessity for a
subsurface drainage system. Field drains would be open ditches not less
than 1.5 m deep and spaced at 100 m intervals. These ditches would lead
into primary drains leading into the main outlet; the water would then dis-
charge into an existing drainage canal and finally return to the Juba River.
Similar drainage systems are successful on adjacent banana plantations, al-
though some field drains are spaced at closer intervals. Since the land,
being newly irrigated, will not have any salt concentrations in the top
soils, and will have efficient surface drainage under good management, the
planned interval should be satisfactory. A subsurface open tile system
was considered, but was abandoned because of excessive investment cost.
19.       In addition to the access road to the pumping plant, there would
be 28 kIn of farm roads. The access road would lead from the Kismayu-Gelib
highway to the pumping site on the river bank and would be approximately
0.6 km in length. All roads would be surfaced the full width of 5 m with
gravel 15 cm deep. Road ditches would have 3:1 in-slopes and back-slopes
and would be used as head ditches and surface drains when the head and end
of irrigation runs coincide with road locations. The road system provides
access to the highway from the farm and feedlot at two points (Map 10430R).
20.       Water for cattle and domestic consumption would be supplied from
the irrigation systen to the feedlot at the northwest corner. The water
for domestic use would have to be clarified and treated. It has been as-
sumed that this would be done by the use of a small package plant consisting
of clarifier, pressure filter and hypochlorinator.
21.       The major technical components of the engineering works cf the
irrigation component are described below:



ANNEX 9
Page 6
Engineering Works-Irrigation Component
Irrigable Area                            1,200 ha.
Pumping Station
Pumping Lift (TDH)                      9.8 m.
Pumps (Vertical Propeller                 11
or Axial Flow)                        4 -
Capacity - 7,000 USGPM Each (441 L/S)
Engines (130 H.P. rated)                4 1/
Canals
Supply
Length                                1.8 19
Capacity                              1.3 m /sec.
Primary
Length                                238 km            3
Capacity                        0.96 m /sec. to 0.52 m /sec.
Secondary
Length                                639 km            3
Capacity                        0.45 m /sec. to 0.37 m /sec.
Tertiary
Length                                3.3 km
Drainage System
Main Outlet Length                    7.0 km
Primary-Length                       21.0 km
Field Drains-Length                 123.0 km
Roads
Access to Pump Station                0.6 km
Gravel Surface - 5 M Wide
Farm Roads - Same Section            28.0 km
Structures
Highway Crossing Inverted Syphon    1
Small Bridges                         6
Miscellaneous Division Boxes,
Turnouts, Drainage Crossings, etc.
1/ Indludes one standby.



ANNEX 9
Page 7
Ecology
22.       The irrigated fattening farm is small enough that it will have
no appreciable effect on the ecology of the area. However, Schistosomiasis
(Bilharzia) and Mlalaria are both prevalent in the area. Since the schis-
tomes (parasitic worms) are transmitted by fresh water snails and malaria
parasites are carried by the anapheline mosquito (which uses water for a
breeding place), any water development would tend to spread the disease
unless precautions were taken.
Schistosomiasis
23.       Since the parasites that cause this disease are carried by fresh
water snails, some control measures should be taken. Generally the host
snails are rarely seen in streams having velocities exceeding 30 to 35
cm/sec. However, even though the mean velocity exceeds the above figure,
peripheral velocities in canals, for instance, may be such that the snails
would cling to rough edges or marginal vegetation. The snails would probably
also abound in areas of still water. Therefore, it is recommended that:
(a) The consulting engineer design canals so that velocities
exceed thirty-five cm/sec, (for purposes of this report
preliminary design canal velocities range for 40 to 80
cm/sec but not high enough to cause erosion);
(b) The canals and drains be kept free of aquatic and other
plants that will shelter the snails;
(c) Irrigation be carried out so as to ensure efficiency and
prevent over-irrigation and consequent ponding.
24.       Consideration has been given to installing snail traps at the
entrances to all structures, but experience on other projects has shown
that to be of limited value, as well as the high cost involved in main-
tenance of the traps and disposal of the snails. The use of chemicals
(molluscides) is one of the most effective methods for snail control.
However, if the measures recommended above are carried out and are suc-
cessful, mollusciding may not be necessary.
Malaria
25.       Since the presence of still water is the common denominator for
both Malaria and Schistosomiasis, the same recommendations, if carried out,
would minimize the contributions of this Project site to any increase in the
prevalence of this disease. However, in the case of both diseases appro-
priate chemicals for control of the vectors should be used should environmental
controls envisaged prove inadequate.
26.       It should again be pointed out that the location and extent of the
irrigated fattening farm is such that any control measures will have little



ANNEX 9
Page 8
effect on the prevalence of these diseases in the general area, where at
present no control measures are taken or contemplated by the Government.
Project Schedule
27.       The program is shown in the attached work schedule (Chart).  The
irrigation component would require a total time of some two years, actual
construction would be underway of about one year excluding the bush clearing.
28.       Consultants would be required to advise LDA on the engineering
aspect of the irrigation component. This work would comprise topographical
surveys, detailed design and supervision of construction. The topographical
survey would include details of soil survey1/ and water sampling 2/. The
appointment of consulting engineers, to be selected according to IDA guide-
lines, would be a condition of Credit effectiveness.
29.       The design of the pumping equipment should be given priority so that
procurement of these items would be initiated at least seven months prior to
scheduled installation (Chart). In view of this necessity, the supply of
pumping equipment would not be required of the construction contractor but
would be included in a separate supplier's contract and procured under inter-
national competitive bidding. All design work and contract documents would
be completed in about four months; necessary.Somali and IDA approvals as well
as tendering procedures would tak about five months.  Actual construction
would probably begin about five months aftericompletion of tender documents.
30.       Construction of the pumping plant should proceed on strict schedule,
as the rainy season and consequent high water flows in the Juba river will
interfere with progress and could cause serious delays as well as higher
costs (Chart).
31.       Construction on the drainage system should be initiated at an
early stage, especially on the outlet and primary drains, so that at least
1/   A general soil survey of reconnaissance type is available for the Project
area. However, a more detailed soil survey with density of about one pit
every 25 ha is required as its result might influence the technical design
of the system, specifically the land levelling. According to available
soil classification the Project area is almost homogenous and belongs
to Class II that is classified as arable land good for irrigation.
2/   In the period 1963-1965 thirteen water samples were taken and analyzed
for the main chemical characteristics. However systematic sampling
during one dry, and one rainy season is required with subsequent more
detailed analysis as it could influence the sequence of irrigation.
One year observation would be sufficient as the incidence of irregularity
concerning dry and rainy seasons so far has been low.



ANNEX 9
Page 9
these elements would be able to function during the rainy season prior to
construction completion. Construction of the field drains should proceed
as the fields are completed, but primaries and outlets should be completed
before irrigation commences so that drainage will be functioning from the
beginning. This is necessary so that if any leaching becomes necessary
the drainage process can begin before concentrated salt solutions build
up in the top soils.
Staff and Operating Requirements
32.       The irrigation staff requirement would built up over four years.
A staff of four would be required, including provisions for relief required
from sickness and vacation.
33.       The basic irrigator team would consist of three, one of whom would
be gangleader. At full staffing, nine gangs would be required for an eight
hour day. An additional gang would be included for relief duties. The staff-
ing would be required to carry out minor repair and maintenance work during
periods when irrigation and pumping were not in process. The teams would be
directly supervised by three foremen. Labor requirements for this activity
would be included in the staffing of the Irrigated Fodder Farm and Feedlot.
34.       The pumping station would be manned by two pump operators and one
operator-mechanic. The operator-mechanic would be in charge of the pumping
plant and would oversee all the plant employees to ensure that the pumps
would be operated as scheduled by the irrigation specialist. All routine
repairs and maintenance would be performed at the pumping plant by pumping
plant employees, but extensive overhauling would be done by the Irrigated
Fodder Farm and Feedlot repair shop under the direction of the Master
Mechanic. A laborer would be assigned to the pumping plant to conduct
such regular maintenance work as desilting of the intake channel, clearing
of trash from the trash tacks, minor repair work, and other manual duties.
35.       Irrigation activities would be headed by an internationally recruited
irrigation specialist for the first three and one half years of operation. A
Somali would be trained overseas in irrigation management for a period of two
years and would return to take over after one year the management and all the
irrigation activities of the Irrigated Fodder Farm and Feedlot. Draft Terms
of Reference for the Irrigation Specialist are shown in Annex 19, Appendix 1.
36.       Sufficient fuel would be stored at the station to allow the pumps
to run at full capacity for at least one and one half weeks. Refueling
would be necessary at weekly intervals.
37.       Adequate spare parts for pumps and other equipment would be kept
in storage facilities provided in the pumphouse. The consultant responsible
for the design would be required to provide a comprehensive list of spare
parts required together with the necessary re-ordering levels.



ANNEX 9
Page 10
38.       Minor repairs to buildings and structures would be carried out by
the irrigation staff.  Operating cost estimates include funts for the pur-
chase of construction material and rental of equipment. Repairs for flood a
and storm damage or other unpredicted causes would be carried out by either
the farm staff or a local contractor, depending on the extent of the damage.
Cost and Expenditure
39.       The total capital cost for the full irrigation system (1,200 ha)
including engineering is estimated to be So.Sh. 10.4 million (US$1.7 million)
or So.Sh. 8,700 (US$1,400) per ha without contingencies. This estimate is
based on 1973 prices (Table 3).
40.       Operating costs would amount to So.Sh. 440,000 (US$70,000) for
two years of operation during the first three Project development years
(Table 4).  Fuel cost is based on a consumption of 0.1944 liters per
hp/hour at So.Sh. 1.10 per 1. At full operation the cost for supplying
water to the Irrigated Fodder Farm and Feedlot would be So.Sh. 417,000
(US$67,000) per year (Table 4).



ANNEX 9
Appendix 1
Page 1
SO}EALIA
TRANS-JUBA LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Irrigated Fodder Farm and Feedlot - Irrigation Component
Consultants Draft Terms of Reference for Engineering Aspects 1/
1.        An international firm of consultants would be selected and appointed
by the Livestock Develoument Agency (LDA) to implement the Irrigation com-
ponent of the Irrigated Fodder Farm and Feedlot. Their responsibilities
would essentially be as follows:
2.        The proposed area by Government for the irrigated fodder farm and
feedlot might not be the best solution regarding topography, water supply,
communications and construction costs. To this end the first task of the
firm would be to determine the best location of the farm.
Topographic Survey
3.        The topographic survey would consist of the necessary surveys for
the location of the Irrigated Fodder Farm and Feedlot (referred to in para-
graph 2 above) in particular to perform a more detailed soil survey within
the farm area, and take water samples from the Juba river (paragraph 28).
Specifically it would:
(a) Make a topographic survey of the area designated by
LDA to be the Irrigated Fodder Farm and Feedlot. The
survey would be based on a grid system 30 meters on
centers;
(b) Prepare a map showing principal features and contours
at 30 centimeter intervals;
(c) Perform a soil survey of the area for irrigable land
classification purposes and also to determine the
soil profile to a minimum depth of 150 centimeters;
(d) Prepare chemical analyses of the water samples;
(e) Prepare a report on the Juba River water reflecting
the information obtained from the chemical analyses;
1/ An international firm of consultants would preferably be employed to
carry out the work required for the engineering aspects of the irriga-
tion component and to fill the six posts required to execute and manage
the Project during development (Annex 19, Appendix 1).



ANNEX 9
Appendix 1
Page 2
(f) Make soil analyses to determine the chemical and
physical properties of the soils;
(g) Prepare a soils map reflecting the above survey;
(h) Take water samples from the Juba river at the pro-
posed pumping plant site at weekly intervals nmd
when significant changes in the river flow occur,
for a period of eight months including at least
one dry and the main rainy season.
Design Work
4.        The firm would be responsible for the:  design, tender advertise-
ment and contract documents, analysis of tenders, recommendation for award,
procurement of goods and services and other steps necessary to bring the ir-
rigation project up to the construction stage. Specifically, the consulting
engineers would:
(a) Make surveys and foundation investigation for the
pumping station;
(b) Prepare detailed designs, working drawings, and
tender, advertisement and contract documents in-
cluding specification for all elements of the Pro-
ject, including: (1) Land grading, (2) Pumping
station and equipment, (3) Canal system with struc-
tures, (4) Drainage system with structures,
(5) Road system with structures, (6) Domestic and
stock water system, and (7) measures to control the
spread of Shistosomiasis and Malaria;
(c) Prepare a schedule for tendering so that the irri-
gation component would be completed in a timely
fashion;
(d) Advise LDA on issuing the tender, advertisement and
contract documents on the pumping equipment (sepa-
rate from the civil works);
(e) Advise LDA on the issuing of the tendering documents
on civil works; and
(f) Analyze bids and make award recommendations for the
pumping equipment and the civil works.
Construction
5.        Specifically the engineers would:



ANNEX 9
Appendix 1
Page 3
(a) Review and approve the Contractor's construction
schedule, the lest and suitability of equipment
proposed to be used, and plan of operation prior
to start of construction;
(b) Furnish basic survey information to enable the
contractor to stake out the work in detail;
(c) Measure the works on a monthly basis and certify
contractor payments including final payments and
completion certificates;
(d) Check and when acceptable approve drawings submit-
ted by the contractor;
(e) Check the contractors' layouts and concrete form
work for accuracy;
(f) Check placement of steel reinforcement;
(g) Check layout and placement of all structures,
canals, drains, and roads;
(h) Provide site inspection of the construction to
ensure adherence to schedules and confirmation of
work with the contract documents;
(i) Interpret drawings and specifications and accept
or reject work or materials;
(j) Prepare change orders as necessary during the
progress of the work within the general scope of
the construction contract;
(k) Supervise installation and testing of all pumping
equipment, seeing that it meets all specifications
and requirements;
(1) Submit monthly reports to LDA describing the pro-
gress of the work, specific problems encountered
and all other pertinent information relative to
the contract; and,
(m)  Prepare manuals for operation and malntenance of
the irrigation pumping equipment including a list
of necessary spare parts required together with
reordering levels.
Schedule
6.        The consulting engineers would be expected to start work by the
beginning of year one and proceed in accordance with the work schedule.






SOMALIA
TRANS-JU3A LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Irrigated Fodder Farm and Feedlot - Irrigation Component
Monthly Flows of Juba River at Gimama Station 1/
3,
,million m3
Year                         Jan.        Feb.      Mar.       April         Mav         June      July       August      Sept.       Oct.       Nov.         Dec.        Annual
1951                         308         96         30         679         1,027        761       436        740         621         933        1,005         780        7,416
1952                         255         24          8          75           566        362       241        569         845       1,070          862         240        5,117
1953                          17          6         6           18           461        228       559        911         498         535          820        292         4,351
1954                          44          6         6          444           547        425       596      1,057         993       1,191          537         338        6,184
1955                          46         27          7          37           314         34       134        461         680         894          582         208        3,424
1956                          65         25         9           97           630       397        371        700         838         987          871         270        5,260
1957                          49         14        151         200           793        777       537        695         467        446           767         535        5,431
1958                         123         78         89          15           388        273       629      1,087         972         978          899         396        5,927
1959                         270         19         7            7           454        500       551        601         693         836       1,049         421         5,408
1960                         103        192       699          212             7        392       462        395         579         562          849         787        5,239
1961                         157         23         26         270           708       448        569      1,022         937         864       1,169       1,100         7,293
1962                         365        111         18         136           535        151       271        428         663         985          878        403         4,944
1963                          34          6         13         393         1,143        555       420        443         470         477          459         727        5,140
1964                         290         94         24         158           322        306       284        604         604         992          780         303        4,761
Mean - 14 Years              152         52         78         ]96           564        400       433        694         704         839          823         486         5,421
Flows - m 3/Sec.
M-in                       56.8       21.5       29.1         73.0        210.7      152.1     159,1      259.2       271.7       313.4        318.5       181.5         172.0          p D
Maxim-m                   136.3       79.4      261.1        262.1        426.9      299.9     234.9      406.0       383.3       444.8        451.2      410.9          235.3          5 am
Minimum                     6.4        2.5        2.2          2.7          2.6       13.1      50.0      147.5       180.3       166.6        117.2        77.7         108.6
1/ Approximately 30 km downstream from Irrigated Fattening Farm pumping station.
April 30, 1973



,                                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SOMALIA
,  TRANS-JUBA LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Irrigated Fodder F-rm and Feedlnt - Irrigation Component
Water Remairements
Jan.          Feb.          Mar.          Aril          M             June           Alv. A                       Ret            Oct.          Pev.           Dec.        Tetel
M.een 1oehly Iemperetere - C                                          28.6           28.4          29.0           29.1         27.9          26.5           26.4          25.9           26.7          27.2           27.4           27.6
Monthly Percentage Daytime Henoc  - Lat O                              8.49           7.67          8.49           8.22         8.49          8.22           8.49          8.49           8.19          8.49           8.22           8.49
Estineted Came-mptive 1/
Use Patone - K = 0.9-1-m                                          163           145            163           157          160            150           155            152           150            157           152            157           1,861
Estimated Cee-emptiv-
Use Maine - K = 0.85.mm                                           152            -              -            15           15           142           145             -             -             147            145          10            1,181
Average  Reitfol  - mm                                                 2              2.5           5.3          59.7          99.3          78.4           67.9          24.0           31.6          26.5           18.8          18.3           434.3
Averege Effective Rainfell - - 2/                                     00             00             4            54            84            68             62            19             30            24             18            18             381
Ir-igati-n Requirement
Pa.its- -E = 100%-a                                               163           145            158           104            76            81            92            133           120            132           135            140           1,479
Irnigation Requirement
Maice - 8 = 1002._-m                                              152            -              -            203 4/         66            74             81            -             -             122            127           132             957
Irrtgation REqnie.e..t
Pent-re - E - 65%-mm                                              249           224            241           160          117            124           140            203           183            203           208            216           2,268
IrrIgation Requirement
laic - E - 65% -m                                                 234             -             -            312 4/        102           114            124            -             -             188            196           203           1,473
Paepifg Requirement             6
P-nt-re - 600 H. - M'    0   3/                                     1.49          1.34           1.45          5.96          0.70          0.75          0.84           1.22          1.10           1.22           1.25          1.29           13.61
Pumping Requiremeat
Maine Silage - 480  n - 13    1 63                                  1.12         -              -              I.0O 4/       0.49          0.S5           0.60         -             -               0.90           0.94          0.97            7.07
Pumping Reqeirmnent          3      6
MPice Grei  - 120 ha - M    10    3/                                0.20          -             -              0.37 4/       0.12          0,14           0.15         -             -               0.23           0.23          0.24            1.76
Totel Pumping Requirmet _ M3   106  3/                              89          1,34         1.45            2.83         1.31           1.44          1.59           1.22          1.10           2.33          2.42           2.50           22.44
1/  Compated from Blanny-Criddle fCrlan a = k (p)(t) and converted to metrinc  ita.  a = monthly .n...mptivo ace in inchen; k = Empirical  -onsmptive one crap ceefficicat; t   Mean monthly teaperst"re it  degre.e  Fahrenheit;  p = M-nthly
100
percentage of daytime hears of the year.
2/ That rainfall avail.ble far plane ace.
Million i3.
/  This figure is the  estimertd reqairement to being coil moisture to fCll field capacity, aine plantieg follovs a dry period.



ANNEX 9
Table 3
SOMALIA
TRANS-JUBA LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Irrigation Fodder Farm and Feedlot - Irrigation Component
Investment Cost
(000 So.Sh.)
Phased Investments
-------- Total Cost -------                             ------------ Total Cost --------------
Total                                       ----- Year 1 ----    ----- Year 2 ---
No. of       Unit                    Foreign                     % Foreign         No. of                  No. of
Unit       Units       Cost         Local      Exchange       Total      Exchange Cost        Units    Amount         Units      Amount
Bush Clearing                                  Ha.         800             1.5       480         720        1,200             60              800       1,200            -           -
Land Grading                                   Ha        1,300             1.6       832       1,248        2,080             60              450         720          850       1,360
Canals
Supply                                      km            1.8         35           25          38           63             60                1.8        63            -           -
Primary                                     km            2.8         33           37          55           92             60                -           -            2.2        92
Secondary                                   kmn           5. 9         8           22          33           55             60                -           -            6.9        55
Tertiary                                    km            . ,          6            8          12           20             60                -           -            3-3        20
Roads
Access to Pump Station                      km            0.6         60           14          22           36             60                0.6        36            -           -
Farm                                        km           28           60          672       1,008        1,680             60                -           -           28      1,680
Drainage
Main Outlet                                 km            7.0         67          188         281          469             60                3.0       201            4.0       268
Primary                                     km           21.0         20          168         252          420             60                7.0       140          14.0        280
Laterals                                    km          123.0          15         738       1,107        1,845             60                3.0        45          120.0    1,800
Pump Station
Pumping Units                               Ea            4          100          103         297         o00              74                4         400            -           -
Civil Works                                Lump           -          320           96         224          320             70            Lump          300        Lump           20
Initial Spares                            Lump                        11            1          10           11             90            Lump           11                  -
Structures
Highway Crossing                            Ea            1           67           20          47           67             70                1          67            -           -
Misc. Structures                           Lump           -           145          43         102          145             70                -           -        Lump           145
Bridges                                     Ea            6           20           36          84          120             70                -           -            6         120
Engineering - 15%                             Lump            -            -         339       1.015        1354              75             Lump       1.114         Lump          240
Total                                 -              -            -        3_822      6.555       10.377             63              _                          -       6.080
October 23, 1973



ANIIEX 9
Table 4
SOMALIA
TRANS-JUBA LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Irrigated Fodder Farm and Feedlot - Irrigation Component
Operating Cost
(000 So.sh.)
Number        -------------- YEARS ------------
of Units           -YERS
Unit Cost        FEC %       Required        1        2       3       4       5       6 - 20
Labor
Pump Operator-Mechanic                                    7              -            I            -         7       7       7       7         7
Pump Operator                                             5              -            2            -         5      10      10      10        10
Labor                                                     3             _             1            _         3       3       3       3         3
Sub-total                                           -              -            -            -        15      20      20      20        20
Fuel
Diesel Cost                                               1.10         43             -            -        79    264    272    278          278
Oil & Lubricants Cost                                      _           87             _            _         8      26      27      28        28
Sub-total                                                        47             -            -        87    290    299    306          306
14aintenance
Canals & Drains 1/
Structures                                                -            70             -            -         -      15      15      29        39
Pumps                                                     -            65             -            -         -       4       7      14        17
Engines                                                   -            70             _            -         -       7      13      26        35
Sub-total                                           -            69             -            -         -      26      35      69        91
-                                       .5Q  -   -  Qj5   336    354    395        417
Fuel Requirements (000 1)                                    -              -            -            -        72    185    247    253          253
1/ Maintenance for this item performed by labor & Equipment shown under Production Component of Irrigation Fattening Farm.
October 23, 1973



SOMALIA                                               ANNEX 9
TRANS-JUBA LIVESTOCK PROJECT                                       Chart 1
IRRIGATED FODDER FARM AND FEEDLOT-IRRIGATION COMPONENT
WORK SCHEDULE
CALENDAR YEAR No. 1              CALENDAR YEAR No. 2
WORK DESCRIPTION
PRECONSTRUCTION                                 /////////
SELECTION OF CONSULTANT
BUSH CLEARING
TOPOG. SURVEY, SOIL &
WATER SAMPLING                                   ////////I
DESIGN & PREPARATION
OF TENDER DOCUMENTS
APPROVAL OF TENDER
DOCUMENTS                                       ///// ////
//// // ////////
TENDER PERIOD                                   ////////_
& CONTRACT AWARD                                /////////
CONSTRUCTION                                    /////////
MOBILIZATION                                ////////_
LAND GRADING                                /////////
ACCESS ROAD                                 /////////
MAIN CANALS                                 //////_/                                /
OTHER CANALS                                 /////////
FARM ROADS                                                   /////////
DRAINAGE SYSTEM                             /X///////_
STRUCTURES                                                                  w w/ / /f  /  // //
ORDER PUMP EQUIP.                           /////////y
PUMPING STATION
PUMP TESTING                                                                  /
FIRST PLANTING                                  /////////                         ///////      v
j2 Main Rainy Season
from Mid-April to Mid-July                                                                        World Bank-7600(R)
August 8, 1973






ANNEX 10
Page   1
SOMALIA
TRANS-JUBA LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Irrigated Fodder Farm and Feedlot - Production Component
1.        Somalia's economic future depends essentially on the development
of the agricultural sector; exports of livestock and livestock products to-
gether with bananas, now account for about 90% of the country's export
earnings. At present there are no cattle operations in Somalia and in the
absence of by-products the irregular rainfall (200-500 mm/annum) and re-
current droughts makes it necessary to produce suitable feeds through an
irrigation scheme. Establishment of an irrigated fodder farm and feedlot
would represent an important step in the modernization of the Somali cattle
industry. The irrigated fodder production proposed calls for an intensive
mechanized system since it is unlikely that sufficient labor of the required
quality could be found to operate the farm on a labor intensive basis.
However this opinion is necessarily preliminary and it may be that suffi-
cient labor could be obtained to replace a significant amount of the me-
chanization. Accordingly the consultants terms of reference would include
a requirement to investigate this possibility (Annex 19, Appendix 1). How-
ever, the funds necessary for a completely mechanized system are provided
under the Project.
2.        The feedlot operation would establish a demand for young immature
cattle passing through the grazing ranches; produce a regular supply of qual-
ity carcasses for export irrespective of the season, and help rural employ-
ment. Furthermore, if the feedlot operation were expanded in the future it
would provide a market for possible grain surpluses and other agricultural
by-products (molasses, oilseed cake, cotton seed hulls) and would not require
expansion of the irrigated area. The proposed feedlot would complement
investments in cattle marketing facilities and abattoirs. The efficient
utilization of these components is very much dependent on a volume of cattle
adequate to guarantee revenues which would cover fixed overhead costs.
Finally, the irrigated fodder farm, combined with the feedlot would have an
important catalytic role in changing the outlook of the traditional nomadic
producers.
Project Development
3.        On completion of the irrigation system in year two, the area 1,200
ha would be gradually brought into cultivation. The remaining 100 ha would
be devoted to roads, canals, buildings and the feedlot. Following land clear-
ing, initial levelling, and installation of irrigation canals, 200 ha would



ANNEX 10
Page 2
be sown to crop every six months, and the final 400 ha would be developed
simultaneously. More rapid phasing of development may prove possible, but
due to the nature of the soils, climatic conditions and the physical effort
and organization required, a conservative approach has been adopted for plan-
ning purposes.
4.        Total investment cost exclusive of initial land clearing and level-
ling and the irrigation systen would be about So.Sh. 11.4 million (US$1.8
million), or about So.Sh. 8,800 (US$1,300) per ha (Table 1). Investment
costs include machinery and plant (So. Sh. 6.7 million), buildings (So. Sh. 3.2
million) feedlot (So. Sh. 1.4 million), and cattle handling facilities and
water supply (So.Sh. 0.1 million. Because of the complexity of the
proposed operation and the necessity for timely completion of all pro-
duction operations, further substitution of capital intensive machinery
and labor would not be practicable. Full provision for machinery repair
facilities and spare parts supply has been made. Tables 1, 2, 3, 4
and 5).
Crop Rotation
5.        Soils, although suitable for irrigated crop production, are deficient
in organic matter. To ensure that the assumed crop yields would be obtained,
a quick growing leguminous crop, mung beans, would be ploughed in as green
manure before the first crop of corn was sown. This would take place in year
two to four, covering 400 ha annually. Corn would be followed by pasture
consisting of Alfalfa and Rhodes grass which would be maintained for 1 1/2 - 2
years before the area would again be cropped for corn.
6.        This initial cropping and pasture phase combined with both animal
manure and chemical fertilizer, would provide the fertility buildup required
to sustain the final rotation of 2 1/2 years - or 5 continuous crops of corn
followed by 2 1/2 to 3 years of Alfalfa and Rhodes grass pasture.1/ At full
development in year 6 the proposed rotation would yield 600 ha of corn (double
cropped) and 600 ha of pasture grown at any one time, with 400 ha being sowi
to new pasture, and 400 ha transferretd from old pasture to corn in each year.
The annual phasing of ploughing, land preparation, planting, harvesting, and
green fodder cutting is illustrated in chart 1.
Forag- Production
7.        Details of estimated crop yields and total annual dry matter produc-
tion are shown in Table 6. Total annual forage production at full development
1/   In full development-year six-total production of manure would be about
94,000 tons and would be used on the farm. There would be no stacking
in the feedlot and no disposal problem would be created. The use of
manure from the feedlot would economize with the application of fer-
tilizers and the quantity required for the production per ha would be
small and amount to about So.Sh. 185 (US$30) annually.



ANNEX 10
Page 3
in year 6, including green cut pasture, corn silage and corn grain, would
amount to 15,780 tons of dry matter (D.M.) or 13.2 tons of D.M. per productive
irrigated hectare - 1,200 ha. Forage would be converted to meat on the basis
of about 630 kg D.M. per animal over 75 days, producing an increment of about
70 kg liveweight, at a conversion ratio of 8:1. Growth rate and feed consump-
tion details are shown in Tables 6 and 7.
8.        Basic fodder for fattening animals would be corn silage.  It would
represent about 45% of the total feed requirement, be harvested at approxi-
mately 28 - 30% D.M., stored in open trench type silos and covered with plas-
tic sheeting. Additionally approximately 20% of the total feed would be annu-
ally grown and harvested as corn, mainly during the drier period of January
and February and it would be stored lightly crushed.
9.        In the first year of operation (Project year 2), half of the total
corn fodder grown (97,500 cattle feed days) would be withheld from feeding.
This would provide a permanent revolving feed reserve as an insurance against
crop failure, water shortage etc. All pasture forage would be harvested
green (in 7 to 10 cuts per annum), and fed directly to fattening cattle. It
might be necessary during the dry months in certain years to provide additional
supplementary feed in the form of hay, although in view of the feed reserve
this prospect is unlikely. Although the projections do not include hay feeding,
provision is made for one set of haymaking equipment.
10.       Operating costs could be reduced by the introduction of direct grazing
of pasture by fattening cattle, particularly during the first few weeks of
feeding. Because of possible management complications (cattle movement, ditch
damage) the projections have not allowed for this, but grazing would be tried
on a trial basis under the supervision of the Farm Manager. Electric fence
units would be provided so as to facilitate inexpensive control of grazing
cattle.
11.       Pasture forage projections are based on species presently grown in
Somalia. Higher producing varieties such as Napier and Guinea Grass would be
introduced. Under tropical conditions, irrigation, and heavy fertilizer appli-
cations, higher yields than those assumed are likely to be obtained.
Feedlot Operations
12.       At full production (year 6) 25,000 cattle would be fattened annually.
Approximately 80% of the animals (20,000) would come from the grazing ranches,
and 20% (5,000) would be selected from local markets. The finishing of ani-
mals in the feedlot would considerably increase the market value of meat. It
is this increase in grade, coupled with the liveweight gain of the animals
which would make the feedlot an economic proposition.



ANNEX 1 0
Page 4
13.       In the feedlot which would have an open air design similar to that
used at Lanet in Kenya, the daily ration of 8.8 kg D.M. would consist of 45%
maize silage, 20% maize grain, 32% green pasture, and 3% low protein oil seed
cake (sesame or cotton seed). Daily growth rates of about 0.90 kg liveweight
are assumed. As it has been estimated that cattle would have an average live-
weight of 300 kg on entering the feedlot, the total increase in weight per
animal should average about 70 kg over the 75 day period 1/. The weight estimates
are based on limited trials in Somalia, and commercial results obtained with
the same breed of cattle (many of which originate in Somalia) in Kenya. The
proposed ration contains a somewhat higher proportion of energy than would be
necessary under optimal conditions, but this assumption provides a further
technical contingency. Lowering the energy in the ration would increase the
annual throughput of cattle from any given area, or amount of forage produced,
thereby increasing income. When finished, the 370 kg animal would have at
least a dressing out percentage of 50% 2/. At full production incremental live-
weight gains of cattle in the feedlot would be about 23%, but the gain of
carcass weight would be over 30%. Total annual incremental carcass meat pro-
duced would be about 1,100 tons or 920 kg per productive or irrigated ha
(Tables 7 and 8).
Management and Labor
14.       A feedlot operation of the size and scale proposed would require
organizational and managerial skills not now available in Somalia and an
international firm of consultants would be employed to fill the posts re-
quired under the Project during development and to give on-the-job training
for local personnel. For the first four years, the Irrigated Fodder Farm
and Feedlot would be under the overall control of an expatriate Farm Manager,
who would be responsible for management and coordination of crop production,
farm machinery, and cattle feeding. For three and one half years he would
be supported by an internationally recruited irrigation specialist Master
Mechanic. Each of these would be responsible for the in-service training
of Somalis. Somali technicians would assume full operational management in
year five. Each would then have had at least one year as acting manager
under the appropriate specialist, and professional training at home and
abroad. Fully developed the farm would employ a total staff of about 250
(Table 4).
Marketing
15.       Finished cattle would be transported from the feedlot to the meat
factory in Kismayu, on the Kismayu - Gelib highway - a distance of approxi-
mately 80 km, by modern truck cattle transporters. Supply to the plant would
be spread evenly throughout the year, with approximately 90 head being avail-
able per killing day.
1/   Estimated that animals during the first five days in the feedlot would not
gain any weight and that during the remaining 70 days the daily weight
gain would be one kg.
2/   Results in Kenya show the dressing out percentage for the same class of
animal to be between 51 and 55 percent.



ANNEX 10
Page 5
Animal Health Control
16.       Animal health control would be the responsibility of a qualified,
resident Somali veterinarian, assisted by an animal health assistant who
would be a graduate of the Animal Health Training School at Mogadishu. Except
for those animals purchased directly from the markets (about 5,000) and for
which extensive veterinary and vaccine treatment would be provided, all cattle
would have spent one year under veterinary supervision and quarantine, prior
to entering the feedlot. Although the incidence of Tsetse fly and the accom-
panying Trypanosomiasis is known to be high in nearby bush and riverine areas,
because of the proximity of cleared land and banana plantations, incidence is
not serious on the proposed farm site. However to minimize incidence of
infection full provision has been made for the prophylactic treatment of all
cattle entering the feedlot. Details of treatments and vaccinations, together
with cost estimates, are shown in Table 4.






Ho-OH   -t  000-0           .O0H0Oo                        OH'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   --   --   --    
g2ojo  Z- 000000               H        HHHHOOOHHOHHH~.  . .. .. .-HHH- -0 -                                  0   
H-' oH   0  000.0.0   OH  H-          HOOHOHO   00100   H              'H OHHOH-HHHH~~~~~~~ .    ..  .. H. .     HHOH.tHH'H
000-H OHHHHIH    OH'     H  too   Ho-H  .O.HO .H.t.H         . .  .-' -    000....00            ....      
-~~ ~~1       Hi  oH.0H-. .H                                      . .0, .    H-H ....       .0  1.H.HHt.,00.                    H o.H        HO
000  01  H  H H-OH    OoH..-HHHQH't 0  HOHHHtO.1H   00   000  OH>HO.HOH  HO-H  '<HO   000~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
OH          H    o      HOi0                                 0100           0



*JNF 10
Table 2
e~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                A
iII
a-  C           00.OH.0.'OHH                        0                       I  IL
opa 51I                                                         41       Ol  :7    |    |
O ~~~~~~~~~    I                            t              P 
00        0000000......   I . I
1 -O-   J                      ,,,197,3
i^ ~ ~        ~       ~       ~        H         00 0 1           I
H oq   
3nX S  X   o oue~000 0 0 0 0 0                                             0 0 0 0                I               s 
5 .SO                       H'00            O              H000' H
3 U u t 1 N H0H 0H0.000 HN40-t                                                                                                            47            |1
5    0                    o      o                                                                a o o     '  0 o,0|*  I,1  
G 0                      00 0         O 0                              ,0    a   0   0{ 
0 _                       000 _0 _                                                                                    0;_A 44_,
O              01        00.          o o                                                           o  00  0.  -    ,0I  
p. OoO          - O        0   0       .0O       000000I0O                                         0 ,_H|a.
:         O                                                                                        'O:    i
occoloco~~~~~~ 23, 1973                                    o.         ,              r        4           



ANNEX 10
Table 3
SOMALIA
TRANS-JUBA LIVEITOCO PROJECT
Irrigated Fodder Farm and Foedlat - Production Copmonent
Tractor U.. Ao-no,ti-na  -nd Pr-o-cid P-rf-rnmnrc Aunlvsis
_____________________________________------ Ptni1----- -~----------------------------------
Operating                                dEfectile
days per                                                         Effecti-e Hc-              Operating haurs
tinars/day            annum             Hoour/annums _         Effioinncpy. %             ar annum                   pan day
Alt  ractors- 1 sitt                             8                 300 1/                2,400                  65 2/                   1,560                       5.2
-     i2 ski.t                     16                 300                   4,800                  55                      2,640                       E.g
45 H,P, Tractar                               -                 252                     -                     -                      1,765                       7.0
65  .P. Tranttr -                                               273                                           _1,945                                             7,1
H-avy Tracklayer                                                120                     -                                            1,060                       8.8
I/  365 days lost 65 days holiday, 1eones rt 300 prodnctiv- days per annum.
2/ Allews far maintenance end aeather delays,
Total Cattls    Cattle Feed    Na.  f days    No. nO Ccett         Gross Feed Msite    Laadiug rate        Hours/day      Trotal hAun
Yeen                                          Throunhnit        Dya 1/          Feuding        Fed per dav      ted Sil7ge/dav 2/    Tous/huue           Leading         A..um
2                                              1,3U0            97,500           100              975                 16                  4              4.0             400
5                                              9,000           675,000           365            1,849                30                   4              7.5           2,740
4                                             19,200         1,440,00(i          365            3,945                 63                  4             16.0           5,840
4                                             23,000         1,725,000           365            4,726                 76                  4             19.0           6,935
6-20                                           25,000         1,875,00C           365            5,136                 83                  4             21.0           7,665
I/  Annal- Throughput n 75 (No. of daya en fam).
2/ Assumes 14 kg meine silage (4 kg D.M.) and 2 kg nmioe greir, (1.75 ';g D.M.) ligates reindod.
Mn-ure Production -nd Hendling Adnsueptiom
T.atl Cattle        Cartl        Totel Wet 1/                                       Loads Day       Nu, Hourt/lDy            Tutal
Year                                          Thro-ghput       Feed days      tung - 5 kg         n.o of days     Wet Duns         6 Ton/lead        3 h-s/load         Hoars/assum
_B_east. kg          Foading       per lAy. Tun                      Land sod Spread
I                                                _               _                _                   _               _               _                  _-
2                                              1,300            97,500          487,500             100              5              1.0                 3.0                  30C
3                                              9,000           675,000        3,375.000             365              9              1,5                 4.5                1,64C
4                                             19,200         1,440,000        7,200,000             365             20               3.3               10.0                3,600
5                                             23,000         1,725,000        8,625,000             365             24              4.0                12.0                4,38C
6-20                                    '      25,000         1,875,000        9,375,000             365              26              4.0               12.0                4,380
I/ Assune 9.0 kg 0.2. day, 66%, digestiblo - 3 kg D.M.  aeceted, at L7C.  oisttre - 5 kg not dung pen day.
Pactate Gren Forage - Carting and Utau,ding Assumpti-ns
Dry Mstitr        Dry Marter      Green Mattin        unnber nf     Tens-/H      Laads/Ha 1       H .o.rs/R. 2/    T-tal H-ctares     Total Hours
Year                                       Yield Ha Tans       Percentage -lOd Tens/I/a             Cuts         Per cut      Adntm             Aatan                                 Annun
I                                                 _               _                 _                _             _            _                  _-
2                                                 .               _                 _               _              _            _- 
3                                                10              14                50               7       7                  8.5               18                300              5,400
4                                                 .               _                 _               -              _            -                 -                400               7.200
5                                                 -               _                 _               _              _                              -                500              9,800
6-2-                                                                                                                                                                 308              5,400
2nd Yeat Pustare
2                                                                                                                                                 _ -
4                                                17              24                70              10              7           12                24                2co               4,800
3                                                 -               -                 -               -              -            -                 -                 200             4,800
6-20                                               -               -                                 -              -0                                                                 ,200
5/ Asaumes appro- 6 toa lead.
27 A-sumes 2,0 hbers cartirg - average appexe 5 las/ha-e ever avordoc distance sf 5 km in and 5 km eat plus I hoar/ha coutinogany.
July 31, 1973



c                                                                                                                  SOMALIA
-                                                                                                     TRANS-JUBA LIVESTOCK PROJECT
.5,                                                                                   Irrigated Fodder Farm and Feedlot - Production Co,ponent
Total Annual Dry Matter (D.M.) Production
------------- ---------------------------------  Y E A R  -----_---_______________________________________,___                     --------
D.M,           Percent          Effective                  1                       2                       3                         4                         5                      6 - 20
Yield per       Utilization           D.M. 5/         Area      Total         Area 6/   Total           Area       Total         Area        Total         Area        Total         Area        Total
ha/toe                           yield/ha ton         ha     DSM. ton         ha       D,M. tn          ha       0.4.ton         ha    hD.M. toe           ha       D.M. ton         ha       D.M   ton
Maize Grain 1/                         5               100                  5              -         -             95         475           190         950          380         1,900         475         2,375         570         2,850
Maize Silage 1/                       12                90 3/              11              _         _            105      1,155            210       2,310          420         4,620         525         5,775         630        6,930
lst Year Pasture 2/                   12                70 4/               8              -         -              -           -          300        2,400          400         3,200         500        4,000          300        2,400
2nd Year Pasture                      17                70                 12              -         -              _           _             _           _          200         2,400         200        2.400         300         3.600
Total D.M. (Lens) available
for animal consumption 7/                                                                                            1,630 -5,660 -                                       12,120                   _ 14.550                  15,780
1/  Single crop basis.  Rotation under irrigation allows 2 crops per annum.  Approx. 457. of total maiee D.M. grown to be harvested as grain.
2/  Pasturns Afalif  (medicago sp.) and Rhodes grass (chloris geyana).
3/ Assumes 10% less in ensiling and feeding process.
4/ Aesson.es 30% less in graning, handling, and feeding process.
5/ Net yield to aninal. Allows technical contingeneies of 10% in maize silage and 30% in pasture.
6/  In case of  me, areas are calculated on a single crop basis e.g. 100 ha growing 2 crops a year is quoted as 200 ha single crop,
7/  Does not include purchased oil seed che.k
a 5



9~~~I fi                                                                   [       
I                     I
I_
r                                                                     CL
61 6 1 1                                                                 C  






-- - -- - -- - -- - -- - -- - -- - -                       - -- - -- - -    4-     - --_4                                                                                                                             4 41        2
4.4444444444444444/  14421  44444              -                 444          -                                               444.414444,4                            -~ -------- -- --   ----------------- 
4.44444444=4444444  4441           4441                     -                    44         -    ~~~------------- --     -----   ---                                                                   -----
44 4444444-4444-~    ~ ~ ~~I 






SOMALIA
TRANS-JUBA LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Irrigated Fodder Farm and Feedlot - Production Component
Cattle Feeding and Growth Rate Assumptions
A.   Proposed Daily Ration - 350 kg Liveweight Animal 1/
2/                     DM as % of              3/                       M.E. 4/             M.E. 4/         M.E. 4/ per
Gross Feed kg    D.M. Percent        D.M.kg   total Ratiorn    D.P. Kof D.M.  D.P. kg    Meg cal/kg D.M.  Meg.cal. Total            kg D.M.
Maize silage                                              14.0               28             4.00          45                1.5           0.06            2.5              10.0
Maize Grain                                                2.0               88              1.75          20               7.5           0.13            3.3               5.8
Green Fodder                                              11.5               24              2.75          31              15.0           0.41            2.2               6.0
Oil Seed Cake                                              0.3               93             0.28           4               38.0           0.16            2.7               0.7
Totals                                              27.8 kg              -             8.8 kg       100                  -           0.76 kg          -               22.5             2.60
Feed Requirements-350 kg animal to gain
1 kg liveweight daily                                     -                              8.8 kg         -                              0.7 kg           -200 Meg
Cal.
B.   Basic Feed-Lot Growth Rate Assumptions
Liveweight         D.M. consump.    Daily          Total        Liveweight       Total D.M.   Conversion         Net Dressing         Net kg
Day Number                                              to begin kg          Day kg        L.W.G. kg    L.W.G. kg    to Finish kg   Consumed kg   D.M./kg L.W.            Percentage         Carcasse
1 -  5                                                 300                  7.0             -            -              300            35             30.1               44                132
6 - 75                                                 300                  8.8           1.0           70              370           616               7.1              50                  -
I - 75                                                 300                  8.6           0.93          70              370           651              8.1               50                185
I/   Feed allowance is for animal of 350 kg. average liveweight approx. 330 kg during time on feed-lot. Allowance provides 10% technical contingency.
2/   D.M. = Dry Matter.
3/   D.P. = Digestible Protein.
4/   M.E. = Metabolisable Energy.



ANNEX 10
Table 8
SOMALIA
TRANS-JUBA LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Irrigated Fodder Farm and Feedlot - Production Component
Annual ThrouRhottt of Cattle and
Incremental Liveieight and Carcasse Weight Gains
---- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- --- Y     E A     R    -------__------------- ------------
1             2    ~            3 ~        ~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~    ~   ~~~~~ ~~ ~~ ~ ~~ ~ 4  5  6-20
Cattle Introduced to Feedlot head 1/                               -           1,306            9,045           19,300          23,115           23,125
Mortality 0.5%                                                     -               6                45             100              115             125
Cattle sold for Slaughter - head                                   -           1,300 2/         9,000           19,200          23,000            25,000
Liveweight Before Fattening - tons
(300 kg/head)                                                  -             392             2,714           5,790            6,935            7,537
Liveweight After Fattening - tons
(370 kg/head)                                                  -             481             3,330           7,104            8,510            9,2S0
Incremental Liveweight Gain -tons
(70 kg/head)                                                  -              89               616           1,114            1,575            1,713
Liveweight Cain X                                                  -              23                23              23               23               23
Carcass Weight Before Fattening
(141 kg/head) - tons                                           -             133             1,269           2,707            3,243            3,525
carcass Weight After Fattening
(185 kg/head) - tons                                           -             241             1,665           3,552            4,255            4,625
Incrementat Carcass Weight - tons                                 -               58               396             845            3,012            1,100
Percentage Increase Carcass Weight                                                31                31              31               31               31
Dressing Percent Before Fattening                                                                                                                     47
Dressing Percent After Fattening                                   -              50                50              50               50               50
1/ Number of cattle fattened calculated on basis of using 631/kg Dry Matter/Head exclusive of oil seed cake. All totals are to nearest 100.
2/  Total feed produced in year two would allow finishing of 2,600 cattle. Assume 50% of feed produced in year one goes into permanent revolving
reserve.
July 31, 1973



SOMALIA                                                                                                                ANNEX 10
TRANS - JUBA LIVESTOCK PROJECT                                                                                                             Chart 1
IRRIGATED FODDER FARM AND FEEDLOT - PRODUCTION COMPONENT
Land and Tractor - Critical Use Chart
INo. of Days
Allowed for
MONTH                           JAN              FEB             MAR            APRIL            MAY             JUNE            JULY             AUG             SEPT             OCT             NOV             DEC    Operation
Each Y,ear
OPERATION ALL CROPS                                                     
Deep Plough                                         goui 1Im*hiui                                                                                                                                                                            90i iouU.  iiig
Subsoil                                                                     ElII1111*                                                                                         II     i Elhl                                                  60
Land preparation'1m                                                                                                                                                     u                                                                  105
Planting                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    75
Crop Fertilize                                                                                      *       m m m m U Um                                                                                 ~       m     m                     2
Weed and Pest Control               _  _      l                    .                                                                                                                                                                       180
Inter-row cultivate                 _                                                                                                                                                    U  -   -   U '  i        -   U i                  135
3.3: 
Siiage and Grain Harvest                                  6klql mi                                                                                                                                                                          60
14.8 :
Silage and Grain cart                                                                                                         Ir60
3.2:                                                                                                                                                                           60I
Siiage and grain loadle andlude fe                                                                                                                                                                                                         3
Silage and grain esloa  anLfe                                           II                                                                                                                                                                  360
Manure scrape and load                      U~W~tWh                                                                   W        i e                                                                                                         330
Manure cart and spread                                                                                                ItVl                                                                                                                 330
Pasture forage-harvest                                                                                                                                7: I  OI  L      L  M    L        lq                                                 365
Pasture forage-cart and feed        -mmE~h                                          m u U U UU U U UU'j~.$ImU                                               :     U     U       U      m     m m      UUuh.               E                  3
Pasture Fertilize                   ____                  ,                                                                                                                                                j180
.............critical use live denotes period when minimum criticai nUMber of tractors Is inquired.
.m..m..im.ii-Number of heavy track aying tractors       -Minimum critical number =3                                              Fiaures specify number of tractors land attached plant) which are requ.irnd to complete
required operations in the number of days shown in right hand column.
.Namber of 45 h.p. tractors                -Minimum critical number =20
jJ Includes all cultivation and ploughing but not Plantine
lkKW&U' Nrimbvr of 65 h.p. tractors                         .Minimum critical number =2ft                     Z/ Assumes weather interference of 15 days in harvesting of grain and silage, and 35 days it green pasture
haroesting. VVeather interference does not increase total annual hours, of operating but increase numbei
of manchines req.iirod to complete same operation in shorter time.EfficiencV allowance in effective tractor
hours per day (see "Tractor Utilisation - Basic Assumptions") would cover weather contingency as we I
as maintenance.                                                                                                  World Bank - 7599
April 30, 1973






ANNEX 11
SOMALIA                                                   Table 1
TRANS-JUBA LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Disease Control
Investment Costs
(So.Sh. 000)
---- YEAR    -              Total
Unit Cost                               Number of                      Foreign Exchange
So.Sh.            1           2         Units         Cost                  %
Buildings l/
Regional Vet centre - 119 M2                    55,000             -          55           1             55                  50
- water and light connection                  6,000             _           6           -             6                    _
District Vet Laboratories - 80 M2               30,000            60          60           4            120                  50
- Pens and Water                              4,000             8           8           4            16                   50
Vet Dispensaries - 96 M2                        30,000            75          75           5            150                  50
Vet Officers House - 95 M2                      43,000              -         43           1             43                  50
Senior Staff Houses                             14,000             -          56           4 2/          56                  50
Watchman                                          4,000             8          8           42/           16                  50
Vehicles and Equipment
4 wheel drive vehicle                            36,000           180          -           5            180                  90
Vehicle trailers                                  3,000            15          -           5             15                  90
Petrol Generators                                4,000             20          -           5             20                  90
Tentage and Camping Equipment
- Senior                                      4,000            20           -           5             20                  70
- Junior                                      2,000            10           -           5             10                  70
Furniture Vet Officers House                    12,000              -         12           1             12                  20
- Regional Vet Centre                         3,000             -           3           1              3                  20
- District Vet Centre                         3,000             6           6           4            12                   20
- Vet Dispensories                            1,000             2           3           5             5                   20
Veterinary Equipment
- Regional Centre                            28,000             -          28           1             28                 90
- District Vet Centre                         6,000            12          12           4            24                   90
- Vet Dispensary                              2,000             4           6           5             10                  90
Spare Parts (20% - vehicles)                        -             43          _            -            43                   90
TOTAL                                     -             463         381          _            844                  67
1/ Includes material cost only - labor included in construction unit.
2/ Balance of staff housed locally.
October 23, 1973



ANNEX  1l
Table 2
SOMALIA
TRANS-JUBA LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Disease Control
Operating Costs
(So. Sh. 000)
Annual                                             --------------- YEAR -----------__
Salary    Number         Foreign Exchange         1          2          3          4                   6 - 20
Salaries I/
Veterinary Officer                                    18.0         1                                    9        18         18         18         18           18
Veterinary Assistants                                  7.0         5                  -14                        35         35         35         3            35
Vaccinators - Dist.                                    4.5         4                  -                 9        18         18         18         18           18
Vaccinators - dispensary                               4.5         5                  _                 9        23         23         23                      23
Attendants                                             4.0         5                  _               1          20                    20         20           20
Drivers                                                5.5         5                                  14         28         28         28         28           2
Watchmen                                               3.0         5                  -                 6        12         15         15         -
Clerk Typist                                           7.0         1                  -               -           7          7          7          7            7
Sub-total                                         _                                             72        161        164        164       164           164
Vehicle and Machinery Operating
4 wheel drive - 20,000 km
annum @ 1 sh/km                                                -                 60                50       100        100        100        100          100
Generators and Refrigeration
5 units @ 3,000 Sh annum                            -          -                 60                 8        15         15         15         15           15
Uniforms, Boots, hats etc. 25 @ 200 Sh                                -                 50                 2          5          5          5         5            5
Office Requisites                                          -          -                 80                 1          2         3          3          3
Building Maintenance (2.5a  of cost)                       -          -                 50                -           4        12         12         12           12
Sub-total                                         -          -                60                61        126        135       135        135          135
TOTAL                                                  -                 25              L33        287        299       299        299          299
1/ Includes field allowances.
October 23, 1973



SOMALIA                      ANNEX 12
Table 1
TRANS-JUBA LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Project Construction and Maintenance Unit
1gyestangnt Co   1/
(So. Sh. 00 
Foreign    Number of
Unit Cost   Exchange      Units      Subtotal
Cotponent Required
Buildings
Office and Stores                        20         50          1           20
Garage/Workshop                          20         50          1           20
Staff Housing (Jumior)                   10         50          4           40
Staff Housing (Other)                     6         50          7           42
Water & Electricity Connections          10         50          1           10
Subtotal                                         50                    132
Machinery & Equipment
Heavy Tractor                           450         90          2          900
Heavy Chain, 140m, p30 kg/m             150         90          1         150
Heavy Tractor Unit 4                    727         90          1          727
Trucks - 7 ton                           69         90          3         207
Vehicles - 4 Wheel Drive with P.T.O.   36           90          3         108
Trailers                                  3         90          3            9
Moterised Water Bowser                   70         90          1           70
Tentage & Camp Equipment (Senior)         4         90          3           12
it   t  "             (Junior)       2          90         6           12
Portable Dagine & Pump                    6         90          2          12
Water Tank                                1         90          2            2
Portable 5KVA Generator Set               7         90          1            7
Electric Welding Plant                    5         90          1            5
Gas Welding Plant                         1         90          2            2
Tarpaulins                                1         90          6            6
Galv. 2" Pipe & Kee Klamps                2         90          1            2
Spare Borehole Pumping Set               37         90          1          37
Spare "Uar" Pumping Set                   6         90          1            6
Workers tentage                          12         90          1          12
Portable Brick Making Machine            41         90          1          41
Office Furniture & Equipment             11         50          1          11
Medical Equipment                         3         90          1            3
Fuel Tanks, Tools, etc.                  20         90          1           20
Spare Parts Stock                       100         90          1         100
Subtotal                                         90                  2,461
Total                                            88                  2_593
1/ All expenditure is made in Year 1.
T/ Located on the Irrigated Fattening Farm.
5/  Complete with tilting dozer blade and hydraulic control.
I4I Complete with dozer blade, hydraulic control, double drum cable control,
14 cu. yd. scraper and mounted ripper.
October 2, 1973.



SOMALIA
TRANS-JUBA LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Project Construction and Maintenance Unit
Operating Cost
'0
Foreign     Number  ------ - ------------------------- YEAR ----- ----------------------------
Unit Cost    Exchange       of
Component    Units           1            2           3            4            5          6-20
%        Required
1/                         -            So          -             -             3.3         3.3          3.3          3.3          3.3
Maintenance of Fixed Assets                              -                        -             -
Heavy Tractor Operating - 2/
Kismayu Holding Ground                            102.0         60           2           204.0        204.0       204.0         204.0          -          -
Heavy Tractor Operating -              3/
Stock Routes, Growing out Ranches                 102.0         60          1             80.0        102.0       102.0        102.0         20.0         20.0
Vehicle Operating 4                                     18.0         60           3             54.o        54.o        54.0          36.0         18.0        18.0
Truck Operating /    6/                                 22.0         60           3             66.0        66.o        66.0          44.o         22.0        22.0
Water Bowser ODerating                                   11.0        60           1             11.0        11.0        11.0           5.0          -           -
Small Ehgine Operating                                   2.4         60           2              4.8         4.8         4.8           2.4          2.4          2.4
Generator Operating                                      6.o         60           1              6.o         6.0         6.o           4.0          3.0          3.0
Welding Gas1BElectrodes                                   2.0        90           1              2.0         2.0         2.0           2.0          1.0          1.0
Office Requisites, First Aid                             3.0         50           1             3.0          3.0         3.0           I._         1.5)         1.0
Subtotal                                                                                 430.8        456.1       456.1        404.9         70.7         70.7
Salaries:
Construction Officer                                 21.4          0          1             21.h         21.4        21.4                                     -
Surveyor                                             17.6          0          1             17.6         17.6          -            -             -           -
Field Cons tructijX Officer                          17.6          0           2            35.2         35.2        17.6         17.6            -           -
Master Mechanic -                                     8.7          0           1             8.7          8.7         8.7           8.7        12.0         12.0
Foreman                                               7.1          0          3             21.3         21.3         7.1           7.1           -           -
Mechanic                                              7.1          0           1             7.1          7.1         7.1           7.1          7.1         7.1
Fitter Welder                                         7.1          0           1             7.1          7.1         7.1           7.1           -           -
Heavy Tractor Operators                               6.6          0           6            39.6         39.6        39.6          33.0          6.6         6.6
Vehicle Operators                                     5.5          0           7            38.5         38.5        27.5          11.0        11.0         11.0
Masons and Carpenters                                 4.4          0          11            48.4         48.4        24.2          13.2          8.8          8.8
Mason, Carpenter Assistants                           3.1          0          11            34.1         34.1        17.1           9.3          6.2         6.2
Labourers                                             3.0          0          22            66.o         66.o        33.0          15.0        12.0         12.0
Watchman                                              3.3          6           8             26.4        26.4        13.2           3.3          3.3         3.3
Draughtsman                                           8.8          0           1             8.8          8.8          -             -            -           -
Accounts Clerk                                        6.8          0           1             6.8          6.8         6.8           6.8         6.8          6.a
Clerk Typist                                          6.8          0           1             6.8          6.8         6.8           6.8           -           -
Store and Parts Keeper                                6.8          0           1             6.8          6.8         6.8           6.8          6.8         6.8
Messengers                                            3.0          0           1             3.0          3.0         3.0           3.0           -           -
Cooks                                                 3.0          0           3              9.0         9.0         3.0           3.0          3.0         3.0
Sabtotal                                                                                412.6        412.6       250.0        158.6         83.6         83.6 6
Sale of two heavy tractors                                                                                   -           -             -          1800           -
TOTAL                                                                              843.4        868.7        706,1       563.0         (25.7)       154.3
l/   Materials only, 2.5% of capital cost
2/   2000 hours per tractor per year @ So.Sh. 51.00 per hour, i.e. So.Sh. 102,000 per tractor year.   Two tractors
clear 3,000 ha per year.
3/   Total of 7,500 hours on stock routes and growing-out ranches @ So.Sh. 51.00 per hour.
1!  20,000 Ion per year @ So.Sh. 0.90 per km, i.e. So.Sh. 18,000 oer veh-cle year.
'/  20,000 ikn per year k) So.Sh. 1.10 per km, i.e. So.Sh. 22,000 per truck year.
/   10,000 Ica per year @ So.Sh. 1.10 per km.
7/   Ascmnes supervisory position in year 5.



ANNEX 12
SOMALIA                           Table 3
TRANS-JUBA LIVESTOCK PRDJECT
Project Construction and Maintenance Unit
1/
Construction Program
YEAR 1
Stock Routes             7 Staging points
3 Pumping units
1 Uar on Section No. 1
1 Dam repair on Section No. 1
45 Im bush clearing on Section No. 2
6 Small houses
Grazing Ranches         4 Stock ponds
Disease Control          2 District veterinary laboratories
2 Veterinary dispensaries
2 Small houses
Markets & Market         1 Main market
Teams              4 Main houses
6 Small houses and buildings
1 Water connection., site clearing, fencing
Construction Unit        4 Main houses
9 Small houses and buildings
Kismayu Holding Ground  3,000 ha. bush clearing
YEAR 2
Stock Routes             5 Staging points
2 Pumping units
1 Ferry approach on Section No. 5
1 Uar on Section No. 4
7 Small houses
Grazing Ranches          4 Stock ponds
Disease Control          1 Regional veterinary center
2 District veterinary dispensaries
3 Veterinary dispensaries
1 Veterinary Officer's house
6 Small houses
Markets & Market         1 Main market
Teams              1 Small market
3 Main houses
11 Small houses and buildings
2 Water connections, site clearings, fencings.
Kismayu Holding Ground 3000 ha bush clearing
August 3, 1973



ANNEX 12
Table 3
Page 2
YEAR 3
Stock Routes                15 Staging points
3 Pumping units
3 Uars or dams on Sections 6 and 7
10 Small houses
Markets & Market             1 Main market
Teams                   1 Small market
3 Main houses
11 Small houses and buildings
2 Water connections, site clearings, fencing
Kismayu Holding Ground      3000 ha bush clearing
YEAR 4
Stock Routes                3 Pumping units
7 Small houses
Kismayu Holding Ground      3000 ha bush clearing
1/   Costs of materials are included in capital costs of respective
components; labor, fuel and other recurrent costs are included in
the operating costs of the Project Construction and Maintenance
Unit (Table .2).   Does not include Afmadu Holding Ground, which
is to be contracted out, with the exception of buildings for the
Market Team.
April 30, 1973



ANNEX 13
Table 1
SOMALIA
TRANS-JUBA LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Project Development and Training Unit
Investment and Operating Costs
(So.Sh. 000)
Number of        ------------------------------ YEAR ---------------
Unit Cost         FEC %          Units
Required          1          2         3         4          3         6-20
Investment Cost
Offices and Stores                                                 500            50               1           300        200        -          -         -
Office Furniture Sets                                               20            20              8            100         60        -          -         -
Office Equipment                                                     -            90              -             20         20        -          -         -
Radio Telephone                                                      8            90              1               8         -
Four-Wheel Drive Vehicles                                           36            90              3            108          -
Spare Parts - Stocks                                                 -            90              -             20         10
Nouse for Project Director and
Project Finance Officer                                        104            70               2            208         -
TOTAL                                                         -             60               -           764        290                   -
Operating Cost
Vehicle Running                                                     30 I/         80               3            90         90       90         90        90           90
Electricity and Water                                                5            50              1              5          5        5          5         5
Office Stationary and Supplies                                      10            80              1             10         10       10         10       1            10
Office Expenses                                                     10            30              1             10         10       10         10        10           10
Salaries:
Project Director - (Foreign)                                    245            90              1            245       245       245       245          -            -
Project Finance Officer (Foreign)                              245            90               1           245        245      245        245                      -
Project Director - (Local)                                       25             -              1              -         -         -        25        25            25
Project Finance Officer  (Local)                                 25             -              1             25          -        -        25         23.          25
Secretary Stenographer                                            9             -              2             18        18        18        18        18            18
Bookkeeper                                                        7             -              1              7         7         7         7          7            7
Accounts Clerk                                                    7             -              2             14        14        14        14         14s          14
Filing Clerk                                                      5             -              1              5         5         5         5         5             5
Messenger                                                         3             -              2              6         6         6         6          6            6
Drivers                                                           6             -              3             18        18        18        18         18           18
Uniforms for Messengers and Drivers                               -             -              -              2         2         2         2                       2
Replacement
TOTAL                                                                        70                           700       675      675        725       233          235
1/  30,000 km per year at So.Sh. 1.0 per km.
October 2, 1973.



ANNEX 13
Table 2
SOMALIA
TRANS-JUBA LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Project Development and Training Unit
Training Cost of Local Counterparts
(So. Sh. 000)
Man Year                    Number of
Unit Cost       FEC %         Units e------ YEAR ----------------------
Required         1         2         3        4         5        Total
Project Director
Tuition                                           20            100            1            20        20       20        -         -          60
Travel Allowance                                   7            100            1             7         7         7       -         -          21
Salary during training                           10              -             1            10       10        10        -         -          30
Subtotal                                     -             70            1            37        37        37        -        -         Ill
Irrigation Specialist
T'uition                                          20            100            1             -         -       20       20         -          40
Travel Allowance                                   7            100            1             -         -        7        7         -          14
Salary during training                           10              -             I             -        -        10       10         -          20
Subtotal                                     -             70            1             -         -        37      37         -          74
Irrigated Fodder Farm and Feedlot Manager
Tuition                                          20             100            1             -        20       20       20         -          60
Travel Allowance                                  7             100            1             -         7        7        7         -          21
Salary during training                           10              -             1             -        10       10    / 10          -          30
Subtotal                                     -             70            1             -        37        37       37        -         111
Project Finance Officer
Tuition                                           20            100            1             -        20       20        -         -          40
Travel Allowance                                   7            100            1             -         7        7        -         -          14
Salary during training                           10              -             1             -       10        10        -         -          20
Subtotal                                     -             70            1             -        37        37       -         -          74
Diploma Training and Short Term
Study Tours                                       -             70             -             -      400       400      400       430      1,630
TOTAL                                   _             _             -            37       511      548      474        430      2,000
August 8, 1973



ANNEX 1.
SOMALITA
TRANS-JUBI LIVESTOCt PROJECT
Project Cost
PRaOJiE CT        Cr05                                                                          S 
So. Shs. -10      1        E           n               E oicaieot '%)1               Total Project              For-ign
Local        Foreign         Total                Local        Foreign         Total                Cost                Fxchange Coot
Markets and Stc'ro-tes
Sto-kroutco  -nd Cattle o-rketo                    1,068         2,211          3,270                  172           35S            527                                         6'7
Afsado - Holding Ground                              564            981         1.515                   )1            157          278                  _                       6)
Operating Costs                                    1.369           613          1,982                  211              8           317                 -                       31
Sub-Total                3,617 3.805 rrr                                                               _109           7        7                     -;
Grazing Ranches
Boildings                                            87?           663         1512                    lLl           11)7           21,8                -
Water Develooment                                    356            832         1,188                   57            131           171                 -                        7
Fe-cing, Firobreaos and Roodo                        18"            756         1.136                   77           153            230                 -                       67
Vehicles and E3qipoent                                94            530           624                   15             R5           1')                 -c
Field Trialo                                          25           145            170                                  2 73          27                 -                        6
Operating C0ots                                    1, 412        1,o6)          2.'72                  367 172                      477                 -                        -,6
Sub-Total                3,L.           r-17          7 P32                 -71-=7273l                                       7 7.737                   77
Irrigation
Boah Clearing                                       Ih8            727          1,200                   77            116           133                 _                       9'
Roads                                                686         1,030          1,716                  11'            16S           275                 -                       6-
Canalo and D-ai.age System                         1 28S         2.111          3,296                  n26           321h           530                                         6-
Land Grading                                         832         1,248          9,980                  138 7h0                      33..                -                       6
Pump Station                                         '33           531            731                   39            85l           117                 -                       73
Engineering - 155                                    33;         1.015          1,35L                   54           163            917                 -                       7S
Oporating Cost                                       71P           217            838                   38             35            73                 _
Sob-Total                1.393          F77E         1TTfl                   TSl          i1            17735
Irrigated FPddor Fors and Peedlot
Building and Water Sanely                         1i.53'         1,756          3 205                  787            292           52)                 -                       53
Feedlat                                              76L           653          1,141                  123           104            227                                         4 86
Troccoro. Vehicles and Eqoipment                     736         5. 553         6,680                  918            '56         1.7,                  -
operating Cost                                     2,l57         1.161          3,317                  `6S            188           832                                          t
Sob-Total                    6          9.819                                  3          i1            2,38 
Constrsction and Maintenance Thit
Machinery and Eqouipent                              251         2,211          2,862                   1"            355           385                 -                        4
Buildings                                             66            66            137                   11             11            21                 -                       S'
Operating CosL                                     1.571           847          2.418                  ?52           136            3fl                 _                        15
Sub-Total        l b       57    8             7S        0712       3         77            82            T75                  .                       5 7
Development and Training Gnit
Capital Cost                                         472           631          1,910                   65            101           16                  -                       6'
Operating Cost                                       416           164            58)                   66             26            92                 -                       Pr
Training Cost                                        355            8335        1185                    57            13.           13l                 -                       73
Sub-lotal                1.1)8          1,628        72,10                    1 1           26            T73                                        -7
Con-slta,st Fees                                       5          48,858         5,398                   86            780           966                 9                        2
LDA Operatioos - Total                            Lc,617        33,890         53,L92                3,141          5,441         9.585                 3                       63
Disease Control
Capital Cost                                         279           565            848                   45             7l           136                 -                       67
Operating Cost                                       53ST          18sN           711          8         7             2'           116                    _5
SOS-Total               **71T           1_773        T73                      132TI         123           25__2              _T_                       1
on-Project Related Training                            245            579           8i5                    80             >           131                 1                        7'
Feasibility Studies           4                 0        c         1,61)          2,200                   64            256           32'                 3
Goverrnmnt Operatione - Total                      1,463         2, 15          4,379                  236            866           702                 7                       66
LDA and Governoent Operationo - Total             21,070        36,815         57,875                3,38)         5,437           .287               11                        61
Contingencies:
Fhyaical @ 10%                                     2,127         3,689          5,787                  338           541            '2)                                         61
Price 5 14%                                       2 )5i          5,153          8,103                  1174          827         1,3'1l                                         64
Sob-T.tol                t%7            83573        13,8l90               -'7!                          77 73-
Total Project Cost                                  26,127        85,638         71,765                8,1)2         7 395         11.517                                          6I.
November 15, 1373






ANNEX 15
SOMALIA
TRANS-JUBA LIVESTOCK PROJECT
I/
Sources and Annual Phasing of Investments
(So. Sh .000)
Year
1                 2                  3                 4                  5                  Total
Annual Phasing of Project Cost
LDA Operations:
Capital Investments                              10,677             16,249              5,364              2,714             1,388                36,392
Consultants                                          613             1,231              1,471              1,348               735                 5,398
Operating Expenses                                1.856              3,823              6,028                -                 -                    '
Sub-Total                             13,146             21,303             12,863             4,062              1,123                53,497
Government Operations
Disease Cuntrol                                     596                668                 229               -                 -                   1,563
Training of Government Staff                         -                 200                 200               200               215                   815
Feasibility Studies                                  -                 500                 500               500               500                 2, 33
Sub-Total                                 596             1,368                 999               700               715                 4,378
Total Project Cost                               13-742             22.671              13,862             4,762             2,838                57.875
DLisbursements
LDA Operations:
Government Contribution                           1,446              2,343               1,415               447               234                 5,885
IDA Credit                                       11,700             18,960              11,448            3,615              1.889                47,612
Sub-Total                             13,146             21,303              12,863            4,062              2,123                53,497
Government Operations
Government Contribution                              238               546                 399               280               285                 1,748
IDA Credit                                          358                822                 600               420               430                 2,630
Sub-Total                                596              1,368                 999               700               715                 4,378
Total-LDA and Government Operations
Government Contribution                           1,684              2,889               1,814               727               519                 7,633
IDA Credit                                       12,058             19.782              12.048            4,035              2,319                50,242
Total Project Cost                    13.742             22.671              13_862            4 762              2 838                57_875
1/Excluding Contingencies
November 15, 1973






SOMALIA
XD                                                TRANS-JUBA LIVESTOCK PROJECT
b                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1/
(D
Government's Incremental Revenues From Taxes and Duties
_~                                                        (So.Sh.000)
Source of Revenue                   ---------------------------------Year-----------------------------------------------
1         2           3           4           5           6           7-20
LDA
Marketing 2/                               115        162         217        240          226         227           227
Project Construction and
Maintenance Unit 2/                      167        174        152         128          26          26             26
Grazing Ranches and
Irrigated Fodder Farm 2/                 86        309         540         759         828         850           851
Irrigation 2/                              263       426         156         161         164         164            164
Project Development Unit 2/                 32         32         32          39          39          39             39
Live Cattle Export 3/                        9         11          27        108         216         216            216
Disease Control 2/  4/                           21         44          44          44          44          44            44
TOTAL                           5/    693      1,158       1,168       1,479       1,543       1,566         1,567
Total-Included in Project Cost        693      1,158       1,168         272         200          -            -
Cumulative Total
Contributed  to Project                       693      1,851       3,019       3,291       3,491         -             -
1/  Does not include incremental revenue from the meat factory and the por:, and municipal taxes (see Annex 2).
2/  Includes import duty on fuel and lubricants (gasoline, 64%; diesel fuel, 57%; lubricants, 13% of retail price)
and development levies.  Capital items are imported free of duty.
3/  So.Sh. 27 per head.
4/  Non-project related disease control (MLFR, Department of Animal Health and Production).                                       o
5/ Proportionate Estimate.






SOMALIA
TRANS-JUBA LIVESTOCK PROJECT
LDA's Estimat.d Cash Flow  from Proiect
(So. Sh. '000)
---------------------------------- _--------- ------------------------------------ YEAR ----------------------------------------------------------------------- --------------------- --------
1          2          3          4           5      Soh-Tot-l       6        7         0          9        10        11         12         13       14        15         16        17         18        19       20
CASH INFLOW
Li-vatonk s-alao st of tames (a)                       825      4,039      12,437     21,639     28,779    67,719       30,703   30,703   30,703  30,703    30,703   30,703           30,703  30,703   30,703    30,703        30,703    30,703  30,703    30,703  30,703
TEA Ceodnit                                         11,700     18,960      11,448      3,615      1,889    47,612          -          -         -        -         -          -       --          -          -         -           -         -        -          -        -
Govoemmeot Coottibutio-  1/                          1,446      2,343       1,415        447         234    53885
Book overdraft 2/                                    2,000      2,000         -          -           -        4,000
From fEmda for replanement of assets                      -          -          -          _           _          -           092     1.013       f96   1,332 2        l42    1,483       ,99,       919       687       545       1,743     1,230   1,090         627      815
Total Cash Inflow                             15,971      77,342    25,300    25,701    30,902   125,216          31,595   31,716   31,499  3-.n33    31,445   33,186           33,700   3],522   31,290   3:2,29   32,046   31,933  31,'93   31,337 31,518
CASR OUTFLOW
Capital IEvostroot                                    10,677      16,249      5,364      2,714       1,388    36,392          -         -         -        .         -          -          -        -          -         -           -         -        -          -        -
Replacameot of assets                                     -                     -           -          -          -           092    1,013        796   1,332        742      1,483      2,997       919       687       545       1,743     1,230   1,090         627      815
Loam reFpasmint
Sovaramoo7t loam (tocludinf IDA Creldit) o)3/          -           -          -          -           -          -        4,402     4,402    4,402   4,402        4,403     4,403       4,403   4,403      4,403      4,403      4,403      4,403   4,403      4,403   4,403-
B.ok overdraft (F)                                     -          -         2,000      2,000         -       4,000         -          -                  -         -          -          -        -          -         -           -         -        -          -        -
Opero.to ti5gFO5-t Ironlediog BoIt
iotereet and parolee, of cattle) (c)                 2,469      5,054       7, 899     0.703     80224    31.949         7.313     7.513    7,526   7.326        7.526     7,.26       7,526    7,526     7.526      7,52o      7,526      7,526   7,526      7,526   7,526
Livestock pnrnla9e fd)                                 1,932      6,023       3,651      8,360    12,503       32,35h      ,437    13 437    3 437  1 337            43      3,77       13,437  13,437    13,437    '3,437       13,437    13,437  13,437    13,437  13,437
Irterest on; (e)
Iovaromeet la. m 1 ilo dong IEA Credit) 71;, p a.3/ -              -          -          _           _          _        4,628    4,309       3,990   3,671      3,352     3,033       2,713    2,394     2,075      1,756      1,436      1,117      798        479      159
Bark overdraft fe) 64 pa.                               60         180        160         _60                   4h7        -          -         -        -         -          -          -        -          -         -           -         -        -          -        -
Deprecoition fuod (f)                                     -          203        720         030        908      2,731         944       944       944      944       944        944        944       944       944       944         944       944      944        944      944
Distrlibtion of  -efi-v  4/
Ineenti-v  fund                                        -          -           _          -           14           4        3354      -            4       20        36        52          68       84        100       116        132        148      164        150      196
Hoosilg fumd                                           -           -          -          _           117        117        496        -           6       2B        51         73         95      110        140       162         164       206      228        250      274
SIate bodget                                                       -          -                   1,477      1,477       6,234                   75      336       636        917      1,199    1.479    1,760       2,01;       2,322     2,603    2,885     3.166    3,446
Trtal Cooh Outflow                            15.138      23,797     21,460    22,675    24,761   109,831         38,900   31.631   31,180  31,776    31,127    31,868    33,382  31,304    31,072    30,930              32,127    31,614  31,475   31,012  31,200
SURPLUS/(DEFICIT)                                            833      1,543      3,840      3,026       6,141    15,385       (7,305)       05       319       319       310       310         318      318       318       318         319        319      318       318      318
CUKdLATIVE SURPLUS/(DEFICIT)                                 833      2,378     6,218        9.244    15,385    15,385         8,080    8,165    8,484   8,803         9,121         9,439  9,757  10,075   10,393    10,711u    11,730    1             11.667    11.985  12,303
1/  20 y-ars tepay e..o  pniod, 5 yoare of f.re r. 71;4 ineers.
2/  60 pan annum  m .tstantoding balo.te.
3/  Ieter-et dt So.Sh. 12,544,000 during the fine rear -1 enere-L- ne period  -o    d-rg -eh the ter year gray-            a peenol ie de0trrld wad ca-ttoloend and  ,ill b4  -apaid tiLk Gte-eant loon ti-lnd-ng IDA Credit) from Vear  1X tf year twofty.
4/  The p-nf,te of art  dea  are d-L-aebUted  -n hek  f llrowig year.  (Net pFtit - ilo-- ire-   p-ratiore  (a) 'et-  Gne-n-ent lan- (ilnladeng 1DA Credit) and Bank (verdraft (b)  poeratirg enp.orer (a), liees-ock p-rehkaes (d) int-erst (a)
and depreena Coon 17).






ANNEX 18
Table 1
SOMALIA
TRANS-JUBA LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Allocation and Disbursement of the Credit
Allocated          % of Expenditure
Category                                    Amount of Credit         to be Financed 1/
(US$ )
LDA OPERATICNS
I.    International Competitive Bidding               2,800,000          92% of total
(Civil works for irrigation, drainage,                                 expenditures
access road, irrigation equipment,
tractors, trucks, vehicles)
II.   Local Competitive Bidding                         800,000          92% of total
(Construction of boreholes                                             expenditures
buildings, water and stock
handling facilities on the
Afmadu holding ground, and
similar items for the two
grazing ranches and the
irrigated fodder farm and
feedlot)
III.  Other Investment Items                          2,710,000          92% of total
expenditures
IV.  First Three Years of Operating Expenses          1,300,000          70% of total
expenditures
GOVERNMENT OPERATIONS
V.   Disease Control                                     90,000          70% of investment
TAll Investment Except Operating Costs)                                costs; no opera-
ting cost would
be financed
VI.  Non-Project Related Training                        90,000          70% of total
of Government Staff                                                 expenditures
VII. Feasibility Studies                                210,000          70% of total
expenditures
VIII. Unallocated                                     2,000,000
TOTAL                    10,000,000
1/ Excluding Taxes and Duties
November 20, 1973.



ANNEX 18
Table 2
SOMALIA
TRANS-JURA LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Allocation and Disbursement of the Credit
Estimated Expenditure and Disbursement Percentage by Project Components
Amount of the Credit            % of
Allocated (Expressed        Expenditures
Category                  in Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
I.      Civil Works for Irrigation                  1,550,000             92% of total
Engineering Services                                               Expenditures
II.     Other Civil Works for Markets,              1,7500,000            92% of total
Stockroutes, Two Grazing                                           Expenditures
Ranches and Irrigated Fodder
Farm and Feedlot
III.    Vehicles                                    1,250,000             92% of total
Expenditures
IV.     Equipment and Bhilding Material               870,000             92% of total
Expenditures
V.      Consultants for LDA Management                800,000             92% of total
Expenditures
VI.    Training
(a)  LDA Staff                                180,000            92% of total
Expenditures
(b)  Government Staff                          90,000            70% of total
Expenditures
VII.    Feasibility Studies                           210,000             70% of total
Expenditures
VIII.   LDA Operating Costs 1/                      1,300,000             70% of total
Expenditures
IX.     Unallocated                                 2,000,000
TOTAL                   10,000,000
1/ Financed during first three years.
November 20, 1973.



ANNEX 18
Table 3
SOMALIA
TRANS-JUBA LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Allocation and Disbursement of the Credit
Estimated Schedule of Quarterly DisbursementL/
(US$ 000)
IDA Fiscal                       Cumulative                       Balance
Year and                          Amount                            of
Quarter                         Disbursed                         Credit
1973/74
June 30                            200                            9,800
1974/75
September 30                       500                            9,500
Decemlber 31                     1,000                            9,000
March 31                         1,500                            8,500
June 30                          2,000                            8,000
1975/76
September 30                     3,000                            7,000
December 31                      4,000                            6,000
March 31                         4,500                            5,500
June 30                          5,000                            5,000
1976/77
September 30                     5,200                            4,800
December 31                      5,500                            4,500
March 31                         5,8oo                            4,200
June 30                          6,500                            3,500
1977/78
September 30                     7,000                            3,000
December 31                      7,200                            2,800
March 31                         7,500                            2,500
June 30                          8,000                            2,000
1978/79
September 30                     8,200                            1,800
December 31                      8,500                            1,500
March 31                         9,000                            1,000
June 30                          9,500                              500
1979/80
September 30                     9,700                              300
December 31                      9,800                              200
i-arch 31                        9,900                              100
June 30                        10,000
1/ It is estimated that the Project should be fully developed in five years
and therefore, all estimates, calculations and cash flows are based on
this. However, in this table alone a six-year period has been projected.
This allows for possible difficulties in Project management and organization
and other delays that could occur during Project implementation. Although
exact causes of delay cannot be forecast, this is prudent, as previous
projects in Somalia have been subject to unforeseen delays (para 1.02).
November 15, 1973






Page 1
SOMALIA
TRANS-JUBA LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Organization and Management
1.        Project activities would be coordinated by the Ministry of Livestock,
Forestry and Range (MLFR) and the Project would be executed by LDA and the
Veterinary Department of MLFR (Chart 1). LDA would be responsible for all
construction work and would operate markets, stockroutes, holding grounds,
and the production ranches. The Veterinary Department, which is now respon-
sible for all Government activities related to animal health except pe.rt
veterinary services would be responsible for disease control. The Project
would require some reorganization and strengthening of LDA. LDA's present
staff lacks the required expertise and experience, and Government, hqs agreed
that during development the management and organizatiorn of the Project should
be centered around key internationally recruited personnel.
Project Organization within LDA
2.        LDA is headed by a General Manager and has its headquarteis in Moga-
dishu; it operates through six regional offices throughout the col;atry, one
of which is in Kismayu, the administrative center of the Project area. LDA
now has three major departments: Marketing, Development, and Finance Adminis-
tration (Chart 2). While all departments need to be strengthened, it is essen-
tial for the Project that the Marketing Department be reorganized on a priority
basis and a new department, the Project Development and Training Unit, be
established under the direction of the Project Manager. The department would
supervise Project implementation, and would be phased out on Project completion.
3.        Hitherto LDA has been engaged predominantly in live cattle trading
for export or for the Kismayu meat factory. Its experience with production
related activities is limited and there is not sufficient evidence that it
could implement the proposed Project with its present staff and organ.zation.
During both implementation and at full development, Project organization
would be centered around six posts, to be established (Charts 3 and 4):
(a) Project Director, would be responsible to the LDA's General 2Ianager
for overall coordination of Project development, production, in-service local
staff training and consultancy. He would also be responsible, with the
assistance of the Project Finance Officer, for Project related procurement,
contracts, reimbursement claims and progress reports;



ANNEX 19
Page 2
(b) Senior Grazing Ranch Manager, would be responsible for the
establishment and initial operation of the two grazing ranches, including
the training of Somali ranch managers.  He would also conduct field trials
on range improvement;
(c) Irrigated Fodder Farm and Feedlot Manager, would be responsible
for the operation of the irrigated fodder farm including forage production,
feedlot operatron, use of machinery, as well as on the selection and in service
training of Somali technicians;
(d) irrigation Specialist, would be responsible for the irrigation opera-
tions on the irrigated fodder farm and would coordinate irrigation with feed
production.
(e) Project Finance Officer, would be primarily responsible for all
financial .spects of the Project including management of funds and procurement
and disburtement procedures, and would assist LDA's finance director in
strengthening the finance department; and
(f) Master Mechanic, would be responsible for the overall management and
repair of machinery, plant, and tractors including the establishment and
operation of the repair shop and spare parts section.
Terms of Reference for the six positions are in Appendix I.
4.       In view of the shortage of suitably trained and experienced Somali
staff candidates for these posts would be recruited internationally.  During
the first five years of Project operation these posts would be filled by such
staff, and local staff would receive professional and inservice training.
In year six, when Project construction and development would be completed
qualified and trained local staff would have taken over all posts (Chart 5).
Project Development and Training Unit (PDTU)
5.       The ?DTU would be headed by the Project Director who would be directly
responsible to LDA's General Manager. It would be located in Kismayu and
would be responsible for the survey, siting and construction of all development
work required by the Project. PDTU would direct the operations of the produc-
tio:i ranches through a senior ranch manager, irrigation specialist, irrigated
farm a.m feedlot manager and a master mechanic. The Project finance officer,
'ecated in M'ogadishu, would also be a member of this department. The Project
construction 3nd maintenance unit (PCMU) within PDTU would be established to
undertake all development work required by the marketing and disease control
components of the Project, excluding boreholes, which would be drilled and
equipped by contract with the water Development Agency (WDA) or by private
contractor. The PDTU, unless given other responsibility, would be abolished
after Project completion in year six. LDA's development department would
issume a continuous training function and the PCMU would eventually be trans-
formed into the maintenance unit responsible to the development department.
Before, or upon, disbanding of PDTU, a Production Department would be created
at LDA's headquarters which would supervise ranching and fattening operations



ANNEX 19
Page 3
set up under the Project as well as other production activities hitherto
managed by the development department (Chart 3).
Disease Control
6.       The Director of Animal Health and Production in the Veterinary
Depattment would be responsible for supervision of the veterinary staff of
the Project's disease control component.
Marketing Department
7.       The Marketing Department would have a market intelligence and promo-
tion service (MIPS) and trading service (TS). The Director would communicate
with the field units directly and through the two Service Chiefs. The MIPS
would collect, evaluate and disseminate market related statistical data, and
design and execute programs to improve LDA's marketing programs and procedures.
The TS would supervise the operation and maintenance of markets, stockroutes,
holding grounds and other marketing facilities and would supervise contracts,
regionally coordinate purchases and sales and liaise with the Production
Department.
The Kismayu Regional Department
8.       During Project implementation, the regional office would have a
development and maintenance section, a marketing section, a finance adminis-
tration section, and a port veterinary section. The production section would
be added at full Project development. The regional director would be in
direct communication with the head office, but flexibility would be introduced
so that the best working arrangements could be effected.
9.       The development and maintenance section would, at full development,
have a mobile staff and equipment unit (physically located at the irrigated
fattening farm) which would maintain all existing LDA facilities in the area.
Operating and maintenance personnel would be stationed at the holding grounds,
markets, marshalling yards, and stockroutes. The marketing section would
comprise the market teams in Badada, Hadweineh Busar, Lugh, Afmadu holding
ground for Tabda and Masketi, and Kismayu holding ground for Kismayu, Afmadu
and Gelib. This section would also include a regional market intelligence
coordinator and a regional market development coordinator. The production section
would oversee the grazing ranches and the irrigated fodder farm and feedlot.
10.      Staffing would proceed according to the progress of Project construc-
tion. It is important that some of the market development programs, in par-
ticular the bull-calves saving campaign, start at the earliest possible date
to assure the availability of feeder steer early in the Project. The PDTU,
although working in close cooperation with the Regional Director, would not
be subordinate to him.



ANNEX 19
Page 4
Staff Availability and Recruitment Procedures
11.      The Project envisages the employment of six qualified and experienced
professionals to be recruited through an international consulting firm. the
remaining posts would be filled by local recruitment. However, it would be
necessary to give substantial in service training to all locally recruited
staff. Government approved and established pay scales and conditions of serv-
ice already exist within the LDA for all levels of expertise and experience.
Junior staff are directly recruited at present, whereas management posts are
filled by advertisement and personal interview.
Training
12.      The Project provides about US$250,000 for diploma training and short
term study tours. Four graduates would receive training overseas and about
ten students would be given diploma training in countries with similar eco-
logical conditions; it is assumed that about half of the students would become
directly involved in Project implementation, and half would be for the MLFR
and the Kismayu meat factory. Candidates would be selected by LDA in conjunc-
tion with the MLFR. Training would be in animal production, range management,
irrigated feed production, marketing, machinery utilization and maintenance
or in similar disciplines which would qualify the trainees for subsequent
employment within the Project, or within MLFR. Two Somali technicians or
supervisors from the Kismayu meat factory would be sent under the training
program to plants with similar produce in order to familiarize them with the
operating procedures and measures required to meet international standards of
hygiene. Short term study tours would be proposed by the Project Director and
approved by LDA in consultation with IDA.



ANNEX 19
Appendix 1
Page 1
SOMALIA
TRANS-JUBA LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference, Duties, Responsibilities and
Qualifications for LDA Project Staff
1.  Project Director
The Project Director would be directly responsible to the General
Manager of LDA for Project management and organization.
Duties and Responsibilities
The Project Director would be required for four years, and would
have, inter alia, the following specific duties and responsibilities, which
he could delegate to the technical staff of the Project Organization:
(a) manage, execute and evaluate the Project in accordance
with policies and procedures of the borrower;
(b) prepare with the assistance of his staff, the development
programs and projections for each Project related component. In
particular he would determine to what extent proposed mechanization
could be replaced by labor, without jeopardizing the fodder production
required for the feedlot;
(c) provide the supervision and technical assistance necessary
to ensure the successful start-up and completion of each development
component of the Project;
(d) advise the General Manager of LDA on the selection and recruitment
of local technical staff required for Project implementation;
(e) coordinate and supervise the duties and responsibilities of Project
related staff;
(f) advise the General Manager of LDA on, and assist with the selection
of consultants required by the Project from time to time;
(g) establish and supervise the maintenance of suitable records and
accounts for all development components so as to facilitate Project evaluation;



ANNEX 19
Appendix 1
Page 2
(h)  prepare quarterly and annual progress reports for submission to LDA
for transmittal to IDA;
(i) advise LDA on, and assist with, the procurement of all materials,
equipment, machinery, and other requisites necessary for Project implementation;
(j) prepare specifications for, and supervise the selection of tenders
where International or Local Competitive Bidding is considered necessary for
the supply of materials or machinery, and/or construction works.
Qualifications
The Project Director should have the following minimum qualifica-
tions:
(a) a university degree in Agricultural Science, Agricultural Economics,
Agricultural Commerce, Business Administration, or its equivalent;
(b) a broad professional experience of at least 10 years, preferably
in Agriculture or related sectors in countries with similar ecological
conditions;
(c) a proven ability in organization and management, and experience
with staff management, preferably in a similar country.
2.   Senior Grazing Ranch Manager
The Senior Grazing Ranch Manager would be required for three years,
would be directly under the Project Director, and would be responsible inter
alia for the construction and start up production of the two grazing ranches.
Duties and Responsibilities
(a) In consultation with the Project Director, select the final sites
for, and direct the establishment of the proposed two grazing ranches;
(b) supervise the operation and management of the two grazing ranches,
anl in consultation with the Project Director, and the Irrigated Fodder Farm
and Feedlot Manager coordinate and facilitate the timely supply of cattle to
the feedlot;
(c) devise a program of in-service training of the Somali ranch managers;
(d) devise and implement, a program of applied research of techniques of
range improvement;



ANNEX 19
Appendix 1
Page 3
(e) study and record the management, husbandry and cattle production
related customs among the nomadic cattle owners in the Lower Juba region;
(f) provide annually to the Project Director a written report on the
performance of the two ranches, and progress of investigations prescribed in 1|
(d) and (e) above;
(h) in the third year of Project implementation prepare after due consul-
tation with the Project Director a draft plan for the further development of
the cattle industry, in the Trans-Juba area based on the experience gained by
the Project.
Qualifications
The Senior Grazing Ranch Manager should have the following qualifi-
cations:
(a) a university degree in agricultural science, or its equivalent, with
a bias in animal husbandry and/or tropical agronomy;
(b) at least 3 years experience in ranch management, in low rainfall,
semi-arid tropical climate areas in the pasture animal complex as it relates
to rangeland management, as well as in all facets of cattle husbandry, manage-
ment, and breeding.
3.   Irrigation Specialist
The Irrigation Specialist would be required for about 3 years and
would be responsible to the Project Director for providing irrigation on the
irrigated fodder farm and feedlot.
Duties and Responsibilities
The Irrigation Specialist would be required to manage the irrigation
operations of the irrigated fodder farm. In carrying out these duties the
irrigation specialist would be under the direct supervision of the irrigated
fodder farm and feedlot manager and would inter alia.
(a) prepare a schedule of irrigation operations in accordance with
crop and soil requirement. The schedule should take into consideration
water holding capacities of the soils, frequencies of irrigations, timing
in relation to crop production, and possible changes in water quality at
different periods during the year;
(b) supervise operations and maintenance of the pumping plant;



ANNEX 19
Appendix 1
Page 4
(c) organize and oversee the work of the irrigator crews so that irriga-
tion water would be applied in proper quantities and according to schedule;
(d) coordinate irrigation operations with other activities on the farm;
(e) schedule the maintenance operations;
(f) provide for in-service training for the Somali irrigation specialist,
the irrigators, and the pumping plant employees;
(g) prepare, necessary activity reports.
Qualifications
The irrigation specialist should have the following minimum qualifi-
cations:
(a) a university degree in Agriculture with an Irrigation Option or
equivalent;
(b) five years experience in managing irrigation operations growing simi-
lar crops in an environment similar to that in Somalia.
4.   Irrigated Fodder Farm and Feedlot Manager
The Manager would be required for four years and would be directly
responsible to the Project Director in managing the production of feed
required for the feedlot.
Duties and Responsibilities
The Farm Manager would be responsible to the Project Director for the
start up and implementation of the irrigated fattening farm and feedlot opera-
tion. He would be responsible for overall management and coordination includ-
ing feed production and conservation, feedlot management, and machinery repair
and organization. He would inter alia:
(a) assist the Project Manager in the detailed planning and construction
of the irrigated fodder farm and feedlot;
(b) advise the Project Director on the employment of technical and other
staff needed for the farm;
(c) direct and coordinate the work of the Irrigation Specialist and the
Master Mechanic;



ANNEX 19
Appendix 1
Page 5
(e) direct the employment of skilled and unskilled staff required for
Project implementation;
(f) devise and implement in cooperation with the Veterinary Department
of the Ministry of Livestock Forestry and Range and resident Somali veteri-
narian a program of animal health control within the irrigated fodder farm
and feedlot;
(g) arrange for the timely supply of cattle for the feedlot with the
grazing ranches managers;
(h) coordinate, through the Project Director, the timely supply of
finished cattle to the Kismayu meat factory; and
(i) supervise adaptive research with various tropical forage crops, grass
and legume species.
qualifications
The Irrigated Fodder Farm and Feedlot Manager should have the follow-
ing qualifications:
(a) A university degree, diploma, or equivalent experience in irrigated
crop production, and animal husbandry and/or nutrition;
(b) experience with tropical crop and beef production;
(c) experience with the feedlot concept of beef feeding and management;
(d) a demonstrated organizational and managerial ability; and
(e) a demonstrated ability to handle and organize labor preferably in
areas of similar production conditions as the Trans-Juba area.
5.   Master Mechanic
The Master Mechanic would be required for three and a half years and
would be responsible to the Irrigated Fodder Farm and Feedlot Manager for the
overall organization and maintenance of machinery and equipment on the irri-
gated fodder farm and feedlot.
Duties and Responsibilities
The Master Mechanic would be responsible to the Irrigated Fodder
Farm and Feedlot Manager for the overall mechanical management, maintenance
and repair of machinery, tractors and pumping station including the supervision
and training of Somali operators and mechanics. He would, inter alia, have the
following duties and responsibilities:



ANNEX 19
Appendix 1
Page 6
(a) assist and advise the Farm Manager on all operations relating to all
Project related agricultural machinery and equipment and participate in the
selection of mechanics and machine operators needed for the Project;
(b) advise the Farm Manager on the procurement, type, operation, and
management of machinery, in order to execute the proposed feed production pro-
gram;
(c) establish and supervise the operation of the machinery repair shop,
including a properly organized spare parts section with a system for sustain-
ing the inventory;
(d) devise and supervise in consultation with the Farm Manager an adequate
training program for Somali mechanics. Tractor drivers, and machine operators;
Qualifications
The Master Mechanic should have the following minimum qualifications
and experience:
(a) a qualified "A" grade mechanics certificate, or its equivalent;
(b) a minimuam of 8 years experience in the repair and maintenance of
agricultural machinery;
(c) wide experience in the operation and management of agricultural
machinery, particularly that related to forage crop production and conserva-
tion; and
(d) a demonstrated ability to manage labor and train technical staff,
preferably in a similar environment as that in the Project area.
6.   Project Finance Officer
The Project Finance Officer would be directly responsible to the
Project Director for all financial matters relating to the Project. He is
also expected to act in an advisory capacity to LDA's Finance Director.
Duties and Responsibilities:
The Project Finance Officer would be required for four years and
would have the following duties and responsibilities:
(a) design an accounting and management information system suitable for
the Project;



ANNEX 19
Appendix 1
Page 7
(b) advise the Project Director on the appointment of clerical staff;
(c) prepare the necessary forms and records for the proper implementation
of the system;
(d) issue the necessary directives and instructions to personnel in the
field;
(e) train and supervise the account staff into the use of forms and
entering of data into the accounting records;
(f) supervise the preparation of periodical management information data
and financial statements by the Projects accounts staff;
(g) control during Project's development period procurement and disburse-
ment procedures and statements and progress reports as required by IDA; and
(h) advise LDA's Finance Director to strengthen LDA's Finance and Admin-
istration Department to take over the Project's accounts section at the end
of year four when the Project Finance Officers' employment ends.
Qualification and Experience:
The Project Finance Officer should have the following minimum
qualifications:
(a) a university degree and/or professional qualification in Accounting
and related subjects;
(b) a minimum of 5 years experience as chief accountant or controller;
(c) previous experience in designing and implementing of accounting
systems desirable.






ANNEX 19
Char t 1
SOMALIA
TRANS-JUBA LIVESTOCK PROJECT
MINISTRY OF LIVESTOCK, FORESTRY AND RANGE
DEPARTMENT OF ANIMAL HEALTH AND PRODUCTION
Ministry of Livestock
Forestry and Range
Secretary
|PDirector Generaloc
|  Other Departments   <            [             l                                 S
1e Forestry & Range                      Department of Animal
2 Administration                        Health and Production
3. Planning, Training
and Research D[rector
Animal                    -      I                                                       Animall
HOalth                                                                                   Production
Service                                                                                  Service
l~~                     ~      ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~ isease                                Production                          Hides & Skins       l
Regions                          Diagnosis                           Control                           and Improvement                       By-Products
Sec'tlon                           Section                            Section                               Section
Districts                                                   MetVaccine
I nspectionProduction
_                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~World Bank-7636
October 23, 19' 3






ANNEX 19
COhrt 2
SOMALIA
TRANS-JUBA LIVESTOCK PROJECT
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT AGENCY AND DEPARTMENT
OF ANIMAL HEALTH AND PRODUCTION
EXISTING ORGANIZATION
MINISTRY OF 
|LIVESTOCK, FORESTRY & RANGE|
Mork.3ltg O.pt.               |.n.Iopment D.pt.              Othor LOA Dopt-|   Port VDtArinr y SAc                                                            Hth
Ext rnal   Intar-A & Cod                                       A ProductUni
On, UnitOn.' Unit
R.gionMl Dir Ctor. also contrunlcate dirsotly with O.pr,o.ntmn at iiadquartnrr
World Bnik7iti7
October 23, 1973






SOMALIA
TRANS-JUBA LIVESTOCK PROJECT
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT AGENCY
ORGANIZATION CHART
A   D- Ding -D   --opiene                                                                                                                         1              ene ol
|    Mare      8>                                      Delomn  De                                       Oter existing Dept's                       Port Ve-eoer, Seric                      F ar       ceS                                                    Pro,et Denniopmen l&8 Tnt nag1  in
&    f i  1 Fn o roo                                                                 1       i                                                                                                                                                                          L   P,ojet D-l .T
K,se               0      Ft                                                                                                    _ac                                                                                                                         F Ia rm             FInDfnce           Meintenancc         |Cpnsustantse
B. At Fellnc D          Tredn o            P10 5 &                  iM iaOer                                                                                                                  KOe                         i
& P     rokotion    Dcpt          |i                                                                                                               Ki          --v Dep  ore rF                             Admn.Dcpt                                                        P ida
hero oxSection                                       t       Sig-                                                                                                                                                                                                      d-         6
^s., .es   . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,: '?- - ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~             ~             ~~                           ~~~                                     ~~sr tRini73






SOMALIA
TRANS-JUBA LIVESTOCK PROJECT                                                   A1Z4X rt
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT AGENCY
MARKETING DEPARTMENT
ORGANIZATION CHART
MARKETING DIRECTOR
MARKET INTELLIGENCE AND PROMOTION SERVICE  |                                               TRADING SERVICE
MARKET INTELLIGENCE SECTION         MARKET PROMOTION SECTION |                       OPERATIONS SECTION                  BUSINESS SECTION
i  INFORMATION GATHERING  I       I   SPECIAL PROGRAMS, e.g.                      SUPERVISION -                     SALES CONTRACTS
I  NEWS SERVICE           I             BULL CALVES SAVING    I                       MARKETS             |        I COORDINATION -
STATISTICAL UNIT                     MARKET INCENTIVES                            STOCK ROUTES                     REGIONAL PURCHASES/SALES
iI|     |    GRADING SYSTEM        I                 |     HOLDING GROUNDS               I   PRODUCTION/MARKETING
I             G         S          I                       MARSHALLING YARDS             I
OTHER FACILITIES    !
KISMAYU OFFICE - MARKETING SECTION   l                                                OTHER REGIONAL OFFICES
MARKET TEAMS               E    -COORDINATORS        1
BADADA                  I       I   MARKET INTELLIGENCE   I
I LUGH                    I        I   MARKET PROMOTION
B 8USAR                                                      I
AFMADU HOLDING GROUND  I        I
I    TABDA, MASKATI       '
I KISMAYU HOLDING GROUND  I                                  I
i    HADWEiNEH, AFMADU,   I        I
I    GELIB                I                                                                                                                 7Sj
L -      ~ -W- -I-d-  -   -.- -k- --   LWr
October 23, J?13






SOMALIA
TRANS-JUBA LIVESTOCK PROJECT                                                                   ANNEX 19
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND STAFF TRAINING
MAN YEAR                     1               2               3                4               5                6         Total During Five Years (Development Period)
__________________________________                                                                                               Staff in        Professional      In Service
PROJECT DIRECTOR.                                                       ---                      _                                full command    Training          Training
FOREIGN                 m         unmm m                -m - - -- -4
LOCAL                      0w                                             mi_ mum  III                 I             .                       3 _
SENIOR RANCH MANAGER:
FOREIGN                                                                                                                    3 -   _   _    _   _   _    _    _   _  3
LOCALS                  *s *.  E      l m  m   ii *muu  mu.  **m  11m           m   m       _   _   _  _                            2       _                3
llE lllh  lll lii ll Isll lllE hl Elll lEll  iii|  m||  _    _    _    _   _    _   _  _   _             2 _                      3   
IRRIGATION SPECIALIST:
FOREIGN                                             -                                                                      3u  - - - -  /
LOCALL                                  _IL                                                                                                  2               1
FARM AND FEEDLOT
MANAGER:
FOREIGN                                                                                                                    4    - m
LOCAL                                  -LM   '- I                       L                       sell....  **                                 3               1
PROJECT FINANCE OFFICER:  _|   .                                                                                                 4
LOCAL                   ii  iimii i      .. in'      .... _1          _         L.j    I S Eli  _ii _i         _ _ _ _ _ _ m  m              2               2
MASTER MECHANIC:
FOREIGN                                        in           m      i    m  m             _   _   _  _   _                  3%
LOCAL                                           IhhlEEumlhhlh  11  I  l iimi  i   u  il-                                                                     31/2
NOTE:                                                                                                                    TOTAL   22"         62/      10
= Full Command of Organization and Management
= Local Staff on Professional Training                                                                           1/ Foreign
elrrlh araehallh all = Local Staff on In Service Training                                                                           2/ Local
WVorld Bank-7605(R)
October 23, 1)73






ANNEX 20
Table I
SOMALIA
TRANS-JUBA LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Projected Cash Flow of LDA Including Project, 1974-1980 1/
1974         1975         1976         1977          1978         1979         1980
CASE INFLOW
From Operations:
Livestock Sales                                      18,351       21,735       30,310        39,699       47,035       49,164        49,380
Less:  Cost of Livestock Purchases                   17j909       20,147       21,962        24,780       29,145       30,190        30,369
Net Cash Inflow from Livestock                          442         1,588        8,348       14,919       17,890        18,974       19,011
Livestock Inspection Fees                             4,386        4,453         4,519        4,590        4,660        4,731         4,803
Other Income                                            750           750          750          750          750           750          750
Income from Operations                                5,578        6,791       13,617        20,259       23,300       24,455        24,564
From Loans
TDA Credit                                           11,700       18,960        11,448        3,615        1,899           -            -
Government                                            1,446        2,343         1,415          447          234
Bank Overdraft                                        2,182        2,182         1,419          -             -            -            -
From Funds of Replacement of Assets                     -             -            -            101           114        1,006        1,127
Sub-Total                                      15,328        22,722       12,863        4,163         2,247        1,006        1,127
TOTAL CASH INFLOW                         20,906       29.513       26,480        24,422       25,547       25,461       25,691
CASH OUTFLOW
Operating Expenses                                    6,392        9,088       11,649        12,976       12,625       12,049        12,204
Interest and Bank Charges                               288          369           313          119          -          4,628        4,309
Depreciation Fund                                       322           700        1,229        1,439        1,509        1,545         1,545
Capital Investments                                  11,715       17,287         6,402        3,752        1,388           -            -
Replacement of Assets                                   -             -            -            101           114        1,006        1,127
Loan Repayments:
Long Term                                          504          529          -             -            -          4,402        4,402
Bank Overdraft                                     -            -          2,617        3,867           -            -            -
Increase in Working Capital                             187          187           187          187          -             -            -
Distribution of Profits: 2/
Incentive Fund                                     115          -            -            -              84          458           92
Housing Fund                                       161          -                                       117          642          128
State Budget                                       494          -            -            -          1,470         8,066        1,611
TOTAL CASH OUTFLOW                        20,178       28,160       22,397        22,441       17,307       32,796       25,418
Surplus/(Deficit)                                       728        1,353        4,083         1,981        8,240       (7,335)          273
Opening Cash Balance                                  2,692        3,420        4,773         8,856       10,837       19,077       11,742
CU14ULATIVE SURPLUSi(DEFICIT)                         3,420        4,773        8,856        10,837       19,077       11,742       12.015
1/ Represents combined cash flow in Annex 3, Table 2 and Annex 17.
2/  Profits are distributed as shown in Annex 17 footnote 4.  According to Law No. 58 of July 31, 1972 - "Finance of Public Enter-
prises and Agencies", - cash generated annually which is surplus to the enterprise's requirements, after specified appropriations -
llousing and Incentive Funds - and af share of depreciation for development, is paid to Government.
December 20, 1973.



ANNEX 20
Table 2
SOMALIA
TRANS-JUBA LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Balance Sheet of LDA as of December 31. 1972 Actual and 1973-1980 Proiected 1/
(So.Sh. 000)
1972       1973        1974        1975        1976       1977        1978        1979        1980
ASSETS:
Fixed Assets
(net of depreciation)                                 1,363      2,172      13,565      30,152      35,325     37,638      37,517      35,972      34,427
Current Assets
Livestock                                             4,272       4,459      6,521       9,833      11,270      11,457     11,457      11,457      11,457
Receivables                                           4,478       4,478      4,478       4,478       4,478       4,478      4,478       4,478       4,478
Cash                                                  1922        2,692      3.420       4,773       8.856      10.837     19.077      11,742      12,015
Total Current Assets                            12.035     14,030      29.011      52,688      67,574     77.071      90.501      83,166     83,439
Interest During Development 2/                            -           -          476       2,201       5,165       8,742     12,544      12,544      12,544
Depreciation FPnd Assets                                  -           229         551      1.251       2.480       3,919      5.428       6.973       8.518
TOTAL ASSETS                                    12.035     14,030      29.011      52 688     67.574      77,071      90.501      83.166     83,439
ACCUMULATED FUND AND LIABILITIES:
Accumulated Fund                                        5,223       7,066      8,599       9,050       8,809      10,485     14,539      14,539      18,941
Surplus/(Deficit)                                     1,843      1,533         451        (241)      1,676      4,054         -         4.402      4,402
Total                                            7,066      8,599       9,050       8,809      10,485     14,539      14,539      18,941     23,343
Long Term Debt                                          1,033         529     13,622      36,650      52,477     60,116      61,649      57,247      52,845
Current Liabilities
Current maturity of long-term debt                      479         504        529         -           -           -        4,402       4,402       4,402
Bank overdraft                                        2,712       2,883      5,065       6,484       3,867         -          -           -           -
Accounts payable                                        745       1,515         745        745         745        2.416     9,911       2,576       2.849
Total Current Liabilities                        3.936      4,902       6.339       7.229      4.612       2,416      14,313       6,978      7.251
TOTAL ACCUMULATED FUND AND LIABILITIES          12.035     14.030      2911        52,688        5        776071      90.501      83.166
1/ Project implementation assumed to begin in 1974.
2/  Interest during the development period 1974-1978 was capitalized (Annex 17).
December 21, 1973.



ANNEX 21
Page 1
SOMALIA
TRANS-JUBA LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Financial Analysis
1.        Separate rates of return have been calculated for the marketing and
production components of the Project in order to test their individual finan-
cial viability. Overhead charges have been distributed between the two com-
ponents in proportion to the amount of their respective capital costs. The
financial rate of return to the Project as a whole reflects LDA operations
only and does not take into account costs of So.Sh.4.4 million (US$700,000) for
feasibility studies, animal disease control and some training not directly
Project-related.
Marketing
2.        Costs of the marketing components consist of:
(a) capital and operating expenses for the stockroutes, the
markets, the market teams and the Afmadu holding ground;
(b) capital cost of the Project Construction and Maintenance
Unit (PCMU), and PCMU's operating costs including replace-
ment costs adjusted for a maintenance charge accounted for
by the grazing ranches and the irrigated fodder farm and
feedlot (Table 1, footnote 2);
(c) an overhead charge representing 22 percent of the cost for
the Project Development Unit and of Project-related training
that is directly related to the marketing component; and
(d) incremental livestock purchases.
3.        Financial benefits consist of sales of canning cattle to the meat
factory, immatures to the grazing ranches, selected feeders to the feedlot,
and exports of live cattle. Weights and prices are shown in Annex 5, Table 6.
4.        The financial rate of return for the marketing component (Table 1)
is 16 percent. Sensitivity analysis indicates that an increase in cattle
buying prices of 10 percent would reduce the rate of return to 2 percent
which indicates the component's sensitivity on prices. To maintain reasonable
prices and margins for all participants in the Project - nomadic producers,
LDA and t.he Kismayu meat factory - Government would be required that it would
consult annually with IDA on its cattle and beef pricing policies with the
objective of ensuring that such policies would include the encouragement of
higher offtake and an equitable distribution of benefits to all participants
in the beef cattle industry.



ANNEX 21
Page 2
Production
5.        The costs of the Project's production component consist of capital,
operating and replacement costs of the two grazing ranches, the irrigation
segment and the irrigated fodder farm and feedlot; overhead costs including
78 percent of the costs of the Project Development Unit and of Project-related
training directly related to production; and the cost of cattle purchases.
Financial benefits represent LDA's gross revenue from the operation of the
ranches and the fattening farm. Purchase and selling weights and prices of
fattened cattle are shown in Annex 5, Table 6.
6.        The financial rate of return of the production component (Table 2)
is 13%. Sensitivity analysis indicates that with a 10% increase in capital costs,
the return would be 12%; an increase of 10% in operating costs would give a
return of 10%. Furthermore, the rate of return would decrease to 10% if
cattle purchase prices increased by 10% and to 7% if cattle selling prices
fell by 10%.
Complete Project
7.        The above components of marketing and production would have an
estimated financial rate of return of 14% (Table 3). The rate of return
would decline to 10% in the event of a 10% rise in prices paid to cattle
producers, and to 6% if selling prices fell by 10%.
October 10, 1973



z                                                                          SOMALIA
0
TRANS-JUBA LIVESTOCK PROJECT
a
Financial Analysis
Marketing
_J                                                                Financial Rate of Return
(So. Sh. 000)
Marketing 1/                   Project Construction & Maintenance                  Incre-        Incre-    Incre-         Incre-
Unit                      Over-    mental         mental    mental         mental
Capital    Operating    Replacement    Capital    Operating    Replacement    head            Livestock    Total       Livestock    Net Cash
Year       Cost         Cost            Cost           Cost      Cost 2/          Cost                   Purchases    Cost        Sales 4/      Flow
1        1,641         410             -           2,593         843             -            330        1,932        7,799       2,378       (5,421)
2        1,841         649             -              -          861             -            281        4,029        7,361       5,095       (2,266)
3          979         923             -              -          669             -            225        5,697        8,493       7,282       (1,211)
4          614       1,167              -             -           509            -            220        8,360       10,870      10,883            13
5          -         1,301             -              -           (88)           -             99       12,563       13,875      16,354        2,479
6          -         1,313            244             -            87           135            75       13,437       15,204      17,374        2,170
7          -         1,313             25             -           87            43             52       13,437       14,957      17,374        2,417
8          -         1,313              23            -            87            -             52       13,437       14,912      17,374        2,462
9          -         1,313            127             -           87             10            52       13,437       15,026      17,374        2,348
10          -         1,313            140             -           87             -             52       13,437       15,029      17,374        2,345
11          -         1,313            410             -           87            173           120       13,437       15,540      17,374        1,834
11          -         1,313            182             -            87            25            52       13,437       15,096      17,374        2,278
13          -         1,313             65             -            87            19            52       13,437       14,973      17,374        2,401
14          -         1,313              6             -           87             -             52       13,437       14,895      17,374        2,479
15          -         1,313             25             -           87             -             52       13,437       14,914      17,374        2,460
16          -         1,313            252             -           87            138            75       13,437       15,302      17,374        2,072
17          -         1,313            111             -           87             35            52       13,437       15,035      17,374        2,339
18          -         1,313            157             -           87             -             52       13,437       15,046      17,374        2,328
19          -         1,313            132             -            87            19            52       13,437       15,040      17,374        2,334
20           -        1,313            130             -            87            -             52       13,437       15,019      17,374        2,355
Financial Rate of Return - 16%                                                                                 !4
Sensitivity Analysis:   10% increase in purchase prices of cattle - 2 percent.
1/  Includes stockroutes, Afmadu holding ground, cattle markets and market teams.
2/  Net of maintenance cost accounted for in production component:  year 2, So. Sh. 8000;  year 3, So. Sh. 37000;  year 4, So. Sh. 54000;
year 5, So. Sh. 62000; year 6-20, So. Sh. 67000.
3/ Represents 22 percent of cost of Project Development Unit and Project-related training.
4/ Includes sales to the meat factory, the two grazing ranches, the irrigated fodder farm, and feedlot and for live export.
(Annex 2, Tables 3 & 5.)



SOMALIA
TRANS-JUBA LIVESTOCK PROJECT
0
Firancial Analysis
e1                                                             Two Grazing Ranches and Irrigated Fodder Farm and Feedlot
Financial Rate of Return
(So. Sh. 000)
10                   Two Grazing Ranches                    Irrigation                      Irrigated Fattening Farm            1/  Incremental  Incremen-  IncrementLal  Incremental
Year   Capital  Operating  Replacement  Capital  Operating  Replacement  Capital  Operating  Replacement  Overhead  Livestock2/  tal Total  Livestock    Net Cash
Cost      Cost         Cost        Cost       Cost         Cost        Cost      Cost         Cost                  Purchases       Costs    Sales 2/          Flow
1     1,295        515          -        4,297       -             -           -          -            -        1,171        1,603        8,881            50        (8,831)
2     2,073      1,355          -        6,080      102            -         5,954      1,404          -          995        4,274       22,237        3,218        (19,019)
3     1,551      1,717          -           -       336            -         2,486      3,142          -           798       5,342       15,372        10,497        (4,875)
4        41      1,636          -           -       354            -         1,785     4,264           -           779       5,342        14,201       16,098         1,897
5       -        1,518          -          -        395            -         1,173     4,486          -           351        6,163       14,386       18,888         4,502
6       -        1,518         180          -       417            -           -        3,943          -          268        7,187        13,513      20,516          7,003
7       -        1,518         281         -        417            -           -       3,956          664         183        7,187       14,206       20,516          6,310
8       -        1,518         121          -       417            -           -       3,956           652         183       7,187        14,034      20,516          6,482
9       -        1,518          57          -       417           220          -       3,956           898         183       7,187       14,436       20,516          6,080
10       -        1,518          37         -        417            -           -       3,956          565         183        7,187       13,863       20,516         6,653
11       -        1,518         217         -        417            _           -       3,956           106        431        7,187       13,832       20,516         6,684
12       -        1,518         217          -       417            -           -       3,956        2,573          183       7,187       16,051       20,516          4,465
13       -        1,518         109          -       417            -           -       3,956           726        183        7,187       14,096       20,516          6,420
14       -        1,518         129         -        417            -           -       3,956          552         183        7,187       13,942       20,516         6,574
15       -        1,518          20         -        417            -           -       3,956          500         183        7,187       13,781       20,516          6,735
16       -        1,518         192         -        417           220          -       3,956          576         268        7,187       14,334       20,516         6,182
17       -        1,518         229         -        417            -           -       3,956          855         183        7,187       14,345       20,516         6,171
18       -        1,518          37         -        417            -           -       3,956          896          183       7,187       14,194       20,516          6,322
19       -        1,518          69         -        417            -           -       3,956          407          183       7,187       13,737       20,516          6,779
20       -        1,518          89          -       417            _           _       3,956           371        183        7,187       13,721       26,766 3/    13,045
Financial Rate of Return - 13%
Sensitivity Analysis: 10% increase in capital cost - 12%
10% increase in operating costs, purchase price of cattle unchanged - 10%
10% increase in purchase price of cattle, other operating costs unchanged - 10%
10% decrease selling price of cattle - 7%
1/  Represents 78 percent of cost of Project Development Unit and of Project-related training.
2/  For details see Annex 2, Table 5.                                                                                                                                 clM
3/  Includes residual herd value;  For details see Table 3, Footnote 4.                                                                                               a x



SOMALIA
TRANS-JUBA LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Financial Analysis
'a                                                                                                                  Total Project
Financial Rate of Return
(So. Sh. 000)
-------------------------------------------------- Cot Components -------------------------------------------------------
Two Grazing          Irrigated             Project                Project                                 Incremental          Incremental          Incremental          Incremental
Year         Marketing           Ranches            Fodder Farm          Constructian           Development         Training 2/           Livestock              Total               Livestock            Net Cash
a-d Feodlot         & M.intenance             Unit                                    Purchases              Cost 3)              Sales                 Flow
Unit 1/
I           2,101               1,810                4,297                 3,436                 1,464                 37                  1,932               15,077                  825              (14,252)
2            2,190               3,428              13,540                   861                   965                311                  4,029               25,324                4,039              (21,285)
3            1,902               3,268                5,964                  669                   675                348                 5,697                18,523               12,437               (6,086)
4            1,781               1,677               6,403                    509                  725                274                  8,360               19,729               21.639                 1,910
5            1,301               1,518               6,054                    (88)                 235                215                 12,563               21,798               28,779                6,981
6            1,557               1,698               4,360                     22                  343                 -                  13,437               21,611               30,703                9,086
7            1,338               1,799               5,037                    130                  235                 -                  13,437               21,976               30,703                8,727
8            1,336               1,639               5,025                    87                   235                 -                  13,437               21,759               30,703                 8,944
9            1,440               1,575               5,491                    97                   235                 -                  13,437               22,275                30,703                8,428
10            1,453               1,555               4,938                    87                   235                 -                  13,437               21,705                30,703                8,998
11            1,723               1,735               4,479                   260                   551                 -                  13,437               22,185                30,703                8,518
12            1,495               1,735               6,946                   112                   235                 -                  13,437               23,960               30,703                68743
13            1,378               1,627               5,099                    106                  235                 -                  13,437               21,882               30,703                 8.8?1
14            1,319               1,647               4,925                     87                  235                 -                  13,437               21,650               30,703                 9,053
15            1,338               1,538               4,873                     87                  235                 -                  13,437               21,508                30,703                9,195
16            1,565               1,710               5,169                   225                   343                 -                  13,437               22,449                30,703                8,254
17            1,424               1,747               5,228                    122                  235                 -                  13,437               22,193                30,703                8,510
18            1,470               1,555               5,269                     87                  235                 -                 13,437                22,053               30,703                 8,650
19            1,445               1,587               4,780                   106                   235                 -                  13,437               21,590                30,703                9, 13
20            1,443               1,607               4,744                     87                  235                 -                  13,437               21,553                36,957 4/            15,404
Financial Rate of Return - 14%.
Sensitivity Analysis:  ID/. increase in cost of cattle purchased - 10/.
10t decrease in price of cattle sold - 6%
with a 2 percent turnover tax - 13!.        -
1/ Net of maintenance cost included in ranch components (see Annex 12, Table 1, footnote 2).
2/ Excludes So. Oh. 815,000 for training of Ministry of Livestock, Foreotry and Range Staff (non Project related).
3/  Does  not include disease control component (So. Sh. 2.02 million) and cost of feasibility studies (So. Sh. 2 million).
4/  Includes residual herd value on two grazing ranches (10,000 head @ So. Sh. 193, and 10,000 head @ So. Sh. 432, i.e. So. Sh. 6.25 million).






m
g                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SOMALIA
TRANS-JUBA LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Government's Estimated Cash Flow From Proiect Excluding Taxes and Duties 1/
(So.Sh. '000)
-       ------------------- CASH INFLOW ---------------------             --------------------------------- CASH OUTFLOW ----------------------
LDA                                                                                       IDA
Year      IDA Credit 2/  Interest 3/ Repayment 3/ Profits           Total           Loan to LDA        Other 4/       Service Charge    Repayment          Total         Net
1         12,058            -            -             -         12,058               13,146            596                 45              _            13,787      (1,729)
2         19,782            -            -             -         19,782               21,303          1,368                165              -            22,836      (3,054)
3         12,048            -            -             -         12,048               12,863            999                284              -            14,146      (2,098)
4          4,035            -             -            -          4,035                4,062             700                345             -             5,107       (1,072)
5          2,319            -             -          1,477        3,796                2,123            715                368              -             3,206         590
6            -            4,628        4,402        6,234        15,264                  -              -                  377              -               377      14,887
7            -            4,309        4 402           -          8,711                  -              -                  377              -               377       8,334
8            -            3,990        4,402            75        8,467                  -              -                  377              -               377       8,090
9            -            3,671        4,402           356        8,429                  -              -                  377              -               377       8,052
10            -            3,352        4,403           636        8,391                  -              -                  377              -               377       8,014
11            -            3,033        4,403           917        8,353                  -              -                  374              502             876       7,477
12            -            2,713        4,403        1,199         8,315                  -              -                  371              502             873       7,442
13            -            2,394        4,403        1,479         8,276                  -              -                  368              502             870       7,406
14            -            2,075        4,403        1,760         8,238                  -              -                  365              502             867       7,371
15            -            1,756        4,403        2,041         8,200                  -              -                  362              502             864       7,336
16            -            1,436        4,403        2,322         8,161                  -              -                  359              502             861       7,300
17            -            1,117        4,403        2,603         8,123                  -              -                  356              502             858       7,265
18            -              798        4,403        2,885         8,086                  -               -                 353              502             855       7,231
19            -              479        4,403        3,166         8,047                  -              -                  349              502             851       7,196
20            -              159        4.403        3,446         8,008                  -              -                  345              502             847       7,161
Total       50,242         35,910       66.041        3059        182,788               53.497          4,378              6.694            5,020          69,589    113,199
1/  For Government's incremental revenues from taxes and duties see Annex 16.
2/ Excluding Contingencies.
3/ Inciuding So.Sh. 12,544.000 deferred and capitalized interest due during the five years grace period.
4/ Disbursement for Disease control and training of Government's staff related to Livestock Development.



---



ANNEX 23
SOMALIA
TRANS-JUBA LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Annual Government Revenues From
Taxes and Duties At FulI Project Development
(So. Sh. 000)
Source of Revenue         Type of Tax                Central  ecEent        -
or Duty                 Government      cipalities        Total
I/
Producers              Municipal levy                   -                672           672
LDA                     Taxes and duties ?n
operating inputs -             1,307              -          1,307
Customs duty on 3)ive
cattle exports -                 216                            216
Municipal levy n live
cattle exports J                 -               130           130
Disease Control         Taxes and duties on
operating inputs 2/               44              _             4
Meat Factory 5/         Slaughtering tax 6/              373              -             373
Market tax T/                    -               132            132
Total:          1,940             934          2,874
1/  5% of value.
2/  Income taxes, and customs duty on fuels and lubricants.
3/  So. Sh. 27 per head.
4/  So. Sh. 10 per head.
5/ Does not include income taxes on incremental employment.
6/  So.Sh.8.5per head.
7/  So.Sh. 3 per head.
NOTE:  Total revenues include, in addition to the above shown
amount, remitted profits by LDA and the Kismayua meat factory,
and proceeds from onlending of the IDA Credit to 19A.
October 3, 1973.






ANNEX 24
Page 1
SOMALIA
TRANS-JITBA LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Balance of Payments Impact
1.        Total foreign exchange cost, including So.Sh.8.8 million for con-
tingencies of the Project,is estimated at about So.Sh.45.6 million (US$7.3
million) which represents about 64 percent of total Project cost. Approx-
imately 90 percent of the foreign exchange would be required for capital
expenditures, training and feasibility studies and 10 percent for the ini-
tial three-years operating expenditures. At full development, the Project
would require annual imports, largely fuels and replacements of capital
items, valued at So.Sh.4.3 million and would earn foreign exchange from live
cattle exports of about So.Sh4.5 million annually. It would thus directly
produce a small foreign exchange surplus of So.Sh.0.2 million.
2.        Due to increased slaughter resulting from the Project, the Kismayu
meat factorv would require additional investments with a foreign exchange com-
ponent of approximately So. Sh. 4 million (US$640,000). At full Project
development, the factorv's incremental operating expenditures would have a
foreign exchange component of So. Sh. 12.8 million, while the factory's in-
cremental foreign exchange earnings would amount to So. Sh.36.8 million. The
meat factory, therefore, would have annual incremental net earnings of foreign
exchange of So. Sh.24 million (TTSq3.9 million).
3.        The IDA credit would be for US$10.0 million disbursed over a 5-year
period. Taking into account debt service payments on the IDA credit, the
overall effect to the economy would he a net inflow of foreign exchange of
So.Sh.51.6 million during the first five Project years. At full develop-
ment -from year six onwards - the annual foreign exchange surplus would be
So.Sh.23.7 million (US$3.8 million) during the grace period of the IDA
Credit, and So.Sh,23.3 million for years 11 to 20 (TUS$3.7 million). There
would be only a small foreign exchange deficit in year one of Project De-
velopment but none thereafter.
December 14, 1973






AtNNEX 24
Table 1
-(~~~ ~~~~ 0    04   0,                                        -  -- DK0s
~~~~~ r
J0                                      01
H      O    0(00(0(0444044I 
0 0  4(000000(
* ? C   4  m < S                0                41   CA   04R    4
DeceoboroM 14(  1973.H






ANNEX 25
Page 1
SOMALIA
TRANS-JUBA LIVESTOCK PROJECT
Economic Analysis
1.        The financial calculations for LDA (Annex 21) were adjusted as
follows:
Additions to Benefits
(a) Taxes and duties paid by LDA on inputs have been deducted;
(b) export duties on live cattle and municipal taxes, have been
added back to the Project's incremental income;
(c) the financial cost of LDA's cattle purchases from nomads
has been adjusted downward for the following reasons. LDA's
purchases under the Project would include increased offtake
from the traditional herd which would not have occurred
without the Project. In addition LDA's purchases would
include animals which, but for the Project, would have been
sold to other buyers in Somalia and Kenya. It is only this
second category of existing sales foregone which is charged in
the economic calculation. Thus of the 53,000 head purchased
annually at full development by LDA only 35,000, representing
existing sales foregone, are charged in the economic analysis;
(d) unskilled and semi-skilled labor employed under the Project's
marketing component and in the Project Construction and
itaintenance Unit is assumed not to be fully employable out-
side the Project and has been shadow priced at 50% of market
wages after income taxes. Unskilled labor employed on the
two grazing ranches and the irrigated fodder farm and feedlot
has been assumed to have alternative employment opportunities
at market wage rates on the nearly banana plantations and has
not been shadow priced. Skilled labor is in short supply and
its cost has not been adjusted; and
(e)  overall as a result of the Project mortality would be reduced
from 1.5% to one percent and weight losses from about 13% to
7%.  Some of these benefits would be enjoyed by LDA and are
reflected in its financial return. However, the majority of
the benefits would accrue to the nomadic producers and accordingly
this has been added as an additional benefit to the economy.



ANNEX 25
Page 2
Additions to Costs
(a) It is estimated that ranchland occupied by the grazing ranches
and the Afmadu holding ground currently produces a marketable
surplus of 1,570 head of cattle annually valued at So. Sh.
433,000. The annual benefits derived from the Project have
thus been reduced by this amount. Current production on the
proposed site of the irrigated fodder farm and feedlot is
insignificant;
(b) the Disease Control Component and non-Project related
training costs are not LDA operations and were not included
in its financial analysis. They have however been treated
as a cost to the economy.
2.        The amount of So. Sh. 2 million for feasibility studies has not
been included as a cost either in the Financial or the Economic Analysis,
and no shadow prices for foreign exchange was considered necessary for this
analysis.
3.        With these adjustments, summarized in Table 1, the rate of return
is estimated at 25%. A 10% increase in cost inputs would lower the return
to 20% and a decrease in selling prices to 20%.
4.        The Project would also improve utilization of previous investments
in the Project area and East of the Juba River. Further benefits to the
economy in the form of value added during processing at the Kismayu meat
factory are not taken into account in the above calculation; both costs and
benefits of the factory are excluded.
Economic Analysis of Individual Components
5.01      In calculating the individual rates of return of separate Project
components, the two grazing ranches and the irrigated fodder farm and feedlot
are strongly interdependent and could not be treated as separate components.
The preparatory process on the grazing ranches for subsequent intensive
fattening is the first phase of an integrated cattle fattening operation
that also includes necessary animal health precautionary measures. From
a Project analysis point of view it seems appropriate, for the stated reasons,
to treat marketing (of immatures and fattened animals) grazing ranches and
fattening as three operations or phases of one and the same production
process. Profitability of individual operations would be incidental to the
distribution of costs and benefits among the various phases of the production
process i.e. from the point of purchase of immatures to the delivery of
fattened cattle at the factory gate.  Considering the above and adjusting
the financial calculation of the two grazing ranches and irrigated fodder
farm and feedlot, the rate of return to the economy of this integrated pro-
duction component is 21%. The rate of return of LDA's cattle marketing
component is about 39%.



SOMALIA
o                                                                                                    TRANS-JUBA LIVESTOCK PROJECI
en                                                                                                          Economic An<alysis
A                                                                                            Total Pro ject Rate  of Return to the Economy
(S.S.  '000)
Value of
Tncremental        Taxes         Net LDA's Incremental Cattle Purchases                                  Reduction           Pre-development         Disease Control           Non-LDA                Adjusted
Net Cash           and            Gross             Value of                       Unskilled          in Weight Lose         Production so              Component            Trainirg          Incremental Tncome
Year          Flos 1/         Duties       Puruhasen        Slos  Foregone          Net       Labor Co.t         and Mortality           Project Lands           Net of Taces            Component           to the Economy
1         (14,252)             675         1,932              (1,353)             579           198                   795                 (217)                     (575)                  -                  (12,797)
2         (21,285)           1,117         4,029              (4,057)              (28)         233                 1,154        (43       (433)                    (624)                (200)                (20,066)
3          (6,086)           1,134         5,697              (6,760)          (1,063)          219                 1,503                  (433)                    (255)                (200)                 (5,181)
4            1 910           1,475          9,360             (8,112)              249           226                1,630                  (433)                    (255)                (200)                  4,601
5           6,981            1,580        12,563              (9,464)           3,099           243                 1,730                  (433)                    (255)                (215)                 12,730
6           9,086            1,602        13,437              (9,464)           3,973           246                 1,715                  (433)                    (255)                                      15,934
7           8,727            1,603        13,437              (9,464)            3,973           246                1,715                  (433)                    (255)                                      15,576
8           8,944            1,603         13,437             (9,464)            3,973           246                1,715                  (433)                    (255)                                      15,793
9           8,428            1,603         13,437             (9,464)            3,973           246                 1,715                 (433)                    (255)                                      15,277
10           8,998            1,603         13,437             (9,464)            3,973           246                 1,715                 (433)                    (255)                                      15,847
11           8,518            1,603        13,437              (9,464)            3,973           24b                 1,/15                 (433)                    (255)                                      15 367
12           6,743            1,603         13,437             (9,464)            3,973           246                 1,715                 (433)                    (255)                                      13,592
13            8,821           1,603         13,437             (9,464)            3,973           246                 1,715                 (433)                     (255)                                     15,670
14           9,053            1,603         13,437             (9,464)            3,973           246                 1,715                 (433)                     (255)                                     15,902
15            9,195           1,603         13,437             (9,464)            3,973           246                 1,715                 (433)                     (255)                                     16,044
16            8,254           1,603         13,437             (9,464)            3,973           246                 1,715                 (433)                     (255)                                     15,103
17            8,510           1,603         13,437             (9,464)            3,973           246                 1,715                 (433)                     (255)                                     15,359
18           8,650            1,603         13,437             (9,464)            3,973           246                 1,715                 (433)                    (255)                                      15,499
19           9,113            1,603         13,437             (9,464)            3,973           246                 1,715                 (433)                     (255)                                     15,962
20          15,404            1,603         13,437             (9,464)            3,973           246                 1,715                 (433)                     (255)                                     22,253
Rote of Retorn to the  Economy = 257
Sensitivity Analysis:  107. i-r .a so in rout of inputs = 20%.
10t? dec.reane in cattle prices = 207b
11  Annex 21, Table 3.






E    T    H                I          0       P    I   A                              Fe,/er
e -    AeF ReI CeA e
BE ucr                                                                    Somalia
A    <\               *                                              A       MV               //          \)~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A fonfe,  l)    
0 c 0~~~
Oodu), an H
Mang                       ug Fe,,rnd,   B/l/                                      E /4 0/            /1141k 0111  H'' ,p
Af  U              p   \p\/E                             R \- -/
4a e,                                                  Ini  e   u!t
Bur Ac     g     bgen  iohor /       Gish_ 
'.  Fgfa un                             i Din or                   /      <     \oo 
/ae    darn       0rurderr:                                                                                                                        50\_re/
Af o                                                 50             ~~~      ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~too  15o
1  / X t - v / <i)  Audeg                                  AGADISHU G o MI LES
4     V                                 \                                 *M: \ r > Schelombot,                     0                          0 O  10 200                                               300
j.   \bobrsrale  u   I              u     X Grfneg                                                                                          KILOMETERS
CS   |       / 1         ti~~~~~~~~DuJurna   \         , 0
S OMALIA
temkoht, L | O         VPi    R  X /
TRANS-JUBA LIVESTOCK PROJECT
GBelgni A                                                                                                      PROJECT  AREA
PROPOSED PROJECT FEATURES                                   EXISTING FEATURES
Y |                                                                            J U,<  B A X X ........ Prolect Area         E                          E C. Holding Ground
Future Disease Free Zone                                    Kismayu Holding Ground
b 1^L/-   Anjoioll tM4                                   --        1Stck Routes                                               Market Centers
o+ i      Liboi                                                                               *    Livesiock Markets                                            Boreholes, Wells or Dams
A     Veterinary Centers                                          Metalled Roads
j-   GoboNf    <:p/s                                                            Sites Grazing  Ranches                                      Other Roads, Tracks and Trails
*     Afmadu Holding Ground                                  I    Main Ports
.    Irrigated Fodder Farm  and  Feedlot                          New Internationoa  Airport
Bodaddo    o                                                                    District Veterinary Centers                         --      Regional Boundaries
.7A                                                               *    Regional Veterinary Center                                   International Boundaries
L4 4                                                                                                                                        _






SOMALIA
TRANS-JUBA LIVESTOCK PROJECT                                                             0
IRRIGATED FODDER FARM AND FEEDLOT
IRRIGATION SYSTEM
0    Pump Station             Field Laterals                  Inverted Syphon
2    Canals                   Roads
.... Irrigated Field Limits                                              )  ) 
. ........ .    Z...... .... ...... .................  ........ .. .. .. . .. .. .. .. . . . .. .. .
rain Outlet    0msicae
.     ijJ                                MJ           ffi ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L;~~T5tr    a  BIDorINGt  S17iEil     
.                                                              F    E     E     =    |                   X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...........
.                                                       r                          I                    \\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O
.                                               *                      U   I                       \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O
.>                                                                                                         1
. C3. 
.                                                          ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~......  4..
>                                                        t ~~~~~~~~~~~  ~    ~ ~~~~~~~~~~Drain Outlet  tLi



