CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 462 SO
Project Agreement
(Trans-Juba Livestock Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT AGENCY
DATED FEBRUARY 20, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 462 SO
Project Agreement
(Trans-Juba Livestock Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT AGENCY
DATED FEBRUARY 20, 1974


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 20, 1974, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT AGENCY (hereinafter called LDA).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between Somali Democratic Republic (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to ten million dollars ($10,000,000), on
the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but only
on condition that LDA agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Association
as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and LDA, part of the proceeds of the credit provided for under the
Development Credit Agreement will be made available to LDA on the terms and
conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS LDA, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.0 1. LDA shall carry out Parts A, B, C and E of the Project described
in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and
engineering practices.


﻿4
Section 2.02. In order to assist LDA in the preparation of bidding documents
and the engineering aspects of Part C of the Project, LDA shall, not later than
four months from the date on which this Credit becomes effective or such other
date as may be agreed upon between the Borrower, LDA and the Association,
employ a firm of engineering consultants acceptable to the Association upon terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.03. LDA shall (i) establish a Project Development and Training
Unit (hereinafter called PDTU) as a separate department for the management,
coordination, execution and supervision of the Project including training of LDA
staff: (ii) provide PDTU with a qualified Project Director and other Project staff
specified in Schedule 2 of this Agreement on the terms and conditions mutually
acceptable to the Borrower, LDA and the Association, and with all supporting
staff, facilities and other resources as shall be required for its efficient operation;
and (iii) establish within PDTU a Project Construction and Maintenance Unit with
such staff, powers, duties and responsibilities as are specified in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement.
Section 2.04. In carrying out the construction works under Parts A(ii) and
C of the Project, LDA shall employ contractors acceptable to the Association upon
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services (other than services of consultants) required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured on the basis of
international competition under procedures consistent with the Guidelines for
Procurement as revised in October 1972 and in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.06. (a) LDA undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision
for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit relent to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by LDA
to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, LDA shall cause all
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the
Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project until its completion.
Section 2.07. (a) LDA shall furnish to the Association promptly upon their
preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and construction


﻿5
and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   LDA: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the progress of
the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower, and to
disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon the
provisions of Section 5.03 of this Agreement, enable the Association's
representatives to examine the Project, the goods financed out of such proceeds
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
all such information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit so relent to it and the
goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 2.08. LDA shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, LDA shall not
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.09. LDA shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers,
or make other provisions satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. LDA shall maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its operations and
financial position.
Section 3.02. LDA shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of LDA and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.


﻿6
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 4.0 1. The Association and LDA shall cooperate fully to assure that
the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the Association
and LDA shall from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
through their representatives with regard to the performance of their respective
obligations under this Agreement, the administration, operations and financial
condition of LDA and other matters relating to the purpose of the Credit.
Section 4.02. The Association and LDA shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by either of
them of its obligations under this Agreement or the performance by the Borrower
and LDA of their respective obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 4.03. LDA shall enable the Association's representatives to examine
all plants, sites, works, properties and equipment of LDA and any relevant records
and documents.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of LDA thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)        the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)        a date twenty years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify LDA of this event.


﻿7
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified ol at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For LDA:
Livestock Development Agency
P.O. Box 929
Mogadiscio
Somali Democratic Republic
Cable address:
WAAHORUMAR
Mogadiscio


﻿8
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of LDA may be taken or executed by the General Manager or such other person
or persons as he shall designate in writing.
Section 6.03. LDA shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of LDA, take any action or execute any documents required
or permitted to be taken or executed by LDA pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States
of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
0
By /s/ Bernard R. Bell
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
LIVESTOCK DEVELOPMENT AGENCY
By /s/ Abdullahi Ahmed AddoU
Authorized Representative


﻿9
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.    Contracts Governed by Guidelines
1.    With respect to any contract for civil works, vehicles and equipment estimated
to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or more:
(a)   If bidders are required to prequalify, LDA shall, before qualification
is invited, inform the Association in detail of the procedure to be followed and
shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as the Association shall
reasonably request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of
their qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for
prequalification, shall be furnished by LDA to the Association for its comments
before the applicants are notified and LDA shall make such additions to or deletions
from the said list as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   Before bids are invited, LDA shall furnish to the Association, for its
comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other bidding
documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modificatior . in the said documents or
procedure as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further modification
to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence before it is
issued to the prospective bidders.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, LDA shall, before a final
decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of the bidder
to whom it intend. to award the contract and shall furnish to the Association,
in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, by the consultants referred to
in Section 2.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation and comparison of the bids
received, together with the recommendations for award of the said consultants,
and the reasons for the intended award. The Association shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the procedures set forth or
referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement, promptly inform LDA and the
Borrower, and state the reasons for such determination and advise LDA and the
Borrower of any cancellation pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 4(c) of
Schedule I to the Development Credit Agreement.
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked.


﻿10
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect
of any such contract.
2.    With respect to any other contract for civil works and equipment, LDA shall
furnish to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the delivery
to the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of any such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract is not consistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement, promptly inform LDA
and the Borrower, and state the reasons for such determination and advise LDA
and the Borrower of any cancellation pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 4(c)
of Schedule I to the Development Credit Agreement.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions referred to in Section 2.05 of this Agreement
or included in the foregoing sub-paragraphs of this Schedule, the Association may
accept (i) that off-shelf items costing less than $5,000 equivalent each may be
procured in accordance with the Borrower's usual procurement procedures provided,
however, that the aggregate cost of such items does not exceed $500,000 equivalent;
and (ii) that, pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines for
Procurement, the constr-Liction of facilities under Parts A, B and D of the Project
may be carried out by the Construction and Maintenance Unit of LDA.
4.    Expenditures under Categories 11 and IV to Schedule I of the Development
Credit Agreement are hereby exempted from the requirements for international
competition specified in Section 2.05 to this Agreement.
B.    Supplemental Rules on Bid Evaluation and Comparison
I.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids, customs duties and
other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and similar taxes on locally
supplied goods, shall be excluded, except to the extent hereinafter provided. Bidders
shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported
goods, or the ex-factory price for locally manufactured goods. The cost to the
Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of
goods to the place of their use or installation shall be taken into account in the
evaluation of bids in accordance with paragraph 4.7 of the Guidelines for
Procurement.
0


﻿2.    For goods included in the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference
to goods manufactured in Somalia in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Somalia if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Association that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Somalia equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B:   bids offering goods manufactured in Somalia other
than bids classified in Group A.
(3)   Group C:   bids offering any other goods.
(b)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied locally, to determine
the lowest evaluated bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bids of each group
shall then be compared with each other and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from Group A or Group B is the lowest, it shall be selected for purposes
of award.
(c)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (b) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from Group C, all Group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest bid from Group A, as determined under paragraph (b) above, after adding
to the c.i.f. bid price of goods to be imported offered in each Group C bid, for
the purpose of this further comparison only, an amount equal to the smaller of
(i) the amount of customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt
importer would have to pay for the importation of goods offered in such Group
C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods. If the Group A bid in
such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for purposes of award;
if not, the lowest bid from Group C, as determined under paragraph (b) above,
shall be selected for purposes of award.
3.    The bidding documents shall clearly indicate any preference which will be
granted, the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the methods and stages that will be followed in the evaluation
and comparison of bids to give effect to such preference.


﻿12
SCHEDULE 2
The Project Development and Training Unit
1.   Staff
LDA shall establish PDTU which shall consist of, inter alia, the following
staff with duties and responsibilities described below:
(a)   Project Director: overall coordination, management and supervision of
the Project;
(b)   Senior Grazing Ranch Manager: establishment and initial operation of
the grazing ranches including the training of Somali ranch managers
and field trials on range improvement;
(c)   Irrigated Fodder Farm and Feedlot Manager: operation of the irrigated
fodder farm including forage production and feedlot operation, use
of machinery, and selection and training of Somali technicians;
(d)   Irrigation Specialist: the irrigation operation of the irrigated fodder
farm and coordination between irrigation and feed production;
(e)   Project Finance Officer: all financial aspects of the Project including
management of funds, procurement and disbursement procedures, and
assistance to LDA's finance direction in strengthening its Finance
Department; and
(f)   Master Mechanic: the overall management and repair of machinery,
plant and tractors including the establishment and operation of the
repair shop and spare parts section.
2.    Project Construction and Maintenance Unit
The Project Construction and Maintenance Unit shall carry out construction
and maintenance of facilities provided under Parts A, B, D and E of the Project
except for the major facilities for the Afmadu Holding Ground. The Unit shall
be headed by a construction officer and staffed with two field construction officers,
a surveyor, draftsmen, mechanics, drivers, and construction workers.


