CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 462 SO
Development Credit
Agreement
(Trans-Juba Livestock Project)
BETWEEN
SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED FEBRUARY 20, 1974
0


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 462 SO
Development Credit
Agreement
(Trans-Juba Livestock Project)
BETWEEN
SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED FEBRUARY 20, 1974


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 20, 1974, between SOMALI DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC     (hereinafter  called  the  Borrower)   and   INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   Parts A, B, C and E of the Project will be carried out by the Livestock
Development Agency with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance,
the Borrower will make available to the Livestock Development Agency the
proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
(C)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and the Livestock Development Agency;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifications thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):
(a)   Section 5.01 is deleted; and
(b)   Section 6.02(h) is deleted and Section 6.02(i) becomes 6.02(h).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:


﻿4
(a)   "LDA" means the Livestock Development Agency of the Borrower
responsible for coordination and promotion of livestock development and marketing
as established by Decree Law No. 2 of February 16, 1966, konverted in law by
Law No. 3 of March 21, 1966 as such law may be amended from time to time;
(b)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and LDA of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement;
(c)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and LDA pursuant to Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement,
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(d)   "Project Area" means the area of approximately 65,000 km2 bounded
on the east by the Juba River, on the north and west by Kenya and on the southeast
by the Indian Ocean; and
(e)   "Guidelines for Procurement" means the Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits published by the Bank in April 1972,
as revised in October 1973.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to ten million dollars ($10,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed under the Development Credit Agreement; provided,
however, that, except as the Association shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall
be made on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is
not a member of the Bank (other than Switzerland) or for goods produced in,
or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the


﻿5
Credit shall be procured pursuant to the provisions set forth or referred to in
Section 2.05 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1980 or such other date
as shall be agreed -between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on June 1 and
December I in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each June 1 and December 1 commencing
June 1, 1984 and ending December 1, 2023, each installment to and including
the installment payable on December 1, 1993 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each inst1ilment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause
LDA to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement and
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall take and
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable LDA to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)   The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to LDA for Parts
A, B, C and E of the Project under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and LDA, such agreement to provide inter alia that
LDA shall borrow said amount at 7-1/4% per annum interest and to mature in
twenty years including a five year grace period and to be under such other terms
and conditions which shall have been approved by the Association.


﻿6
(c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall not later than one year from the date
of this Agreernent or such other date as may be acceptable to the Borrower and
the Association, take all necessary measures to enact laws for regulating the use
of Juba Waters, such laws to provide inter alia that water rights for irrigation shall
be allocated on the basis of prior use.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall, prior to implementation of Part C of the
Project, obtain the Association's agreement on the engineering consultants'
recommendations for the design of irrigation facilities, such recommendation to
include adequate measures for prevention of Bilharzia and Malaria in the area served
by Part C of the Project.
Section 3.04. Prior to preparation of feasibility studies to be carried out
under Part F of the Project, the Borrower shall consult with the Association and
obtain its concurrence on its specific proposals.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, as and when needed, cause the Somali
Development Bank to provide LDA with an overdraft not exceeding two-thirds
of the value of livestock in the Project held by LDA.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall within three years after this Agreement
becomes effective or such other date acceptable to the Borrower and the Association
expand its meat factory at Kisnayu to handle the cattle production under the
Project and shall take all such other measures to improve the vetefinary standards
and sanitary practices at said factory.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall formulate a training program for the staff
of its Ministry of Livestock, Forestry and Range, Kismayu Meat Factory and LDA
and obtain the Association's agreement prior to implementation of said program.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall issue promptly as needed import licences,
visas and work permits and shall take any other necessary action required to
facilitate the import by the contractors and consultants of the goods required for
the Project.


﻿7
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 4.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with/regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the performance by LDA of its obligations under the Project
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial position of LDA and, in
respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out any part of the Project, and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations and financial position of LDA and, in
respect of the Project, of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible
for carrying out any part of the Project.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof, the performance by either of them of its obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement or the performance by LDA of its obligations under the Project
Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(c)   The Borrower and the Association shall, in respect of the Project,
exchange views annually on the Borrower's pricing of cattle and beef.


﻿8
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall consult with the Association prior to any
proposed change in or appointment to the position of the General Manager of
LDA sufficiently in advance for the Association to have adequate opportunity to
comment thereon.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall afford all reasoi,able opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE V
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 5.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 5.02. The Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement
shall be free from any taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery
or registration thereof, imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect
in its territories.
Section 5.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
shall occur and shall continue for the period, if any, therein set forth, then at
any subsequent time during the continuance thereof, the Association, at its option,
may by notice to the Borrower declare the principal of the Credit then outstanding
to be due and payable immediately together with the service charges thereon and
upon any such declaration such principal and service charges shall become due
and payable immediately, anything to the contrary in the Development Credit
Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:


﻿9
(a)   LDA shall have failed to perform any covenant, agreement or obligation
of LDA under the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(b)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that LDA will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(c)   Decree Law No. 2 of February 16, 1966 as converted in law by Law
No. 3 of March 21, 1966 of the Borrower shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as to materially and adversely affect
the ability of LDA to carry out the covenants, agreements and obligations set
forth in the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of LDA or for the
suspension of its operations.
Section 6.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.02 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)   any event specified in paragraphs (b), (c) or (d) of Section 6.02 of
this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   The execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
LDA have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action.
(b)   The execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and LDA, respectively, have been duly authorized or ratified
by all necessary corporate and governmental action.


﻿10
(c)   The Borrower shall make available to LDA for its exclusive use about
1,900 km   of land in the Project Area at no charge for an unlimited period.
(d)   LDA's first audited   financial statements for the year ending
December 31, 1972 shall have been submitted to the Association.
(e)   LDA shall have appointed the staff specified in paragraph 1(a), (b),
(e) and (f) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, LDA, and constitutes a valid and binding
obligation of LDA in accordance with its terms.
(b)   That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and LDA,
respectively, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and
LDA in accordance with its terms.
(c)   That the Borrower has made available to LDA about 1,900 km2 of
land in the Project Area by means of a valid and binding legal instrument in
accordance with its laws.
Section 7.03. The date June 21, 1974 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Secretary of State for Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of
the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿11
For the Borrower:
The Secretary of State for Finance
Government of the Somali Democratic
Republic
Mogadiscio
Somali Democratic Republic
Cable address:
MINFIN
Mogadiscio
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
By /s / Abdullahi Ahmed Addou
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / Bernard R. Bell
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿12
SCHEDULE I
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
I.         Civil Works for               1,550,000         92% of total
Irrigation and                                  expenditures
Associated En-
gineering Serv-
ices
II.        Other Civil Works             1,750,000         92% of total
for Markets, Stock-                             expenditures
routes, Two Grazing
Ranches and Irri-
gated Fodder Farrn
and Feedlot
Ill.       Vehicles                      1,250,000         92% of total
expenditures
IV.        Equipment and                   870,000         92% of total
Building Mate-                                  expenditures
rials
V.         Consultants for                 800,000         92% of total
LDA's Management                                expenditures
VI.        Training of
(a)  LDA Staff                  180,000         92% of total
expenditures
(b)  Government                  90,000         70% of total
Staff                                      expenditures
VII.       Feasibility Studies             210,000         70% of total
for Part F of the                               expenditures
Project
VIII.      LDA Operating Costs           1,300,000         70% of total
expenditures
IX.        Unallocated                   2,000,000
TOTAL        10,000,000


﻿13
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower; and
(b)   the term   "total expenditures" means the aggregate of foreign
expenditures and of expenditures for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
the territories of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement;
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
*        the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will
be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes; and
(c)   expenditures under Category VIII three years after this Credit becomes
effective or such other date acceptable to the Borrower and the Association.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph 1 above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit;
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expLnditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's program to promote the improvement
of cattle marketing and fattening in the Trans-Juba area over a period of five years,
and consists of the following components:
Part A:     (i)        construction and operation of permanent cattle markets
at Tabda, Maskati, Gelib, Lugh Ferrandi and Busar;
(ii)        construction and operation of about 20,000 ha new
holding ground near Afrnadu;
(iii)       development of water supplies and staging points on over
1,000 km of existing stockroutes;
(iv)        bush clearing of over 12,000 ha and development of two
water points on the existing LDA cattle holding ground
near Kisrnayu; and
(v)        purchase of vehicles and equipment for the LDA cattle
marketing teams in the Project Area;
Part B:     construction and operation of two grazing ranches of about 80,000 ha
each, located in the vicinity of the irrigated fodder farm and Afmadu
holding ground respectively;
Part C:     construction and operation of one pum-irrigated fodder farm for feed
production on about 1,200 ha and a feedlot with a capacity of 5,200
head located near the fodder farm;
Part D:     construction and operation of a regional veterinary center at Kismayu,
district veterinary centers at Afmadu, Gelib, Gimama and Brava, and
veterinary dispensaries at Bulo Haji, Goba, Anjail, Beles Gogani and
Tabda;
Part E:     technical services for the Project administration and training including
overseas training; and
Part F:     feasibility studies for the preparation of future agricultural projects.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1979.


