                                 Document of
                               The WorldBank




                                                       ReportNo.: 43729




                    PROJECTPERFORMANCEASSESSMENT REPORT

                             GOVERNMENTOF CHINA

                      NATURERESERVESMANAGEMENT PROJECT
                                  (TF028301)


                                 May 30,2008




Sector Evaluation Division
Independent Evaluation Group

Currency Equivalents(annual averages)

Currency Unit = Chinese Yuan

(Exchange Rate Effective September 3,2002)
Y8.30=    US$ 1.00
US$ 1.00 = Y0.12

2002    US$l.OO
2003    US$l.OO
2004    US$l.OO
2005    US$l.OO
2006    US$l.OO

Abbreviations and Acronyms

CBIMS      China's Biodiversity Information Management System
CCM         Community Co-management
CFB         Changqing ForestryBureau
CIG         Community InvestmentGrant
DNR        Division of Nature Reserves
DWC        Department o fWildlife Conservation
GEFPD       GEFProjectDocument
GIS        Geographic Information System
GOC         Government o f China
ICR         ImplementationCompletion Report
IFAW        InternationalFundfor Animal Welfare
IUCN        InternationalUnion for the Conservation ofNature
NFPP       National Forest ProtectionProgram
NGO         Non-governmentOrganization
NR          Nature Reserve
NRMP       Nature ReservesManagement Project
ONR         Office of Nature Reserves
PMC         Project Management Center
PRA         ParticipatoryRural Appraisal
QCNR        Qinling Cluster Nature Reserves
SFA         StateForestry Administration
SOE         State-owned Enterprise
SPFD        Shaanxi Provincial Forestry Department
WWF         World Wildlife Fund
XNR         Xishuangbanna Nature Reserve

FiscalYear
Government:                     January 1 December 3 1



  Director-General, Independent Evaluation               : Mr.VinodThomas
  Director, Independent Evaluation Group (World Bank)    : Ms.CherylGray
  Manager, Sector Evaluation Division                    : Mr.JohnR.Heath
  Task Manager                                           : Mr.Fernando Manibog
  Consultant                                             : Mr.AshwinBhouraskar

                                                            i


 IEGWB Mission: Enhancingdevelopmenteffectiveness throughexcellence and independenceinevaluation.


About this Report
       The Independent EvaluationGroupassessesthe programsand activitiesof theWorld Bank for two purposes:
first, to ensurethe integrityof the Bank's self-evaluationprocessand to verifythat the Bank'swork is producingthe
expectedresults,and second, to helpdevelopimproveddirections,policies, and proceduresthroughthe
disseminationof lessonsdrawn from experience.As part of this work, IEGWBannuallyassesses about 25 percentof
the Bank's lendingoperationsthroughfieldwork. Inselectingoperationsfor assessment,preferenceis givento those
that are innovative, large, or complex; thosethat are relevantto upcomingstudiesor countryevaluations;those for
which ExecutiveDirectorsor Bank management have requestedassessments; and those that are likelyto generate
importantlessons.
       To preparea ProjectPerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR), IEGWBstaff examine projectfiles and other
documents, interviewoperationalstaff, visit the borrowing country to discuss the operationwith the government,
and other in-countrystakeholders, and interviewBank staff and other donor agency staff bothat headquartersand
in localoffices as appropriate.
       EachPPAR is subject to internal IEGWB peer review, Panel review, and managementapproval. Once cleared
internally,the PPAR is commentedon by the responsibleBank department. IEGWB incorporatesthe comments as
relevant. The completedPPAR is then sent to the borrowerfor review; the borrowers' comments are attachedto
the documentthat is sent to the Bank's Boardof ExecutiveDirectors.After an assessment report has beensent to
the Board, it is disclosedto the public.

About the IEGWB RatingSystem
       IEGWB's use of multipleevaluationmethodsoffers both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to
lending instrument, project design, or sectoralapproach. IEGWBevaluators all apply the same basic methodto
arrive at their project ratings. Followingis the definitionand ratingscale used for each evaluationcriterion
(additionalinformationis available on the IEGWBwebsite: httD://worldbank.orq/ieg).
       Outcome: The extent to which the operation's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expectedto be
achieved, efficiently.The rating has three dimensions:relevance,efficacy, and efficiency. Relevanceincludes
relevanceof objectivesand relevanceof design. Relevanceof objectives is the extent to which the project's
objectivesare consistentwith the country's current developmentpriorities and with current Bank country and
sectoralassistancestrategiesand corporategoals (expressedin PovertyReductionStrategy Papers,Country
AssistanceStrategies, Sector Strategy Papers, OperationalPolicies). Relevanceof design is the extent to which
the project's design is consistentwith the stated objectives.Efficacy is the extent to which the project's objectives
were achieved, or are expectedto be achieved, taking into accounttheir relativeimportance. Efficiencyis the
extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the opportunitycost of capital
and benefits at least cost comparedto alternatives.The efficiencydimension generallyis not applied to adjustment
operations. Possible ratings for Outcome:Highly Satisfactory,Satisfactory, ModeratelySatisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory,Highly Unsatisfactory.
       Riskto DevelopmentOutcome: The risk, at the time of evaluation,that developmentoutcomes (or expected
outcomes)will not be maintained(or realized). Possibleratings for Risk to Development Outcome: High
Significant, Moderate, Negligibleto Low, Not Evaluable.
       BankPerformance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry of the
operationand supportedeffective implementationthrough appropriatesupervision(including ensuring adequate
transitionarrangementsfor regularoperationof supportedactivitiesafter loan/credit closing, toward the
achievementof developmentoutcomes. The rating has two dimensions: quality at entry and quality of supervision.
Possibleratings for Bank Performance: Highly Satisfactory,Satisfactory, ModeratelySatisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory,Unsatisfactory,Highly Unsatisfactory.
       BorrowerPerformance: The extent to which the borrower(includingthe governmentand implementing
agency or agencies) ensuredquality of preparationand implementation,and compliedwith covenants and
agreements,toward the achievementof development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions:government
performanceand implementingagency(ies)performance. Possibleratings for BorrowerPerformance:Highly
Satisfactory,Satisfactory, ModeratelySatisfactory, ModeratelyUnsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.


                                                                  iii


Contents

PRINCIPAL RATINGS           ...................................................................................................                     V

KEY STAFF RESPONSIBLE                   .........................................................................................                   V

PREFACE  ....................................................................................................................                     vi1

SUMMARY   ...................................................................................................................                       IX

1.   BACKGROUNDAND CONTEXT                                    ........................................................................               1

     Project Objectives           ............................................................................................................       2
     ProjectComponents               .........................................................................................................       3


2.   IMPLEMENTATIONISSUES                              ..............................................................................                4

     Qualityat entry        ..................................................................................................................       4
     Financingarrangements                  ..................................................................................................       5


3.   MONITORINGAND EVALUATION                                    .....................................................................               6

     Design   ................................................................................................................................       6
     Implementationand Utilization                     ........................................................................................      7
     Other Issues (safeguards.fiduciary. unintendedimpacts-positiveor negative)                                                                .......8

4.   RATINGS        ............................................................................................................                     9

     Outcome     .............................................................................................................................       9
     Relevance      ..........................................................................................................................       9
     Efficiency    ...........................................................................................................................       9
     Efficacy   ............................................................................................................................        10
     Outcomesfor Biodiversity                  .............................................................................................        15


5.   RISKSTO DEVELOPMENTOUTCOME                                            ...........................................................             16

     Bank Performance             ..........................................................................................................        18
     Borrower Performance                ...................................................................................................        19


6.   LESSONS         .........................................................................................................                     20

                                                                iv


ANNEX A PROJECTCOMPONENTS(AS DESCRIBED IN THE GEF PROJECT
            .
DOCUMENT)        ................................................................................................................                   23

ANNEX B     .SUPPLEMENTALINFORMATIONON                                        THE EFFICACYOF THE NRMP 25                                         ...

ANNEX C     .BASIC      DATA SHEET               .................................................................................                  37

ANNEX D: PEOPLEAND AGENCIES MET                                   .................................................................                 41

ANNEX E BORROWERCOMMENTS
            .                                            .........................................................................                  43



TABLES

Table 1. Project Nature Reserves.................................................................................................................... 3
Table 2. NRMP Components...........................................................................................................................  3
Table 3. ReportedChanges in Populationsof Key Species inthe NRs.........................................................                            16
Table 4. ICR Figureson Participationin Enterprise RestructuringWorker Programs ...................................                                  27




This report was prepared by Mr.AshwinBhouraskar. Consultant. who assessedthe project in
Ms.ManeCharlesprovided administrative support.

                                                     V



PrincipalRatings

                                  ICR*                       ICR Review*                  PPAR

Outcome                      Highly Satisfactory            Satisfactory          Moderatelysatisfactory
Institutional                        High                   Substantial                 NotApplicable
Development
Impact**
Risk to Development             Not Applicable            Not Applicable                  Substantial
Outcome
Sustainability***                   Likely                     Likely                   Not Applicable
Bank Performance             Highly Satisfactory        Highly Satisfactory              Satisfactory
Borrower                     Highly Satisfactory        Highly Satisfactory              Satisfactory
Performance


* The ImplementationCompletion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluationby the responsibleBank department.The ICR
Review is an intermediate IEGWBproductthat seeks to independentlyverify the findings of the ICR.
**ASof July 1,2006, InstitutionalDevelopmentImpactis assessed as part of the Outcome rating.
***As of July 1,2006, Sustainabilityhas been replacedby Riskto Development Outcome.As the scales are
different,the ratingsare not directly comparable.



Key StaffResponsible
Project              Task Manager/Leader               Division Chief/             Country Director
                                                      Sector Director
Appraisal              Richard G. Scobey              Joseph Goldberg                Nicholas Hope
Completion               Susan S. Shen                 Mark D. Wilson                 Yukon Huang


                                             vii


Preface

This is a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) for the Nature Reserve
Management Project (NRMP, Trust FundNo. 28301). The NRMP was approvedinJune
1995 for a Global EnvironmentalFacility (GEF) Trust Fundgrant o f US$17.9 million
equivalent. The project formally closed on schedule inJune 2002, although due to a delay in
the completion o f some sub-components the project's durationwas extended for an
additional year.

The NRMPwas selected for an IEGassessmentbecause it was the first World Bank-GEF
project for biodiversity conservation andprotected-area management strengthening inChina,
andwould thushelp to informthe IEGreview, Effectiveness of WorldBank Group
Assistancefor the Environment, being concurrently conducted and coveringthe Bank
Group's environmentalperformance inChina and other major borrowing countries across the
different regions. Lessons from the NRMP may also help inthe design o f similar operations
inChina andother borrowing countries.

The evaluation i s based on the IinplementationCompletion Report (ICR, Report No. 24807)
issued onNovember 20,2002, the Bank's project documents, interviews andinternal Bank
publications. An IEGmission visited China inOctober 2006 to discuss the effectiveness o f
the Bank andGEF's assistanceinthe project with the Government, project implementing
agencies at the national, provincial andnature-reserve levels, non-governmental
environmental institutions, andbeneficiary communities, andincluded field visits to Shaanxi
andYunnanprovinces. The cooperation o fgovernment agency staff ingrantinginterviews
andproviding data is gratefully acknowledged. The substantial assistanceprovidedbythe
Department o f Wildlife Conservation o f the State Forestry Administration duringthe mission
is especially appreciated.

Inaccordance with standardIEGprocedures, a copy ofthe draft PPARwill besent to the
Borrower for their review andcomments. The Borrower's Comments will be reflected inthe
final draft and will be placedinAnnex D o fthe PPAR.


                                                     ix

Summary

Approved in 1995, the Nature Reserve Management Project (NRMP) was the first project the GEF
and the World Bank supported for conservingbiodiversity and strengtheningthe management o f
protected areas inChina.

The objective o fthe project, which targetednine o f China's nature reserves o f international
biodiversity importance, was to enhance biodiversity conservation through innovative approaches to
organization, planning, skills development, information management, andthe integration o f local
communities into reserve management. Its aims also included reducingtimber harvesting to a
sustainable level inan area critical for Giant Pandahabitat byrestructuring the state-owned timber
enterprises concerned, transferring their workers to more environmentally sustainable employment,
andcreating a new national-level nature reserve (NR).

The project's outcome is rated moderately satisfactory overall, as there were moderate shortcomings
inthe achievement ofthe objective. While allofthe approaches adoptedwere innovative withinthe
context o f China's NR system andconservation o fbiodiversity, only some were effective in
enhancing Conservation management and strategy. The NRMP developed new capacities for NR
management and conservation planningat all levels inthe system, andprovided the necessary
procedures and infrastructure for enhanced field-level protection. Yet the transfer o f the displaced
timber workers to new livelihoods encountered various difficulties, and enterprise restructuringwas
not demonstrated as a model that could be replicated for enhancing conservation inother areas. The
contribution o fthe information management methods andtools was modest, as monitoring and data
analysis for improvedNR management has been weak. Similarly, community involvement for
developing eco-friendly livelihood activities did not succeed incultivating government interest in
supporting environmentally sustainable development, and had a negligible impact onbiodiversity.
Owing to weak M&E and the influence o fnon-project interventions, the NRMP's outcomes interms
o f species abundance and diversity are unclear.

The risks to development outcome are ratedsubstantial. While the knowledge acquired under the
NMRPhasbeen sustained and extended to improve management inother NRs, andthe risks to any
biodiversity gains are small, support for critical NR management activities at most o f the sites has
beeninsufficient due to problems inthe intergovernmentalfiscal transfer system. Bankperformance
i s rated satisfactory overall. Quality-at-entry was moderately satisfactory owing to insufficient
appraisal to ensure the effectiveness and efficiency o f enterprise restructuring andworker transfer,
weak M&E design, and the low importance givento addressing the strong humanpressure on
biodiversity. Bank supervision, however, was highly satisfactory as the Bank gave focused attention
to addressing the challenges to enterprise restructuring and capacity-building inorder to achieve the
development objectives, and held a forum to share project experiences with, and draw on the
knowledge of, other donors and NGOs inbiodiversity conservation.

Borrowerperformance is ratedsatisfactory as well. The government showed significant
commitment overall to this first, major biodiversity conservation project in China, reflected partly by
its creation o f a new national-level NR, and the implementing agencies were committed to achieving
the project objectives. However, insome cases, counterpart fundingfor developing eco-friendly
community livelihood sub-projects didnot materialize and activities were implementedwithout
following prescribed procedures. M&Eperformance was also weak.

                                                     X


The assessment o fthe NRMPoffers the Bank and GEF the following lessons for their future
assistance instrengthening protected-area management and conserving biodiversity:

   0   Inorder for sophisticated approaches to planningandinformationmanagement to beuseful
       for biodiversity conservation, protected-area managers first need to have a strong
       understanding ofthe adaptive management approach and skills ineach o f its steps; defining
       outcomes, formulating measurable objectives targeted to achieving them, collecting and
       analyzing data on the relevant indicators with reliable methods to assess the success o f efforts,
       andrevisingapproaches inlighto ftheresults.

    0  For greater effectiveness andrelevance, projects or components facilitating the development
       o fbiodiversity-friendly, community-supported livelihood schemeswhere borrower agencies
       lack experience with themwill need to: (1) provide for greater training, closer monitoring and
       continuous technical support o f staffresponsible for engaging with communities to identify
       andplansub-projects, and (2) demonstrate the biodiversity and livelihood impacts o f such
       schemes on meaningful scales, particularly incountries where resource use pressures on
       biodiversity i s high.These steps will make it more likely that capacity inthis area will be
       sustained and extended to other protectedareas, and greater borrower ownership and
       resources for biodiversity-supporting poverty reductionwill be generated.

    0  Biodiversity conservation inprotected areas requires sustained financing, national and local,
       andfiscal andbudget allocationsystems andtrends at these levelsneed to beunderstoodto
       make certainreal borrower commitment exists andthe resources for long-term effective
       management can be delivered, or to help design reforms that will make this possible. If
       sustained support is not guaranteed,there are substantial risks that GEF and Bank resources
       will be usedinefficiently, as improvedmanagement capacities that havebeendevelopedwill
       go largely unutilized and threats to biodiversity frompoaching and resource use will remain.

    0  Programs to scale-down or close resource-extraction enterprises inremote, rural areas for the
       benefit o fbiodiversity, andto equitably transfer workers displaced as a result to new
       livelihoods, can face numerous challenges; weak, uneven and unpredictablemarkets and
       opportunities, government economic policies, and the skill-level and social composition o f the
       displaced workers. Such programs therefore need to carefully consider andbe tailored around
       these factors, including the viability o falternate enterprises and existing opportunities inother
       sectors inthe region. Furthermore, it i s important that their design involves local government,
       as it has the knowledge of local realities andhence o fwhat would be feasible.




                                                                                          Vinod Thomas
                                                                                       Director-General
                                                                                               Evaluation

                                                1


1. BackgroundandContext

1.1     Since China began to initiate reforms inthe late 1970s, it has experienced rapid
economic growth. As it has shiftedfrom a centrally-plannedto a market economy, China has
succeeded inmaintaining GDP growth o f about 9% per year, and lifting roughly 400 million
people out o fpoverty. With a population o f 1.3 billion, it recently became the world's fourth
largesteconomy andthirdlargest trading nation. Yet China inmanyways remains a
developing country, with GDPper capita at about $1,740 and more than 135 millionpeople
livingon less than$1 a day. Partly as a consequence ofits rapid economic growth, it also
faces significant challenges, among them serious environmental degradation and
unsustainable resource use, which could limit China's hture achievements ifthey are not
addressed.

1.2     Even as China has gone inits relationship with the World Bank from being a client to
a development partner, it remains among the largest borrowers o fthe Bank andrecipients o f
GEF grant assistance, with annual World Banklendingrangingfrom US$ 1to US$ 1.5
billion. Although Bank Group andGEF assistance currently constitute only about 2 percent
o ftotal support inChina for development and environment, the institutions continue to have
a unique influence on practice inthese areas. World Bank assistancehas gone to all o f
China's sectors, including, with the GEF, the environment andits various sub-sectors. Since
the GEFwas established, China has been one o f the largest recipients o f its support,
including for biodiversity conservation.

1.3     Rankedas one o fthe top 12countries inthe world with the highest percentages of
biodiversity, China hosts a rich composition o fwildlife andplant species, equal to one-eighth
o fthe world's species, owing to its size, andclimatic, topographical, and latitudinal
variations. As a consequence o fhighpopulation pressure, rural poverty, a history o f
unsustainable resource use, the illegal trade inspecies, and, inmore recent years, wastewater
pollution from urbancenters, China's natural ecosystems havebeen under significant threat
and inabsolute terms its numbero fthreatened species is high.In2006 the IUCNlisted356
wildlife species, amongthem the Giant Panda, as threatened.

1.4     Recognizing a need to protect its biodiversity, China inthe 1980s beganto
dramatically increase its number o fprotected areas. Bythe mid-l990s, there were more than
700 reserves, and today there exist 1,961 protectedareas, or nature reserves as they are
termed inChina (China does not use I U C Ncategories ofprotected land), covering 156
millionhectares, or about 16.2 percent ofthe country's area. The 1980s also saw the
development of a series o f laws andregulations to protect biodiversity, which facilitated the
creation of a nature reserve system, and China became a member o f international
conventions, ratifying the Ramsar Convention in 1992 and the Convention on Biological
Diversity in 1993.

1.5     While the number o freserves andthe share o f the landthey cover is impressive, a
largepercentage o fthe reserves are relatively small (two large reserves inQinghai and Tibet
account for the hightotal area o f land covered) and they are highlyfragmented. Additionally,
institutional capacity inthe vast majority of them i s weak, the necessary infrastructure i s

                                                 2


lacking, andhighhumanpopulations reside within or adjacent to them, usingthe NRs'
resources andexerting pressure on their habitats and species. As a result, these reserves
continue to be only "paper parks" andtheir biodiversityremains under significant threat. In
response to the lack o f effective reserve management andprotection, China, the GEF andthe
World Bank developed the Nature Reserve Management Project (NRMP).

1.6     Based on a Biodiversity Conservation Action Plan that China developed in 1994with
GEF, WorldBank andUNDPassistance, andthat ranked China's reserves byconservation
priority, 9 out o f 40 reserves o fthe highest ando f globally-significant biodiversity value
were selected for support under the NRMP. The project was associated with the larger
World Bank China-Forest Resources Development andProtectionProject (US$200M IDA
credit), and together were to constitute a new comprehensive sectoral approach that
capitalized on economic and environmental linkages across different forest areas, but also
integrated national and global benefits into sector planningandmanagement. As the projects
were with the Ministry o f Forests (now the State Forestry Administration, SFA), the 9
reserves selected were those under its management authority. Jurisdiction over China's
reserves has been distributed across several ministries and agencies, with little coordination
for protectionamong them. The largest share o f reserves has been under SFA authority
(about 80 percent today).

1.7      The NRMP was the GEF andthe World Bank's first project for biodiversity
conservation inChina, as well as the first large-scale anddonor-funded project for this goal
China hadreceived, at US$17.6M. The project along with subsequent World Bank-GEF
efforts for biodiversity inChina have differed from those o f GEFandits other partner
agencies inscope as the latter have tended to focus onpolicy andinstitutional reforms, and
from internationalNGOs regarding scale and field presence. The World Bank-GEF
partnership remains one o fthe principal founders o fbiodiversity protection inthe country,
and inthe late 1 9 9 0 it ~largely replicatedthe NRMP's objectives andactivities ina
                        ~
component o fthe China- Sustainable Forestry Development Project (FY98).

Project Objectives

1.8     The objective o fthe Nature Reserves Management Project (NRMP), as stated inthe
GEFProject Document and grant agreement, was general innature; to enhance biodiversity
conservation through innovative approaches to organization, planning, skills development,
informationmanagement, and the integration o f local communities into reserve management.
The project targeted nine nature reserves o f internationalbiodiversity importance infive
reserve areas, as listed inTable 1.Its aims also included the creation o f a new national-level
nature reserve (NR), Changqing NR, inthe Qinling mountains. The project consisted o f five
components (see Table 2). Annex 1provides a detailed description o f them.

                                                      3


Table I.Project Nature Reserves
 ProjectNature Reserve                                BiodiversitySignificance
            Areas
1. Qinling mountains            Consistingof four NRs, Foping, Niubeiliang,Zhouzhi, and
                                Taibaishan, and Nipponia Nature Station, in Shaanxi Province, and
                                their surroundingnaturalforest areas where healthy populationsof
                                giant pandas still reside
2. XishuangbannaNR              A cluster of five sub-reserves,Mengla, Mengkao, Menglun,
                                 Mengyang and Shanyong, in tropical southwestYunnan, China's
                                 most biodiversitv-richprovince
3. Wuyishan NR                  The highest and richest peak in southeast China straddling the
                                 borders of Fuiian and Jianaxi Provinces
4. Povana Lake NR              I China's most importantwetland site, in Jianaxi Province
                                                              ~~
5. ShGnongiia NR                An area of very rich pristine forest, in Hubei Province


Project Components

Table 2. NRMP Components
                                    Component                                         Estimated Actual
                                                                                        cost    cost
1. Nature Reserves: to develop moreeffective managementand protection                   7.96    6.37
systems in the five reserve areas through investmentsfor (a) the preparation
and implementationof new NR managementplans; (b) strengtheningfield-
level protection,and (c) expandingthe role of local communities livingwithin
and adjacentto NRs in their planningand management. Pilot community co-
managementsub-component:to create community incentivesfor long-term
sustainablebiodiversityresource use in a total of 8 villages in 6 of the NRs
through (i) communityparticipation;(ii) trainingfor NR staff in participatory rural
appraisal; (iii) formation of stakeholder committeesto help identify community
needs; and (iv) preparationof Community Resource Management Plans and
Co-ManagementContracts.The projectwould support implementationof these
plans and contractsthrough: (a) a community investmentgrant program to
support non-consumptiveeconomic activitiesconsistentwith sustainable
resourceuse; (b) education programs;(c) communityoutreach programs; and
(d) M&Eto ensure effective implementation.
2. EnterpriseRestructuring:to reduceforest degradationfrom heavy logging                7.97    10.33
in an area adjacentto the Qinling reserve cluster and important for Giant
Pandas by restructuring2 state-ownedtimber enterprises under the
ChangqingForestry Bureaufor more sustainableharvesting and the transfer of
workers to more environmentallysustainableemployment. The project was to
support the following policy reforms and investments: 1) legal designationof
the entire area as a national-levelnature reserve; (2) core-zone protection
activities; (3) sustainabletimber harvestingin the experimentalzone to
maintain biodiversity;(4) preparationof a managementplan, reforestationof
degraded areas, and training and TA for improvedsilvicultural management.
The labor force of the enterpriseswas to be restructuredin line with the
revised cutting program,with the redundantworkers redeployedto other
economic activitiesor terminated with a relocationDackaae.
                                                             ~      ~~      ~
3. Capacity Building:tostrengthen technical and managerialskills in                     4.86    5.53

                                                  4


biodiversitythrough developmentof a nationalteam that would providetraining
at all levels of the NR system; and enhancethe organizationalcapacity of the
Divisionof Nature Reservesthrough: (a) preparationof a nationalconservation
plan; (b) financing of equipment and related TA; and (c) preparationof a series
of policystudies on biodiversityconservation. Additionally, it would strengthen
the Office of Nature Reservesof the Forestry Department of Yunnan Province,
which contains the largestdiversity of species in China, through preparationof
a provincialconservation plan and development of a provincialgeographic
informationsystem.
4. Management InformationSystem: to support improved management                  1.95      1.34
decision- makingfor the 9 NRs through: (a) investment in computers, software
and other equipment; (b)TA in database structure, data analysis and
information management;and (c) development of a comprehensive monitoring
and evaluation programfor NRMP.
5. Research:to strengthen existing national biodiversityconservationresearch      0.9      1.12
through: (a)financing research infrastructureand equipment at the NRs; and
(b) establishinga national small-scale competitiveresearchgrants program.



2.       Implementationissues

Quality at entry

2.1      Inaccordance withthe project's management capacity-strengthening goal, the Bank
chose to have the Ministryo f Forestry's Divisiono fNature Reserves (DNR, later the State
Forestry Administration's Department o f Wildlife Conservation, DWC) at the national level
andtheNRs develop their ownM&Eframeworks for the project as awhole andfor
biodiversity at the NR level, respectively. While this was understandable, the Bankhad an
obligation to see that these frameworks were developed during appraisal andwere rigorous
so that M&Eo fthe objectives and expected outcomes could be done from the beginning o f
project implementation. The borrower's M&Eplanswere finalized two years after
effectiveness andwere more orientedto outputs rather thanoutcomes.

2.2      There was insufficient appraisal to ensure the enterprise restructuring objective would
be effectively and efficiently achieved andthis accounted for the difficulties the component
experienced duringimplementation. To be sure, there were a number o f considerations that
appeared to limit the options available for maintainingthe livelihoods o f the displaced
Changqing Forestry Bureauworkers (CFB). Bank staff interviewed for this assessment stated
that worker redeployment was pursued because the Bank and Government of China (GOC)
believedthe employees should still be able to receive the socialbenefits they were entitled to
under the CFB. Correspondence during appraisal andinterviews with Bank staff indicate that
a limit was placed on the allocation for relocation since it involved severance payments, and
although Bankpolicy hadbeen evolving from a view o f severance payments as unproductive
to seeing them as assisting inlabor shedding for restructuring inefficient state-owned
enterprises (SOEs), an official policy on them was still lacking. Concerns also existed during
preparationthat ifthe relocation program were expanded and was unsuccessful inits
outcome, a large number ofpeople would suffer decreased livelihoods. Additionally, as

                                                      5


Bankstaffstatedininterviews, the project enterprises embodiedreforms that hadbeenmade
inthe SOE sector.

2.3      However, most importantly, the NRMP enterprise retainedmanyo f the characteristics
o f older SOEs that made them inefficient and financially unviable. Private and collectively-
owned rural township and village enterprises constituted China's fastest growing sector inthe
late 1980sand early 1990s, but it was knownthat SOEs continued to remain economically
andmanagerially inefficient, as well as hindereddue to various national economic,
institutional, legal policies relating to employment, social service provision andownership.
BankAAA available at the time illustratedthis.' A more carefbl assessment o fwhether an
enablinginstitutional and economic environment existedwould likely have predicted
difficulties with the worker redeploymentprogram and suggested the need to develop
additional livelihood substitution components to manage the risks. Infact, there is no
mention inthe GEF Project Document (GEFPD) o fthe substantial risks the component
faced. Had the Bank assessedthe age composition and skills o f the CFB workforce during
appraisal, it might have enabled some targeting o f the relocation andtransfer programs to
specific groups, or, again, created awareness o fthe need for some modification or o f an
additional program to address the highnumbero fretirees and reduce the burden they would
place on the enterprises. Evaluating the feasibility o fthe existing andnew enterprises, and
creating the latter, duringproject preparationwere also essential, but these were done during
implementation instead.

2.4      Considering the highlevel o fhumanpressure on biodiversity inChina, the extent to
which the NRMP sought to address this problem inthe selectedN R s by introducing C C M as
an approach was inadequate, even as a demonstration pilot. According to the GEFPD, at the
time o f appraisal approximately 51,000 people inroughly 190villages resided within the
project N R s , and a comparable number lived adjacent to them. Yet the NRMP's C C M
component involved only a total o f eight villages. The low assistance for the component was
the principal issue that borrower agencies at all levels raisedconcerning the project.

2.5      Although government hndingto sustain NR management activities after the project
has been inadequate at boththe national and local levels, the Bank had received assurance at
appraisal o fthe borrower's financial commitment for this purpose. Onother Quality-at-entry
criteria Bankperformance was satisfactory.

Financingarrangements

2.6      The system developed to channel the GEF grant to the different levels inthe NR
system was challenging at first for the implementing agencies, but reflected care on the part
o fthe Ministry o f Forestry's World Bank LoanProject Management Center (PMC) that
created it. Counterpart units at the DNR, provincial andNR levels to manage the
disbursement, procurement andrelated activities for those units were created. Forjob
creation under the enterprise restructuring component, GEF gave concessional loans to the


1. Cf. The World Bank. 1992.Rural Enterprise Development in China, 1986-90.World BankDiscussion
Papers, China andMongoliaDepartment Series; The World Bank. 1994.EnterpriseReform and Restructuring
I n Transition Economies. Policy Brief, Policy ResearchDepartment, The World Bank.

                                                6


enterprises, repayments on which were to be used for a revolving fund to support futurejob
creation schemes necessary for the cessation o ftimber extraction inbiodiversity-rich forests.

2.7      Although the total GEF grant was US$ 17.9 Mythe actual contribution was slightly
less, at US$ 16.24 M,because the grant was denominated inSDRs, but disbursed inUS$,
andthe US$ depreciated against the SDR over the project. The totalproject cost at appraisal
was US$23.6 M.The actual cost was US$24.7 M, and Chinese counterpart sources provided
US$ 8.45 Mof it, compared to US$5.74 Mat appraisal, largely for implementing the
enterprise restructuring component.


3.       Monitoring and Evaluation

3.1      The overall rating for performance inthis area is Modest. Although there were
significant weaknesses inthe design, implementationandutilization ofM&E, the project did
succeed inintroducing M&Econcepts andmethods for NR management andits effects on
biodiversity where there hadbeen virtually none.

Design

3.2      An M&E framework for the project was not developedat appraisal. Establishing
M&Esystemsthroughthe provisiono ftraining andequipmentto enable the NRs to track
species, ecosystem conditions andlivelihoods and adapt management based on information
they collectedwas one o fthe very aims o fthe project andwas to be done bythe counterpart
agencies during implementation. Several useful ecosystem and species indicators, at different
landscape scales, their relevance for each o f the reserve areas, andthe data sources for them,
were suggested inthe GEFPD. Also providedwere a number o fvaluable socio-economic and
institutional accountability andperformance indicators that could possibly be used inthe
M&EplanstheN R s developed, andan elaborate activity implementationschedule withthe
targeted outputs.

3.3      Nevertheless, intermediate andproject outcomes, along with indicators for them, for
institutional and capacity development could have been developedat appraisal. Only the
enterprise restructuring component was designed with some outcome targets, mainly in
regardto the workers to be transferred or relocated.

3.4      The M&E system for the project as a whole was developed only inmid-1997 by the
DNR,two years after project effectiveness. Thispreventedthe properM&E, withbaseline
information, o f not only improvedNR management, but also o f systematic patrolling, a
critical activity for biodiversityprotection. The planand its indicators, moreover, were
largelyto track outputs rather thanto assess the extent to which management capacity
improved. Equally serious, the 1997 guidelines didprovide a framework with indicators and
targets for ecological and socioeconomic monitoring at the NR level.

3.5      Therewere anumber o fweaknessesinthe design o fM&Efor enhanced biodiversity
inthe NR management plans.Theplans,whichwere to present themonitoringframeworks

                                                7


to be used, were finalized only in 1998-99. However, IEG found that even after their late
completion, inthe management plansmade available to it, from Xishuangbanna (XNR) and
the QinlingN R s , M&Eplanswere either absent (Zhouzhi NR) or insufficiently developed
(Xishuangbanna, Taibai and FopingNRs).

3.6     Some data collection o f animal andplant species, to which ecological monitoring was
largelyconfined, didbegin earlier, as it was conducted bypatrol guards (and periodically by
more skilled staff) andimprovedpatrolling commenced at that time. But data from
monitoringlpatrol rounds, recorded on standardized observational data sheets, could not be
catalogued or effectively analyzed until2001, whenthe informationmanagement system
became operational.

3.7     Perhaps more problematic was the weak scientific basis o fthe monitoring
methodology, especially inrelation to species that are rare, inconspicuous or that conceal
themselves, as species population size assessments were attempted without appropriate
statistical approaches that consider the different species' unique ecological characteristics,
andusingonly raw data collectedon species sightings andsigns alongpatrol andtransect
routes. The data collection technique used could have providedreliable estimates o frelative
population changes, ifthe information was analyzed with statistically rigorous models, but it
could not generate statistically reliable estimates o f absolute species abundance.
Additionally, patrol and monitoring staff would have requiredconsiderable field training to
ensure accurate detection. At the same time, the goal o f monitoring all species was too
ambitious. M&E frameworks that focused on only the few key species o f a reserve, but
which also employed reliable approaches for interpreting data, by involvinginternational or
domestic experts, would have been preferable, especially given the low level o fNR capacity
at the project's commencement. Considering that the NR M&Eplandevelopment and
baseline data collection were to be carried out duringthe project, it was unrealistic assume
that monitoring and analysis to assess the outcomes for biodiversity at the end o f the project
could be conducted on time and generate meaningful information.

3.8     Underthe project, N R s were also to conduct M&Eon the livelihood outcomes o f
communities participating inthe community co-management (CCM) sub-component.
However, M&Eplans for socio-economic monitoringwere not included under the C C M
objective inthe NR management plans. Furthermore, although data was supposedly collected
on villages inand around the NRs, many o f the management plans didnot include
information on some ofthe most basic livelihood indicators, such as average household
income. And, insome NRs, C C M was initiated before management plans had been
completed and PRAYwhich would collect additional livelihoods relatedinformation, was not
carried out inall the sites.

ImplementationandUtilization

3.9     Ecological baseline surveys were reported as havingbeenperformed, but no data
from these exercises were presentedinthe management plans o fXNR or the Qinlingcluster
o fN R s (QCNR). Population data collected on Giant Pandas inFopingNR, and on golden
monkey andtakin populations inZhouzhi NR,before the NRMP became effective are
presented inthe respective management plans. But inboth cases, the information was the

                                                8


product o fresearchprojectsby other institutions inthe past. There appeared to be no
coordination betweenthe Bank and these institutions for data-gathering and evaluation for
the project. Duringthe project, patrol guards recorded information on species sightings,
destructive practices and offences, but inaddition to the methods being unreliable for
estimating species population changes, there was weak analysis o fthe data. Apart from the
late installation o fthe shareddatabase, none o fthe agencies, NR, provincial or State Forestry
Administration (SFA), assumed the task o fregularly analyzing the data init for decision-
makingandprovidingdirection for improvedmanagementat the NR level. Moreover, once
the information system was operating, there was little time remaining inthe project for
monitoring data to be effectively utilized for resource reallocationand strategic redirection.
Compoundingthese problems, the sustainability o fNRmonitoring (and other activities) was
also likely affected due to often inadequate resources for environmental conservation at the
sub-national level andthe GOC's 1998 logging ban, which impacted 17 provinces, including
those inthe project, andledto a decline provincial revenues, which were used to support NR
staff. Regardingproject M&E, although the DNRcollected information regularly once it
formulated an M&Eplan, because the approach tracked outputs rather thanoutcomes, its
value was limited.

Other Issues (safeguards, fiduciary, unintendedimpacts-positiveor
negative)

3.10     Environmental assessmentswere carried out satisfactorily for all infrastructure
development inthe NRs and for the construction and expansion o fthe enterprises under the
enterprise restructuring component. The establishment o fthe corridor linkingWuyishan
N R ' s core zones in 1998 required the application o fthe Bank's involuntary resettlement
safeguard policy since it involved 155 households from 5 villages losing access to their lands
for tea andbamboo cultivation andprocessing inthe targeted area. At appraisal, the precise
land area and number o fhouseholds was not known, as the arrangement was to have the
N R ' s management plan determine these. However, adequate assurancewas obtained that if
resettlement was found to be necessary the borrower would submit a resettlement plan
satisfactory to the Bank and conduct all steps inaccordance with the Operational Directive.

3.11 An appropriate resettlement plan was developed and the affectedhouseholds were
given compensation payments for 5 years for the landlost inthe corridor, andprovided
assistancefor improving productivity on landoutside the area o fthe same size as that lost in
the corridor. A bamboo processing facility was also relocated. Based on income monitoring
conducted, the NRMP appears to have restored the livelihoods o fthose the corridor affected.
Bamboo productivity increased from 325 to 731 stemsper hectare (95 percent o fthe 750-
stemtarget figure), andnet stem earningsare also reportedto have increased from RMB 5 to
17 per stem. From 1995 to 2005, average per capita income o fthe households rose from
RMB2,672 to RMB4,300, mainlyfromtea andbambooproduction, but also from the
employment o f household members inpatrolling and tourism. This increase is largely
consistent with the increase inincomes and inflation inChina's rural economy. NR officials
stated that duringthe process o f following the Bank's guidelines they believedthe
justifications for them were tenuous and the procedures arduous, but after implementing
them andobserving the outcomes, they concluded that the guidelines were sensible and
effective. The Bank was diligent inensuringthat the implementing agency followed all the

                                                9


safeguard procedures andprovidedthe necessary information. The enterprise restructuring
andworker redeployment component didnot trigger this safeguard policy because it didnot
involve workers losing land.

3.12    The Bank's safeguard policyon indigenouspeoples came into affect for the project
activities inXNR, an areawith a highpopulation o f ethnic minorities. As XNR i s governed
under the Xishuangbanna Dai (minority) autonomous prefecture o f Yunnanprovince,
discussions with it andlocal government at appraisal constituted consultations with these
bodies as representatives o f the minority communities. The NRMP didnot propose or result
inany activitiesharmfulto the communities, andinfact sought theirparticipation for
developing eco-friendly livelihood schemes.


4.      Ratings

Outcome

The outcome o fthe project is ratedmoderately satisfactory overall.

Relevance

4.1     The relevance o fthe NRMP's objectives remains high. Most o f China's nearly 2,000
N R s still lack effective management, including monitoring, patrolling and planning, as well
as basic infrastructure. Furthermore, heavy resource use inand around N R s continues to
exact a toll on habitats andbiodiversity, though, given this, the NRMP did not seek
sufficiently to addressthis problem. Formulating a strategy to protect biodiversity inorder to
help China meet its international environmental conventions i s a goal under the Bank's 2006
Country Partnership Strategy for China, andthe GOC has increased its financing andtaken
policymeasures for biodiversity conservation. The objectives were also highlyrelevant to the
GEF's current strategic priorities for its biodiversity work.

4.2     However, relevance o fthe project's design is lacking. There was a clear causal link
between Bank funding andthe inputs on the one hand, to the intended outcomes on the other,
butthe objectives, as stated, lackedspecificity andwere unableto serve as a strong guide for
the development o f anM&Eframework andtargets for it. Furthermore, as mentioned above,
the M&Eplanwas developed two years after implementationhadbegunand outlined
indicators andtargets more for the completion o f outputs involved inthe project rather than
for the achievement o fthe desiredobjectives and outcomes.

Efficiency

4.3     The grant and other resources inthe project were usedinarelatively cost-effective
manner,with the exception o fthe enterprise restructuring component andmonitoring and
informationmanagement. The enterprises involvedwere financially unviable andburdened
with social service andpensionpayment obligations for non-working andretired staff, and
the worker transfer process was inefficient as a whole as the displaced workers hadto be
shifted to other programs when it was realized that those they hadbeen incould not

                                                10


accommodate them. The financial rates o freturn on the CCM-related sub-projects for which
data is available (for one village inTaibai NR)were substantial. Those for the schemes in
other villages that were launched are unknown, but based on interviews with implementing
agencies appear to be positive. Intwo C C M villages, sub-project investments resulted in
negative returns as necessary counterpart funding didnot materialize.

Efficacy

4.4     The rating for the project's efficacy is modest overall. There were shortcomings inthe
achievement o fthe objective, for although all o f the approaches adopted were innovative
within the context o fChina's NR system andefforts for biodiversity conservation, some were
effective interms o f enhancing conservation while other equally important approaches were
not. It should also be noted that the efficacy rating i s based on an assessment o f outcomes at
two levels, the extent to which conservation management, definedbroadly, was improved,
andthe increases inspeciesabundance anddiversity that resulted.

4.5     Skills development through expert training ledto enhanced capacity in several
important areas o fbiodiversity conservation andNR management at all three administrative
levels inthe SFA'sNR system, andto deeper institutional development impacts on SFA's
NR system. A reportedtotal o f 1,000 DNR,provincial andNR level officials and staff took
13 courses invarious basic and advanced management andtechnical areas, raising capacity,
which inmany areas was low or non-existent, especially at the NR and ONR levels, before
the NRMP, to where conservation administration i s now functional and effective. The
promotion o fmany o fthe training recipients to leadership positions within the NR system
has also strengthened the system's capacity overall. Based on the capacity development
outcomes, the DNR under the project created an in-house national training program whereby
trainees, particularly at the NR level, provided training to other N R s . FopingNR, for
example, gave four management-plan development courses for 10other N R s . Conservation
research capacity was also developed inSFA and external institutions as a competitive
research grantprograms helped addknowledge on baseline conditions inNRs and supported
59 smaller targeted projects. The latter projects, however, were not tailored to meetingNR
management needs.

4.6     The benefits gained interms o f improved management capacity have been sustained
at the national level andextended to non-project NRs.The nationalNR management
training-of-trainers capacity development system has beenmaintained within SFA's
Department o f Wildlife Conservation (DWC, previously the DNR), and a curriculum
developed under the project and covering the key areas o f management has been used since
the NRMP closed to train personnel o f other NRs. The D W C has held nine national-level
courses since the project, training 430 staff, and several ONR-level trainings as well. NRMP-
trained staffhave also become consultants for donors andNGOs on their biodiversity
projects.

4.7     Conservation planningabilities at the NR level have improved as a result ofthe
development o fNR management plans.However, capacity gaps at the NR level remain and
management for conservation is still at a basic level. Indeed, the value NR staff have for the
principles o f effective reserve management appears to be less thanthe project expected. The

                                               11


NRMP developed NR management planningskills inChina wherepreviously even priority
N R s lackedplans and decision-making was ad hoc innature. NR staff, through training,
formulated management plans o f quality and for the first time for their respective reserves
(see Annex B Part A for a more detailed description o fthe plans). TargetingN R s with
capacity-strengthening-a     new approach inChina-rather     thanadopting atop-down
approach for improvedmanagement, led their staff, an internationalNGO observed, to
develop greater ownership andthe knowledge and skills to implement planactivities, unlike
inthe past. When localpublic budgets allowed, activitiesplannedwere actually
implemented. Enhancedplanningabilities have allowed N R s to obtain support from and
collaborate with international NGOs after the NRMP closed, and long-term goals inthe
management plans have beenthe basis o f hture activities the N R s have developed with
WWF andother NGOsinvarious activities (Annex BPartA contains a discussiono fthe
remaining capacity gaps).

4.8     Planningmethods introduced improved decision-making andprioritization for
biodiversity conservation inthe Wildlife ConservationOffice o fYunnan Province and inthe
DNR.Throughtraining andGIS assistance, Yunnan's Wildlife ConservationOffice
developed andimplemented a provincial NR master planto increase biodiversity protection
inkey areas. Scientific andGIS researchonbiodiversity for themaster planestablishedthe
value o fpotential areas for reserve coverage andidentifiedpriority areas for legislative
approval as N R s . Data the Office gathered ledthe State Council to expand two NRs, and
upgrade andjoin to another NR a third.Management plans were also developed for the N R s .
The NRMPthus developed provincial-level leadership for conservation inYunnan, China's
most biodiversity-rich province. Unlike Yunnan, the other participating provinces that did
not receive such focused assistance experienced only modest capacity gains. (Annex B Part
Bdiscussesthe modest levels o fplanning capacity developed inthe other provincial
agencies).

4.9     The SFA developed a National Forestry Nature Reserve System Plan, based on an
analysis o fthe gaps inbiodiversity conservation inlandunder itsjurisdiction, recommending
an enlarged system, for more effective coverage o f critical biodiversity areas, andin
accordance with I U C Ncriteria, ranked 87 N R s as Class Ior 11, thus deservingpriority
conservation attention inChina's 10thFive-Year Plan. For these N R s , the System Plan
developed five-year budget needs estimates. However, the recommended level o f support did
not materialize, leaving the System Planuncompleted.

4.10    Organizationaldevelopment at the NR level, consisting o f staff reorganization and
strengthening, infrastructure investments, training and performance incentives, have
improved the quality o fbiodiversity management andprotection. NR personnelrestructuring
raised the number o fpatrol guards and reduced NR bureau staff to bringgreater field-
protection andimprove other site-based activities. InXNR, for example, forest guards
increased from 35 to 63 and office staff declined from 63 to 32. Yunnan province's Wildlife
Conservation Office's management capabilities were strengthened as its staff increased.
Significant gains to protection and management came from the basic and critical
infrastructureand equipment including for communication andresearch that was provided
andhadbeen almost entirely lackingbefore. Civilworks implementation includedthe

                                                 12


creation inWuyishan NR o f a 3,878 ha-corridor linking its core areas that is managed as a
buffer zone. Greater presence o fwildlife inthe corridor hasbeenreported.

4.11 However, all infrastructurewas constructed only after the management plans had
been approved, which was in 1998-99, and as part o ftheir implementation, thus delaying the
benefits o f increasedprotection. As the ICR and several NR and SFA staff have stated, the
management plandevelopment process was too long and the NRMPwas near to closingby
the time the plans were completed. To facilitate completion o f all the components, although
the project closed on schedule, its duration was extended by one year. Despite this, the
devaluation o fthe grant meant that the infrastructureplannedhad to be scaled back.

4.12     Sound andrigorous patrolling guidelines were introducedthrough training and
standardized across the NRs, andthese have also allowed for monitoring, improved
supervision o fprotection activities, and training o f other NR staff. Patrolroutes and
schedules have been established ineachNR. Local residents havebeen employed as guards,
a cost-effective measure that has also generated some ownership andbenefits for them. To
ensure field staff carry out their responsibilities at highquality, some o fthe major N R s ,
namelyFopingNR andXNR, initiated anincentive system tying salary andpromotions to
performance on specific tasks andachievements. The better working and livingconditions
for personnel andtheir families made possible through the infrastructure provided have also
increased staff incentives.

4.13     However, due to a lack o fpublic fimds for environmental aims at the sub-national
levels, N R s have beenunable to sustain patrolling and other management activities, leaving
illicit resource use at highlevels. As M&Ehas also been affected, it is unclear to what extent
enhanced protection has benefited the biodiversity o f the N R s although it is likely it has had
some positive effect. Dueto weaknesses inChina's system o f fiscal decentralization that
have existed since before the project, and to the 1998 loggingban, which has reduced the
revenues o fthe provinces affected, most o fthe N R s , especially those inthe poorer regions,
have lackedthe sub-national support for staff salaries they require to conduct field activities
on a sustained basis. Although N R s generally claim that poachinghas declined, data
documentingthis and linkingit to improvedprotection i s lackingas the necessary M&Ewas
not carried out. According to a wildlife rehabilitation organization inShaanxi, poaching
remains fairly highinthe Qinling mountains, andhuntingremains a serious problem insome
XNR sub-reserves. Only inN R s receiving support from NGOs or the Ministryo fFinance,
such as Foping NR, are patrolling and/or monitoring regular.

4.14     The closure o fthe CFB's timber enterprises enabled the creation o f a new national-
level NR for Giant Pandaprotection inthe Qinlingmountains, but the impacts on the species'
population are not known. A 30,000-hectare area at the logging-affected site was declared
ChangqingNR,as the CFB was closed rather than its activities scaled down to sustainable
levels. The closure along with the NFPP have led to forest andpandahabitat restoration in
the area, including indegraded corridors that hadprevented panda movements, andwith the
adjacent Foping NR has increased the total contiguous habitat for the species inthe area.
However, the outcome interms o fthe pandapopulation is not known. While some increase
can be assumed, no specific data was provided to IEGand it i s not clear that M&Ewas done.

                                                     13


4.15    Yet the approach o fenterprise restructuring andredeployment, inefficient and
ineffective as it encountered numerous obstacles, did not demonstrate itself as a model that in
the given context couldbe replicated for enhancing biodiversity conservation. The NRMP
sought through ajob-creation program to transfer the majority o fworkers2 the closure
affectedto three existing and two new SOEs associatedwith the CFB. Though the existing
SOEs had incorporatedthe recent sector reforms, they were already being managed
inefficiently and without regard to market principles before receiving the new workers. The
new SOEs became financially unviable due to market conditions, the low skill levels o f the
transferred workers and ofmanagement, andthe retirement o f a large portion o f the workers
shortly after their transfer andthe need to pay their social benefits. Because o fpressure to
create the newNR,the enterprise feasibility studies didnot present the actual viability o f the
companies. Itwas reportedto IEGthat as o f 2005 all o fthese SOEs were performing poorly,
with debts outweighing assets inmost cases, andthe ratio o fworkingto non-working
employees being about 1:2. Because the enterprises were unable to pay the GEF
concessional loans they received, the facility proposedto recycle the repayments to fund
future job creation schemes that would allow the closure o f other logging enterprises didnot
materialize (see Annex B Part C for a detailed discussion o fthe NRMP's experience with
enterprise restructuring andredeployment).

4.16    Owing to an inability o fthejob-creation program to absorb the number o f workers
anticipated, andthe CFB closure's displacement o f a larger number o f workers than
expected, the Bank and SPFD sought to transfer the remainingworkers with earmarked
capital to SOEs outside Changqing, althoughnearly halfo f them retired and were supported
bythe province. Those transferred to new SOEs were ultimately laidoffandtheir new
employers were unable to pay their social benefits, leaving them to be supported by the
province as well. Owingto the difficulties and added costs that redeployment involved,
counterpart fundingwas increased. Livelihoods monitoring ofthe workers inthejob-creation
and worker-transferprograms was not conducted. Consideringthat because the participating
SOEs havebeen economically unviable many o f the workers might have receivednon-
working status to receive only subsistence support, it i s likely they are experiencing lower
living standards thanbefore.

4.17    The NRMPprovided relocationpackages to 150employees. The program's selection
process andthe relocation were conducted ina transparent and fair manner through quality
consultations with employees, anNGO that observed the process confirms. Although the
workers' livingstandards after relocation and satisfaction with the program were reported as
good, the quality o fthe M&E conducted was weak, leaving it uncertain how the participants
have fared. An additional 37 employees were givenreduced relocationpackages once the
difficulty with the job-creation program became apparent.

4.18    The informationmanagement methods andtools introduced contributed only
modestly to enhanced conservation management due to weak preparation, design and
implementationo fM&E, the late installation o f the Chinese Biodiversity Information
Management System (CBIMS) and continued technical problems with it, and the lack o f


  See Annex B Part D for the lack ofclarity on the numberof workers the CFB's closure affected and how
many participated ineach o f the worker redeployment programs.

                                                14


clarity within the NR system on the responsibilities for data analysis for improved NR
management. Procedures for improved anddetailedbiodiversitymonitoring were introduced
and havebeenpracticed inthe N R s to an extent, but the M&Eplanswere developed only
duringimplementation andit is unclear what biodiversity indicators havebeenused.
Significant monitoring also beganrather late andwithout quality baseline studies as a
foundation, and methodologieshave not been scientifically reliable. These factors have
limitedthe agencies'-and      the Bank's-ability  to determine the project's contribution to
biodiversity abundance inthe N R s andmeant that NR M&Ecapacity was only partially
developed. Technical difficulties with CBIMS, the GIs-interfaced database accessible to
agencies at all levels inthe NR system, ledto its late installation, in2000, which meant a
significant delay inthe analysis o fmonitoring andpatrol data. The system has continued to
malfunction andcounterpart agencies find it complicated, preventingits effective use.
Though it has some potential, CBIMS i s not being utilized inmany o fthe N R s at this point.

4.19    More seriously, the chronic budgetgaps for environmental activities at sub-national
levels meanthat it i s likely regular monitoring inmost o fthe NRs is not being conducted. An
internationalNGO IEGinterviewed corroborated this. Indeed, although data was to be
collected on a large number o f indicators, inmost o fthe NRs it i s quite sparse andweak in
quality, covering only a few species andnot scientifically reliable. Only where an
internationalNGO is involved inspeciesmonitoring is data reliable. An additional problem
has been the lack o f ownership within the NR system o fthe task o f data analysis for
improving NR management, as each level claims the task i s performed at another level.
Consequently, the links between data collection, analysis andimproved management action
are tenuous, and consideringthe large amount o f data that has been entered into CBIMS, and
the shared access to the system, the opportunities for infomation analysis to enhance NR
management have been significantly underutilized. The NRMP aimed to introduce
objectives-oriented decision-making with ongoing environmental and socioeconomic
monitoring, but evidence indicates that this occurred minimally (Annex B Part D discusses
these modest achievements ingreater detail).

4.20    The NRMP's "community co-management" approach didnot seek so muchto
integrate local communities into NR management as it didto engage them inthe
participatory reductiono fnatural resource use. Community co-management (CCM)
contracts were developed betweenNRs andthe eight selected villages, but these agreements
were general and didnot contain any real management responsibilities for the communities
or benefits tiedto their achievement other thanthe receipt o f one-time community investment
grants (CIGs) for environmentally sustainable economic activities or educational projects.

4.21    The actual approach, while it hadpotentialto be effective, contributedlittle to
developing biodiversity conservation management. One reason i s that the N R s didnot
adequately cultivate participation and counterpart fundingdidnot always materialize. In
perhaps only two cases, Taibai NR andpossibly Foping NR were the C C M proceduresto
cultivate participation and identify issuesproperly followed. Inmost o f the villages, the steps
were not conducted fully or at all, as N R s began to carry out C C M without the necessary
training, and NR and local leaders tended to choose the sub-projects to be pursued. The CIGs
supported a variety o f small-scale schemes, such as bee-keeping, tree-crop cultivation and
fuelwood-saving stoves, and some o fthese tended to benefit only a modest percentage o f the

                                                  15


households ina village. InXNR's two villages, where C C M implementationwas poor,
counterpart fundingwas not provided owing to inadequate local budgets for conservation and
hence sub-projects didnot materialize. Despite the overall weak implementation o f CCM, the
concept transformed the NR management paradigm inthe SFA, andN R s sought to extend
C C M to other non-NRMP villages duringand after the project. However, resources for it
have been scarce. Hence as a pilot to develop the interest o f local government in
environmentally sustainable development by showing the benefits it can deliver, the
component didnot succeed.

4.22     Furthermore, sub-projects were designed without clear benefits to biodiversity, and
while the absenceo fM&Emeans that CCM's outcomes for habitats andspecies are not
known, they are likelyto benegligible given the small scale o fthe NRMP's C C M effort. The
economic activities CIGs supported were primarilyto improve livelihoods and inmost cases
NRofficials hadaninsufficient understanding that the sub-projects were to generate
conservation benefits as well. Because the link between livelihood improvement and
biodiversity enhancement inthe schemes was weak no real economic incentives for
conservation were developed. As there was no M&Eo f the environmental impacts o f CCM,
it isunclear what the schemes' effects were onbiodiversity. The livelihood effects onthe
communities are also not clear because socio-economic M&Ewas inadequate. However,
C C M likely contributed negligiblyto conservingNR habitat given the problems discussed
above, the small scale o f C C M andthe heavy humanpressure on the NRs by the more than
50,000 people livingwithinthe N R s at appraisal, according to the GEFPD.

4.23     The project nevertheless improved relations between the N R s and selected
communities, laid a foundation for community-based conservation by other donors and
NGOs, andledthe NR system to incorporate CCM as an activity. The NRMPmovedNR
management from an authoritative command-and-control approach to one that understoodthe
necessity o f addressing community needs, even where NR-community relations hadbeen
antagonistic. The new relationships appear to have provided the villages with some social
incentive for conservation. The project also laidthe groundwork for other donors andNGOs
to implement participatory and environmentally sustainable livelihood activities inChina's
NRs, and the DNRhas adopted C C M as an approach for the NR systemto follow. However,
unless it receives GOC support, it is unlikelythat it will be replicated on a significant scale
due to the low support available for it at local government levels ( h e x B Part Eprovides
an in-depthassessment o f CCM's contributions to enhanced conservation).

Outcomesfor Biodiversity

4.24     All the N R s report that the biodiversity intheir respective reserves has been enhanced
since the mid-l990s, and that these gains are attributable inlargepart to the NRMP. Table 3
below contains all the quantitative data the N R s provided to IEG. Population figures today
as opposed to those immediately after the project would actually better reflect the
contribution o f the NRMP since improvedmanagement would have hadtime to affect
species andbecause actual management actions andmonitoring commenced only mid-way in
the project. But as the quality and frequency o fmonitoring has been poor inmost o fthe NRs,
it is difficult to ascertain what the benefits to biodiversity have been. Indeed, some o fthe
reported increases below, for example o fmouse deer inXNR, seem quite unrealistic. If

                                                      16


  species abundance and diversity are greater today thanthey were before the project, to what
  extent they can be attributedto the NRMP is not clear, although it is likely that the improved
  protectionthe project brought made some contribution, because the GOC and several NGOs
  anddonors havealso taken various conservation measures, including the 1998 loggingban,
  inandaround the N R s sincethe mid-1990s. At the sametime, localor global threats may
  have emerged or risen since the project. InPoyang Lake, according to an international NGO,
  birdpopulations sometimes vary considerably from year to year andthere is some
  disagreement among scientists on whether low numbers insome years signify that the
  species are suffering adverse effects.

  Table 3. ReportedChanges in Populationsof Key Species inthe NRs



    Nature Reserve and Key                          1990s                                 2005

             Species                          (exact year varies)                  (unless otherwise
                                                                                       indicated)
  Foping
    Giant Panda                               70 ("before 1995")                            >90
    Takin                         I               600 (1995)            I                  1000
    Golden-hairedMonkey                           400 (1995)                                600
  Poyang Lake (averagenos. of
  winterina birds)
~~                                                                   ~      ~~    ~                    ~
    Siberian Crane                      1800 ("before orduring project")                   3100
    Oriental Stork                                  800 ``"                                2500
    Swan Geese                                    30.000  " "                             60.000
  Shennonjia
    Golden-hairedMonkey           II              760 (1998)            II                 1200
  Xishuangbanna
   Asian Elephant                                 200 (1996)                       250 (``after project")
    Mouse Deer                                    100(1996)                          1200 (2006)
    Parashorea chinensis (free)           361 ha ("beforeproiect")             395 ha (``after proiect")
  Zhouzhi
    Golden-hairedMonkey           IIIIII         1100(1996)             IIIIII       1210(2001)


  5.      Risksto DevelopmentOutcome

  5.1     The rating for this criterion i s Significant.

  5.2     The enhanced skills acquired at all levels inthe NR system havebeen, andwill likely
  continue to be, further utilized to extend improved management to other N R s andto obtain
  additional support, and the project N R s have beenbolsteredthrough other measures as well.
  Finally, the risks to any biodiversity gains achieved are small. Improved management
  planningcapacity has enabled the DNRand NRs to generate additional support. The DNR
  has received increased fundingfrom the GOC that also includes a budget for infrastructure in

                                                     17


the project N R s , and N R s as well as ONRs are able to obtain increased support from NGOs
anddonors. The DNRhas continued to exercise its enhanced knowledge through its efforts to
extend better managementabilities to other N R s inSFA's system. To replicate the NRMP's
benefits, 51national-level N R s will create management plans ina new pilot project. The
NRMP is servingas a model for other SFA NR-strengthening efforts as well. Hence some
fundingfor national-level efforts didmaterialize although at project close, as the ICR states,
the replicationprospects were only modest. Capacity interms o f management knowledge is
likely to be sustained at all levels within the NR system. Five years after the NRMP, N R s are
still committedto carrying out effective management activities, when fundingmakes this
possible. There has also been greater attentionto the project N R s inthe country andvarious
actions have been taken to increase protection. The areas o f some N R s were expanded or new
N R s were created adjacent to them, signifyingthe continued importance o f the N R s for the
GOC, and legislationand regulations havebeendeveloped for some NRs, such as Poyang
Lake, to facilitate their protection. Lastly, the risks to ChangqingNR existence, and to the
populations o fkey species that genuinely increased, to the extent the increases can be
attributedto the project, are not significant.

5.3       Yet at the NR level, which the NRMP focused on andwhere resources are most
essential for proper management to take place, support has been quite deficient for most o f
the NRs. This has also meant that the project's piloted C C M could not be up-scaled to be
more effective intackling resource use pressures on biodiversity. Financial support from the
GOC for the project N R s andothers, while it has increased, has remained grossly inadequate.
As the NR SystemPlandevelopedunderthe project states, "national andlocal governments
have not incorporatedsufficient investments for development and management o fnature
reserves into annual budgets.. Funds are never sufficient or secure.. .[and] funds are often
                                   ,
earmarked for specific activities without input from NR managers." The MOF continues to
holdthe conventionalview that biodiversity conservation primarilyrequires infrastructure
and it provides support only for this. Only for a select few N R s , such as Foping NR because
it is akeyGiantPandareserve, does it finance all activities. The project NRs depend for their
staff salaries andsupport for eco-friendly community schemes on sub-national governments,
andas the budget allocationso fthese unitsfor environmentalpurposes havebeen small,
especially inthe less-developed, biodiversity-rich regions, the N R s have been unable to
sustain on a regular basis the benefits interms o fimproved critical management activities,
such as patrolling and monitoring, and perhaps even others.3

5.4       Insufficient local resources have also preventedthe N R s andthe DNR from scaling-
up CCMto effectively addressthe principalthreat o fheavy humanpressure. Although the
logging banhas improved and expanded areas for biodiversity, resources for N R s are even
fewer after the ban as provinces have experienced declines inrevenue. While the N R s have
improved abilities to obtain external funding, an absence o f other major sources exists,
especially for endangeredspecies conservation. As CBIMS has hadtechnical problems, the
risks to its continued use where it does occur are significant ifmore user-friendly systems


4. One study estimated that in2000, public expenditures, investment and current, for nationalprotected areas
were o f the value ofUS$1.13/ha. Han, N.2000. Study of the SustainableManagement Policiesfor China's
Nature Reserves. China National Committee on M a n and Biosphere, Scientific and Technical Documents
PublishingHouse, Beijing.

                                               18


become available. Specifically regarding XNR, although is a high-priority NR, a Bangkok-
Kunminghighway isbeingbuiltthrough it andisboundto have adverse impacts. Therisks
to the NRMP's development outcomes at the time o fthis assessment are thus greater thanthe
level the ICR implied at the end o fthe project with its sustainability rating o f Likely.

BankPerformance

5.5     The overall rating for Bank performance is Satisfactory. The Bank's performance
duringappraisal is discussed above under "Quality at entry" (paragraph 2.1) and is rated
Moderately Satisfactory. This section covers supervisionperformance, which is rated Highly
Satisfactory.

5.6     The Bank gave strong attentionduringproject implementationto ensure that the
development objectives were achieved, addressing the challenges to enterprise restructuring,
developing counterpart capacity one step at a time, requiring greater DNR ownership and
supervision, and remindingborrower agencies on the need for quality intheir tasks andthe
timely submission o f reports. Inmanaging the difficulties encountered with the worker
transfer program and inan effort to make certain that all employees were redeployedinajust
manner, the Bankteam was able to adapt andinnovate to develop solutions. There was
careful attention andhighcommitment to achieving the objectives o f this major component.

5.7     Although the NRMP's design was ambitious inits capacity development expectations
andthis ledto some delays, it nevertheless remainedimportant for the counterpart agencies
to buildtheir foundation inone areabefore they proceeded to the next, andthe Bank inits
management ensured that this occurred. The Bank sought to maintain a logical order o fthe
activities and even postponeddeadlines for some outputs, such as the NR management plans,
andinsistedNRs undergotraining inCCMbefore engaging with communities so the work
would be o f quality. The decision on whether the next activity should be pursued was based
on careful supervision assessment. One factor that contributed to capacity development
shortcomings at the NR level was insufficient DNR oversight andthe Bank pressed the
agency to adopt greater ownership and supervision. The Bank also redesigned CBIMS after it
hadbeen installeddue to the difficulties counterpart agencies were experiencing with it. The
Bank team during supervisionwas unable to correct for all the gaps either inQuality-at-entry
or implementationperformance, especially those o f the latter that occurred late inthe project.
However, it did address manyo fthem with its highdegree o f focus on achieving the
development outcomes.

5.8     The Bankwas also careful inits analysis o f studies andreportsthe borrower agencies
submittedandindicated gaps ininformationto be filled. Based on an examination o fproject
files and interviews with DNR officials, it was also scrupulous inrequiring all documents in
timelymannerto ensure that the project was on track to achieve its objectives. This was true
for the project as a whole as well as for each sub-component. For example, the team gave
significant attentionto the details o fhousehold compensation for the Wuyishan NR's
corridor creation. Supervision mission were frequent and usually staffedby specialists in
several different areas. Reporting on the project's performance was also detailed and honest.
The DNR also noted that the experience o fworking with the Bankinimplementation itself

                                                19


was beneficial, as it learned from it clear and logical implementation with articulated
objectives and outcomes inmindandbased on sound supervisionmonitoring.

5.9      The Bankteam also developedaplatform duringthe project to share amongproject
andexternal stakeholders lessons emergingfrom the NRMP. The Bankheldtwo formal
meetings with other NGOs and donors involved inbiodiversity conservation to share with
them the project's experiences with pursuing the various objectives, and draw on their
knowledge. These organizations included WWF-China, the Ford Foundation, UNDP, GTZ,
Friends o fNature, a local NGO, and others, and also involved the DNR.This engagement
not only provided these other institutionswith information on the first large-scale
biodiversity conservation project inChina, but also helpedestablish a common understanding
o fthe challenges and opportunities inconservationinthe country, and agreements on which
areas require fhture collaboration.

Borrower Performance

5.10     Borrower performance i s ratedoverall as Satisfactory, with the Government
Performance rating being Moderately Satisfactory and implementing agency performance
qualifying as Satisfactory.

5.11 The government gave significant importance to the project objectives o fthis first
major biodiversity conservation project inChina that was also reflected inthe level o f
counterpart fhding provided. However, there were performance weaknesses insome key
areas. Commitment to conservation more broadly was seen inthe declaration o f Changqing
NRas anational-level NRandthe relateddecisionon logging. Considerable government
ownership existed as well, although on occasion it was more o fmeasures at the national
rather thanthe sub-national levels. Duringthe project, counterpart fbndingwas provided ina
timely manner, and infact actual borrower spending, at US$8.45M, was greater thanthe
appraisal estimate o fUS$5.74M. The only fimding shortfall was the lack o f counterpart
resources for C C M schemes inXNR. There were some additional performance gaps as well.
The GOC, along with sub-national levels, also shared responsibility with the Bank for not
having foreseen the risks o fNRs failing to receive the support they required from local level
governments after the project, and they didnot develop arrangements for sustained NR
financing for the transition to regular operation. Another performanceweakness was that an
enabling environment for the worker redeploymentprogram was not created, leaving the sub-
component destined to face problems.

5.12     Implementing agency performance was satisfactory, with the gaps having consisted
o f the implementationo f activities without following the prescribedprocedures, andweak
accomplishments inM&E. The implementing agencies at the national, provincial andNR
levels showed strong commitment to achieving the project outcomes and ownership o f the
processes for their respective tasks. However, insome instances they proceeded with
activities without the planned and necessary training. Beneficiary involvement inC C M was
generally weak, butNRs didinvolve local residents inmanagementactivities to provide them
benefits from, and give them ownership of, conservation.

                                                20


5.13    The project being the first large-scale, GOC-organized and externally funded project
for N R s inChina, the DNRhadhadno prior implementation experience with projects o fthis
kindor with the Bank, andwas not entirely confident the NRMPwould succeed. Although
challenging, a project management structure was created with an entity at each level thus
mirroring the administrative structure, to ensure procedures were properly followed, andthis
enabled the different levels withinthe NR system to work effectively together. Through
diligence, procurement requirements were met and outputs were delivered. Giventhe
complications o f the enterprise restructuring component, the SPFD performed effectively,
andit was inventive indevising with the Bank alternatives for the worker transfer scheme
andimplementingthem as efficiently as possible. Plans for M&Ewere developed only
duringthe project andlate, andwere output- rather thanoutcome-oriented, but the fault here
lies more with the Bank's project preparation. To sustain and extend the project's benefits for
its regular operations, the DNRhadplannedduringthe project to pursue in-house training for
other N R s inthe system.


6.      Lessons

6.1     The main lessons drawn fiom the assessment o fthe NRMP are the following:

     1) Before sophisticated approaches to planningand information management canbe
        usehl for biodiversity conservation, protected-area managers first needto have a
        strong understandingo fthe adaptive management approach and skills ineach o f its
        steps; defining outcomes, formulating measurable objectives targeted to achieving
        them, collecting and analyzing data on the relevant indicators with reliable methods
        to assess the success o f efforts, andrevising approaches inlight o fthe results.

        For greater effectiveness andrelevance, projects or components facilitating the
        development o fbiodiversity-friendly, community-supported livelihood schemes
        where borrower agencies lack experience with them will needto: (1) provide for
        greater training, closer monitoring andcontinuous technical support o f staff
        responsible for engaging with communities to identify andplansub-projects, and (2)
        demonstrate the biodiversity and livelihood impacts o f such schemes on meaninghl
        scales, particularly incountries where resource use pressures onbiodiversity is high.
        These steps will make it more likely that capacity inthis area will be sustained and
        extended to other protectedareas, and greater borrower ownership and resources for
        biodiversity-supporting poverty reductionwill be generated.

     3) Biodiversity conservation inprotected areas requires sustained financing, national and
        local, and fiscal andbudget allocation systems and trends at these levels need to be
        understood to make certain real borrower commitment exists and the resources for
        long-term effective management can be delivered, or to help design reforms that will
        makethis possible. Ifsustained support is not guaranteed, there are substantial risks
        that GEF andBank resources will be used inefficiently, as improved management
        capacities that have been developed will go largelyunutilized and threats to
        biodiversity fi-om poaching and resource use will remain.

                                           21


4) Programs to scale-down or close resource-extraction enterprises inremote, rural areas
   for the benefit o fbiodiversity, and to equitably transfer workers displaced as a result
   to new livelihoods, can face numerous challenges; weak, uneven andunpredictable
  markets andopportunities, government economic policies, andthe skill-level and
   social composition o fthe displaced workers. Suchprograms therefore need to
   carefully consider andbe tailored around these factors, including the viability o f
   alternate enterprises and existing opportunities inother sectors inthe region.
   Furthermore, it is important that their design involves local government, as it has the
   knowledge o f local realities andhence o f what would be feasible.


                                                     23                                     Annex A


Annex A. ProjectComponents(as describedinthe GEF
ProjectDocument)

1. NatureReserves:to develop more effective management andprotection systems inthe 5
reserve areas through investments for (a) the preparation and implementation o f new NR
management plans; (b) strengthening field-level protection with guard posts, communications
systems, field kits andother equipment: and (c) expanding the role o f local communities living
within andadjacent to N R s inthe planningandmanagement o freserves.

Pilotcommunityco-managementsub-component:to create community incentives for long-
term sustainable biodiversity resource use ineight villages insix reserves, Foping (l),    Poyang
Lake (l), (l), (2), Xishuangbanna (2), andZhouzhi (l), 4 activities;
           Taibai      Shennongjia                                              through
(i)community briefingbyNR officials on the objectives and scope o f co-management, and
solicitation o f community participation; (ii) for NR staff inparticipatory rural appraisal
                                               training
(PRA) and other participatory andadvocacy skills; (iii)     formation o f stakeholder committees at
each community to helpNR staff conduct PRAs, collect and analyze resource use data, and
identify and rank community problems and needs; (iv) preparationby stakeholder committees
andNR staff o f Community Resource Management Plans and Co-Management Contracts that
identifythe respective roles andresponsibilities inmanagingresource use. The project was to
support the implementation o f these plans and contracts through: (a) a community investment
grant program to support non-consumptive economic activities consistent with sustainable
resource use; (b) education programs to strengthen community andpublic environmental
awareness; (c) community outreach programs such as summer nature camps; and (d) detailed
monitoring and evaluationto ensure equitable and effective implementation andto facilitate
adjustments over the life o fthe project.

2. EnterpriseRestructuring:to reduce forest degradation from heavy logging inan area
adjacent to the Qinlingreserve cluster and important for Giant Pandas by restructuring 2 state-
owned timber enterprises under the Changqing Forestry Bureaufor more sustainable harvesting
andthe transfer o fworkers to more environmentally sustainable employment. This program --
the first o f its kindinChina -- i s expected to establish a model for sustainable land-use
management and enterprise restructuring that would be disseminated to other protected areas in
China.

The following policy reforms andinvestment requirements would be supported. First, the entire
area would be legally designated as a national level nature reserve, with a core zone o f 11,000 ha
andanexperimental zone o f 19,000 ha. The core zone would comprisethe mainpandahabitat
andallharvesting, roadconstruction, andother human interventionswouldbeprohibitedthere
(the government has already stopped all these activities as o fDecember 1,1993 inpreparation o f
the project). The project would support a variety o fprotection activities for the core zone. The
experimental zone would be managed on a sustainable basis. The farms would still bepermitted
to harvest timber inthis area, but the followingnew conditions would apply: (a) the annual cut
would not exceed the meanannual growth o fthe forest; and (b) new silvicultural management
practices would be introduced to maintainbiodiversity values. The project would support
improvedmanagement o f the experimental zone through preparationo f a management plan,

                                                  24                                      Annex A


reforestationof degraded areas, andtraining and technical assistance inimprovedsilvicultural
management techniques. Second, the labor force o f the forest farms would be restructuredinline
with the revisedcuttingprogram, with the 1,193 redundant workers redeployedto more
conservation-oriented economic activities inthe project area or terminated with a relocation
package. The project would finance (a) sub-loans to develop employment opportunities for 1,043
redundantworkers at existingandnew enterprises; and(b) relocationpackages for 150
redundant workers that would comprise specific expenditures related to worker and family
relocation costs, worker retraining andplacement costs, and livelihood development.

3. CapacityBuilding:to strengthen technical andmanagerial skills inbiodiversity through
development o f a national team that would provide about 900 person months o f operation and
management training at the national, provincial, andNR levels. It would also enhance the
organizationalcapacity o fthe Division o fNature Reserves (DNR) inthe Ministryo f Forestry
(MFO) through: (a) preparation o f a national conservation plan; (b) financing o f computers,
office equipment, andrelated TA; and(c) preparation o f a series o f policy studies on biodiversity
conservation. Additionally, it was to strengthen the Office o fNature Reserves (ONR)o f the
Forestry Department inYunnan Province (YPFD), which contains the largest diversity o f species
inChina, throughpreparationofaprovincial conservation plananddevelopmentofaprovincial
geographic information system.

4. ManagementInformationSystem:to support improved management decision makingfor
the 9 N R s through: (a) investment incomputers, software, climatic recording equipment, and
other scientific andoffice equipment; (b) TA indatabase structure, data analysis and information
management; and (c) development o f a comprehensive monitoring and evaluation program for
NRMP.

5. Research:to strengthenexisting nationalbiodiversity conservationresearch through: (a)
financing research infrastructure and equipment at the 5 reserve areas; and (b) establishing a
national small-scale competitive research grants program.

                                                   25                                       Annex B


Annex B. Supplemental Informationon the Efficacy of the
NRMP


PartA. The NRManagementPlans,andthe Remaining Capacity Gapsat the
NRLevel

Management planning capacity has improved in theparticipating NRs as a result of training
and the development of management plans, but theplans, along with theproject's
expectations of NR capacity to implement them, were overambitious, and analysisfor how to
addressthreats to biodiversity continues to need improvement. The management plans IEG
examined (for three o fthe QinlingMountains NRs, Foping, Taibai and Zhouzhi, and for
Xishuangbanna NR)reflected an in-depthunderstanding o f the various external social, economic
andecologicalthreats, andinternalcapacity, institutional andbudgetarychallenges facing the
reserves, along with baseline information insome areas. They specified indetail the NR's
objectives, actions and resources needed to addressthese obstacles and perform essential reserve
management functions, and listed the responsible NR-level unit(s) for each action. However, the
planswere overambitious interms o fthe number ofissues they sought to address, especially in
lighto ftheresource and capacity constraints the NRs were experiencing, anddidnot identifythe
objectives that were o fpriority andrealistic innature.

In the Taibai andFopingNR plans, the analysis behindthe identificationo foptions to address
the various threats, along with the choice o f options to be adopted, also tended to be superficial.
As discussed earlier, another weakness was that M&Eplans andtargets were either insufficiently
developed or absent. As the ICR and several NR and SFA staff have stated, the management
plandevelopment processwas too long andtheNRMP was near to closingbythe time the plans
were completed. Indeed, the plans contained several descriptive sections (on the N R ' s history,
relevant legislation, geology, etc.) that were not essential for management actions to be
formulated, andthese might have been added later to enable not only a more timely
implementation o fthe planbut, given the low capacity o fthe NRs, also greater focus incapacity-
buildingonmanagement; i.e. determiningpriorities, deciding basedon soundanalysis how the
key internal andexternal challenges couldberealistically and effectively addressed, collecting
informationto assess performance and adapting management inlight o f results. Four N R s ,
including XNR, also produced ecotourismplans, andIEGreviewed this N R ' s plan. Reflected in
the planwas an undeveloped concept o f ecologically sustainable tourism from which local
communities could possiblybenefit. The planmerely proposedideas on how tourism ingeneral
inthe prefecture's capitol andregionmightbeincreased, withthe implicationthat this expanded
tourism would increase the number o fvisitors to the NR.

Managementfor biodiversity in the NRs has been effective although it is at a basic level.
Although educational and skill levels o fNR staff are still relatively low, capacity-strengthening
underthe NRMPhastranslated into improvedmanagement for species protection andhabitat
conditions at the NR level. The collection and analysis o fbasic data has informed and enhanced
decision-making andhas ledto measures benefitingendangered wildlife, even though the data
analyses, the links between the data andinterventions taken, and the nature o f the interventions

                                                   26                                    Annex B


have often been fairly rudimentary. Insome cases, or more recently inparticularN R s , data
analysis for management has been more sophisticated. Advanced monitoring and GIS mapping
o f elephant population distribution andmovements inXNR's Shanyong sub-reserve have
enabled the NRto target patrolling resources inkey areas to prevent hunting. However, this
higher-quality work, found also now inFopingNR, i s due significantly ifnot entirely to the
support andinvolvement o f other conservation NGOs inthese NRs, such as the International
Fundfor Animal Welfare (FAW) inthe caseo f elephant monitoring inXNR andWWF Giant
Pandamonitoring inFopingNR, inthe NRMP's last years and after. Nevertheless, these more
advanced activities were made possible because the project established a foundation invarious
management areas for other organizations to buildupon.

However, the value NR staff havefor theprinciples of effective reserve management appears
to be less than theproject's expectations, as staff cite improvedpatrolling as having the
greatestpositive impact on the reservesand better management consistingprimarily of CCM.
When IEGasked senior staff at the NR andprovincial levels their understandingo f good
management, it found the responses to reflect that staff inmost cases hadnot entirely absorbed
the principles o f quality conservation management. Officials now state that good management
requires various activities; monitoring, patrolling, CCM, education, ecotourism, giving staff
incentives for perfonnance, and others, and that they now planfor them. But what constitutes
management intheir opinion are activities. A developed understandingo f the concepts involved
ineffective management ando fthe needto structure the different activities inparticular
sequences to be able to pursue objectives, determine biodiversity outcomes and reassess
strategies is generally somewhat lacking, although there was some variation inthe responses. In
fact, for manyNR-level officials "management" improved essentially because the NRMP
provided basic infi-astructure and equipment, andtechnical skills, andwhen asked what factor
was most responsible for improvedbiodiversity inthe reserve, the answer universally givenwas
patrolling (although the NRs have not conducted M&Eo fpatrolling's impacts).

When asked how the project changed their concept o fmanagement, NRofficials repliedthat the
C C M notionbrought the most important shift intheir thinking, and it ledthem from seeing their
role as "a door-keeper", preventing resource use inthe reserves andpunishingcommunities for
illegal use, to viewing communities almost as partners andrealizing that their livelihood needs
have to be met ifbiodiversity is to be conserved. NR staff even cited C C M as the second factor
behindthe improvements inbiodiversity theybelievehadoccurred (although the N R s didnot
conduct M&Eo f CCM's effects on biodiversity or habitat). Inevery interview with NR staff,
improved decision-making was only the thirdmost important factor stated.


Part B. The ManagementPlanningOutcomesinthe ProvincesOther than
Yunnan

The capacitiesfor biodiversity conservationplanning in the Yunnan Forestry Department's
Wildlve Conservation Office were significantly enhanced and enabledprovincial-level
leadershipfor conservation in Yunnan, unlike in the otherparticipating provinces. Because
provincial-level assistance was provided only to Yunnan, the province inits coordinating
capacities i s an exception among the others inthe NRMP. Owingto the project's focus on NR

                                                     27                                      Annex B


capacity-strengthening, other provincial NR offices, including Shaanxi, a key province, acted
more as intermediaries betweenthe DNRand their respective N R s andonly servedto review
management plans. This i s despite training they received inmanagement-plan development,
databasemanagement and other areas. The lack o f provincial-level capacity-building resulted,
even by admission o f staff at this level, inweak provincial involvement and oversight inthe
project, andpoor knowledge o f the activities and outcomes at the NR level. Capacity i s
significantly greater among the N R s than it is at the provincial level, aside from Yunnan. One
provincial staff member stated that provinces were to provide guidance andmanagement to the
N R s , but that it was not clear how this was to be done. Given the large number o f N R s in
Shaanxi inthe NRMP andthe involvement o f several donors/NGOs there for Giant Panda
conservation, assistance for the province to develop a NR master plan similar to that provided to
Yunnanwould havebeenmerited andhighlybeneficial.



Part C.The NRMPExperiencewith EnterpriseRestructuringand
Redeployment

Workers that the CFB's closure displaced participated inone o f three programs, relocation, job
creation and worker transfer with earmarked capital. Determiningprecisely how many workers
were affected andhow manywere involved ineach program i s difficult as there i s much
inconsistencyamong the sets o f figures the SFA, Shaanxi ProvincialForestry Department
(SPFD) and the Bankteam inthe ICRprovided, as well as lack o f clarity and inconsistency
within the data available from the different borrower agencies' and the Bank. Nevertheless, they
all provide roughly the same picture on the performance o fthe different programs. Provided in
Table 4 below are the ICR figures to offer some sense o fit.


    Table 4. ICR Figureson Participation in Enterprise RestructuringWorker Programs



    Worker Program and Statusof Displaced        Number of Workers
     Employees
    Appraisal Estimateof Total No. of CFB        1193
    Workers Displaced
    Actual Total of DisplacedWorkers             2262
        Changqing NR Staff                       220
        Employedon enterpriserestructuring       150
        Retired                                  549
        Relocation                               187
        Transfer with earmarkedcapital           150
        Job creation, initially,of which:        1006
          Employed                               206
          Retiredor transferredto differentjobs  448
          Idle bymid-2002, becauseparticipating  352
          enterprises downsized

                                                  28                                   Annex B




TheNRMP compensatedI87 workers with expensesfor relocation, training and livelihood
development through a transparent andfair process, and their living standards are
reported to begood in comparison to thosethey experiencedbefore relocation, although
the quality of livelihoodsM&E was low. The different sets o f figures agree that ultimately
187employees were relocated with financial assistance for moving, training, and developing
agricultural or off-farm activities. Based on the estimated relocation cost per worker
(US$8,000), the project's allocation for relocation allowed 150individuals to receive it. The
program and the selection process were shared with the employees through quality
consultations, anNGO that observed the process confirms, andrecipients were chosen using
a lottery given an excess demand for the package. Dueto the lower actual average cost
(US$6,400 per worker) and difficulties encountered later with the other programs, 37
additional workers receivedrelocation assistance.

Provincial officials claim that the compensation levels were substantial-and    recipients did
receive their pensions inaddition-and       anassessmento fthe program's outcomes regarding
the livelihoods of the former workers was conducted that concludedthe participants were
generally satisfied with the program. However, how they have fared inlivelihood terms i s
unclear for the methodology usedinthe assessment lacked rigor andthe verdict o f the report
even contradicts much o fthe data init. Relatedto this, information IEGreceived on the
program didnot outline the approach used to develop the budgetsfor the new livelihood
activities inagriculture and off-farm income generation.

The remaining majority of workers were eventually redeployed to different enterprises,but
due to inefficiencies in this sector along with insufficient Bankpreparation, theprocess
encounterednumerous obstaclesand the enterprises have not been economically viable,
resulting most likely in negative livelihood outcomesfor many of the employees.
Regardingthejob-creation program, the three existing SOEs inthe NRMP, like others in
their sector and associated with the CFB, were already being managed inefficiently and
without regardto marketprinciples; burdened by debt, excess workers, and the obligations to
pay support for non-working employees andretireepensions, andhad already been
encountering economic difficulties. The new SOEs became financially unviable due to
marketconditions, the low skilllevels o fthe transferred workers andofmanagement, andthe
retiremento fa largeportion o fthe workers shortly after their transfer andthe needto pay
their social benefits. The enterprises also had to borrow from and repay local banks as they
reported that GEF concessional loan financingwas inadequate. Indeed, the Bankreducedthe
total investmentinthe two new enterprises, the Trading Company and the Construction
Company, because it didnot want to spend on them an average unit cost per worker that was
more than that under the relocationpr~gram.~       Though the participating SOEs had
incorporated the recent sector reforms, they were unable to compete with the growing
township and village enterprise sector. Itwas reportedto IEGthat as o f 2005, all o f these
SOEs were performingpoorly, with debts outweighing assets inmost cases, and the ratio o f
working to non-working (but employed under the Chinese economic system) employees
being about 1:2. As the enterprises were unable to pay their loans, the facility proposedto


2. China-Nature Reserve Management Project, Mission Report, M a y 1996.

                                               29                                     Annex B


recycle the repayments to fund future job creation schemes that would allow the closure o f
other logging enterprises didnot materialize.

One year after project effectiveness the Bank realizedthat "the initial implementation
experience [of thejob creationprogram] has suggested that the original project design
overestimated the scope for developing new, environmentally sustainable employment within
the Changqingarea..    ."Because  the job creation program was unable to accommodate as
manyworkers as anticipated, owingpartlyto the CFB closure's displacement o fa larger
number o fworkers thanexpected andto SPFD's withdrawal o fits proposal for athird,
uncompetitive enterprise, the Bank and SPFD developedthejob transfer with earmarked
capital program for the remaining employees. Some workers were transferred to SOEs
outside Changqing with funds consisting o f a payment to the enterprises to hirethe workers,
relocation training andplacement support, and a small equity investment inthe enterprise for
civil works or equipment, while nearly ahalfretired andwere supported by the province.
Those transferredto new SOEswere ultimately laid o f f andtheir new employers were unable
to pay their social benefits, leaving them to be supported by the province as well. Owingto
the difficulties with redeployment andthe added costs involved, counterpart fundingwas
increased.

Substantive monitoring o fthe livelihoods o fworkers inthejob creation and worker transfer
programs was not conducted. The SPFD reports only that the livelihoods o fthose transferred
with earmarked capital compared to area standards are "low" insome cases andat "a middle
level" inothers. Considering that the five SOEs inthejob creationprogram have been
economically unviable, although their non-working staff are receiving some subsistence
support, they are likely experiencing lower living standards thanbefore. It should be noted
that the 1998 national logging banand the decline inprovincial revenues it has ledto has
brought some economic downturn inthe region.

What ledto the enterprise component's lack o f success andthe dependence onjob creation to
address the unemployment from CFB's closure were several factors. One was the higher
numberofworkers displacedbythe State Council's decisionto ceaseinsteado freduce
logging. A second factor was the unrealistic view the DNR states it heldon the feasibility o f
job creation. Perhaps a third was a Bank inclination to favor larger-enterprise andmarket-
oriented solutions over relocation-type assistance. The GOC's decisions left the SPFD to
manage the process, and provincial authorities informed IEGthat, aware o fthe difficulties
that would be experienced inabsorbing labor, were skeptical about the component's success
andhesitant to close the CFB. As the existing SOEs involved inthe NRMPwere requiredby
administrative order to accept redundant workers andthere was pressure to both establish
ChanqingNR and conduct the redeployment, insufficient analysis was done for the enterprise
feasibility studies. The studies, which the province's Design and Planning Institute
conducted and which otherwise used sound criteria that the Bank requiredto approve GEF
loans to the companies, consequently didnot present the actual viability o fthe enterprises,
the SPFD informed IEG, although they did mention many ofthe same factors discussed
above that would pose as obstacles to performance. Finally, enterprise creation was
problematic because duringthe process market conditions and factor prices kept changing.
Based on the ICR, job creation, at the average cost o f US$10,800 per worker, was more
costly thanrelocation andworker transfer (US$3,400). The SFA drew lessons from the

                                                30                                       Annex B


experience as it developed the National Forest Protection Programto help provinces cope
with the effects o fthe 1998 nationalloggingban, and, moving away from an initial idea for
job creation, developed a program modeled on the relocationcomponent.

The enterprise restructuring component only brought greater complexity and risks to an
already ambitious project. But as Bank staff have pointedout, given the developments at the
time o fpreparationcritical panda habitat would have beenlost had ChangqingNR not been
established. As discussed under "Quality at entry", had the Bank appraised the situation
better and taken steps to minimize the various risks the provision o f more secure substitute
livelihoods for CFB's employees might have been facilitated.


PartD.The ModestAchievements inImprovingInformationManagement

Proceduresfor improved and detailed biodiversity monitoring were introduced and have
beenpracticed in the NRs to an extent, but the M&Eplans were developedonly during
implementation and monitoring methodologieshave been inadequate, limiting the ability
to determine theproject's contribution to biodiversity abundance in the NRs. The NRMP
provided training inenhanced techniques for data collection andmonitoring o fplant and
wildlife species and standardized these across the N R s . Transect routes specifically for
monitoringwere established andpatrol guards also collect data on species presence
indicators duringtheir rounds. The standardized data sheets the NRMP designed for them are
still being employed. InN R s where little or no ecological data-gathering hadpreviously
occurred, this has been a significant positive step, andwhere monitoring was conducted
before the NRMP, such as inShennongjia andFoping NRs,the project improved the quality
o f data collection, enabling the discovery o f species thought absent.

The frequency o f the activity though varies among the N R s due to various factors, the level
o f local funding available for N R s being one o fthe chief ones among them. While the
procedures introduced were not advanced, they requiredrecording information on a large
numbero fspecies andindicators. More significantly, the approach has lackedscientific
reliability as raw data on specieshas beenusedto assess population abundance changes
rather than data analyzed with species-specific statisticalmodels. Insome o f the N R s ,
international NGOs have been involved inmore scientific and advanced species monitoring,
but staff inthem as well as inNRs without this activity appear to possessonly low capacity
for scientific data analysis. The NRMP's data analysis course, it was stated, was difficult to
apply. Incases where the N R s or provincial offices conduct their own population
estimations, the results cannot be regarded as valid or used as indicators o f improved
management.

Also making any biodiversity data from the project problematic i s that some N R s began data-
gathering before the training was received and usedmethodologies inconsistent with those
the Bankproposed, thus producing poor quality information. InQCNR, outside institutions
were hired for data collection, which meant at least initiallythat no NR capacity-building
occurred. Infact, the NRMP was unrealistic inexpecting to have quality baseline
biodiversity data collection occur before management plandevelopment when this requires

                                                31                                         Annex B


significant training andmore than a year to perform. Third, significant monitoring generally
began rather late, after the management planshadbeen developed. Finally, the M&Eplan
for the project as a whole and for assessingbiodiversity outcomes was developed only during
implementation andcompleted 2 years after effectiveness, whereas it should have been
completed duringappraisal. Infact, it remains unclear from the management plans what
biodiversity monitoring indicators were used.

The installation of the Chinese Biodiversity Information Management System (CBIMS)
was delayeddue to technicalproblems with it, and this also meant a delay in the analysis
of monitoring data. Even after the system was established it was difficult to use and
frequentlymalfunctioned, preventingits effective use inmany cases. Interfacedwith GIs,
CBIMS was designed to create a new knowledgebase onN R s andbiodiversity, showing
dynamic changes occurring and available for all administrative levels inthe NR system.
Data gathered duringmonitoring andpatrols on species, ecosystem conditions, and offenses,
andonpersonnel andbudgets was to beentered into CBIMS, allowing for its analysis. Yet
from the start, CBIMS posed challenges due to its complexity andinstability, andhad to be
redesigned during implementation. Itwas not available at the NR level till late 1999, and at
the provincial andDNRlevels till 2000. Evenafter installation, the system has not worked
properly, failing to show recently inputteddata andrequiring sub-reserves andN R s to submit
their latest datato higher levels onpaper or computer disks. While some staffhave lackedthe
skillto use CBIMS, even some provincial officials responsible for data analysis andskilled
NR-level staff find the system too complicated.

While according to some external stakeholders the system canbe useful and a few NRs have
used employed it effectively, CBIMS i s not being utilized inmanyo fthe N R s at this point.
Given its potential, SFA now wishes to retainbut improve CBIMS andhas requested MOF
support to extend CBIMS to other N R s and for training other staff. But SFA i s also
establishing a separateplatform for personnel and budget data which will be used alongside a
simplified CBIMS once the former is available.

More seriously, chronic budget gapsfor environmental activities at sub-national levels in
less-developedareas are an endemicproblem in China's decentralized system and as a
result it is unclear to what extent regular monitoring is actually being done in the NRs.
Indeed, data of some NRs in these areas is quite weak. Since the early 1 9 9 0 despite some
                                                                                    ~ ~
improvements China's system o f fiscal decentralization has possessedweaknesses that leave
the biodiversity-rich poorer, central and western provinces without the financial resources
they require to meet their responsibilities and a lack o f clarity o fthe responsibilities o f each
administrative level. Coupled with biodiversity conservation receiving lower priority, N R s in
these provinces often do not receive the necessary support to conduct management activities
andthe majority o freserves, evenhigh-priority ones, are dependent on sub-national funding
for staff salaries andbenefits. Since the 1998 logging ban, budgets have been further
reduced. Provincial officials IEGinterviewed reportedthat local budgets have been
insufficient for agencies to maintain all o f functions and services, and one official stated that
staff insome reserves are not beingpaid on a regular basis. The Bank ought to have factored
intheseconditionswhenplanningtheproject's financing andobtainedthe necessary
borrower commitment.

                                                 32                                       Annex B



Based on the lack o fresources, it i s quite likelythat even basic monitoring is not being
conducted regularly inmanyo f the NRs and sub-reserves inthe poorer provinces. An
international NGO interviewed corroborated this and added that even when data is collected
it is often not reportedaccurately because it is not what higher-level managers want to see
and staffare concerned about the repercussions they will face as a result. Monitoringwas to
be done on species, habitats, environmental services, andthe extent andnature o fthreats.
While some data collection on these was likely done, no analytical monitoring to track and
make sense o f changes inthese indicators. Insome o fthe N R s IEGvisited, no biodiversity
monitoring data was presented although IEGmade a formal request for this information
duringmissionpreparation. Where IEGmade repeatedrequests for it, it was discoveredthat
the data available was verypoor, as it covered only a few species andwas nonexistent even
for manyendangered ones. Onlywhere an international NGOwas involved andproviding
support for species monitoring, such as IFAW's elephant monitoring inX N R ' s Shanyong
sub-reserve since 2003, was data available and o f quality.

Additionally, within the N R system there has been little ownership by any level of the task
of data analysisfor improving NR management. Consideringthe large amount o f data
entered into CBIMS for various indicators, andthe shared access to the system, the
opportunities for information analysis to enhance NR management have beensignificantly
underutilized. The chain linking data collection at the NR level to analysis at higher levels
andthen back downto improvedmanagement action at the NR or sub-reserve level isweak.
Infact, it isunclearwhich levelhasresponsibilityfor informationanalysis, asNR andsub-
reserve directors say that they supply their data for analysis to the next highest level, but
officials at these levels claim that they conduct only some analysis with the lower units
sharinginthe task, andthat revisedmanagement action is decidedat the field level. Aside
from the lack o f clarity over which unit i s responsible, analysis for improved management
that does not substantially involve NR or sub-reserve staff is problematic because the N R s
and sub-reserves are too largeandimportant, andthe developments inthem too complex, for
removed, upper-level units to make the decisions. Last year X N R ' s Shanyong SR begin to
examine its own data on a CBIMS-adapted system better tailored to its ecological issues and
informational needs. Inaddition to the difficulties with CBIMS andthe lack o fresources for
regular monitoring, which also influence data analysis, analytical capacity at the NR and
provincial levels is not strong. While data collection trainingwas provided for all N R s , that
for data analysis was not available inall cases. Again, only when NGOs with expertise
became involved was there good analytical use o f data that hadbeencollected.

At a deeper level, there appears to be aninsufficient appreciationo fthe hnctiono f
monitoring and its value for NR management andbiodiversity protection. This i s related to a
broader tendency observed that sees management andits activities as actions that can be
achieved merely by following externally-provided rules and steps rather than requiring a
critical and analytical perspective. The NRMP was thus too ambitious inexpecting quality
monitoring and analysis andthe filluse o f CBIMS when the baseline capacity o fthe NR
system was low. A centralNRMP aim was to introduce objectives-oriented decision-
making;baseline data collection and systematic analysis, ongoing monitoring o f
environmental and socioeconomic factors, and the updating o f plans and actions. But

                                                 33                                     Annex B


available evidence indicates that this occurred minimally, andwhere it didwas at the
simplest level.

PartE.The CommunityCo-managementExperience

"Community Co-management contracts" were developed between theNRs and the selected
villages, but theseagreementsweregeneral and did not involve any real management on
thepart of the communities. The N R s formed C C M contracts with the eight villages
selected to participate. The contracts, according to the GEF Project Document, were to define
the respective roles and responsibilities o fthe parties inmanagingresource use, and to
support them community investment grants (CIGs) would be provided for environmentally
sustainable economic activities. The contracts, however, were quite general, stating only that
the village should help protect the resources from illegal anddestructive activities and would
lose the N R ' s assistanceifthey didnot. The term "co-management" was perhaps erroneous
as the contracts didnot contain any specific management obligations andresponsibilities for
theparties, nor statement ofbenefits for the village that were tiedto the achievement o fthese
responsibilities.

The quality of the implementation of the CCMprocess varied significantly among the NRs,
from strong to inadequate. There was an association between the quality of
implementation and the success of livelihood sub-projects. IEGvisited or met with the
residents o f three out o fthe eight C C M villages (Da Wan, Taibai NR, and Xiahuibianand
Xinlongshan, XNR), and visited two villages, inZhouzhi andXNR N R s , to which C C M had
been extended outside the NRMP.It also discussed with the officials o f the other N R s their
C C M experiences. What criteriawere used to select the pilot villages i s unclear, as the
villages varied considerably interms o f accessibility, standardo f living, andtheir
relationship with their respective N R s . Manyvillages, it should be noted, were unwillingto
participate inthe component.

Inperhaps only two cases, namelyTaibaiNR, as the international CCMconsultant provided
direct guidance and leadership for the exercise there, and possibly FopingNR were the
procedures for C C M were followed well. Communities were presented with the C C M
concept, and its scope andbenefits, Leading Groups composed o f village andexternal
stakeholders were formed, participatory rural appraisal (PRA), including data collection and
analysis, was performedto understand resource use andidentify andprioritize economic
activities, andcommunity natural resource management planswere developed.

Yet inmost instances, stakeholder committees were not formed, andNR staff did not conduct
any PRA or cultivate participation indecision-making. With local leaders they determined
the sub-projects for the villages to pursue, the prime example beingXNR. Infact, even in
Taibai N R ' s D a Wan village, the level o fvillage participation indecision-making appears to
have been low, as involvement grew gradually only after village leaders adopted the
economic activities. Indeed, inIEG's meetingswith the villages, ordinary villagers were
practically absent and local leaders and their associates alone spoke. The Bankteam had
realized duringimplementation that C C M activities hadbeen initiatedwithout staff having

                                                34                                            Annex B


receivedtraining, which hadresulted invillage leaders "identifying a wish-list o f projects
without having gone through a participatory consensus-building exerci~e."~

New or existing economic schemes the CIGs supported inthe various villages were mainly
for improvedbee-keeping, tree-crop andherbal medicine cultivation, potable water,
fuelwood-saving stoves, and pig-raising, and spending was mainly on training andtechnical
assistance. The N R s tendedby their own admission to involve only households with prior
skills inthe activities, bee-keeping being an example, and saw those without any capacities
as unable to benefit, andthis has meant that only a modest percentage o f the village's
households have participated ina scheme. The schemes were co-financed, according to
project rules, bythe communities, N R s from their ownbudgets, or local government, and
householdparticipation generally increased over time, particularly intree-crop growing and
the use o fmore efficient stoves. Despite some N R s not having fully carried out C C M
procedures, they did seek to extend C C M to other non-NRMP villages with their own
resources or special GOC funds, indicatingthat the project had changed their management
paradigm. However, nearlyall the N R s complained about the NRMP's low level o f support
for C C M andthe difficulty this created for sustaining and extending community economic
activities.

InXNR's two CCMvillages, where CCMimplementationwas poor, irrigationschemeswere
not established largely because county andprefecture governments, while they were involved
inthe LeadingGroups, were ultimately unableto providecounterpart financing. Greater
participation and analysis o fresource use may have identified less costly schemes, but local
government budgetsinYunnan and elsewhere were also limitedfor conservation-oriented
community schemes for the same reasons they could not sustain NR management activities,
and there has been some dispute as to whether the NR system or local governments are
responsible for addressing unsustainable resource use inNRs. However, that there would be
difficulties inlaunching, sustaining and extending CCM-related activities due to the
unavailability o fresources at the local level was not discussed as a risk inthe GEF Project
Document. Hence as a pilot to provide lessons to local governments on the benefits o f CCM,
the component didnot succeed.

Although CIGssupported new economic activities, these activities wereprimarily to
improve livelihoods and in most cases were not designed with the intent toproduce clear
conservationbenefits. Some o fthe schemes, such as fuelwood-saving stoves, clearly
reduced use o fthe N R ' s resources, andthe authorities most likely supported them for this
reason. However, with the exception o f activities inTaibai N R ' s villages, precisely what
environmentalharmmany o f the other activities were to prevent or minimize was not
determined. Indeed, NR officials placed an emphasis inthe sub-projects on income-
generation andthere was inadequate understanding that these needed to generate
conservation benefits as well. The linkbetween livelihood improvement andbiodiversity
enhancement inthe schemeswas weak and as a consequence no real economic incentives for
conservation were developed. Sub-projects seemedto be based on the mistaken assumption
that increased income would necessarily leadto reduced resource use. Whether the economic


3. China Nature ReservesManagement Project (GEF Grant 28301) Report of Supervision Mission, conducted
May 6-June 9',  1996.

                                               35                                      Annex B


activities actually resulted inless resource use is unknown since the N R s did not conduct any
analyses ofthe impacts.

Various environmental education sub-projects for youth were carried out inFopingNR and
inXNR. However, the NRs didnot conduct anybasic surveys to assessthe effects ofthe
schemes on the participants' attitudes. IEGvisited one scheme, a "green culture room" with
environmental education andrecreationactivities, ina C C M extension village inXNR.
Based on discussions with the youth, the activities havetaught them the importance o f
conservation, though primarilyfor the benefit o ftheir livelihoods.

Overall, CCMcontribute little to conservingNR habitat. Furthermore, there was no M&E
of environmental impacts and even monitoring of community livelihood impacts was
inadequate. Given the small number o fvillages the component involved and the minor scale
o fmost o fthe schemes, the biodiversity gains for the N R s were negligible andresource use
by the roughly 51,000 people living inthe N R s (not including those adjacent) accordingto
the GEFPDwas little impacted. Where energy-efficient stoves were introduced, the fuelwood
saved was not insubstantial. However, no M&Eo f the effects o fthis and other schemes on
biodiversity or habitat was conducted. Similarly, some livelihood activities, mainly tree-crop
cultivation, appear to have generated sizeable incomes for participants, but M&Ewas not
done at most sites, andwhere it took place was o f insufficient quality to isolate whatever
contribution each activity might have made. Generally, according to data from basic
monitoring o fincome changes that was done (inFoping, Shennongjia, and Zhouzhi NRs),
village incomes rose by the same rate or slightlyhigher than that for the rural sector as a
whole.

Theproject laid thegroundwork for other donors and NGOs to implementparticipatory
and environmentally sustainable livelihood activities in China's NRs, and the DNR has
adopted CCMas an approachfor the NR system tofollow. However, to what extent it can
implemented on a wide-scale is unclear due to the low support availablefor it at local
government levels. The Bank and GEF succeeded inintroducing C C M inNR management in
China andthus made a significant contribution. Late inthe project and after, several donors
andNGOs, such as WWF andUNDP, beganwork inother communities o fthe participating
N R s or others that replicated or resembled the processes under the C C M component. WWF-
China, for example, in2000 initiated eco-friendly livelihoods projects inthree villages inthe
QCNRs, including inthe new ChangqingNR, and C C M traineeshoordinators under the
NRMP have served as advisors for them. With all levels inthe NR system viewingCCM as
having transformed their approach to NR management, C C M was incorporatedinto the
National Forest Nature Reserve Management Plan, which requires all A-level SFA reserves
to establish and operate Community Affairs Units.C C M has been extended to other N R s and
publishedguidelines andexamples based onthe NRMP experience havebeendisseminated.
Yet unless the intergovernmental fiscal transfer system is reformed, the heavy resource-use
pressure on biodiversity and ecosystems inN R s will continue.


                                           37                                   Annex C


Annex C. BasicData Sheet

NATURE RESERVEMANAGEMENTPROJECT (TF-28301)

Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
                                          Appraisal        Actual or        Actual as % of
                                           estimate     current estimate  appraisal estimate
GEF grant                                   17.90            16.24               90.70
Co financing                                 NA               NA                  NA
Government                                  5.74             8.45                147.2

Total projectcost                           23.64            24.70               104.5


Project Dates

                                                 Original                    Actual
Departureof Appraisal Mission                                              01I01I1993
Appraisal                                                                  0310111995
Board approval                                                             0610611995
Effectiveness                                   0711811995                 0711811995
Mid-Term Review                                 0912011998                 0912011998
Closingdate                                     0613012002                 06/3012002


Staff Inputs(staff weeks)
                                                Actual/Latest Estimate
                              N" Staff weeks                               us$us$(looo)
Preparation                             49.60                            176.00
Appraisal                               26.50                            89.30
Supervision                             96.88                            445.30
Completion                              *9.55                            *42.59
Total                                  *I82.53                          *753.19
*Estimate figure

                                          38                                 Annex C


Mission Data

                       Date      No. of  Specializations    Performance Rating
                    (month/year) persons   represented  Implementation Development
                                                          Progress      Objective
Identification/
Preparation            3/92            9 lFS, 2EC,
                                         1SNS, 1ECO,
                                         lNREC, IMS,
                                         1Res, 1IMS
                       11/92           6 2FS,2EC,
                                         1ECO, 1MS
                       5/93            5 lEC, lFS,
                                         1ECO, 1FA, 1SE
AppraisaVNegotiation   11/93           5 lECML, IECO,
                                         lSE, 2EC
                       8/94            3 lEC/ML, lECO,
                                         1OA
Supervision            8/95            2 lEC/ML, 1ECO        S              S


                       6/96            2 lEC/ML, 1ECO
                       5/97            2 lEC/ML, 1ECO        HS            HS
                       10/97           3 lECO/ML, lBS,                      S
                                         1 0 0
                       3/98            4 lECO/ML, 100,                     HS
                                         1DO, 1EC
                     9/98 (Mid-        6 lECO/ML,            HS            HS
                       Term)             SPOO, lS, lWB,
                                         1FE
                       2/99            4 IECO/ML, IBS,       HS            HS
                                         IM&E, 1TA
                       6/99            3 IECO/ML, IBS,       S             HS
                                         1SPOO
                       1/oo            3 1ECO/ML, 1DO,       HS             S
                                         1PO
                       3/00            3 ECOIML,             S              S
                                         lM&E/ES, 1TS
                       6/00            2 IECO/ML, 1M&E       S              S
                       11/00           5 IECO/ML, IDO,       HS             S
                                         1PO, 1RS, 1SDS
                       6/01            4 1IECO/ML, 1RS,      HS             S
                                         IBS, IEC

                                                     39                                           Annex C


                              Date        No. of     Specializations         Performance Rating
                         (month/year) persons         represented       Implementation Development
                                                                           Progress         Objective
                             12/01                4 1IECO/ML, 1RS,             S                HS
                                                    1PS, 1BS
                              3/02                2 lECO/ML, 1BS              HS                HS
ICR                           6/02                3 IGEF RC/ML,
                                                    1BS, 1SS
Note:
*Identification/Preparation Missions were part of China Forest Resource Development and Protection Project
(FRDPP) missions.

BS:Biodiversity Specialist; DO:Disbursement Officer; EC:Economist; ECO:Ecologist; ES:
Environment Specialist; FA:Financial Analyst; FE:Forest Economist; FS:Forestry Specialist; GEF
RC: GEFRegionalCoordinator; IMS: InformationManagement Specialist; ML:Mission Leader;
M&E:Monitoring &Evaluation Specialist; MS:Marketing Specialist; NREC:NaturalResource
Economist; OA: Operations Analyst; 00:Operations Officer; PO:Procurement Officer; PS:
Procurement Specialist; RS:Resettlement Specialist; Res:Research Specialist; S: Sociologist; SDS:
Social Development Specialist; SE: Socio-Economist; SNS: SeedNursery Specialist; SPOO: Social
Policy Operations Officer; SS: Social Scientist; TA:Team Assistant; TS:Training Specialist; WB:
Wildlife Biologist


                                             41                                 Annex D



Annex D: People andAgencies met

L i s t of Persons M e t

MinistrvofFinance
Mr.Zou Ciyong, Director, InternationalDepartment

State Forestrv Administration
Mr.YanXun,DeputyDirectorGeneral, Department ofWildlife Conservation
Ms.ChengJinghua, Senior Engineer,WorldBankLoanProjectManagement Center
Ms.An Lidan, DeputyDirector, Department ofWildlife Conservation

FuiianProvincial Forestrv Bureau Wild Fauna and Flora Conservation Manavement Center
Mr.ZhouDongliang, Senior Engineer

HubeiProvincialForestrv Bureau Wild Fauna and Flora Conservation Division
Mr.ZhouLijia, Principal Staff

Jiangxi ProvincialForestrv Department Wildlife Fauna and Flora Conservation Management
Bureau
Mr.WuYinghao, DeputyDirector

Forestrv Department of Shaanxi Province
Mr.HouLingyu,Senior Engineer, Administrative Office of NaturalReserve andWildlife
Mr.ZhouLingguo, DeputyDirector, ConservationDivision
Mr.FongJinxu, Director, IndustryDivision, ResourceBureau

Forestrv Department of Yunnan Province
Mr.GuoHuijun,Vice Director-General
Ms.Zhong Mingchuan, DeputyDirector, Wildlife ConservationOffice
Mr.ChenLixian, DeputyDirector, Wildlife Conservation Office
Mr.ZhangBao, DeputyDirector, InternationalCooperationProjectOffice

PovangLake NationalNature Reserve Management Bureau
Mr.JiWeiTao, Director and Senior Engineer

Shennonaiia NationalNature Reserve Management Bureau
Mr.YuJie, Director, Office for InternationalandDomestic Cooperation

Taibai Nature Reserve ManagementBureau
Mr.LiuMingshi,Director
Mr.WangZhicheng, DeputyDirector
Mr.MaYisheng, DeputyDirector
Mr.LiangQihui, FormerDirector, GEFProject Office,
         Community Co-management Consultant
Ms.RuanMouqin, Former Officer, GEFProject Office (information management
         systemand training)

                                             42                              Annex D


Wuvishan NationalNatureReserveManagementBureau
Mr.He, Director

Xishuangbanna NatureReserveManaPement Bureau
Mr.HuangJianguo, DeputyDirector
Mr.YangHongpei,DeputyDirector ofthe ResearchInstituteofXishuangbannaNatureReserve
Mr.LiuLinyuan, DirectoroftheResearchInstitute ofXishuangbannaNatureReserve
Mr.WangLifang, Director, Shangyong Sub-reserve
Mr.Tao Qing, DeputyDirector, Shangyong Sub-reserve
Mr.ZengRong, Director, MengyangSub-reserveManagement Station
Mr.LiZhongyuan, DeputyDirector, MengyangSub-reserve Management Station
Mr.Zhang Shuzhong, Head, Guanping Sub-station
Mr.Yang Yinchun, PatrolGuard, GuanpingSub-station
Mr.WangXiao'an, PatrolGuard, GuanpingSub-station

ZhouzhiNatureReserveManaPementBureau
Mr.MaJunzheng, DeputyDirector
Mr.YuWendao, DeputyDirector
Mr.WeiWuke, Head, GEFOffice
Mr.MaJingui, CommunityCo-management Staff

Local Communities inNRMP
Cheng Ping Village, Zhouzhi Nature Reserve
Da WanVillage, Taibai Nature Reserve
Xiahuibian Village, Xishuangbanna Nature Reserve
MangnalangVillage, Xishuangbanna Nature Reserve
Xinlongshan Village, Xishuangbanna Nature Reserve

WetlandsInternational
Ms.ZhangXiaohong, DeputyDirector and Senior Technical Officer

ConservationInternational
Ms.LuZhi, ChinaCountryDirector

IUCN-TheWorld ConservationUnion-ChinaLiaison Office
Mr.SethCook, ChinaProgramCoordinator

                                             43                                    Annex E




Annex E.Borrower Comments


wb148245
O:ENVIRON\Manibog\China PPAR& Case StudyWPARWRMP PPAR- Revisedversion05-23-07.doc
05/24/20075:03:00 PM




