Document of
The World Bank                   FILE b!WS P
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.P-2479-HO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
FOR A
TOURISM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
March 2, 1979
This docment has a restricted distbtio and may be wed by recipients nly In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not oherwise be dielosed withot World Bnk acthorization.



HONDURAS
TOURISM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    m   Lempira (L)
US$1.00          -    L 2.00
L 1.00           -    US$0.50
L 1,000,000      -    US$500,000
ABBREVIATIONS
CABEI       -   Central American Bank for Economic Integration
COHDEFOR    -   Forestry Development Corporation
CONADI      -   National Investment Corporation
COPINO      -   Central American Pine Cellulose Company
ECCASA      -   Central American Tannery, Inc.
FONDEI      -   National Industrial Development Fund
IDB         -   Inter-American Development Bank
IHT         -   National Tourism Institute
ILO         -   International Labour Office
INFOP       -   National Institute for Vocational Training
SECOPT      -   Ministry of CommunLications, Public Works and Transport
SECTUR      -   Ministry of Culture and Tourism
OECD        -   Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
SAHSA       -   Honduran Air Services, Inc.
SITCA       -   Secretariat for Central American Tourist Integration
TAN         -   National Air Transport
UNDP        -   United Nations Development Programme
USAID       -   United States Agency for International Development
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
HONDURAS
TOURISM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER:                   Republic of Honduras
AMOUNT:                     US$19.5 million equivalent
TERMS:                      20 years, including 5 years of grace at
7.0 percent interest per annum.
RELENDING
TERMS:                    US$16 million equivalent of the Bank loan will be
relent through the Central Bank to financial inter-
mediaries at an interest rate of 9.5 percent.
These intermediaries will, in turn, be allowed to
on-lend the funds to hotel and other tourism enter-
prises at no more than 12.0 percent interest.
Subloans will be made for terms of up to 17 years,
including not more than 4 years of grace. The
foreign exchange risk for the line of credit will
be divided between the subborrowers and the
Central Bank, which will assume the dollar and the
cross currency exchange risks respectively.
PROJECT
DESCRIPTION:              The objective of the project is to develop Honduras'
tourism potential, thereby diversifying foreign
exchange earnings, generating employment especially
in regions of the country with few alternative
economic activities, increasing Government revenues,
and building institutions for tourism planning
and implementation. The project comprises a line
of credit for hotel and other tourism enterprises,
improved air facilities, establishment of a special
unit to regularize the land tenure situation on
Roatan Island, archeological works at Copan, and
technical assistance for (a) the Ministry of Culture
and Tourism, (b) hotel training, (c) environmental
control on Roatan, (d) tourism marketing and (e) air-
port cost accounting studies. About 1,500 direct
permanent jobs, as well as additional indirect
employment, will be created by the project.
Although there is some risk that hotel operating
efficiency may fall short of projected levels
initially, this is not likely to persist as manage-
ment skills and experience are gained. Although a
shortfall in traffic is a risk, the tourism growth
rates required to achieve viable hotel occupancies
are considered modest and reasonably attainable.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
ESTIMATED COST:
US$ (Millions)
Local     Foreign    Total
Line of Credit /1                     16.0        16.0       32.0
Airports                               1.0         0.6        1.6
Land Unit                              0.1         0.0 /2    0.1
Copan Archaeological Park              0.5         1.0        1.5
Technical Assistance
Technical Unit                       0.3         0.4        0.7
Hotel Training                       0.2         0.4       0.6
Roatan Environmental Control         0.0 /2      0.2       0.2
Marketing                             -          0.1        0.1
Airport Financing                     -          0.0 /2    0.0 /2
Project Preparation Facility            -          0.1        0.1
Total Base Cost                 18.1        18.8       36.9
Contingencies: /3
Physical                            0.1         0.1        0.2
Price                               0.6         0.6        1.2
Subtotal                         0.7         0.7        1.4
Total Project Cost              18.8        19.5       38.3
/1   Includes physical and price contingencies of US$2.3 million
and US$6.9 million respectively.
/2   Less than US$0.1 million.
/3   Excludes line of credit.



- iii -
FINANCING PLAN:
US$ (Millions)
World  Central                  Financial   Investors'
Bank    Bank    Government  Intermediaries  Equity    Total
Line of credit             16.0     1.6          -            3.2          11.2      32.0
Airports                    0.7      -          1.3            -              -       2.0
Land Unit                   0.0 /1   -          0.1            -              -       0.1
Copan Archaeological Park 1.3        -          0.8            -              -       2.1
Technical Assistance        1.4      -          0.6            -              -       2.0
Project Preparation
Facility                 0.1       -           -             -              -      0.1
Total                19.5      1.6         2.8           3.2          11.2     38.3
/1   Less than US$0.1 million
ESTIMATED                                           US$ Millions by Fiscal Year
DISBURSEMENTS:                           1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
Annual           0.7      3.3     5.8      5.6     3.2      0.9
Cumulative       0.7     4.0      9.8    15.4    18.6    19.5
RATE OF RETURN:            19 percent
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT:    Report No. 2249-HO, dated February 26, 1979.






INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF HONDURAS
FOR A TOURISM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Honduras for the equivalent of US$19.5 million for
a Tourism Development Project. The loan would have a term of 20 years,
including a grace period of 5 years, with interest at 7.0 percent per annum.
US$16.0 million of the Bank loan would be relent through financial inter-
mediaries to hotel and other tourism enterprises at an interest rate up to
12.0 percent.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A report entitled "Memorandum on Recent Economic Development and
Prospects of Honduras" (1856-HO) was distributed to the Executive Directors
on January 10, 1978. The main findings of the Report are summarized below.
Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Long-term Development Trends
3.        The long-term growth rate of the Honduran economy has been exceed-
ingly low. Between 1950 and 1975, real per capita GNP grew by only 1 percent
a year. Honduras' per capita GNP in 1977, US$450, is one of the lowest levels
in the Western Hemisphere. Honduras' poverty is also evident from a variety
of indicators. Malnutrition is severe: about three-quarters of pre-school
children are believed to suffer from protein and caloric deficiencies, and
infant mortality is estimated at 118 per thousand live births. Roughly 60
percent of the population has no access to safe water and about 75 percent
lives without any form of sanitary waste disposal. Furthermore, these are
country averages which conceal substantial regional disparities, as living
conditions in the rural areas, which account for about two-thirds of the
population, are much poorer than in the cities.
4.        A major reason for Honduras' poor growth performance has been the
continued dependence of the economy on the production and export of a few
agricultural commodities, especially bananas, whose prices depend on a
fluctuating world market situation and whose output may be greatly influenced
by weather conditions. The latter was dramatically illustrated when extensive
1/   This section is substantially unchanged from the section on the economy
in the President's Report for the Industrial Credit Project (P-2444-HO)
dated January 11, 1979.



- 2 -
destruction of the banana plantations by Hurricane Fifi in 1974 reduced
the volume of bananas exported in 1975 to about one-half the level of
1973 and contributed to a drop in per capita income of about 3 perce-:t.
5.        There are many reasons for the continued dominance of bananas in
the Honduran economy. Known mineral deposits are not extensive. A serious
lack of basic infrastructure and deficient development policies in the past
have left Honduras' agricultural resources underutilized. In addition,
the mountainous topography of the country has made the expansion of the road
network slow and costly. There has been progress, however, since 1960, and
major achievements include the establishment of a basic transportation net-
work connecting the main population centers, and a considerable expansion of
electric power service.
6.        Much land suitable for agriculture is still unutilized, and the
country has sizeable forest resources, but agricultural output only grew at
about 2 percent yearly between 1950 and 1975. Uneven land distribution and
deficient credit, technical services and development programs have kept
agricultural growth far below its potential.
Government Development Efforts
7.        Since 1972, development efforts have increased substantially and
several measures have been taken to lay the basis for the current improved
economic outlook over the longer term. A land reform program which began
in December 1972 aims at greatly improving land utilization as well as
increasing the income and employment of the poorest peasants through the
transfer of unutilized or poorly utilized land from large landowners to
landless rural families. Another major policy development was the national-
ization of timber rights in January 1974. A new forestry law established
guidelines for private sector participation in forestry development and
created the Corporacion Hondurena de Desarrollo Forestal (COHDEFOR). In the
same year, the Government established the Corporacion Nacional de Inversiones
(CONADI) to promote and finance industrial projects. Another major achieve-
ment was an improvement in Government planning and executing capacity, parti-
cularly in infrastructure, which has resulted in a substantial increase in
public fixed investment from 3.3 percent of GDP in 1972 to 6.6 percent in
1974 and over 8 percent in 1977. The Government has also made an effort
to increase investment in the social and productive sectors and strengthen
public finances through tax reforms and better tax administration.  A 1975 tax               ^
reform made the tax on coffee exports an ad-valorem tax with marginal rates
ranging from 10 percent to 20 percent depending on coffee prices, substituted
a 3 percent value added tax for the sales tax, and raised the tax rates on
beer, cigarettes and liquor.
Recent Economic Developments
8.        While Honduras was adversely affected by one of the worst hurricanes
in its history in 1974, it had also to contend with the oil price rise of that
year and the later OECD recession. As a result, during 1974-75, total GDP
remained almost stagnant, severe balance of payments difficulties arose and
the country's savings capacity was seriously reduced. Import prices rose much



faster than export prices, and the terms of trade deteriorated substantially
before recovering in 1976.  The resource gap, which was equal to about 1 percent
of GDP during 1972-73, averaged 11.6 percent during 1974-75. The rise in consumer
prices, which had averaged 2.7 percent a year between 1966 and 1973, accelerated
to 13 percent in 1974 before declining to 8 percent in 1975.
9.        A high level of public investment, the gradual recovery of banana
production and the doubling of coffee export prices were the major factors
responsible for an improvement of the economic situation in 1976.  Real GDP
grew at about 6.6 percent and the price level increased by only 5 percent.
Partly as a result of higher coffee prices, merchandise export earnings grew
by about 31 percent in current terms over 1975. Government tax revenues
increased from 10.8 percent of GDP in 1972-73 to 12.8 percent in 1976
and, while there was a substantial increase in public current expenditures,
public savings were estimated at 2.7 percent of GDP in 1976 compared to an
average 2.2 percent in 1972-73. However, as investment expenditures for
hurricane reconstruction and development purposes were stepped up considerably,
the overall deficit of the Central Government increased from 2.5 percent of
GDP in 1970 to 4.9 percent in 1976.
10.       In 1977, economic expansion continued with real GDP growth estimated
at 8 percent, due mainly to the expansion of public investment (about 17 per-
cent), and to a doubling of coffee prices from the 1976 level. The rate of
inflation accelerated to 8.6 percent owing to: (i) higher liquidity brought
about by coffee sales, (ii) rising import prices, (iii) poor domestic crops of
basic grains. The balance of payments had a current account deficit of US$121
million, somewhat above the US$109 million recorded in 1976, mainly due to the
rapid increase of imports and the retention of coffee sales in the second
semester of 1977. Foreign exchange reserves, however, increased by about
US$40 million, as a result of greater disbursements of foreign loans. With
regard to the public sector, Central Government current revenues reached 16.4
percent of GDP, while public savings increased to 3.3 percent of GDP. The
total tax burden increased to 14.5 percent of GDP.
Growth Prospects
11.       The growth prospects for 1979-82 are good.  Real GDP is expected to
increase at an annual rate of about 6 percent, barring natural disasters.
Real exports should be able to grow at about 7 percent a year, reflecting
continued recovery of banana production from the September 1974 hurricane,
increased coffee production owing to higher yields and new plantings, expan-
sion of sugar production, an increase of lumber exports made possible by the
currently planned expansion of sawmill capacity, increased beef production
(also the result of an ongoing program), expansion of fruit and vegetable
production for export and promotion of tourism. Coffee prices, although
they have declined from the unusually high 1977 level, are expected to
remain well above 1975 levels in real terms. In addition, the Government
plans to accelerate economic growth over the medium-term through an ambitious
public investment program designed to alleviate the most significant bottle-
necks to the country's development process. The presently designed development



- 4 -
strategy calls for large public investments in infrastructure, in export
diversification through forestry development, industry and tourism, and
in agriculture to implement the agrarian reform program and increase
productivity.
12.       The expansion of the public sector's investment expenditures together
with the necessary increase of complementary current expenditures creates a
need for additional increases in taxes and the tariffs of public enterprises
in the 1979-82 period as well as for careful control of other current expendi-
tures. The Government is considering a series of proposals to mobilize addi-
tional domestic resources in support of its development program. However,
given the present and foreseeable poverty of the country, even with a greater
revenue effort and current outlay control, Honduras needs external assistance
in excess of the foreign exchange component of development projects suitable
for international finance to enable the Government to implement the public
investment program.
13.       While real exports are expected to increase at about seven percent a
year during 1978-82, Honduras' terms of trade are expected to deteriorate. As
the import needs of the economy expand, in particular the imports related to
the investment program, the current account deficit is expected to increase to
US$200 million by 1981 and US$250 million in 1985, and large capital inflows
will be required. The bulk of the external financing requirements will have
to be met through public borrowing. Honduras will require an estimated total
gross capital inflow of about US$800 million for the five-year period 1978-82,
of which about US$350 million will be disbursed from commitments made through
the end of 1977.
14.       Honduras' public external debt repayable in foreign currency is esti-
mated to be US$436 million at the end of 1977, US$787 million if undisbursed
commitments are included. In the past, Honduras managed to keep its external
debt service ratio fairly low, because foreign loans were almost all on
concessionary terms. It is important that the country continue to borrow on
reasonably soft average terms, in view of the country's poverty, the fact
that it will continue to depend on exports of a few commodities with volatile
price prospects, and because, historically, natural disasters have sharply
reduced the volume of exports every few years. Even if Honduras is successful
in obtaining about two-thirds of the financing it needs for its investment
program on terms similar to those offered by the international lending agencies,
the debt service ratio is likely to rise from about 7.1 percent in 1977 to
about 13 percent by the mid-1980s. Continued maintenance of Honduras' credit-
worthiness will depend on the efficiency with which it chooses and implements
its major public investment projects; careful, continued demand management,
including cautious use of nonconcessionary borrowing; and on export promotion
policies. The Bank will be carefully monitoring Honduras' performance in this
regard. A mission reviewed Government plans in these fields with the Govern-
ment in January 1979, and Honduran officials will be visiting the Bank in
March to continue these discussions.
15.       The Bank Group holds 27.5 percent of the disbursed public debt
outstanding repayable in foreign currency; excluding IDA the Bank's share
is about 20 percent. About three-fourths of the IDB's total loans disbursed



and outstanding is repayable in local currency, so that IDB's share of the
disbursed public debt repayable in foreign currency is only 5.4 percent.
CABEI accounts for 18.5 percent of the total, the US Government for 17.4 per-
cent, Venezuela for 12.3 percent, privately held debt for about 15.2 percent
and other debt for 3.7 percent.
16.       In terms of the sectoral thrust of lending by the principal external
agencies apart from the Bank, AID has concentrated on agriculture and educa-
tion, IDB on transport, agriculture and forestry, health, education and
housing, and CABEI on transport, industry, power, housing and tourism. It is
expected that AID and CABEI will continue lending primarily in the same
sectors in the future, while IDB would concentrate on agriculture, forestry,
transport, industry and power. The lending of the external agencies from
1950-1977 was as follows:
IBRD     IDA      AID     IDB    CABEI    TOTAL
Total Gross Lending 1950-1977    177.5    53.2    113.4   294.7   199.2    838.0
Gross Lending 1950-1965             25.9    12.5      26.7    27.2      8.1    100.4
Gross Lending 1966-1977            151.6    40.7      86.7   267.5   191.1    737.6
Sectoral Lending 1966-1977
Transport                         88.3      5.0        -    32.1    74.7    200.1
Power                             60.3     9.5         -        -    20.9      90.7
Telecommunications                   -        -        -    14.7    10.1       24.8
Education                          3.0      3.0     10.5    17.4        -      33.9
Health                               -        -      2.6    33.2    10.2       46.0
Housing                              -        -      5.0    12.5    16.5       34.0
Agriculture and Forestry             -    23.2      48.5   155.4      4.1    231.2
Industry                             -        -      5.0      2.2    33.2      40.4
Other                                -        -     15.1        -    21.4      36.5
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN HONDURAS 1/
17.       Beginning with a loan of US$4.2 million for roads in 1955, Honduras
has to date received 19 Bank loans totalling US$233.2 million and ten IDA
credits totalling US$60.1 million, both net of cancellations. In 1978-79,
the Bank has approved a US$5 million credit for education and loans totalling
US$56.0 million for the Guayape Regional Development Project, the Nispero
Power Project and an Industrial Credit Project. As of December 31, 1978,
a total of US$101.8 million remained to be disbursed on 12 operations for
ports, electricity, roads, livestock, education, regional development and
1/   This section is substantially unchanged from the section on Bank Group
Operations in the President's Report for the Industrial Credit Project
(P-2444-HO) dated January 11, 1979.



-6-
agricultural credit. The proposed loan would raise the total of Bank Group
assistance from US$293.3 to US$312.8 million. Execution of projects financed
by the Bank Group has, on the whole, been satisfactory. Annex II contains a
summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as of
December 31, 1978, as well as notes on the execution of on-going projects.
18.       In the past, Bank Group lending was heavily concentrated in trans-
port and power, where inadequate facilities hampered the development of
the country. The First Livestock Development Credit approved in 1970, how-
ever, marked a first step towards the diversification of our lending. Since
then, this diversification has continued through operations for a Second
Livestock project; a First Education project, which included as major compo-
nents primary and secondary teacher training schools, and support for voca-
tional training centers and the national agricultural secondary school; a
First Agricultural Credit project to finance livestock and crop development
with emphasis on assisting agrarian reform settlements through investment
credits and a substantial technical assistance program; a Second Education
Project to help finance rural primary schools and agricultural vocational
education; the Guayape Regional Development Project to assist small farmers
and agrarian reform settlements in the Guayape Valley; and an Industrial
Credit Project to provide funds primarily to small and medium manufacturing
firms and firms proposing priority projects in the wood industry.
19.       In future lending to Honduras, we plan to support the priorities of
the Government's investment program by giving increased emphasis to investment
in agricultural and rural development to support the agrarian reform. We
would also help finance activities to strengthen the balance of payments by
reducing Honduras' reliance on banana production, while continuing to lend for
physical infrastructure where there are still deficiencies to be overcome.
The proposed Tourism Development Project will help develop Honduras' tourism
potential and contribute to the diversification of the sources of foreign
exchange earnings. A follow-on to the First Agricultural Credit Project and
additional rural development projects, now being identified, are planned.
Bank Group support is also being considered for COHDEFOR's pulp and paper
project. In transport, we plan to place emphasis on assisting the construc-
tion of a network of feeder and access roads to support the Government's
agricultural program. We also hope to continue financing power development,
in addition to the recently approved Nispero hydro power project, through
participation in the large (about US$460 million) El Cajon hydroelectric
project which is scheduled to come on stream in the mid-1980s. It is expected
that the Bank, IDB and CABEI will contribute to the El Cajon effort, and the
Bank has been helping Honduras contact bilateral sources to seek additional
concessional financing.
20.       It is expected that the Bank Group share of total external public
debt disbursed and outstanding will drop from 27.5 percent in 1977 to 26.4
percent by 1981 because of increasing lending by other external agencies
and a slight increase in commercial borrowing. The IBRD share of debt service
in 1976 was 23.4 percent and is projected at about 24.3 percent by 1981.
21.       IFC's activities in Honduras include a 1964 loan and equity
investment, of US$295,00 and US$55,000 respectively, in a tannery, Empresa



-7-
de Curtidos Centroamericana, S.A. In 1966 an additional equity investment of
US$27,500 was made in this company. In 1968 and 1970 equity investments
totalling US$75,000 were made in a pilot company,Compania Pino Celulosa de
Centro America, S.A., which was established to develop an industrial project
based on timber from the Olancho Forest Reserve. Although this company is no
longer involved in this project, IFC continues to assist the Government of
Honduras in creating an organizational structure and selecting a technical
partner for the project. In 1977 IFC approved a loan of US$9.0 million and
an equity investment of US$1.0 million in Textiles Rio Lindo, S.A. de C.V.,
a locally owned textile company, to help finance an expansion and diversifica-
tion project. IFC continues working with CONADI and local private investors
in developing other investment opportunities in the country.
PART III - THE SECTOR
Tourism Potential
22.       Honduras has considerable potential for the development of inter-
national tourism. Its Caribbean coast has some of the most attractive and
extensive beaches (Tela and Trujillo) in Central America, and the Bay Islands,
especially Roatan, are ringed with impressive reefs containing a variety of
coral and marine life. The ruins of Copan, one of the most important archaeo-
logical centers of the Mayan civilization, have excellent potential for
attracting the growing culture-oriented tourism market. Another attraction is
Lake Yojoa, with its good fishing and water sports. Proximity to the North
American market and a favorable cost structure should enable Honduras to offer
these diverse assets at competitive prices.
Present State of the Sector
23.       International tourism to Honduras is still in its infancy.  Until
recently the Government accorded low priority to the sector, and private
enterprise was constrained from developing tourism facilities by lack of
access to suitable financial resources. In addition, international air
access to Honduras and transportation to tourist sites within the country
were inadequate. As a consequence of these factors, tourism flows remained at
relatively low levels. In 1977, nearly half of Honduras' 181,000 foreign
visitors were classified as "transits" who spent less than 24 hours in the
country, and more than 60 percent came from neighboring Central American
countries. North Americans numbered about 45,000, most of whom came for
business reasons; between 1972 and 1977, their number increased at an average
annual rate of 6 percent, in line with the growth of business activity.
In 1977, European visitors, also mainly businessmen, totalled less than
10,000. Since most foreign visitors are businessmen, there is no pronounced
seasonality in the distribution of arrivals.
24.       Total hotel capacity in Honduras is estimated at 2,530 rooms, of
which only about 700 are suitable for most international visitors. More than
500 of the rooms in this category are situated in the two main cities of
Tegucigalpa and San Pedro Sula and cater primarily to business demand. The



remaining 200 rooms are distributed among several small establishments, more
than half on the Bay Islands, and are utilized largely by holiday visitors.
Two hotels currently under construction are located in the two major cities
and are primarily intended for businessmen. All hotels in Honduras are owned
by private entrepreneurs, most of them Honduran nationals. The larger hotels
have been financed with funds of small groups of investors, short-term bank
loans and, for the hotel under construction in San Pedro Sula, longer-term
funds from the Central American Bank for Economic Integration (CABEI).
25.       Occupancy rates in major city hotels have stabilized at very high
levels because accommodation development has lagged behind the growth of
business traffic. Construction costs for these hotels, even in the early
1970s when the newer ones were built, were relatively low. Also, the Honduran
hotels have the advantage of low operating costs. Because of the generally
low wage structure in Honduras, payroll expenses represent a small proportion
of total sales and the cost of food and beverage sales is low despite the
relative inexperience of Honduran hoteliers in management. As a result
of high occupancies and low investment and operating costs relative to the
prices charged, the major city hotels are very profitable. By contrast,
smaller hotels on the islands, despite the same low investment and operating
costs, have only recently begun to show satisfactory returns, largely due
to low occupancies (30-40 percent annually) reflecting poor and unreliable
air access from the mainland and deficient marketing.
26.       In addition to hotels, several other types of tourism-related
activities have been initiated in Honduras. A number of good, moderately-
priced restaurants are being successfully operated in Tegucigalpa and San
Pedro Sula. Despite a generally limited road network, the rent-a-car
business has grown and local air services, both scheduled and chartered,
derive part of their traffic from foreign visitors. Travel agencies now
arrange to take tourists and businessmen to the Bay Islands and to Copan,
where municipal improvements and the initiation of an archaeological program
are being undertaken with CABEI assistance. CABEI is also helping finance
construction of a road from San Pedro Sula to Copan. Finally, the pro-
duction and distribution of handicrafts is emerging as a promising economic
activity.
27.       Tourism has been the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture and
Tourism (SECTUR) since it was established in 1975. The National Tourism
Institute (IHT), established in 1972, became the executive staff for tourism
within SECTUR in January 1978 and is responsible for promotion, information,
regulation and inspection, as well as for recommending which tourism-related
projects should be granted Government incentives. Approved projects located
in Tegucigalpa and San Pedro Sula benefit from a five-year full exemption from
income taxes and a further five-year 50 percent exemption. Projects located
outside the two main cities receive a full exemption for the entire ten-year
period. Hotel investors are allowed to import free of duty construction
equipment and furnishing materials, provided they cannot be produced locally
in sufficient quantity and at an acceptable quality standard.



-9-
Contribution of Tourism to the Economy
28.       The significance of tourism to the Honduran economy has so far
been very limited. In 1977, tourism contributed less than 1 percent to the
Gross Domestic Product and generated an estimated US$15.0 million in foreign
exchange receipts. This was only 2.4 percent of total receipts from exports of
goods and services, as compared with 29 percent for coffee exports, 22 percent
for bananas and 8 percent for lumber. About 2,000 people earn their living
from hotel employment and another 1,500 from other activities that provide
goods and services directly to foreign visitors, such as restaurants, transport
services and handicrafts. Some indirect employment is also generated in
activities supplying part of their output to enterprises catering to foreign
visitors. Most workers in the sector are relatively unskilled, and more than
half are young women. Wages and overall benefits are generally low, although
in tourism they are higher than in other sectors with comparable skill levels.
Government tax revenues from tourism are small as the major hotels are still
enjoying tax holidays.
Tourism Development Strategy
29.       The Government has decided, in view of Honduras' lack of experience
in promoting, marketing and operating an international tourism industry, to
adopt a gradual and pragmatic scenario for developing the country's tourism
potential. Such a scenario has two main features: (1) selective hotel devel-
opment on the mainland in places where little additional public infrastructure
is required or where such infrastructure is already planned for other purposes;
and (2) dispersed development on the Bay Islands, primarily Roatan, with small
hotels providing their own infrastructure (wells, septic tanks, electric
generators and bulldozed access roads) on the basis of a suitable environmental
control plan. The main thrust of this investment effort in the next few years
would come from the private sector, thus achieving tourism development without
major public sector investment. The Government would provide, however,
facilities for long-term credit for tourism investors as well as those invest-
ments needed to complement hotel construction and assure that tourists are
attracted to these new facilities. These latter investments would be for
improvements in air access, marketing, hotel training and continued development
of the country's archaeological potential.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
30.       After a Bank project identification mission in March 1976, the
Government undertook, with financing from both CABEI and the Bank's project
preparation facility, a series of technical, economic, financial and marketing
studies of various alternatives for the development of tourism in Honduras.
The proposed project was prepared beginning in late 1977 and appraised in June
1978; a report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report - Honduras Tourism Development
Project" (Report No. 2249-HO, dated February 26, 1979) is being distributed
separately. Negotiations were held in Washington on January 29-February 2,
1979. The Government delegation was led by the Director of IHT.



- 10 -
ProJect Objective and Description
31.       The proposed project would contribute to the diversification of the
sources of Honduras' foreign exchange earnings, generate employment especially
in regions of the country with few alternative economic activities, increase
Government revenues, and build institutions for tourism planning and implemen-
tation, thus laying the groundwork for sustained growth. It would consist of
the following components:
(a) a line of credit for onward lending to hotel and other
tourism enterprises;
(b) improved facilities for international traffic at San Pedro
Sula Airport;
(c) airfield improvements on Roatan;
(d) establishment of a special unit to regularize the land tenure
situation on Roatan;
(e) archaeological park development at Copan; and
(f) technical assistance for:
(i) the establishment and initial operation of a new
Technical Department, and the strengthening of the
existing Planning Department, of SECTUR;
(ii) the expansion and systematization of hotel
training provided by the National Institute
for Vocational Training (INFOP);
(iii) the preparation of an environmental control plan
for Roatan;
(iv) the marketing of Honduras' tourist attractions; and
(v) the development of an effective airport cost accounting
system.
Line of Credit
32.       To date, hotel development in Honduras has been constrained by lack
of long-term funds. Based on discussions with commercial banks, CONADI (the
National Investment Corporation) and potential investors, there is considerable
interest in obtaining long-term credit for hotel subprojects. The proposed
project's line of credit would help finance the establishment of new hotels,
with a total capacity of about 700 rooms, extensions to existing hotels, and
other tourism-related enterprises (e.g., tour operators, restaurants, sports
facilities). The Central Bank would provide a rediscount facility to channel
these funds through financial intermediaries (commercial banks and CONADI) to
final borrowers. The new National Industrial Development Fund (FONDEI),
established by the Central Bank to manage a rediscount facility for small- and



- 11 -
medium-sized industries under the recent Bank-financed Industrial Credit
Project (approved by the Executive Directors on February 6, 1979), would
manage the tourism line of credit.
Terms and Conditions of Sublending
33.       On average, subprojects would be financed by 35 percent investors'
equity and 65 percent loan funds, of which 55 percent would be derived from
the rediscount facility and 10 percent would be provided from the intermediaries'
own resources. Of the 55 percent from the rediscount facility, 5 percent would
be provided by the Central Bank and the remaining 50 percent, equal to the
average foreign exchange component, would be financed from the World Bank loan
(draft Project Agreement, Sections 2.06 and 2.07).
34.       Subloans would have final maturities up to 17 years, including
grace periods of up to four years typically to cover two years of construc-
tion and the first two years of operations. The foreign exchange risk for the
line of credit would be divided between the subborrowers and the Central Bank,
which would assume the dollar and the cross currency exchange risks respectively.
In order to encourage investments in smaller hotels (less than 150 rooms), the
maximum loan for any one subproject, including funds obtained from the rediscount
facility as well as those provided by the intermediaries, would be set at
US$5.0 million. Furthermore, in order to assure that adequate funds are avail-
able for Roatan, in accordance with the Government's scenario for tourism
development, at least 25 percent of loan funds would be initially reserved for
subprojects on the island, this policy to be reviewed in the light of experience
(draft Project Agreement, Sections 2.06 and 3.04, and draft Loan Agreement,
Schedule 1, Paragraph 2).
35.       Financial intermediaries would be allowed to charge final borrowers
up to 12 percent for funds obtained through the rediscount facility. This
is consistent with both current interest rates in Honduras and the prospective
cash flows of typical hotel operations. The rate of domestic price increase
in Honduras was 8.1 percent in 1975, 5.0 percent in 1976, 8.6 percent in 1977
and about 8 percent in 1978, and since inflation rates are projected at 7-8
percent annually for the next few years, the 12 percent final interest rate
paid by subborrowers would be positve in real terms. The rediscount rate of
interest charged by the Central Bank to the financial intermediaries for
FONDEI funds would be 9.5 percent, thus allowing the intermediaries a margin
of up to 2.5 percent to cover administrative costs, commercial risk and
profit. The difference between the Central Bank's rediscount rate of interest
and the cost of the Bank loan would constitute the Central Bank's margin for
operating costs and cross currency exchange risk on the Bank loan. It has
been agreed to review by July 1, 1980, and periodically thereafter, the
adequacy of the proposed relending rates and to revise them, if necessary, in
light of such review (draft Project Agreement, Sections 2.04, 2.05 and 2.06).
Financial intermediaries would be required to lend subborrowers 10 percent of
total subproject costs out of their own resources, with the same maturities
and grace periods as those for the financing provided through the rediscount
facility. They would not be bound to charge the same interest rate (draft
Project Agreement, Section 2.07), but would be subject to Central Bank



- 12 -
regulations governing interest rates. All intermediaries would assume full
credit risk on subloans. The terms and conditions of lending by intermediaries
would be contained in a participation agreement, which would be entered into
by the Central Bank with each intermediary and which would be satisfactory to
the Bank; receipt of conformed copies of this agreement would be a condition
of disbursement for any subloan for the respective intermediary (draft Project
Agreement, Sections 2.04 and 2.06, and draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 1,
Paragraph 5(d)).
San Pedro Sula Airport
36.       Much of Honduras' new tourist traffic would arrive at the "gateway"
airport at San Pedro Sula. The existing runway and taxiways are adequate to
handle the type and frequency of aircraft expected. However, a 4,000 square
meter extension to the parking apron is needed to increase its practical
capacity from four to five aircraft, and the international arrival facilities
at the terminal building need to be augmented to enable handling of 200
passengers at peak hours, consistent with projected traffic.
Roatan Airfield
37.       Tourism development on Roatan is presently constrained by limited
air access. The project would pave the existing gravel runway, taxiway and
apron; construct additional sea protection and drainage works; and provide
telecommunications, weather and firefighting facilities and equipment, as well
as facilities for passenger and baggage handling. The airport would thus be
able to serve larger planes, increasing capacity on the route and allowing
more economical operation per seat mile.
Roatan Land Tenure
38.       Another constraint to tourism development on Roatan is the
uncertainty concerning land tenure. Property claims of Honduran citizens
have usually been based on usage with very little registration of title,
and the rights of foreigners to land have been uncertain. The latter has
been especially true in recent years when some foreigners have acquired
land on the basis of resolutions which attempted to exempt Roatan from the
constitutional provision prohibiting ownership by foreigners of border,
coastal and island non-urban land. Such resolutions were, however, of
questionable validity. Since hotel development on Roatan would be hampered
if prospective investors could not clarify their rights to the land, SECTUR
has prepared legislation, currently being considered by the Government,
to regularize the land tenure situation on the Island.
39.       With regard to Hondurans, the proposed legislation would allow
the granting of title to claimants without registered titles but with
adequate evidence of ownership or long-term occupancy. Land for which
ownership cannot be determined would revert to the State, and if subse-
quently sold or leased, the proceeds would be applied to community works
on the Island. With regard to foreigners, the proposed legislation would
restate the Constitution's prohibition against landownership by foreigners,
and also disallow very long-term leases which are considered tantamount to
ownership. SECTUR's proposal does, however, allow foreigners to obtain



- 13 -
leases of up to 25 years (or longer at the discretion of IHT) if they intend
to live on the Island, and up to 40 years if they demonstrate the intention
and capacity to invest in tourism. It also makes special provisions for
applying the Constitutional provision against landownership by foreigners
in a manner which deals fairly with those who have already leased or
purchased land on Roatan. In this regard, lessees could renegotiate
their leases within the limits noted above, and foreigners who had bought
land could either resell it to the original owner or request from IHT a
lease to the land. Foreigners who do not resell or obtain a lease would be
compensated for their property interests in accordance with the normal
provisions of local law.
40.       In order to assist in the implementation of this legislation, the
project would include establishment of a special unit within IHT, including
lawyers, surveyors and support personnel, to help Islanders prepare their
claims and obtain title and to supervise the arrangements for clarifying
the rights of foreigners. Enactment of the proposed legislation, as well
as regulations required for its enforcement, in a manner satisfactory to
the Bank, and establishment of the special unit would be both a condition
of disbursement for the Roatan airport works, and also a condition of
credit eligibility for Roatan subprojects, unless evidence can be shown
in the latter case to the Bank's satisfaction, that the prospective investor
has clear title to the land proposed for development (draft Loan Agreement,
Section 3.05 and Schedule 1, Paragraph 5(b), and draft Project Agreement,
Section 2.09).
Copan Archaeological Park
41.       In order to enhance the tourism potential of Copan, the project
would include the construction and equipment of a visitors' center and visitors'
facilities, training of guides, production of informational material, extension
of the park, expansion of a nearby museum, and completion of a six-year
archaeological program, the first two years of which have been financed by
CABEI.
Technical Assistance
42.       The project would provide four experts - a chief advisor, an
architect/engineer, an economist and a financial analyst - for two years
(i) to help establish a new Technical Department in IHT, whose functions would
include hotel credit evaluation and overall coordination of the implementation
of the project, and (ii) to strengthen the existing economic analysis section
of IHT's Planning Department, which would be responsible for sectoral planning.
These foreign experts would work with local counterparts, who would later
assume full responsibility.
43.       At present, INFOP provides limited training for basic hotel skills.
With the expansion of the hotel industry, the demand for skilled workers will be
substantially increased, and the project therefore includes assistance to
INFOP to expand and systematize its activities in this field. This assistance
comprises an expatriate chief training advisor to advise on curricula and act
as senior instructor, other expatriate instructors, overseas training for



- 14 -
local teaching staff and equipment. There would be a total of 57 man/months
of instructing assistance and 63 man/months of overseas training. It has been
agreed that the chief training adviser would be employed no later than October
1, 1979 (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.01(e)(iii)).
44.       Since substantial tourism development is expected on Roatan,
environmental control is essential to conserve the unique qualities of the
island. Accordingly, the project would include 23 man/months of technical
assistance to prepare a plan indicating tourism zones, their use and build-
ing standards and other requirements for environmental protection. It has
been agreed that this plan would be completed and presented to the Bank for
review and discussion no later than June 30, 1980. Preparation and implemen-
tation of the plan would be the responsibility of an interagency coordinating
committee, under the chairmanship of SECTUR, whose establishment would be a
condition of disbursement for this project component as well as for the Roatan
airport works (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.03 and Schedule 1, Paragraph
5(c)).
45.       As the new hotels financed by the loan are constructed and start
operations, a coordinated national marketing program would be mounted to
acquaint the overseas travel trade with the attractions of Honduras as a
tourist destination. The project includes the services of an international
travel marketing expert during the third and fourth years of the project
to assist with this program (draft Loan Agreement, Schedule 2, Part C(4)).
46.       At present, Honduras' airports receive their operating funds
through the Government budget, while user charges are payable directly to
the Treasury. There is no ready possibility of determining whether receipts
cover costs. Fragmentary evidence suggests that they do not. There is
also a substantial backlog in the collection of user charges. In order to
form a basis for future governmental investment and policy decisions with
respect to its airports, the project includes technical assistance (12 man/
months) to study airport user charges and develop a cost accounting system
which would provide data needed to rationalize tariffs. It has been agreed
that the terms of reference for this study would be presented to the Bank for
approval no later than December 31, 1979, and that the study would be presented
for review and discussion no later than December 31, 1980 (draft Loan Agreement,
Section 3.04).
Project Cost and Financing
47.       Total project cost is estimated at US$38.3 million equivalent,
including US$2.5 million of physical and US$8.1 million of price contingencies.
It also includes US$90,000 to repay the Bank's Project Preparation Facility
for an advance used to finance economic and marketing studies. Hotel invest-
ment costs average US$28,000 per room without contingencies and US$40,000
with contingencies. Civil works cost estimates are based on current construc-
tion costs in Honduras, and the estimates for furniture and equipment are
based on an average market price. The average cost of the 206 man/months of
technical assistance included in the project is estimated at US$5,800 per
man/month, including travel and subsistence expenditures, which is considered
reasonable.



- 15 -
48.       The World Bank loan of US$19.5 million equivalent covers 51 percent
of the total project cost, representing the estimated foreign exchange compo-
nent of US$19.47 million plus a small amount (US$29,000) of local costs needed
to facilitate the prompt initiation of operations by the land tenure unit.
The remaining 49 percent would be provided by the Government (US$2.8 million),
the Central Bank (US$1.6 million), financial intermediaries (US$3.2 million)
and investors (US$11.2 million). It has been agreed that the Central Bank
would provide its contribution in two equal installments, the first as a
condition of effectiveness and the second 12 months later (draft Project
Agreement, Section 2.02(b), and draft Loan Agreement, Sections 3.01(d)(ii)
and 6.01(a)). A breakdown of project costs and the financing plan are con-
tained in the Loan and Project Summary at the beginning of this report.
Implementation
49.       The project would be implemented in five years from loan effective-
ness, with a proposed completion date of June 30, 1984. Funds in the line of
credit are expected to be fully committed within three years from loan effec-
tiveness, with all hotel construction completed in five years. The line of
credit would be managed by FONDEI, and a separate account has been established
within the Central Bank for the tourism rediscount facility (draft Loan
Agreement, Section 4.05). The Technical Department of IHT to be established
under the project would include a hotel credit evaluation unit responsible for
evaluating feasibility studies and the economic viability of each prospective
subproject. Only subprojects approved by the Technical Department would be
considered by FONDEI for subloan approval. All subloans in excess of US$100,000
would also require prior World Bank approval.
50.       In addition to evaluating all subloan applications before consider-
ation by FONDEI, the new Technical Department of IHT would have responsibility
for the supervision of subloan implementation, as well as the coordination of
all other project components. The Honduran Director of the Technical Department
has already been contracted, and recruitment of the remainder of the staff,
including foreign experts, would be a condition of effectiveness (draft Loan
Agreement, Section 6.01(b)). It has been agreed that local staff would be
hired as consultants on renewable contracts, in order to assure that they
receive salaries adequate to attract experienced, high caliber personnel (draft
Loan Agreement, Section 3.02(b)). The Technical Department would work with
the various ministries and agencies involved in different project components.
INFOP would handle hotel training, and the marketing advisor would work
directly with the Promotion and Public Relations Department of IHT. The Copan
component would be implemented by SECTUR itself; SECTUR's Institute of Anthro-
pology and History would supervise the archaeological works, administer
technical assistance funds, train guides and produce informational material,
and IHT's Technical Department would oversee construction and equipment of the
visitors' center and the museum, as well as installation of visitors' facilities.
The airport works would be supervised by the appropriate directorates within
the Ministry of Communications, Public Works and Transport (SECOPT), and the
study of airport finances by SECOPT's General Directorate of Civil Aviation.



- 16 -
The General Directorate of Urban Planning of SECOPT would prepare the
environmental control plan for Roatan, under the overall coordination of an
interagency committee which would also oversee its implementation. In order
to formalize the arrangements for participation of these various agencies and
ministries in the project, it would be a condition of effectiveness that
SECTUR enter into agreements, satisfactory to the Bank, with INFOP, SECOPT
and the Central Bank governing their participation (draft Loan Agreement,
Sections 3.01(c) and (e), and 6.01(c), and draft Project Agreement, Section
2.08).
Procurement
51.       Hotels:  Prospective subborrowers would normally be required to submit
with loan applications at least three bids for civil works, accompanied by a
detailed bid evaluation report. However, in most cases it is expected that
investment groups may include contractors who wish to bid for the proposed
works, and that this would deter other bidders. Therefore, when three bids
cannot be obtained, prospective subborrowers would be required to engage
an independent consulting cost engineer acceptable to the Bank to certify that
the proposed costs are reasonable. In addition, the experts provided under
technical assistance to IHT's Technical Department would help establish, and
periodically adjust, construction cost norms for various types of hotels in
different parts of Honduras. These norms would be used in subproject evalua-
tions. Civil works contracts of more than US$100,000 equivalent would be
subject to prior Bank review and approval. For purchase of furniture, equipment
and fixtures of more than US$20,000, the subborrower would be required to
submit quotations from at least three suppliers and justify the proposed
selection. Purchases of less than US$20,000 equivalent could be procured
through regular commercial channels, provided their total aggregate amount
does not exceed US$50,000 equivalent. Prior review and approval by the Bank
would be required for purchases of more than US$20,000 equivalent.
52.       Airports and Copan:  Since it is unlikely that foreign construction
companies would be interested in bidding for small-scale civil works, contracts
would be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank. The Bank's prior review and approval
would be required for contracts in excess of US$50,000 equivalent. Contracts
for procurement of furniture, fixtures, equipment and vehicles would be
awarded on the basis of ICB, except for contracts amounting to less than
US$20,000 equivalent, up to a total aggregate amount of US$50,000 equivalent
for each project component (the San Pedro Sula Airport, the Roatan airfield,
and Copan). In evaluating these bids, domestic manufacturers would be granted
a preferential margin of 15 percent or the prevailing level of customs duties,
whichever is lower. The Bank's prior review and approval would be required
for contracts of more than US$20,000 equivalent.
Disbursement
53.       The direct and indirect foreign exchange costs of each individual
hotel subproject are likely to vary considerably. The Bank would, therefore,
reimburse a standard 77 percent of amounts disbursed under subloans, which is
equivalent to 50 percent of the investments made by final borrowers and



- 17 -
represents the best estimate of average foreign costs. For the other project
components, the following disbursement percentages would be applied: (a) 33
percent of total expenditures for civil works; (b) 100 percent of foreign
expenditures for imported goods; (c) 70 percent of the cost of locally-procured
items; (d) 75 percent of expenditures for technical assistance and professional
services; (e) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for fellowships; (f) 100
percent of expenditures for the land tenure unit during calendar year 1979; and
(g) 100 percent of the project preparation advance.
Prospective Traffic
Traffic Growth Rates
54.       The achievement of viable occupancy rates for hotels to be financed
under the line of credit would entail a 2.6 percent average annual growth rate
in all international arrivals in Honduras and a 5.7 percent average annual
growth rate in vacation visitors, as distinct from transit, business or other.
Assuming that 80 percent of all guests in the new hotels were from North
America, this particular market segment would grow at an annual average of 7.8
percent. These growth rates are considered modest and reasonably attainable,
particularly since they are below those projected for the Central American and
Caribbean region as a whole by both the Secretariat for Central American
Tourist Integration and the Caribbean Tourist Association, and since Honduras
would enjoy considerable price advantages over competing destinations.
55.       Room rates in the new hotels will range from US$30-40 single occupancy
to US$36-50 double (in 1978 prices) which compares with ranges of US$25-110
single and US$35-150 double elsewhere in Central America and the Caribbean.
The add-on rate for two meals a day will vary between US$12 and US$15 per day
according to category as compared with US$11-18 at competing destinations.
The package price of an inclusive trip of seven days from New York to a beach
hotel either on the mainland or on the Bay Islands would cost US$341-361, a
cost which, primarily as a result of lower hotel prices, would be within the
range of those for Cancun, Mexico, where package prices in 1978 varied from
US$299 to US$425. Honduran resorts will be as well situated as Cancun and
Cozumel (Mexico) in terms of accessibility--half-hour additional flight time
from North American departure points--and of attractions--tropical beaches
together with the possibility of excursions to Mayan ruins.
Air Services
56.       The Government is now taking steps to remove international air
access constraints to tourism development. In addition to the physical
improvements being undertaken at the San Pedro Sula and Roatan airports
under the project, the two Honduran airlines (SAHSA and TAN) which currently
operate services to and from the U.S. through the two gateways of Miami and
New Orleans, have recently obtained two new gateways, at New York and Houston.
On the basis of reciprocity, a U.S. carrier would be accorded rights to the
new routes. In addition, the Government has reaffirmed its existing liberal
policies with respect to air charters which are a necessary addition to
traffic capacity, particularly during peak seasons.



- 18 -
Occupancy Rates
57.       Taking into account estimated traffic growth, occupancy rates for
hotels to be financed under the line of credit are projected to reach 80 per-
cent in the cities (Tegucigalpa and San Pedro Sula) and 65 percent elsewhere.
These rates would be attained after a gradual build-up of five years, allowing
time for Honduras to become a better known tourism destination, for the new
hotels to gain operational experience and for the marketing assistance,
provided under the project, to take full effect.  In Tegucigalpa, where
seasonality of vacation traffic is mitigated by the regularity of business
visits, current occupancies of first class accommodations are over 90 percent.
This leaves a margin in the event that the build-up of demand in the next
several years is slower than projected and is not sufficient, in itself, to
achieve occupancy levels projected for the 150-room hotel envisaged in the
city. Room occupancy rates projected for hotels outside the cities, which
would primarily cater to vacationers, are considered reasonable in view of
Honduras' price competitiveness, and as compared with hotel occupancies
prevailing elsewhere in the region.
Hotel Profitability
58.       The various types of hotels to be built under the project should
attain satisfactory levels of gross operating profits, ranging from 27 to
34 percent of hotel revenues after the fifth year of operations. The finan-
cial internal rate of return would vary considerably according to hotel type,
ranging from about 7 to 17 percent on total investment and from about 8 to
24 percent on equity. The variations in operating results stem primarily from
differences in investment costs, occupancies, tariffs and franchise arrange-
ments. Smaller and less elaborate hotels at locations sought by certain
segments of the tourism market, such as those on Roatan, should yield attrac-
tive returns to their owners. Also, a large city hotel with international
standards catering to both business and vacation visitors, presently in short
supply in the country, should be able to achieve high occupancies at tariffs
resulting in attractive financial returns. It may be more difficult, however,
to achieve similar results with hotels where relatively high investment costs
on the one hand and not fully commensurate tariffs on the other may not
provide an equally broad safety margin during the first few years. This seems
to be the case with hotels to be built on the mainland coast and thus investor
interest in this type of hotel may not be high. Nevertheless, investors with
interests in other related enterprises, such as land developments, sports
facilities, marinas or airlines, may wish to undertake such hotel investment
as part of a wider enterprise. Subloans for such hotels would of course only
be approved if they could be shown to be in themselves financially acceptable
and economically justified. If the demand for funds for this type of hotel
were not forthcoming, the funds would be used for other hotel enterprises
with at least equally good economic justifications and more attractive
financial returns.
Project Justification and Risk Analysis
59.       The internal economic rate of return for the hotel investment
program of the project alone is about 22 percent, or about double the oppor-
tunity cost of capital in Honduras (estimated at around 10 percent). This rate



- 19 -
of return rises to about 24 percent when the costs and benefits of providing
additional goods and services demanded by tourists are included, and drops to
about 19 percent for the whole project when the investment costs at the
airports and Copan, together with technical assistance expenditures, are
added.
60.       The internal economic rate of return is highly sensitive to changes
in cost and revenue assumptions for the hotel program. A 20 percent increase
in operating costs would reduce the economic rate of return from 19 to 13
percent. Although there is some risk that operating efficiency may be low
initially, the short-fall is not likely to persist as management skills
and experience are gained. Economic returns are also sensitive to changes
in hotel occupancy and tariff levels. A drop in both occupancies and hotel
tariffs of 10 percent would reduce the rate of return to 14 percent. These
results suggest that, although a shortfall in traffic is one of the main
risks for the project, it would take a large drop in both occupancies and
tariffs to endanger its economic viability. The risk of this happening
is relatively small.
61.       Annual gross foreign exchange receipts from the project are forecast
to exceed US$15 million (in 1978 prices) by the ninth year of project operation.
However, due to operating expenditures and loan service between the fifth and
20th years of the project, net foreign exchange receipts would average US$8.6
million annually during these years. By year 30, the net inflow would amount
to US$11.6 million annually.
62.       The Government is expected to invest about US$6.3 million equiva-
lent in the project, US$2.8 million from the budget and US$3.5 million of
funds borrowed from the World Bank. When the project is in full operation, the
Government is forecast to receive annually more than US$0.5 million from sales
taxes on tourism services, US$100,000 in airport charges, US$120,000 from en-
trance fees at archaeological sites, US$180,000 from duties on goods imported
by tourism establishments, and US$360,000 from income taxes on wages and salaries
of tourism employees. After the fifth year of operation for city hotels and
the tenth year for all other hotels, the Government would also begin collecting
taxes on hotel profits, amounting to maximum annual revenues of US$1.2 million.
In summary, total Government receipts arising from the project when fully
operational would total US$2.5 million equivalent annually.
63.       In addition to the Government, the main beneficiaries of this
project would be private sector enterprises investing in tourism facilities
and their employees. About 2,500 man/years of employment would be provided
during the construction phase of the project. Some 840 permanent jobs would
be created once all the hotels built under the program were completed, and
about 650 jobs in other tourism activities. In addition, jobs would be
created indirectly in activities which supply goods and services to the
tourism sector. Unskilled labor would particularly benefit because wages and
overall benefits would be appreciably above their maximum earnings in the next
best alternative employment opportunity in Honduras' low-wage economy. Also,
much of the project's employment and income benefits would go to regions of
the country, such as Roatan, with few alternative economic activities, or
in regions deprived of their previous livelihood, such as Tela where banana
packing and shipping have been severely reduced.



- 20 -
Environmental Impact
64.       Inclusion in the project of financing for the Roatan environmental
control plan would encourage the Hondurans to take an ecology-sensitive
approach to tourism and assure that tourism development does not threaten
the island's natural beauty. There are no major environmental risks associated
with other elements of the project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
65.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Honduras and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Central Bank and the Bank, and
the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. The draft Loan Agreement conforms to the normal pattern
of loans for tourism projects and its more important features and special
conditions have been included in Part IV and summarized in Section III of
Annex III to this report.
66.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
67.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachment
March 2, 1979



-~~~~~~~~~~~~~, .1 -5
TAIL  3A                                                N    X
HONDUpaS - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
HONDURAS                                                     la
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. K14.)                                                      - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL              112.1                                                       SAME          SAME     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL       28.7                                    MOST RECENT       GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME         INCOME
1960  /b    1970 Lb ESTIMATE /b         REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                    170.0         260.0      450.0            1066.7       432.3        867.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        155.0        247.0      232.0             911.1       251.7         578.3
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                            1.9          2.5        3.0
llRBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 23.0           26.8        31.4             57.9         24.2         46.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                          17.0         22.0       27.0              25.6        42.7          50.8
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        69.0         89.0      104.0              77.6        95.0          93.3
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                            47.8         48.1       48.1              42.0        44.9          42.9
15-64 YRS.                            49.7         49.2       49.1              52.2        52.8          53.5
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                      2.5          2.7         2.8              3.7          3.0          3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 3.0          2.7 /f    2.7 /f             2.7          2.7          2.5
URBAN                                 5.37j          .,       5.1               4.3         8.8           4.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        54.0         51.5        49.3             35.8         42.2         37.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        26.5          19.1       14.6              9.1         12.4         10.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                   ..          3.4        3.3              2.6          3.2          2.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)          ..         12.7       23.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..              ..         ..              15.1        14.2          20.0
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)                82.7        100.0                        102.1       104.3         107.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                      84.0         99.0       90.0             103.9        99.5         105.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)             53.0         58.0       56.0              60.3        56.8          63.0
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          21.0         25.0          *-             26.7        17.5          21.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        14.0          10.0        9.0              8.7          7.5          8.0
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    41.0             49.4       53.5              62.6        53.3         57.2
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                                 ..           ..      118.0             56.9         82.5         53.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..         34.0        41.0             60.7        31.1          56.8
URBAN                                  ..         99.0        99.0             78.0        68.5          79.0
RURAL                                  ..         10.0        13.0             34.9         18.2         31.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..         24.0         ..              61.1        37.5          30.9
URBAN                                  ..         64.0         ..              80.3        69.5          45.4
RURAL                                   ..         9.0          ..             25.4         25.4         16.1
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN                  ..      3600.0 /h 3140.0             1899.3       9359.2       2706.8
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       19120.0 /i   8930.0    7680.0 1            1220.1       2762.5       1462.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               620.0 /i    570.0       630.0             422.3        786.5        493.9
URBAN                                   ..       150.0          ..            258.2        278.4        229.6
RURAL                                   ..     11810.0          ..           2281.6       1358.4       2947.9
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED               ..           ..       24.0              25.6        19.2         22.1
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 5.7            ..         ..               5.2          ..          5.2
URBAN                                 5.5            ..         ..                ..          ..          5.0
RURAL                                 5.7            ..         ..                ..          ..          5.4
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 2.4            ..         ..               2.0          ..          2.0
URBAN                                 1.8            ..         ..               2.1         2.3           1.5
RURAL                                 2.7            ..         ..               2.7          ..          2.7
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                15.0            ..         ..              51.2        28.3         64.1
URBAN                                56.7            ..         ..              77.3          ..         67.8
RURAI.                                 2.0           ..         ..              12.8        10.3         34.1



- 22 -
ANNEX 1
TABLE 3A
HONDURAS - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
HONDURAS                                                    /a
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME         SAME      NEXT HIGHER
tlOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME         INCOME
1960 /b      1970 /b ESTIMATE /b         REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
EDUCAT ION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRINARY:      TOTAL                  67.0            ..       90.0             103.5        75.8         99.8
FEMALE                 67.0            ..      88.0             102.9         67.9         93.3
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                    8.0          12.0       16.0              37.2        17.7          33.8
FEMALE                  7.0         12.0       13.0              37.9         12.9         29.8
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY) 24.0             18.0         ..              14.7         7.4          12.8
PUPIL-TFACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                              32.0          35.0       35.0              32.8        34.3          34.9
SECONDARY                            10.0            ..         ..              17.8        23.5          22.2
ADUIT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)           47.0           ..       53.0              74.9        63.7          71.8
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            3.0           5.0        5.0              26.9         7.2          12.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           68.0          57.0       54.0             173.5        71.1        104.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                             1.0          8.0       16.0              69.4        14.1         28.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     21.0           ..       35.0              72.8        16.3          45.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..               ..         ..               4.3          1.6          4.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)          570.0        700.0 /k  760.0 /k
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     12.5          12.8       13.3              21.4        28.0         25.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)                67.0          62.3       60.3              37.8        54.1         46.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   10.6          12.5       14.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                   31.5         30.6       29.8              30.8        37.8          33.8
MALE                                    55.3         53.5       51.8              47.2        50.3          48.1
FEMALE                                   7.8          7.8        7.9              13.2        20.9          17.3
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                  1.6          1.5        1.8               1.7         1.3           1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..          28.0 /1      ..              28.9        19.5         23.6
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..             60.6 /1      ..              57.7        48.9         52.3
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS        ..           2.5 /1      ..               3.2         5.9          4.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS         ..          8.4 /I      ..             10.7         15.7         13.1
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBA                                   ..            ..         ..            251.9        155.9        191.9
RURAL                                   ..           ..      105.0            200.6         97.9        193.1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                   ..           ..      155.0            403.1        143.7        319.8
RURAL                                   ..           ..      111.0            258.0         87.3        197.7
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                   ..           ..       15.0             24.8         22.9         19.8
RURAL                                   ..           ..       70.0             65.2         36.7         35.1
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
Ia    The adjusted group averages fur each indicator are population-weighted geometric mans, excluding the extreme
values af the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c  Latin America & Caribbean;  /d   Lower Middle Income (5281-550 per capita, 1976);  /e  Intermediate
Middle Income ($551-1135 per capita, 1976);  /f  Intercensal growth rate (1961 and 1974 censuses; due
to emigration of El Salvadorean residents in Honduras. the populEtion growth rate is lower than rate
of natural increase; jj 13 important urban centers; /h Registered, not all practicing in the country;
/i  1963; Li  Personnel in government services only;  7k  Aged 10 years and above;  /1  1967-68, per
capita income.
September. 1978



- 23 -
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS                                                        AMNNEX   I
Nore   The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme Values of the indicator and the mast
populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.  Due to lack of data,
group averages for Capital Surplus Oil Exporcers and indicators of access to water and eucreta disposal, housing. income distribution and poverty are
simple population-weighted geometric means without the exclusion of extreme values.
LAND AREA (thousand  q. kh)                                                                 Population per hospital bed - total, urban. and rural - Population (total,
Total - Total surface ares comprising land area ond inland waters,                           urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of hospital beds
Agricultural - Most recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily                    available in public and private general and specialized hospital and re-
or permanently for crops, postures, market and kitchen gardens or to                       habilitation centers.  Hospitals are establishments permanently staffed by
lie fallow,                                                                                at least one physician.  Establishments providing principally custodial
care are not included. Rural hospitals, however, include health and medi-
GNP PER CAPITA (US$) - GNP per capita cationtin  at torrent oarket prices,                    cal cecters not permanently staffed by a physician (but by a medical a_
calculated by sase conversion method as World Sank Atlas (1975-77 basis);                  sistant  nurse, midwife, etc .) which offer in-patient accommodation and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                                 provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions per hospital bed - Total number of admissions to or discharges
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual consumption of commercial energy                       from  hospitals divided by the number of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                      HOIUSING
Averue sine of household (persons per household) - total, urban, and rural-
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                               A household consists of a group of individuals who share living quart.rs
Total population, mid-year (millioss) - As of July 1; if not available,                      and their rain meals.  A boarder or lodger may or may not be included in
average of two end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data,                              the houoehold for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of hause-
Urban population (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popola-                        hold vary.
tion; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability                     Average nsmber of persons per roem  - total, urban, and rural - Average nun-
of data among countries.                                                                   ber of persons per room in all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
Population density                                                                           dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings esclude non-permanent structures and
Per  sq. k. - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                       -noccupied parts.
of total area.                                                                          Access to electricity  (percent of dwellings) - total, urban, and rural -
Per sq. k. agriculture land - Computed as above fot agricultural land                       Conventional dvellings with electricity in living quarters as percentage
only.                                                                                      of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Population age structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mod-                 EDUCATION
year population.                                                                       Adjusted enrollment ratios
Population growth rate (percent) - total, and urban - Compound annual                      Primary school - total, and female - Total and femals enrollment of a11 ages
growth rates of total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                          at the primary leval as percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                      populatio.s; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                         different lengths of primary education; for cosuteics with univers-l edu-
mid-year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                       cation enrollment nay exceed 100 percent since sane pupils are below or
1970 and five-year aversge ending in 1975 for most recent estimate                         above the official school age.
Crude death rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                       Secondary school - total, and female - Computed as above; secondary educa-
year population; ten-year arithmetio averages ending in 1960 and 1970                      tion requiros at least four years of approved primary instruction; pre-
and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimatr.                             vides general vocational, or teacher training instructions for pupils
Gross reproduction rate - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                      usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
in her normal neproductive period if shc esperiences present age-                          excluded.
specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending in 1960,                    Vocational enrollment (percent of secondary) - Vocational institutions in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                            cude technical., industrial, or other prograns which operate indepemdently
Family planning - acceptors. .nnual (thousands) - Annual number of                           or as departments of secondary institutions.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family                   Pupil-teacher ratio - prisry, ad secondary - Total students enrolled in
planning program.                                                                          primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the corre-
Family planning - users (percent of married women) - Percentage of                           sponding levels.
married women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control                 Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) as
devi.es to all married wamen un same age group,                                            a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                       CONSUMPTION
Index of food production per capita (1970-100) - Indec number of per                     Passenger cars (per thousand population) - Pa.senger cars comprise motor cars
capita annual production of all food commodities,                                       seating lens than eight persons; excludes ambulances, hearses and military
Per capita supply of calories (percent of requirements) - Computed from                    vehicles.
energy equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita                 Radio receivers (per thousand population) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.  Available supplies comprise domestic production, imports lass                 broadcasts to general public per thousand of population; encludes unlicensed
exports, and changes in stock.  Net supplies enclude aniral feed, seeds,                receivers in countries and in years when registration of radio sets was in
quantities used in food processing, and losses in distribution.   Re-                   effect; data for recent years nay not be comparable since most countries
quiresents were estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for nor-                  abolished licensing.
mal activity and health considering  -nvironmental temperature, b.dy                   TV receivers (per thousand population) - TV r.ecivers for broadcast to gamerra
weights, age and se. distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                     public per thousand population; eocludes unlicensed TV receivers in coun-
cent for waste at household level,                                                         tries and in yearc  when ragistration of TV sets was in effect.
Per .spita supply of protein (grams per day) - Protein content of per                    Newspaper circulation (per thousand pnoplation) - Shown the average circula-
capita net supply of food per day.  Net supply of food is defined us                       tion of "daily general interest newspaper", defined as a periodical publi-
above.    Requirements for all countries established by USDA provide for                   cation devoted primarily to recording general news.  It is considered to
a minimum allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 grams                     be "daily" if it appears at least four times a week.
of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal protein.               Cinema annual attendance per capita per year - Based on the number of tickets
These standards are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and                      sold during the year, including admissions to drive-in cinemas and mobile  -
23 grams of animal prortin as an average for the .onld, proposed by                       units.
FAO in the Third World Food Survey
Per capita protein supply from animal and pulsc - Protcin supply of focd                EMPLOYMENT
derived from animals and pulses in grams per day.                                      Total labor force (thousands) - Economically active persons, including armed
Child (ages 1-4) mortality rate (per thcusand) - Annual deaths per thous-                    forces and unemployed but excluding heosewives, students, etc.  Defini-
and in age group 1-4 yeors, to children in this age group.                                tions in various countries are nor comparable.
Female (percent) - Pensle labor farce as percentage of total labor force.
HEALTH                                                                                    Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting and fishing
Life  xpectancy at birth (years) - Average number of years of life                           as percentage of total labor force.
remaining at birth; usually tiOe-year avnrages ending in 1960, 1970,                   Ind-u-rc (percent) - Labor farce in mining, construction, manufacturing and
and 1975.                                                                                 elctricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor force.
Infant mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                    Participation rote (percent) - total  male, and fesale - Total, sale, and
one yaur of age per thousand live birhts.                                                  ema'c labor corce as percentages of their respective populoticos
Access to oafs water (parcent of population) - total, urban, and reral -                     Ihse ore 0LO's adjoited participation races re tl-ting ag.-sn
Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable access to                       tucr. tore ol the popolation. ond last cfie trend.
safc water supply (includes treated surface waters or untreoted but                    Economic dycendeoc-  ratio - Ratio of population under 15 ann 65 and over to
uncontaminated water such as that from protected boreholes, springs,                       tho labor toro-  in age group of 15-64 years.
ond sanitary wells1 as percentage- of their respective populations.
is an urban areaa public fountain or standpost located not more                       INCOME DISTRIBUTION
than 200 .eters from a house may be considered as being within rea-                    Percentage of private income (both in cash and kind) received by richest 5
sonable access nf that house.  In rural areas reasonable access could                     percent, r-ch-st 20 percert, poorest 20 percent, and poorest 40 percent
imply that the housewife or =embers of the household do not have to                       of househclds.
spend a disprapocrtionte port of the day in fetching the family's
water needs.                                                                          POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Access to  --creta d-sposal E pecent of population) - total, urban, and                 Estimated absolute poverty income level (USS per capita) - urban and curs-
rural - Numbor of pople (total., urban, and rural) sarved by excreta                         Absolute poverty incoma level is that inc. .eel heslo  which a minimal
disposal as porcontag-s of their respective populations.   Ecreta                         sutritionally adequate diet plus essential non-food requirements is not
disposal nay include the collection and disposal, with or withcut                         affordabl.
treatrent, of human excreta and waste-water by water-borne systems                     Estimated relative poverty income level (CS$ per capita) - urban and rural -
or the ass of pit privies and similar installations.                                       Relative poverty income level is that income level less th-n one-third
Population per physician - Populution divided by number of practiciog                        per capita p      .rsonal income cf the country.
physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.                        Eutimated Population below poverty income  level (percent) - urban ad  rural -
Population per nurs.ing person - Population divided by number of                             Percenc of population (urban and rural) who ore either "absolute poor  or
practicing sule and female graduate nurses, practical nurses, and                         "creltice poor" whichever is greater.
.Economicand Social P:ao Division
Economic Analysis and Pro jections Department



- 24 -                                                                   ANNEX I
HONDtRAS
ECONOMIC _EVELDVOPMNT DATA
(Amcounts in millions of US dollars)
A c t u a l                        Projected                    Croeth   R te s                             1976 Share
1965     1970     1973     1976     1977(p)     1981      1985     1965-1973   1973-1976     1976-1981      1981-1985       of GDP
NATIONLL ACCOUFTS (1)
(Killions of US8 at 1967-69 Prices)
Gross D-o-stic Product             549.2    678.1   764.8    834.8    904.1         1106.7   1345.2       4.2          3.0           5.8            5.0           130.0
Gains from Tens of Trade             8.4     -6.0    -7.9    -15.7        21.1       -27.0   -45.2                                                                 -1.9
Gross Domeostic Income             557.6   672.1   756.9    819.1    925.2          1079.7  1300.0         3.9         2.7           5.7            4.8            98.1
Imports                            141.9   222.5   210.5    249.7    295.5           342.5   405.0        4.8          5.9           6.5           4.3             29.9
Ftroorts - Volwe                  -138.9  -184.9  -210.4  -233.1   -2h;1.9          -327.5  -439.8         5.3         8.5           7.0            5.8            27.9
Egports - TT.Adjusted             -147.3  -178.9  -202.5  -217.5   -263.0           -300.5   -364.6       411          2.4           6.7            4.9            26.1
hesource Gap - TT.Adjosted          -2.4     43.5       8.0     32.2      32.5        42.0    bO.4                                                                  3.9
Total Conrmpt-on                   472.6   569.1   629.8    688.3    761.4           883.0  1033.4         3.7         3.0           5.1            4.0            82.5
Investment                          82.6   146.5   135.1    163.0        196.3       238.7    307.0        5.3         6.5           7.9            6.5            19.5
NatL.eal Savingo                    75.1     88.4   108.6   116.2        147.8       163.0   210.0        4.7          2.3           7.0           6.5             13.9
Domestic Savings                    85.1   103.0   127.1    130.8    163.8           196.7    266.6       5.1          1.0           8.5            7.9            15.7
0DP at Current US7                 528.7    714.8   899.0  1213.6   1470.0          2256.4   3595.1        7.4        10.5          13.2          12.3
Sector Output
(Share of GDP at 1967-69 Prices)
Agriculure                         0.375    0.358    0.360    0.281      0.290       0.290    0.287
Indo-try                           0.201    0.218    0.226    0.239      0.239       0.250    0.251
Services                           3.424    0.421    0.414    0.459      0.471       0.460    o.462
Nerciardise Trade                                   A c t u a 1                                    Pr oi8ec t io
Mls. of Corrert UsS)                1970     1973     1975     1970       1Y97       1970     1979      1500      1901     19B5
lmnorts
1.1 Food                            14.3    21.5    45.0    37.7          39.1       44.6     48.6       52.8     57.5     72.4
1.2 Other Censumes Goods            53.9     42.9    49.8    65.2         92.5       90.3   102.2      113.2   131.1    186.1
2. Petroleur,Oil,Lubrieants         14.7     25.5    68.5       48.2      64.o       77.4     89.0     102.3    117.7    195.4
3. Other Cntermediate Deedc         94.C   100.2   135.0   175.7    100.1           27A.,   271.7       30. A    100.1   570.0
4. Capital Goods                    55.3      79.5   110.8    138.8    169.6        184.0    223.0      239.2    269.0   443.3
5.1 Total aoods (cof)              222.7    269.6   410.0   465.6    564.3          634.6    734.5     817.3    928.4   1427.2
5.2 Ttcl -oods (fob)              203.4    243.6   377.6    427.0       350.0      591.1   675.7       751.9    054.1  1313.0
M. Non-Factor Services              40.9     62.8    76.7       82.0      85.(0      99.0   108.0    117.3    131.4    208.4
7. Total Goods and NS'S            244.3    306.4   454.3    509.0       6_5.5      690.1    783.7    869.2    985.5  1521.4
Erporto
1.1Bacaas                           75.3     91.0    61.5    106.7    125.6         149.3    167.2     181.0    201.5   307.5
1.2 Coffee                          25.9    48.5      56.9    190.3    168.0        163.8   146.3    141.9   142.4    343.3
1., Lumber                          16.2     39.1     38.8      38.0      47.5       53.7     63.5      87.5    127.1   242.1
1.- Beef,                            9.7     21.9    18.3       25.6      22.(       27.8     33.6      bO.4    413.7    84.7
1.5 lugar                            1.2        -       7.0      2.2       4.o       12.0    18.2       18.8      20.8     37.4
1.6 Petroles D-erivativ,s            6.2      4.1    12.3       1.1        0.2        7.7      2.9       3.1       3.3      4.3
2. All other goods                  43.6    6o.6   113.1   129.6         152.3      171.6    192.0      218.9   249.5   541.5
1. Total 3.ods (fob)               178.1   268.2   307.9   403.5    519.8           58).9    621.7      691.6    788.3  1260.8
4. )Jo-Factor ,er.e..                18.4    26.3    36.6       39.6      53.0       50.3     57.8       66.5     76.4    0j0.0
5. Total Soods and NFS             16.5   295.5   344.5    443.1        572.8      636.2    679.5      758.1   864.7  1390.8
Pri.c. (1907-69 - 100)                             A c t u a I                         Projected                    G r o 5 t h   P. a t e
I905     19y0     ly       276      JYr7tie)    TTT7   lo75       1965-19Y7   1973 19,6   1976-1981    191195
Export Pr:ce ICdex                  99.81   106.26   139.98  10.09       236.82    264.03   339.39        4.3         10.7         6.8          6.5
Import Price Iodex                  94.08   109.82   145.56   203.84      218.42    287.71   375.70       5.6          ll.0         7.1          6.9
Terms of Trade Index               106.06    96.78    96.17    93.25      108.42     91.76    90.30       -1.2         -1.0        -0.3          -0.4
GDP Deflator (0S0)                  92.62   105.bl  1- 7.5Z   145.38      162.61    203.89   267.00        3.3          7.3         7.0           7.0
A, -al Average Exchange Rate         2.00     2.00      2.00     2.00       2.03      2.00     2.00
Selected Indicators                 1965-73    1973-76    1976-81    1981-85                                    labor Force and OutPut Per Worker      Value Added Per Worker
__________________  _______    -           -                                              Total labor Force            (1976 Price. and ioehan1e hots)t.L.b.r ~-. -  Rate
I006                                  1.18       5.82        3.91       4.36                                   In millione         -r of Total       In tJ3 dollars      ofr Averg
Import Elasticty                     1.14       1.97        1.12       0.86                                        1976                19'7f                                   age
Average National Savings Rate         0.14       0.14        0.15       7.16                  Agriculture          3t1                                    33.3            47
Marginal Jatiosal savings Pate        0.17        0.15        .18       0.21                  Industry             0.119                14.8              2529           186.5
Imports/oDP(in corrent Prices)        3.29       0.41       0.42        0.43                  Services            0.199                 24.9              2352
Investgent/GDP                        0.18       0.20       0.21        0.22                    Totl              0.607                 I35                             r
R-sourc. Gap/GDP                      0.02        0.O5       0.03       0.03
PbicFrree Ga/S?le0.02                            0.05ca.03sDetail on Public Sector Inveataet Program(Flxed)
Poblio Finance Selected Indicators    1965       1970       1973       1976      1977      1981                                      As per..nt ag  of total
Central Governoent Current                                                                                                      19s9-73 1105-7 161c S
hevanuesA3flP                       10.9       13.2        11.0      15.0      16.4      16.4           Social Sectors          ev.0      ).U 
Tax Revenues/GDP                     9.6       11.1       10.7       12.8      14.5      15.4           Agriculture              3.8       4.9           6.4
Corrent Ex9.witures/rDp              9.2       11.1       10.6       14.5      14.1      14.0           Forestry                  -        2.1           9.5
Current Savisgs/GDP                  1.7        2.1         0.4       o.6       2.0       2.5           Poser                   22.7      22.0          36.2
Current 3aviogo/Invetnment REpo.    96.0       45.7       61.3       10.0      32.3      53,7           T oranspwt and
P.bli. C.-t.1Epe.dit-eYGDp                                                     ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~Coeunoications  52.9  38.7       29.3
Public CapitabFmpeeditoCe9'ODP        2.5        7.5         3.6       8.5       9.4      10.6           Othaer                    -         3            2j
Public Savings/Public Capital Exps. 95.3        42.6        62.0      34.7      53.9      33.3              Total               100.0     100.0         100.0
Financing
Public Rector Savings  39.9       34.4         44.0
Capital Revenues        4.3       1.8           1.9
ESt. Financing (net)  40.4        60.0         49.1
Int. Borronlng (net)   15.4       3.8             0
Total               100.0     lr0           10.
(1) Componenti may not add Up because of rounding.
(p) Preliminary.



- 25 _
HONDURAS                                                           ANNEX I
RALANCE OF PAIMENTS. EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND LENT
(In millions of US dollars at current prices)
A c tu a 1                                                ProJec t io
1970     1973      1975      1976      1977(p)       197         979      1980       1981      1587       1905
Jumcary of Balance of Payments
1. Exports (incl.NFS)                     196.5    294.8    344.5    443.1         572.8       634.2       679.5    758.1       864.7    973.6      1390.8
2. Ipqorts (inl. NFS)                     244.3    306.4    454.3    509.0         645.5       690.1       783.7    869.2       985.5   1096.5      1521.4
3. Resource Balance                       -47.8    -11.6   -109.8    -66.o         -72.7       -55.9      -101.2   -111.1    -120.8   -122.9        -130.6
4. Net Factor Service Incose              -22.6    -30.1    -27.5    -56.2         -61.8       -66.o       -80.0    -90.0       -98.0   -105.0       -119.0
a. Net Interest Payments                -2.5     -5.6    -10.1    -15.1         -20.0       -23.0       -28.7    -36.6       -42.5    -48.7       -89.0
b. Direct Investment Income            -20.0    -21.3    -16.9    -41.1         -41.8       -43.0       -51.3    -53.4       -55.5    -56.3       -60.0
c. Other                               - 0.1    - 3.2    - 0.5         -           -           -           -         -          -         -          -
5. Current Transfers (net)                  6.6       6.3     17.7      13.2        13.4        1410        15.0      16.0       20.0      23.0        30.0
6. Balance on Current Account             -63.8    -35.4   -i19.6   -108.9        -121.1      -107.9      -169.2   -185.1    -198.8   -204.9         -249.5
7. Pri-ate Direct Incestsent                8.4       5.5     10.9       7.6        10.0        20.0        25.0      30.0       35.0     40.0         60.0
Public M & LT Loans
8. Disbursemnts                            28.7      18.1      99.2     84.2       104.6       117.7       154.5    153.5       170.7    186.o        249.5
P. A.ortination                             3.1       5.6      6.4      13.3        21.5        25.4        27.4      31.3       38.5     48.7         97.7
10. Bet Disbursaments                       25.6      12.5     92.8      70.9        83.1        92.3       127.1    122.2       132.2    137.3        151.8
Other M & LT Loans
11. Net Disbursements                        2.4      -3.5     10.3      11.7        17.5        30.8        27.6      29.5       31.0      33.2        50o.
12. Other                                    4.3      20.3     12.2      18.5           -           -           -        -          -        -           -
13. Use of IMF Resources                     6.3      -7.5        -        -            -
14. Short-Term Capital (net)                 5.0        -        0.9     24.3        44.6
'5. Allocation of SDRs                       3.2                                              -             -           -
1i. Capital Transactions n.i.e.              0.9      11.5      9.4      -1.1       -16.2
17. Change in reserves (-increase)           7.7      -3.4    -16.9    -23.0        -39.4       -35.2       -10.5       3.4        3.6      -5.6       -12.2
It. Net Foreign Exchange Reserves
(end of Beriod)                        9.0      30.0      48.7      71.7      111.1       116.3       156.8    153.4       152.8    '58.h        170.6
Grant and Loan Co.itxents                                                                                                                              Ac t u a I
I  Official Grarits Y   -       6.0        -         -                   Medium- and Lone-Tes. (Disbursed            1970    1973    1975    1976    1977
1. Official Oranto  1/                       -        6.0        -         -          -          onls
2. Total Public M & LT Loans               22.7      50.1    182.0    150.3        223.8          cia  Debt Oust. (DOD end of period)  90.1   133.6   2614.    336.2   436.2
a. IlRD                                  5.5     18.8      38.0      35.0        12.0         Public Debt Service                        5.6    11.2    16.6    28.5    40.7
b. IDA                                   8.1       6.6       -       14.0         5.0           Interest                                 2.5     5.6    1;.2    15.1    21.1
c. Other multilateral                    9.1      6.5      85.3      38.9       127.5           Aoortioution                             3.1     5.6      6.4    13.4    19.6
d. Goveresmets                             -       6.2     53.2      29.7        58.0         Other M & L Debt Service                    -        -       -        -
7e Of which Centrally Planned Econne,ies -          -        -         -           -          Total Debt Service                        5.6    11.2    16.6    28.5   40.7
f. Suppliers                               -      7 8        -       11.2          .4
c. Financial Institutions                         4 4.1     5.6      21.5        21.0         Debt Burden
Debt Service Ratio                        2.9      3.8      4.8     5        7.1
Mefnrazda Item                                                                                  Debt Service Ratio .                      13.1    11.3      9.7    15.7    14.4
Debt Ser-ice/GDP                          o.8      1.2      1.6     2.6      2.7
1. Orant Elenent of Total Coesitments  45.5         29.7     19.6      25.7                     Public Debt Service sCentr4l Gov. Rev. 6.0         9.    10.9    15.1    17.1
2. Acerage Interest (percent)              4.1       5.8      7.9       6.1                     Terms
3. Average Maturity (years)               29.6     25.2      18.9      22.3                     Interest on Total DOD/Total DOD           2.8      1.2      3.9        5    4.0
External Debt 'Diebur.ed Only)                  Estimated  LDebt                               Total Debt Service/Total DOD               S.3     8.4      6.3      8.5     9.3
OutsLt         Percent 5r  19a7                  Dependency Ratios for H & L Debt
rwnFn a 87.0                                                                                 Gross Disbursmesnts/Imports(oith NF8) 11.7         5.9   27.8    I5.5   18.3
Bank Grouw                           119.o                   2                               Net Transfers/Icmorts                     2.7      2.1      3.9      2.1     2.2
Other Multilateral                   120.3                   27.6                            Net Tr-nsfers/Gross Disbursemeots       23.0    34.8    17.8    14.8   11.8
Gooernments                          129.9                   29.8
Suppliers' Credits                    19.6                    4.5                            IM5          rensGosTotalDib   3.7    )2.2    13.3    18.5   18.5
Financial Institotiom                416.6                   1o.6                            Bank Group Disbursoets/Grs  Totab                  2.
Total M & L Public Debt (Incl.                                                                  Dsisursernc, t                        4i.3    51.0    15.2    17.7   20.6
undisbureed)                      787.2                 180.5                             IBRD Debt Service/Total Debt Ser,.    38.5   10.9    35.1    23.4   20.1
Bank Orouo DOD/Total D0D                 50.1    4J.3    32.3    29.2   27.5
Bank Groun Debt Serv/Total Debt Serv. 39.6    43.5    37.1    24.6   21.9
2 Drawings in foreign currency.
Debt Service and Direct Invetment Incnme.
p) Preiiminary



- 26 -                    ANNEX II
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN HONDURAS /1
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS /2 (Net of Cancellations)
(As of December 31, 1978)
Loan or
Credit                                                            US$ million amount
No.       Year         Borrower             Purpose        Bank    IDA    Undisbursed
Sixteen loans and credits fully disbursed    61.1    29.5
841         1972   Emp. Nacional de        Generation and
Energia Electrica      Transmission  12.3        -         1.0
896         1973   Honduras                Roads            18.8       -         0.6
434         1973   Honduras                Second Live-       -       6.6        1.6
stock Dev.
954         1974   Honduras                Education         3.0       -         1.7
1081         1975   Emp. Nacional de        Generation and
Energia Electrica      Transmission  35.0        -         3.5
628         1976   Honduras                Agricultural
Credit           -     14.0       10.9
1341/2      1976   Honduras                 Highways         35.0       -       23.8
1395/6       1977   Honduras/Emp.
Nacional Portuaria  Ports              12.0      -        12.0
696         1977   Honduras                Ports              -       5.0        0.7
777        1978   Honduras                 Education          -       5.0       5.0
1576         1978   Honduras                Regional
Development   10.5       -        10.5
1629 /3      1978   Emp. Nacional de
Energia Electrica   Power             30.5       -        30.5
Total                                          218.2    60.1
of which has been repaid                      25.9      0.8
Total now outstanding                          192.3    59.3
Amount sold                        4.5
of which has been repaid         2.6           1.9      -
Total now held by Bank
and IDA /2                                   190.4    59.3
Total undisbursed                               83.6    18.2       101.8
/1   Excluding the Industrial Credit Loan of US$15.0 million approved on
February 6, 1979, but not yet signed.
/2   Including exchange adjustment.
/3   Not yet effective.



-27-                       ANNEX II
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of December 31, 1978)
Amount in US$ million
Year         Obligor           Type of Business   Loan           Equity      Total
1964/66    Emp. de Curtidos
Centroamericana
S.A (ECCASA)            Tannery         0.30           0.08       0.38
1968/70    Cia. Pino Celulosa
de Centroamerica
(COPINO)                 Pulp and Paper  -             0.08        0.08
1977/78    Textiles Rio Lindo,       Textiles        9.00           1.00       10.00
S.A. de C.V.
Total gross commitments                   9.30           1.16      10.46
less cancellations,
termination, repayments
and sales                               6.30           0.16       6.46
Total commitments now held
by IFC                                  3.00           1.00       4.00
Total undisbursed                         3.00             -        3.00



- 28 -
ANNEX II
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan/Credit No.
Ln. 841      Fifth Power Prolect:  US$12.3 million Loan of June 28, 1972;
Date of Effectiveness: December 1, 1972; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
About 90 percent of the project has been completed with the
installation of the La Ceiba diesels, the interconnection
to Nicaragua and other project works and studies. Its full
completion will be delayed by about 3 years beyond the original
estimate, resulting from the slow preparation of an expanded
load dispatch and communication system for control of energy
transfers with Nicaragua and from the addition of a geothermal
resource study. Project costs have increased by 14.3 percent
(about US$2.3 million) and will be financed by a loan from the
OPEC Special Fund and internal cash generation of the Borrower.
Ln. 896      Sixth Highway Proiect:  US$18.8 million Loan of May. 30, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: August 27, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
The project's main objectives have been achieved. The
construction of the Tegucigalpa-Talanga Road, the main project
component, has been completed. The Comayagua-La Libertad Road,
80 Km of feeder roads, and technical and economic studies for
430 Km of feeder roads have also been finished. Preparation of
engineering studies of rural roads has delayed completion of
project works about one and one-half years beyond the original
schedule.
Cr. 434      Second Livestock Project:  US$6.6 million Credit of October 29,
1973; Date of Effectiveness: January 18, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
The Government has largely achieved the objectives of this
project. All funds have been committed. However, difficulties
in implementation of two major sub-loans (Isletas agrarian
reform banana plantation and the Tegucigalpa abattoir) are
delaying final disbursements.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Loan/Credit No.
Ln. 954      First Education Project:  US$3.0 million Loan and US$3.0 million
Cr. 452      Credit, both of January 9, 1974; Date of Effectiveness:
April 8, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Implementation of this project is proceeding in a satisfactory
manner. The agricultural training centers are completed and
courses for small farmers and their wives were scheduled to
begin in early 1979. The construction of the extension to the
agricultural school at Catacamas and of INFOP's vocational
training centers at San Pedro Sula and Tegucigalpa should be
completed shortly. All teacher training facilities are in
operation, except one teacher training school and three related
primary application schools which should be completed by the
closing date or soon thereafter. Funds for technical assistance
and fellowships have not been completely used, due to delays in
selecting and approving candidates, but efforts are being made
to accelerate commitment of these funds.
Ln. 1081       Sixth Power Project:  US$35.0 million Loan of January 27, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: May 5, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The Rio Lindo Power Plant extension was completed about
2 months ahead of schedule. All river diversion works have
been finished albeit with some delays. The project is ex-
pected to be completed at slightly above appraisal cost
estimates but two years later than originally forecast
because of the addition, with Bank approval, of new rural
electrification works.
Cr. 628      First Agricultural Credit Project:  US$14.0 Million Credit
of July 2, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: November 30, 1976;
Closing Date: June 15, 1981.
This credit, which includes funds for agrarian reform settle-
ments as well as for individual farmers, is proceeding satis-
factorily. As of June 30, 1978, some 45 subloans valued at
US$4.0 million had been granted. Commitments of about US$3.5
million have been made for the provision of technical services
under agreements with the National Agrarian Institute and the
Pan American Agricultural School.



ANNEX II
Loan/Credit No.
Ln. 1341/    Seventh Highway Project:  US$35.0 million Loan (including
1342      US$7.0 million on Third Window Terms) of December 16, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: March 16. 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily. The three major
construction contracts have been awarded and work begun,
and contracts have been awarded for the purchase of mainte-
nance equipment. Preparation of the Highway Master Plan
is complete; consultants in maintenance operations have
been retained.
Ln. 1395/    Third Port Project:  US$12.0 million Loan (including US$5.0
1396     million on Third Window Terms) and Us$5.0 Credit, both of
Cr. 696      April 22, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
December 22, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
This loan finances the construction of Puerto Castilla on the
North Coast and the expansion of San Lorenzo in the south.
The civil works contract for Puerto Castilla has been awarded;
the extension of the pier at San Lorenzo is nearing completion.
Cr. 777      Second Education Project:  US$5.0 million credit of April 6,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: August 15, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The Government recently satisfied the conditions for
effectiveness and is beginning to carry out the project.
Ln. 1576     Guayape Regional Development Project:  US$10.5 million Loan of
June 16. 1978; Date of Effectiveness: December 18 1978;
Closing Date: April 30, 1983.
The Government has just completed fulfillment of the conditions
of effectiveness.
Ln. 1629     Nispero Power Project:  US$30.5 million Loan of November 14, 1978;
Terminal Date for Effectiveness: March 5, 1979; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982.
The National Electrical Energy Company is expected to meet the
conditions of effectiveness shortly.



ANNEX III
- 31 -
HONDURAS
TOURISM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable and Key Events
(a) Project Preparation and Pre-Appraisal:
(i)  First discussions with Government:  December 1974
(ii)  Bank identification mission:          March 1976
(iii) Preparation by Government, with
Bank assistance:                    December 1977/April 1978
(b)  Appraisal Mission Departure:               June 1978
(c)  Negotiations Completed:                    February 2, 1979
(d)  Loan Effectiveness Planned:                July 1, 1979
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
Assurances were obtained from the Government during negotiations
that:
(i) A chief training adviser would be employed to assist INFOP
expand and systematize its activities in hotel training no
later than October 1, 1979 (paragraph 43);
(ii) An environmental control plan for Roatan would be presented
to the Bank for review and discussion no later than June 30,
1980, such plan to be prepared and implemented under the
direction of an interagency coordinating committee (paragraph 44);
(iii) Terms of reference for a study of airport user charges and cost
accounting would be presented to the Bank for approval no later
than December 31, 1979 and the study would be presented for review
and discussion no later than December 31, 1980 (paragraph 46);
(iv) At least 25 percent of loan funds would be initially reserved for
subprojects on Roatan Island (paragraph 34);



- 32 -                           ANNEX III
(v) As a condition of effectiveness, the Central Bank would contribute
US$0.8 million to FONDEI's tourism account, with an additional
US$0.8 million to be provided 12 months later (paragraph 48);
(vi) As a condition of effectiveness, the foreign experts and their
local counterparts would have been employed to staff IHT's
Technical Department (paragraph 50);
(vii)  As a condition of effectiveness, SECTUR would have entered into agree-
ments with INFOP, SECOPT and the Central Bank governing the roles of
each agency in the project (paragraph 50);
(viii)  As a condition of disbursement for the Roatan airport works, legis-
lation to regularize the land tenure situation on Roatan would
have been enacted, along with the regulations required for its
enforcement, and a special unit would have been established to
implement this legislation; this would also be a condition of
disbursement for Roatan subloans, unless satisfactory evidence
could be shown that the prospective investor had clear title to the
land proposed for development (paragraph 40);
(ix) As a condition of disbursement for the environmental control plan
on Roatan as well as the Roatan airport works, an interagency
coordinating committee responsible for preparation and implementation
of the plan would have been established (paragraph 44); and
(x) As a condition of disbursement for any subloan, a participation
agreement would have been signed between the respective interme-
diary and the Central Bank (paragraph 35).



I BR D 13747
-F,-: ---             AUGUX5T 976T
/                   } ->4f-   i'-
U-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U
a ~             < i                   4-                 i   1 
rz~~~~(
'N  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
z ~~~~~~~~
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
,1,S'' ,. ,,,,
i~~~                                       I       t'  v            1lti
Q~.-
N           r-'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
N 



