                                            Document o f
                                         The World Bank


                              FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


                                                                                 ReportNo: 51591 -TZ




                                         PROJECT PAPER

                                                ON A

                     PROPOSED ADDITIONAL FINANCING CREDIT

                         IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 25.2 MILLION
                             (US$40 MILLION EQUIVALENT)


                               TO THE UNITED REPUBLIC OF

                                            TANZANIA

                                              FOR THE

                HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
         I SUPPORT TO THE SECOND PHASE OF THE HEALTH SECTOR
         N
                       DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM

                                        November 18,2009




Human Development Health, Nutrition and Population
Eastern Africa Country Cluster 1
Africa Region


 This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
 their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                  (Exchange Rate Effective October 3 1, 2009)


                        Currency Unit = Tanzanian Shilling (TZS)
                            TZS 1323 = U S $ 1
                        US$1.589900 = SDR 1

                                 FISCAL YEAR
                                July 1 - June 30

                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AF      Additional Financing                   IDA      International Development
AIDS    Acquired Immune Deficiency                      Association
        Syndrome                               IEG      Independent Evaluation Group
APL     Adaptable Program Loan                 IFMS     Integrated Financial Management
CAG     Comptroller and Auditor General                 System
CAS     Country Assessment Strategy            IFR      Interim Financial Report
CCHP    Comprehensive Community                IMR      Infant Mortality Rate
        Health Plans                           ISR      Implementation Status and
CQ      Consultant Qualification                        Results Report
cso     Civil Society Organization             LGA      Local Government Authorities
DFA     Development Financing                  LGDG     Local Government Development
        Agreement                                       Grant
DHS     Demographic and Health Survey          MDG      Millennium Development Goals
DP      Development Partner                    MKUKUTA Mkakati wa Kukuza Uchumi na
DPP     Director of Policy and Planning                 Kupunguza Umaskini Tanzania
EA      Environmental Assessment                        (Kiswahili for "National Strategy
EmOC    Emergency Obstetric Care                        for Growth and Reduction o f
ESMF    Environmental and Social                        Poverty")
        Mitigation Framework                   MOHSW    Ministry o f Health and Social
FA      Financing Agreement                              Welfare
FM      Financial Management                   MSD       Medical Stores Department
GBS     General Budget Support                 MTB       Ministerial Tender Board
GDP     Gross Domestic Product                 MTEF      Medium-Term Expenditure
GF      Global Fund                                      Framework
GOT     Government o f Tanzania                NCB      National Competitive Bidding
HBF     Health Basket Fund                     NGO      Non Governmental Organization
HCWMP   Health Care Waste Management           NMSF      National Multi-sectoral Strategic
        Plan                                             Framework (for HIVIAIDS)
HIV     Human Immunodeficiency Virus           OECD-DAC Organization for Economic
HRH     Human Resources for Health                       Cooperation and Development-
HSDP    Health Sector Development                        Development Assistance
        Program                                          Committee
HSRS    Health Sector Reform Secretariat        OPiBP    Operations PolicyiBank
HSSP    Health Sector Strategic Plan                     Procedures
HWI     Health Workforce Initiative             PAD      Project Appraisal Document
IBRD    International Bank for                  PER      Public Expenditure Review
        Reconstruction and Development          PMI      President's Malaria Initiative
ICB     International Competitive
        Bidding


                                           2
                                                                    FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

      PMORALG      Prime Minister's Office,               SWAP        Sector Wide Approach
                   Regional Administration and            TACAIDS     Tanzania Aids Commission
                   Local Government                       TASAF       Tanzania Social Action Fund
      PMU          Procurement Management Unit            TB          Tuberculosis
      POA          Plans o f Action                       TBD         To be determined
      PPA          Public Procurement Act                 TFR         Total Fertility Rate
      PPP          Public-PrivatePartnership              TMAP        Tanzania Multi-sectoralAids
      PRSC         Poverty Reduction Support                          Project
                   Credit                                 TZS         Tanzania Shillings
      PRSP         Poverty Reduction Strategy             USMR        Under-five Mortality Rate
      QAG          Quality Assurance Group                UNFPA       United Nation's Population Fund
      QCBS         Quality and Cost Based Selection       UNICEF      UnitedNation's Children's Fund
      SBD          Standard Bidding Document
      SOE          Statement o f Expenditure
      sss          Single Source Selection




                                 Vice President:          Obiageli Katryn Ezekwesili
                               Country Director:          John Murray McIntire
                                 Sector Director          Yaw Ansu
                                Sector Manager:           Eva Jarawan
                              Task Team Leader:           Dominic S. Haazen




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance o f
their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed without W o r l d Bank authorization.


                                                      2
                 UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA
             HEALTH SECTOR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT I1
                     ADDITIONAL FINANCING


                            TABLE OF CONTENTS

                                                                   Page
A    Introduction                                                     1
B    Background and Rationale for Additional Financing                1
C    Proposed Changes                                                 9
D    Consistency with Country Assistance Strategy                    11
E    Economic Analysis o f Cost Overrun or Financing Gap             12
F    Appraisal o f Scaled-up Project Activities                      12
G    Expected Outcomes                                               13
H    Benefits and Risks                                              15
I    Financial Terms and Conditions for the Additional Financing     17

Annex A: Procurement Arrangements                                    18
Annex B: Financial Management Assessment                             22




                                        2
                                   PAPER
                             PROJECT      SHEET
                                       DATA




Borrower: Government o f Tanzania
Responsible agency: Ministry o f Health & Social Welfare (MOHSW) and Prime
Minister's Office Regional & Local Government (PMORALG)
Revised estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$m)
FY             09/10          10/11
Annual          17.0         23.0

Current closing date: December 3 1,2009
Revised closing date: December 3 1.20 10
Does the restructured or scaled-up project require any exceptions from
Bank policies?                                                            oYes     *No
Have these been approved by Bank management?                              oYes     oNo
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?              oYes     *No
Revised project development objectives/outcomes

The development objectives and outcomes are unchanged, although targets have been
increased.
Does the scaled-up or restructured project trigger any new safeguard policies?

-uard             policies are triggered.
                       P
                                                -
                                 For Additional Financing
[ ] Loan [XI Credit [ ] Grant
For Loans/Credits/Grants:
       Total Bank financing (US$m.): 40.00
       Proposed terms: Repayable in 40 years, including a grace period o f 10 years.




                                            3
A.     Introduction
1.      This Project Paper seeks the approval o f the Executive Directors to provide an
additional credit in the amount o f US$40 million (P119067, Credit 3841-2-TA) to the
United Republic o f Tanzania for the Health Sector Development Project I1 (P082335,
Credit 384 10; Grant H07 10).

2.      Since 2000, IDA has been supporting the implementation o f the Government o f
Tanzania, Mainland (GOT) long t e r m program o f health sector development through
participation in the health Sector Wide Approach (SWAP) and the financing o f a share o f
the total program expenditures. The Second Health Sector Strategic Plan (HSSP 1 ) was 1
launched in 2003 and was supported by over 20 development partners through a mix o f
general budget support, the Health Basket Fund (HBF - a pooled fund) and targeted
project financing (largely for malaria and AIDS). The proposed Additional Financing
would fund scaled-up activities to enhance the impact o f this well-performing project,
specifically covering costs associated with the initial two years o f HSSP I11 (2009-2015).

3.      The project development objective (PDO) o f the Additional Financing i s identical
to the original development objective': "to assist the Borrower in continuing to improve
the quality o f health services and management o f resources allocated to the health sector
through the expansion o f the health sector policy and institutional capacity building
reforms initiated during the first phase o f the Program".

4.       Outcome indicators remain substantially the same, but targets have been revised
upwards to reflect the extension o f the project Closing Date, and the scaling up o f project
activities. Some intermediate indicators have been added to reflect the focus on certain
non-pooled activities. The scope o f the Project also remains the same, as all o f the
planned activities are part o f the originally appraised program and are eligible for
financing under the existing Project. The scale i s expanded as IDA will contribute to the
financing for an additional two GOT fiscal years (2009/10 and 2010/11). It will disburse
US$30.9 million under the existing category for pooled funds, and US$9.1 million under
the existing category for non-pooled funds. The Development Partners currently
contributing to the pooled funds include: Canada, Denmark, Germany (GTZ and KfW),
Ireland, Netherlands, Norway, Switzerland, UNFPA, and UNICEF.


B.      Background and Rationale for Additional Financing
5.      The Second Health Sector Development Project (HSDP 11) has contributed to the
Government o f Tanzania's long term health sector program. This program has included
efforts to increase financing for district-level essential health services; scale-up the

1
  There were slight differences in PDO wording between the Project Appraisal Document and the original
Development Financing Agreement (DFA) (Cr. 3841-TA, Gr. H070-TA) signed on January 13,2004. For
the first Additional Financing, the latter was used in the Project Paper. To maintain consistency, the
wording in the original DFA and the PP for the first Additional Financing i s used in this PP and the
associated Financing Agreement.

                                                   1
integrated management o f childhood illness; increase vitamin A distribution; improve
malaria treatment and HIV/AIDS testing, counseling and treatment; implement strategies
for reducing maternal mortality; expand public-private partnerships for access to
medicines; distribute bed nets; provide services by faith-based institutions; strengthen
routine M&E; expand insurance coverage; and rehabilitate primary health facilities.

6.     The Quality at Entry for HSDP I1 (2005) was rated "Satisfactory" overall by the
Bank's Quality Assurance Group (QAG), while the Strategic Relevance and Approach
was rated "Highly Satisfactory". The Project was also recognized with an Africa
Regional Award for Excellence in 2006.

7.      IDA i s an integral member o f the Development Partners Group-Health, which
represents development partners in health sector dialogue, having chaired the Group in
the past, and currently serving as the incoming chair.

8.    IDA's support over the period 2000-201 1 was originally envisioned to be through
an Adaptable Program Loan (APL) in 3 phases:

   The first phase o f the Health Sector Development Program was a US$22 million APL
             ,
   (HSDP I Credit 33800) implemented from 2000 to 2003. It aimed to accelerate the
   reforms and emphasize institutional capacity development. The project outcome o f
   HSDP Iwas rated satisfactory in the Implementation Completion Report (ICR), as
   was the performance o f both IDA and the Borrower. The Bank's Independent
   Evaluation Group (IEG) concurred with the ICR ratings, including "substantial"
   institutional development and "likely" sustainability.

   HSDP I1 i s a US$65 million second phase APL (Credit 38410, Grant H0710)
   approved in 2003, with an original Closing Date o f December 2007, and supports the
   implementation o f HSSP 11. Additional Financing o f US$60 million was approved in
   July, 2007, along with a two-year extension o f the closing date, to allow HSSP I1 to
   be supported through to i t s completion. As the conditions for the proposed move to
   General Budget Support had not yet been met (see below), the Additional Financing
   was designed to continue financing the sector while these conditions were being
   addressed. IDA was also asked to use the opportunity o f the Additional Financing to
   filla gap in the HSSP budget for planned malaria activities due to delays in funding
   from some development partners. This accounted for just over 40 percent ($25
   million) o f the Additional Financing, while Basket Funding accounted for 60 percent
   ($35 million). The pooled financing amount allowed the Bank to maintain its
   contribution to the Health Basket Fund at about US$15 million per year on average.

   Originally, the third HSSP was expected to be supported by a third phase o f the APL.
   At the negotiations o f HSDP 11, the GOT expressed i t s preference to have a larger
   share o f development assistance disbursed through general budget support (GBS - as
   described in the CAS presented to the Board on April 24, 2007). It was thus agreed
   that IDA's financial support to the sector would be folded into the Poverty Reduction
   Support Credit (PRSC) by 2008 rather than continue through the third phase o f the


                                           2
   APL, subject to the following three conditions: i) increased Government allocations
   to the health sector to accommodate the shift o f IDA financing for health from the
   APL instrument to the PRSC; ii) improved procurement performance by the
   Borrower in each fiscal year o f project implementation as assessed by procurement
                 i)
   audits; and i i annual reviews o f the implementation o f the Health Care Waste
   Management Plan (HCWMP).

9.       With respect to these PRSC entry conditions, while actual government funding for
health i s increasing and i s expected to reach US$14 per capita in 20104 1 (see paragraph
43), the proportion o f the government budget being devoted to health has declined over
recent years, as shown in Chart 1, raising concerns about the overall priority o f the health
sector. Between 2005/06 (actual) and the 2009/10 estimates, the proportion (excluding
Consolidated Fund Services) has decreased b y 4.1 1 percentage points, or 29.1%. If the
2005/06 percentage had been maintained, the health sector budget in 2008/09 would have
been TZS. 329 billion or US$250 million higher than that actually included in the budget
estimates. The 2009/10 health sector budget increased by 9.0%, which given 10.9%
inflation and 3.1% population growth amounted to a real per capita reduction. Sustained
policy dialogue between Development Partners and the Government will be essential if
these trends are to be reversed. The Bank has an important role to play in this dialogue,
and continued Bank engagement in the health sector i s therefore critical.

10.     Districts s t i l l rely heavily upon the pooled fund to finance operating costs o f
health facilities, and there i s not yet a public finance mechanism which can fully
substitute for these funds. A reduction in the pooled fund upon the closing o f the HSDP
I1 (including i t s additional financing) would thus create a shortfall in financing at the
service delivery level.

                            Chart 1 - Health Sector Spending
                     as a Percent o f Total Government Expenditure


                                                                              With CFS
                                                                              No CFS




       Note: C F S = Consolidated Fund Services (debt service, etc.)

                                                 3
               Year           Works (%)               Goods (%)          Services (%)
             2003/04               73                    30                     0
             2004/05               66                    57                     0
             2005/06               43                    41                    50
             2006/07               30                    14                     0
             2007/08               64                    17                     0
   Note: High-risk cases had serious weaknesses, which "could cause material, financial, regulatory or
         reputational risks to the Entity warranting immediate attention by Senior Management"

11.     Issues also remain with respect to procurement capacity although this i s now
being addressed, inter alia, by securing technical assistance to build capacity in the
Procurement Management Unit (PMU). Procurement audits through 2007/08 have been
completed and they show that there are s t i l l a number o f procurement issues to be
addressed and a great deal o f capacity building to be done. However, over the past five
years that these audits were completed, there has been a generally improving trend,
although there was some slippage in the last audit for works procurement. This i s being
actively pursued by the joint Government/Development Partner Audit Sub-committee for
the Basket Fund. Table 1 below indicates the percent o f "high risk" procurement
procedures over the five audits.

12.     Implementation o f the Health Care Waste Management Plan began in FY06/07,
and the first planned implementation review was held during the M a y 13, 2009 Bi-annual
SWAP Meeting (held in M a y and October o f each year to discuss progress in the
achievement o f health sector objectives and activities). It was noted that progress had
been made but that more needed to be done. An update o f the H C W M P was completed
in 2007, and the Environment and Social Management Framework (ESMF) was prepared
as part o f the preparation for the Regional Health Systems Strengthening and TB Support
Project. Both have been disclosed in-country and in the InfoShop. Ongoing progress
updates will be part o f future health sector review meetings,

Recent Developments

13.    Since the first Additional Financing (AF), four important developments have
occurred, which may also have an impact on the feasibility and appropriateness o f any
potential move towards General Budget Support (GBS), and the timing o f such a move:

   (a) The M O H S W has adopted a position that only those providing direct support to
       the health sector (project or pooled funding) should play a role in health sector
       policy discussions, meaning that a shift to GBS would effectively exclude the
       Bank from providing policy input to the sector;
   (b) An external evaluation o f the health sector in October 2007 (after the first AF was
       approved), highlighted the effectiveness o f the SWAP approach, and the Basket
       Fund in particular, in getting funds to the front line and improving outcomes;

                                                  4
      (c) The volume o f joint GBS has plateaued over the past few years while the Bank
          and other development partners are reconsidering the prior projections for sharp
          increases in GBS and the proportion o f their total funding being devoted to GBS.
          The effectiveness o f this modality w i l l be reviewed through a joint evaluation
          planned for 20 10; and
      (d) The Bank in particular i s considering a shift in i t s approaches for supporting
          decentralized levels, i.e., local governments and communities. The Bank's letter
          to the GOT o f February 24, 2009 suggested consolidating some o f the existing
          funding mechanisms to the decentralized level under eight operations into a few
          multi-sector local government baskets, thereby reducing transaction costs and
          further promoting alignment to country systems.

14.       The joint external evaluation concluded that:

          The SWAP has resulted in greater sector coherence and consistency, which has
          secured higher levels o f both domestic and external financial resources for health
          throughout the evaluation period.
          Compared to the set o f loosely or non-coordinated projects and programs
          previously in place, there i s l i t t l e doubt that the SWAP has delivered real
          improvement in sector coordination and dialogue.
          Under the SWAP framework, Development Partners have used a wide range o f
          funding mechanisms to support the health sector, ranging from direct project
          funding to general budget support.
          The Health Basket Fund has been a particularly effective mechanism for
          supporting Local Government Authorities (LGA) in their efforts to strengthen
          council and district health services, alongside the Government's system o f Block
          Grants to LGA's for health services.
      m   The SWAP has contributed to improvements in health outcomes and to
          improvements in the quality o f health services at community level. These
          improvements can, in turn, be plausibly linked to progress toward MDG and
          PRSP/MKUKUTA goals, especially relating to infant and child mortality.
          The devolution o f responsibilities for health facilities and health planning to Local
          Government Authorities has improved health sector delivery in Tanzania - the
          associated financial support (through the Health Basket Fund and Block Grants)
          was essential to achieving this result.
          Councils and their health management teams are now mostly able to undertake
          meaningful budgeting through the CCHP (Comprehensive Community Health
          Plans) and to supervise and operate local health facilities.
          Strengthening council level health services, supported by the upgrading o f staff
          skills, and coupled with some improvements in centrally provided services (and
          the contribution o f strengthened national vertical programs) has contributed to
          improvements in service quality at health facility level.

15.       However, the evaluation also identified a number o f remaining challenges:




                                                5
       Further streamlining o f the co-operation and dialogue mechanisms i s s t i l l
       required, as the current approach i s not yet delivering optimal value for money.
       There has not been significant progress towards achieving goals and targets
       relating to maternal and neonatal mortality.
       Further progress towards achieving some o f the most important MDG and
       MKUKUTA goals (infant, under 5 and maternal mortality) can be expected to be
       inadequate unless actions are taken to overcome the important constraints
       identified in repeated studies and noted by the evaluation, especially more
       effective management o f human resources for health (HRH).
       There has been relative lack o f progress in hospital reform and in the
       implementation o f an effective public private partnership (PPP).
       The sector has not responded effectively to address some sources o f unequal
       access to health services, especially geographic differences.
       Efforts to make the sector more sustainable and improve quality through the use
       o f cost sharing mechanisms, user fees, and risk pooling have not been
       accompanied by effective measures to provide any reasonable expectation that
       those who are not able to pay will be provided access to essential health services.

Alternatives-for IDA and Rationale -for Additional Financing

16.     As indicated above, changing circumstances have led the Bank to reconsider
moving to GBS as the preferred modality for supporting the health sector, and it i s
actively looking at long-term alternatives. An immediate shift to GBS i s not considered
appropriate at this time.

17.     Aside from moving directly to GBS, the alternatives for the Bank are to: i)not
commit Additional Financing for Tanzania's health sector and let the project close on i t s
revised Closing Date o f HSDP I1 (December 31, 2009); ii)pursue the third and final
phase o f the APL; or, (iii)
                           request a further extension o f the current Project together with
Additional Financing in order to continue supporting HSSP I11 until the feasibility o f
alternative financing mechanisms can be more fully assessed in light o f the recent
positive reviews o f the HBF approach and emerging concerns about GBS.

18.     The first option would leave a severe funding gap for the health sector, and
undermine the ability o f the GOT to meet the original APL program objectives to which
IDA i s committed. For example, without the IDA contribution to the HBF it may be
difficult for the HBF to implement the planned increase in the allocation to districts from
US$l.OO to US$1.25 per capita and s t i l l provide essential drugs and medical supplies
through the central fund. Given the impressive reduction in infant and child mortality
since the program was launched in 2000 (refer to Table 3), and the partnership which has
been established, it would be inopportune for IDA to now withdraw i t s support for the
sector.

19.     The second option could not be put in place prior to the current closing date, due
to both the limitations on available IDA and the need for a more in-depth analysis o f the
nature o f the most appropriate funding modality over the longer term. Furthermore, since


                                             6
it was agreed during the preparation o f Phase I1 that there would not be a third phase, the
Phase I1 P A D did not include the triggers and other prerequisites for another A P L phase.

20.    The third option was considered the most appropriate by both the GOT, Bank
management and the Task Team. Additional Financing will enable IDA to continue to
support the implementation and the objectives o f the HSSP approach as described within
the HSDP I1 Project Appraisal Document (PAD), and will provide a suitable transition
period to one or more o f (a) General Budget Support, (b) a new Health project, or (c) a
new pooled funding arrangement under a "Local Government Basket".

2 1.    With regard to (c), at the request o f the Country Director, a potential approach for
such a new basket fund was developed and discussed with the MOHSW. The focus o f
this approach would be to concentrate primarily o n the protection and promotion o f basic
social services at the local level, providing a framework for multi-sector support to local
service delivery. Initially, it i s expected that existing "basket fund,' mechanisms would
be used, but that over time these would be channeled into a single pooled fund which
would disburse directly to districts and/or local governments. For the health sector, this
would initially mean financing districts through the district part o f the health basket fund,
and financing for essential medical commodities and supplies through the central basket.
Over time, the funding would be channeled directly to the districts, including funding for
medical supplies and drugs which would be allocated to the district level. Continued
policy dialogue would be needed to determine the overall level o f funding and the
allocation mechanisms. Beyond the sector-specific financing, the approach should also
encourage more multi-sector dialogue and address cross-cutting issues such as social
accountability, governance and financial accountability at the local government level.
Additional details on the concept are available from the project team.

22.     The M O H S W has indicated it was generally supportive o f the concept, while
pointing out that it would require significant attention to building governance and
accountability structures at the local level, so that efforts to build capacity and improve
local service delivery (such as the supply chain from the district to the health facility
level) would be sustained over time. This process is already being started through the
revision o f the Comprehensive Community Health Plan (CCHP) guidelines, to reflect the
focus o f HSSP I11and enhance accountability at the community level.

23.     In light o f these developments, the GOT requested IDA to: (i)  extend HSDP I1 for
one additional year; and (ii) provide Additional Financing in order to sustain support
                                to
for HSSP 111. This additional financing would be used to scale up interventions which
would enhance the project's development impact and effectiveness, and extend IDA
support for two more government fiscal years. Despite the significant amount o f external
financing coming into the health sector, the HBF remains the only vehicle for providing
significant amounts o f external support (either in cash or in kind through drugs and
medical supplies) directly to front-line health services at the district level. Support for
this area i s essential for strengthening the overall health system to ensure that external
financing for vertical programs such as that coming from the Global Fund i s well utilized.



                                              7
Project Progress to Date

24.      As shown in Tables 3 and 4, in Section G below, as o f October, 2009, HSDP I1
had already exceeded targets for 2 out o f 4 project development objective indicators.
Reductions in the infant mortality rate (IMR) and the under-five mortality rates (USMR)
were among the greatest observed in Sub-Saharan Africa over the last several years.
Progress has also been made in the equity o f the IMR distribution, with the 2007/08
figures showing that 80% o f the gap between the baseline and the target had been
covered. Less progress has been observed in total fertility rate (TFR) reductions,
although the 2009 Demographic and Health Survey (DHS) should provide updated
information on the latter indicator. Action on the TFR requires concentrated Government
attention if progress i s going to be made, and development partners have shown a great
deal o f interest in assisting the Government in this regard. In addition, targets for two o f
the intermediate outcome indicators have been met (health expenditure per capita and TB
completion rates), and o f those not yet attained, targets related to patient satisfaction,
malaria treatment and reductions in malnutrition are on track to be achieved. The outlier
i s the proportion o f births attended by a skilled health professional, which has been the
focus o f the efforts to reduce maternal mortality, which has also not improved
significantly over the last while. The emergency obstetrical care (EmOC) equipment
included in the additional financing should contribute to improvements in this area.
Donor and government commitment to the S W A p - which has just finished i t s 1Oth year -
remains high. As a result, the pooled fund allocation to the district level was able to
increase from US$0.5 per capita to US$l.OO per capita in FY08/09 and US$1.25 per
capita in 2009/10. There i s a desire to increase this funding level even more in the future.
These funds have been essential to service delivery, and have helped to build capacity for
managing funds at local level.

25.     ISR ratings for implementation progress and development objectives have been
consistently satisfactory during the project life, with one exception when implementation
and development objectives were rated marginally satisfactory due to the turn-over o f
MOHSW management and associated interruption in pace o f implementation. The ISR at
the time stated that it anticipated that the downgrading would be temporary and that the
next ISR would be upgraded, which it was. Concerns about delays in implementation
have since been addressed with the MOHSW management, and the pace has accelerated
in response. As o f October 3, 2009, US$124.4 million, or 92%, o f the available IDA
funds were disbursed and contracts were in place for a further US$6.5 million for a total
of US$130.9 million, or 97.3% o f the total available funding. The available total o f
US$134.5 million reflects US$9.5 million in foreign exchange gains, including US$4.0
million in the first credit, US$2.4 million in the grant and US$3.1 million in the first
additional financing.

26.    Unqualified audits o f the project special account have been submitted on schedule
and Statement o f Expenditure (SOE) reviews have been satisfactory. Most audits o f the
pooled fund - which encompasses one for the central basket and one for each district -
have been submitted with some delay and some have been qualified, although on a year
to year basis, they show improvement. Issues raised in both financial and procurement


                                              8
are discussed in a joint GOT/DP Audit Sub-Committee, agreed concrete action plans are
developed to deal with these issues, and progress on the action plans are monitored on an
ongoing basis. IDA'Sprocurement post-reviews have been satisfactory.

27.     Unaudited Interim Financial Reports (IFRs) w i l l be produced by the MOHSW
quarterly, which helped in monitoring the progress o f the project. The project has
complied with all legal covenants, including the requirement that procurement audits be
submitted annually. The 2007/08 procurement audit has now been received and
discussed by the Audit Sub-committee o f the Health Basket Fund. The Task Team i s
satisfied that per OP 13.20, "implementation o f the project, including substantial
compliance with loan covenants, i s satisfactory". This i s further discussed under
"Benefits and Risks" below. With respect to safeguards requirements, the Health Care
Waste Management Plan was produced and disclosed in 2003, revised in 2007, and
progress was reported to the Technical Committee o f the SWAP meeting in May 2009.

C.      Proposed Changes
28.     The development objectives and expected outcomes o f the Additional Financing
are identical to the original development objectives, although targets for some outcome
indicators have been revised upwards to reflect the one year extension o f the project, and
others have been added to focus on the specific interventions covered (see section F).

29.     The design and scope o f the Additional Financing are identical to HSDP 1 , as the
                                                                                        1
Financing w i l l support the continuation o f activities under the current project through the
revised Closing Date o f December 31, 2010. The Additional Financing will continue to
employ the institutional and implementation arrangements adopted in HSDP 1 . Seventy-
                                                                                    1
seven per cent o f the Additional Financing (US$30.9 million) w i l l disburse under
Category 1 (Pooled Funds Expenditures financed under the Subprograms o f HSSP) o f the
existing Development Financing Agreement (DFA). Twenty-three per cent o f the
Additional Financing (US$9.1 million) w i l l disburse under Category 2 (Non-Pooled
Expenditures financed under the Subprograms o f HSSP) o f the existing DFA. The HSDP
I1 Project was designed to facilitate disbursements both through the pooled fund and
outside o f the pooled fund. Table 2 summarizes a twelve-month extension o f the budget
which was included in the HSDP I1 PAD, but now using the HSSP I11format.

30.     IDA has been asked to use the opportunity o f the Additional Financing to support
several specific interventions which are not currently funded through the Health Basket.
This includes support for key priorities, including essential medical equipment to provide
(i) emergency obstetric care (EmOC), (ii)    support to help restructure the Health Sector
Reform Secretariat (HSRS) into a consolidated implementation support unit which can
take the leading role in guiding the implementation o f HSSP 111, with particular attention
to human resources for health (HRH), PPP and health systems strengthening, and (iii)    the
introduction o f a comprehensive food fortification program for Tanzania to reduce the
high prevalence o f micro-nutrient deficiencies in the population.




                                              9
Table 2 - HSSP I11 Financing Plan (USD) - (Note: GOT = IDA FY)

COMPONENTS                                              FY09110             FY10111
Human Resources for Health                               68,991,999          79,399,937
Referral Health Care                                     48,774,804         152,459,034
Maternal, newborn and child health                      194,083,333         194,083,333
Disease Specific Programs
   MALARIA                                               70,708,3 3 3        70,708,333
   HIV/AIDS                                              5 1.354.930
                                                            ,    ,           5 1.5 15.789
                                                                                I   ,




   TB/LEPROSY                                             6,74 1,667           6,74 1,667
   N O N - C O M M U N I C A B L E DISEASES                   173,333            208,369
   NEGLECTED DISEASES                                         256,667            270,978
District health systerdHealth Infrastructure            801,488,625         801,488,625
Health care financing                                         594.45 1           7 12.676
Emergency preparedness and response                        1,091,411           1,091,411
Social Welfare and protection                             2,504,042           2,45 1,250
Monitoring, Evaluation and Research                        1,133,690           1,138,297
T O T A L RESOURCES REQUIRED                          1,247,897,284       1,362,269,699
AVAILABLE RESOURCES (including DP)                      861,460,000         971,940,000
RESOURCE GAP'                                           386,437,284         390,329,699
I D A Financing (total)                                  17,000,000           23,000,000
   Basket Funds                                          15,900,000           15,000,000
   Non-pooled Funds                                        1,100,000            8,000,000



31.     These areas are specific, high-value activities which are difficult to fund through
the HBF, and have been identified by the M O H S W as the major gaps in existing
Government and/or external financing. While the availability o f human resources i s a
constraint to improving access to emergency obstetrical care, the absence o f EmOC
equipment i s also a key factor limiting access even where staff are available. By making
such equipment available, the effectiveness o f the existing staff, the likelihood that
mothers will seek care, and most importantly, the outcomes o f the care that is delivered
should all be improved. The provision o f the equipment will be supported by a sufficient
scaling up o f referral services (see "Referral Health Care" in Table 2), to ensure that
resources (human and operational) to support the entire chain o f emergency obstetrical
care are available.

32.     The HSRS needs to be re-oriented from a "reform" focus to a unit which supports
ongoing HSSP I11 implementation. Various initiatives need to be coordinated and
appropriately guided, including the Health Workforce Initiative (HWI) which i s intended
to address HRH issues, the PPP initiative, and a range o f health systems strengthening
interventions. The proposed support will include the funding o f one resident advisor plus
shorter-term technical assistance in specific areas to complement the assistance being
provided by other development partners. Both the HWI and PPP initiatives are intending

                                            10
to create secretariats to guide their activities. Overall coordination structures will be
needed to ensure that they operate in a way that i s consistent with HSSP I11 and each
other. This will be a major role o f the HSRS.

33.     Micronutrient deficiencies are o f particular concern to both the government and
the Bank (not just in Tanzania but globally), and recent analysis suggests that significant
economic and human benefits (0.58 percent increase in GDP and almost 6,800 deaths
averted annually) could be achieved quickly through a relatively modest investment in
this area. Once established, the program would be self-sustaining, as i s the case in other
countries. The action plan for food fortification has been finalized and w i l l be used in the
development o f these activities. The MOHSW has been looking for a financier for these
areas for some time, and already has clear plans in place.

34.    Additional Financing i s therefore recommended for a total o f US$40 million,
US$30.9 million for the Health Basket and US$9.1 million for the discrete interventions
described above. This A F would bring total HSDP financing to US$165 million (original
US$65 million and US$lOO million AF), with US$125 million or 76% going to the
Health Basket.

35.     Procurement will continue to be managed by the Procurement Management Unit
o f the Ministry o f Health and Social Welfare and the Medical Stores Department. IDA
will continue to conduct prior reviews for larger contracts (those using international
competitive bidding or international consultant procedures) on behalf o f the development
partners per the Memorandum o f Understanding which governs the pooled fund.
Procurement management to date has been rated high by the Bank. Procurement will
follow the same implementation procedures used under the ongoing project. The
proposed Additional Financing operation w i l l be carried out in accordance with the
World Bank's 2006 Anti-Corruption Guidelines.             In addition, the "Guidelines:
Procurement under IBRD Loans and I D A Credits" published by the Bank in May 2004,
and revised in October 2006, and the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers," dated May 2004, and revised October 2006, will
be the versions governing this project and the accompanying standard bidding documents
for any new procurement. These operational requirements have been reflected in the
Financing Agreement, and the 2009/10 MOHSW Procurement Plan incorporates these
guidelines (See Annex A). A financial management assessment was also completed, and
the conclusion was that the risk in this area remains modest (Annex B).

D.      Consistency with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS)
36.     The first Additional Financing was anticipated within the 2007-2010 CAS, that
states: "An ongoing investment program in health will be extended through FY 10 with
supplemental financing that address short term financing gaps. Thereafter it i s expected
that IDA'S health financing w i l l be provided through PRSCs." This second Additional
Financing continues to support IDA'S 2007-2010 CAS focus on harmonized aid
modalities through participation in the health SWAp, although it reflects changing
management thinking on the volume and share o f GBS. The 2007-2010 CAS specifically
recognizes the greater efficiency and impact achieved through sector-wide approaches


                                              11
and budget support. A new CAS i s expected to be completed within the next year or so,
and it will reflect the new funding modality described above.

E.     Economic Analysis o Cost Overrun or Financing Gap - not applicable.
                          f

F.      Appraisal o Scaled-Up Project Activities
                   f
37.     The Additional Financing will facilitate an extension o f the HSDP I1 Project's
support to the current Health Sector Strategic Plan (HSSP). The HSSP was jointly
appraised and endorsed by SWAP partners in April 2003. N o substantive changes to the
previously appraised HSSP w i l l be supported under the Additional Financing. The
economic, financial, technical, institutional, fiduciary, environmental, and social aspects
o f the original appraisal remain valid. Within the SWAp, the HSSP i s continually
appraised, annual work plans and budgets are jointly assessed, and continuous monitoring
i s conducted through the SWAP Technical Committee, semi-annual joint reviews and
various sub-sector working groups (e.g., around human resources for heath, health
financing, reproductive health, etc.). Annual sector reviews ensure that experiences and
lessons learned each year are reflected in subsequent year's implementation plans. Also,
in 2007, a Joint External Evaluation o f the Health Sector was supported by the OECD-
D A C Committee on Monitoring Development Effectiveness.

38.    Under the SWAp, the costs o f the total HSSP are supported through a mix o f
domestic government resources, general budget support (which could include the Bank's
PRSC in the future), the pooledhasket funds and targeted project funds. All funds are
used to finance activities under an annually agreed implementation plan for the HSSP.
The implementation plan i s articulated within the 3-year rolling Medium-Term
Expenditure Framework (MTEF) which defines objectives, strategies and associated
expenditures for each year - and within the District Comprehensive Health Plans.

39.    The Health Basket pools project funds from eleven development partners in order
to reduce transaction costs and strengthen government systems. Some partners are unable
to pool funds, some funds are earmarked from the point o f source and some costs are
more readily financed outside o f the pool. In these cases, project funds are employed to
finance specific designated activities under the MTEF or District Plans, with GOT and
pooled funds filling in the balance o f the costs. Currently, malaria and AIDS receive
substantial earmarked funds and these sub-programs are mainly project financed.

40.    The HSDP I1 Project has disbursed against the agreed annual work plan for the
HSSP through both targeted financing (via a Special Account) and the pooled fund (the
Health Basket), and it would continue to do so under the Additional Financing. The
proposed Basket funding would allow the Bank to maintain i t s contribution o f US$15
million per year on average, making IDA'Scontribution second in size only to that o f the
Netherlands, unless there are significant increases in funding by other DPs.

41.    The areas covered by the non-pooled funds cannot be addressed through
increasing the health basket, because it i s geared more to financing ongoing operational
expenses rather than one-time investments such as EmOC equipment and restructuring o f
the HSRS. Further, food fortification i s a multi-sectoral issue that i s difficult to finance

                                             12
through the Health Basket. The implementation o f a food fortification program will
require the efforts o f several parts o f the M O H S W (Tanzania Food and Nutrition Center
and Tanzania Food and Drug Agency), as well as the Tanzania Bureau o f Standards
(Ministry o f Industries, Trade and Marketing), the food industry, NGO's and civil
society.


G.      Expected Outcomes
42.      The Results Framework and the monitoring arrangements are consistent with
                        1
those from HSDP 1 . The indicators used to assess the outcomes o f the Additional
Financing are consistent with the indicators included in the PRSP, in the CAS and in the
         1.
HSSP 1 1 The Project Development Objective indicators have not been changed as they
correspond with the indicators for the 2000-201 1 government's Health Sector
Development Program (see Table 3). Targets which have been exceeded (for two o f the
indicators, IMR and under-5 mortality) were revised upwards. The ratio o f IMR between
the richest and poorest quintile i s on track for being achieved, but the total fertility rate
target i s not likely to be met, and has been adjusted upward. A new Demographic and
Health Survey (DHS) is being conducted later in 2009 and should provide updated
estimates for each o f these indicators, as well as many o f the project outcome indicators.
These data should be available in mid-20 10.




 Totalfertility rate 15-49 -
                               5.6         4.5           4.5            5.6           5.4
birthdwoman


43.     The Intermediate Outcome Indicators, which reflect the performance o f HSDP 11,
have been revised upwards to align with the extensions as a result o f the Additional
Financing (see Table 4). These indicators have been jointly selected `as summary
indicators for the HSSP SWAP and for the GOT'S PRSP results matrix. As shown, two o f
the indicators have already met their targets (health spending per capita and TB
completion rates) and a further three are close to meeting their targets (client satisfaction,
malaria treatment and malnutrition), so new targets have been set for these indicators.




                                             13
44.     Both Tables 3 and 4 show the progress that has been made in the achievement o f
the various indicators beyond what was expected in the original HSDP I1 document. For
example, there were significant gains in both infant mortality i t s e l f and the equity o f
mortality across income quintiles. The overall level o f financing has continued to grow,
but as noted above, there are concerns about whether this pace can be maintained. Actual
2007/08 expenditure was U S $ l 1.23 per capita, significantly higher than the original
HSDP I1 2007 target o f US$9.00. Moreover, the budget estimates for 2009/10 are
US$14.46 per capita Even adjusting for lower budget execution, actual expenditures
should be at least US$13.40 in 2009/10, suggesting that US$14.00 in 2010/11 i s
definitely within the realm o f possibility, especially with the added impact o f this AF
(equivalent to US$0.40 per capita in 2009/10 and US$0.52 per capita in 2010/11). While
the nature o f the SWAP i s that attribution i s not straightforward, it i s probably fair to say
that the continued support o f the Bank and other development partners has helped to
some extent in achieving these results. As indicated above, there are s t i l l some concerns
about the proportion o f total government funds going to the health sector, and this w i l l
need to be the subject o f ongoing policy dialogue.

45.     The monitoring framework for HSSP I11 resulted in several changes in indicators,
including the ones for malaria. Accordingly, the indicator proposed for the additional
financing has been replaced with the one below: the percent o f pregnant women and
children who slept under an insecticide treated bed net. While the national "under 5" and
universal campaigns were just started in the last year or so, there already appears to be
some movement in this area. For example, between the Tanzania HIV/AIDS and Malaria
Indicator Survey (October 2007-February 2008), the source o f the baseline information,
and June 2008, there has already been some improvement. The completion o f the Under
5 program, jointly financed by the President's Malaria Initiative (PMI), the Global Fund
and the Bank, as well as the Global Fund/PMI financed universal campaign, should result
in continued progress in this area.

46.     An additional indicator has been included to reflect the proposed purchase o f
emergency obstetrical equipment, which should increase the number o f facilities which
are providing such services. Updated information i s currently being collected, and an
additional data collection will be done at the end o f the project to monitor the impact.

47.    In addition to the indicators in Table 4, the following IDA Core Indicators will be
added to the results framework for the next Implementation Status and Results Report
(ISR), and will be reported on through to project completion (numbers refer to those in
the IDA list):

     2.     Health personnel receiving training (number)
     4.     Children immunized (number)
     6.     Children receiving a dose o f vitamin A (number)
     7.     Long-lasting insecticide-treated malaria nets distributed (number)




                                               14
Table 4: Intermediate Outcome Indicators
                                              HSDP I1 End of project        HSDP I1         Second A F
                                HSDP I1             Targets                 Progress         Targets
         Indicator
                                Baseline     P A D - Dec.   First A F -
                                                                          as o f Oct.2009   Dec. 2010
                                                 2007       Dec. 2009
 Government's health                                                        US$11.23
                                 US$6.6         US$9                                         us$ 14
 budget per capita                                           "$    l1     (FYO8 actual)
                f
  Proportion o births
 attended by a skilled health     47%           55%            75%             52%             57%
professional
                 f
  Percentage o clients
 seeking care at a health
                                   n/a          60%            65%             62%             68%
facility report to be
satisfied
  TB completion rate              80%            85%           285%           87.7%             90%
                f
 Percentage o children                                      Substituted                     Substituted
 with cough or fever who                                       by the                          by the
                                  53%            80%                           5 8%
 are taken to a health                                       indicator                       indicator
facilio                                                        below                           below
                f
  Proportion o vulnerable
                                  <5 yrs:
groups (pregnant women                                                     <5 yrs: 29%
                                   25%          New            New
 15-49Yrs O f                                                               PW: 30%            40%
                                 PW: 26%      indicator      indicator
 under 5) sleeping under an                                                (June 2008)
                                (Feb 2008)
 ITN the previous night
  Malnutrition (weightfor                                                    22%
                                  29%           25%                                            18%
 age) among children e 5                                       20%        DHS 2004/05
                f
 Percentage o public
                                                                           Survey to be
 health facilities that can     5% (DHS         New
                                                               New         completed in        20%
provide Emergency                2005l05      indicator      indicator
                                                                              2009
 Obstetric Care (EmOC)



H.      Benefits and Risks
48.     The benefits o f the Additional Financing would be similar to the original PAD. In
addition, it would allow for a better evaluation o f the rationale for shifting to the PRSC,
ensuring that any transition to.budget support does not impede the pace o f progress in the
health sector, and it would enable the Bank to respond to financing needs under the
existing HSSP. In the event that a decision i s made not to shift to GBS, it would also
allow time for a new health sector operation to be developed, based on the findings o f the
evaluation mentioned above. It would also build upon the results to date in moving
markedly towards reaching the health related Millennium Development Goals in
Tanzania since the start o f the Health Sector Development Program in 2000.

49.     The Additional Financing would benefit all Tanzanians, since the Health Basket
Fund allocation i s distributed to all districts on a per capita basis. In addition, the
emergency obstetrical equipment would be o f particular benefit to pregnant women, by
providing higher quality and safer deliveries. The available funding would cover
approximately 23 percent o f the districvother hospitals and 19 percent o f the health
centers, making improved services available for up to 20 percent o f the population.


                                                   15
Finally, the food fortification initiative would cover up to 23 million people once it i s up
and running.

50.      The critical risks identified in the HSDP I1 PAD have been substantially
addressed during the implementation o f the Project: (a) The impact o f HIV/AIDS in the
sector has been partially mitigated under the National Multi-sectoral Strategic Framework
for HIV/AIDS to which the Bank's Tanzania Multi-sectoral Aids Project (TMAP)
contributes (closes March 2010), and which has received substantial support from other
donors in recent years; (b) Government and donor commitment has been sustained,
delays in disbursement to the health basket have largely been resolved, and additional
donors have been added to the basket, with the result that in FY08/09 some 11
development partners (DP) provided over US$81 million in funding, up from 9 DPs and
US$68 million in FY07/08. The health basket i s clearly becoming the funding modality
o f choice among development partners, many o f which also provide GBS.

5 1.   However, the higher and growing level o f financing also introduces new risks in
terms o f the need for increased management attention and concerns over sustainability.
These issues have received a great deal o f attention during Basket Financing Committee
meetings, and w i l l continue to be a major focus o f ongoing discussions.

52.     To support improved governance, HSSP continues to support annual audits;
annual public health expenditure reviews (PERs), the engagement o f civil society in
Annual Joint Health Sector Reviews, the formation o f Council Health Service Boards in
each district and Health Facility Boards at facility level. Human resource constraints
persist, but under the HSSP, strategies are being piloted to improve retention and
deployment under the Human Resources for Health Task Force, and a new Health Human
Resources Secretariat i s being established. The proposed restructuring o f the Health
Sector Reform Secretariat i s designed to coordinate these various initiatives into a
coherent operational approach.

53.    To address fiduciary risks in the Project, IDA would continue to conduct prior
review o f procurement under the health basket on behalf o f the pooling partners. Annual
Post Procurement Reviews have also been conducted on IDA financing. There have been
no instances o f mis-procurement with IDA funds disbursed through non-pooled funds,
nor in procurement under the pooled fund subject to IDA'Sprior review. Progress has
been made in developing a comprehensive procurement plan for the HSSP
(encompassing all sources o f financing). Persistent procurement delays due to limited
capacity, which showed some signs o f improvement, have more recently been negated by
increased demands, particularly from the Global Fund. The procurement strengthening
measures discussed in Annex A are intended to respond to this situation.

54.    Audits o f the Special Account (Category 2 non-pooled expenditures) and SOE
reviews have been satisfactory. Unqualified audits from the Comptroller and Auditor
General (CAG) were received on time last year, and are expected on time this year.
Audits o f the pooled fund (Category 1) are the responsibility o f the CAGYbut were
conducted by a contracted external auditing firm up to and including the 2006/07 audit.
The 2006/07 audit was submitted late and the 2007/08 audit has just been released by


                                             16
    CAG. These audits are reviewed in regular meetings o f the joint GOT-DP Audit Sub-
    committee which has noted improvements over the past two years. These Basket Fund
'
    audits, however, have continued to be qualified. The main reasons for the FY07/08
    qualified audit were: (i) amount o f the expenditure reported by MoHSW in the
                               the
    income and expenditure statement was overstated by TZS. 2,692,14 1,262 (approximately
                         0.3% o f the expenditures for which payment vouchers could not be
    U S $ 2 million); (ii)
    located; and (iii) salary payment to one employee who was on unpaid leave (about US$
                      a
    4,400 or 0.03 percent o f the Basket Fund expenditures) was not refunded by the
    responsible staff. The first issue relates to the year-end transfer o f funds from one
    government account to another (i.e., Basket Fund account) for annual reconciliation,
    which was processed but not yet effected. The second issue relates to filing problems
    which are currently being addressed and the employee in the third issue has now returned
    to work at MOHSW and there i s every expectation that a full refund w i l l occur.

    55.    The Audit Sub-committee met in early November and the first agenda item was
    the presentation o f audit reports by Controller Auditor General for the MOHSW, LGAs
    and PMORALG. An action plan to address the qualified audit issues raised i s being
    developed in consultation with the Bank and other DPs. As in the past for t h i s project, the
    DPs have been very proactive in engaging with the government so that plans o f action
    (POA) acceptable to the DPs are developed and implemented to deal with both the
    various audit recommendations and general financial management issues, and these are
    monitored on an ongoing basis. The financial management assessment took into
    consideration the overall fiduciary risk associated with use o f country systems and Basket
    Funded operations. I t confirmed that appropriate mechanisms have been put in place over
    the years o f implementation and meet the requirements under OP/BP 10.02. The
    government i s fully committed to further improve policies and procedures in the future.

    56.     To address safeguards risks, the Health Care Waste Management Plan was revised
    in 2007, and a new Environmental and Social Mitigation Framework (ESMF) was
    developed in 2009. Both documents have been disclosed in-country, and were sent to the
    InfoShop for disclosure prior to the beginning o f appraisal. The Additional Financing
    does not involve any civil works, and the annual Subprograms will be based on suitable
    Environmental Assessments (EAs) as prepared on the basis o f the ESMF and approved
    by the Association, as well as any Environmental Management Plan required by such EA.


    I.       Financial Terms and Conditionsfor the Additional Financing
    57.      The financial terms o f the Additional Financing w i l l not change. The only
    expected changes to the Development Financing Agreement are: (i) type o f financing
                                                                        the
    (the financing will be fully IDA credit, whereas HSSP I1 was partially financed with an
    IDA grant); (ii) Closing Date (extended to December 3 1, 2010); (iii) amounts to
                     the                                                      the
    be disbursed (although the Categories in Schedule 1 w i l l not change); (iv) specific
    activities or procurement under the existing components; and (v) the performance
    indicators (per section VI).

    58.     The conditions and legal covenants for the Additional Financing remain identical
                        1
    to those for HSDP 1 .

                                                 17
                       Annex A: Procurement Arrangements

A) General
Procurement for the Additional Financing for the Second Health Sector Development
Project (HSDP 11) would be carried out in accordance with the World Bank's
"Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated M a y 2004; revised
October 1, 2006; and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment o f Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers" dated M a y 2004; revised October 1,2006, and the provisions stipulated
in the Legal Agreement. The general description o f various items under different
expenditure categories are described below. For each contract to be financed by the
Credit, the different procurement methods or consultant selection methods, the need for
prequalification, estimated costs, prior review requirements, and time frame are agreed
between the Borrower and the Bank project team in the Procurement Plan. The
Procurement Plan will be updated at least annually, or as required to reflect the actual
project implementation needs and improvements in institutional capacity.
Procurement for the Additional Financing will continue under the current arrangement.
Under the ongoing project, the overall responsibility for procurement o f works and goods
(with the exception o f pharmaceuticals and medical supplies) and selection o f consultants
is under the Ministry o f Health and Social Welfare (MOHSW) through i t s Procurement
Management Unit (PMU). Procurement o f pharmaceuticals and medical supplies i s
performed by Medical Stores Department (MSD), which i s a semi-autonomous body
under the MOHSW. IDA would continue to conduct prior review o f procurement under
the health basket on behalf o f the pooling partners.

Procurement o f Works: None.

Procurement o f Goods: Goods procured under the Additional Financing would include
emergency obstetrical equipment, laboratory equipment, fortificants, and medical
equipment.

Procurement o f non-consultingservices: Non-consulting services to be procured under
the Additional Financing include: printing o f guidelines, regulations and manuals. .

Selection o f Consultants: M a i n consulting services to be financed by the Additional
Financing include: developing and implementing regulations, food standards, guidelines,
quality assurance manuals, internal and external Q N Q C , and legislation, sensitizing
decision makers, producers, consumers and general public, monitoring and Technical
Assistance.

B. Assessment o f the agency's capacity to implement procurement

Procurement o f goods and selection o f consultants i s carried out by the Procurement
Management Unit (PMU) established in accordance with Public Procurement Act (PPA)
no. 21 o f 2004. The Ministerial Tender Board (MTB) also established in accordance with
the PPA is responsible for processing bids (ie., approval o f the bidding documents,
advertising, receipt and opening o f bids) as well as adjudicating contract award.

                                            18
An assessment o f the capacity o f the Implementing Agency to implement procurement
actions for the project has been continually carried out by IDA over the course o f the
existing project. The assessment reviews the organizational structure for implementing
the project and the interaction between the project's staff responsible for procurement and
the Ministry's relevant central unit for administration and finance.

Currently, the P M U has a total o f twenty (20) procurement staff: three (3) Principal
Supplies Officers including the Head o f PMU, three (3) Senior Supplies Officers,
fourteen (14) Supplies Officers o f different grades and support staff including Assistant
Supplies Officers, Supplies Assistants and Secretaries. The P M U i s responsible for
undertaking procurement activities for the ongoing HSDP I1 financed by both the
Government and DPs. Six (6) procurement staff are mainly involved in procurement o f
the ongoing Phase I1 program and have acquired adequate experience in procurement o f
goods and selection o f consultancy services. However, it was noted that all the P M U staff
need further training in procurement o f works, goods, and consultancy services. The key
issues and risks regarding implementation o f procurement include: (i)inadequate
procurement filing and record keeping, (ii)inadequate working space, and storage
facilities and space for documents, (iii)revised thresholds for ICB/NCB for prior review.
The overall project risk for procurement remains high and corrective measures identified
and actions to mitigate the risk include: training staff in data management and
procurement filing; providing the procurement staff at with adequate working space, and
facilities for safe keeping o f documents; and select contracts below the new threshold to
undergo prior review.

The following action plan i s designed to mitigate the procurement risk:

Action                           Deadline                    Responsibility
Conduct procurement              During program              Borrower/IDA
workshops/courses to             implementation
MOHSW procurement staff
involved in procurement
(procurement strengthening)
Improve record keeping and       During program              Borrower
filling systems (Procurement     implementation
data management)
Select contracts below the       During program              BorrowedIDA
new threshold to undergo         implementation
prior review

Provide adequate working         During program              Borrower
space for procurement staff      implementation
and space for keeping
procurement records and
documents.



                                            19
      Details o f the Procurement Arrangement involving international competition
      bidding and other methods.

      1.     Goods and non consulting services.
             (a) List o f contract Packages which will be procured following ICB and other
             methods: (US$ millions)


Ref    Contract            Estimated                               Review      Expected       Comments
No.    (Description)       Cost                       Preference   by Bank     Bid-Opening
                                        Method                     (Prior/     Date
                                                                   Post)
1 Essential
  Obstetrical
- Equipment
                       I          6.5                               Prior      25/01/2010     Non-
                                                                                              Pooled
                                                                                              Category
2 Laboratory                    0.2 1                              Selected    09/01/2010     Non-




                       1
  equipment                                                        for Prior                  Pooled
  and dossifiers                                                    Review                    Category
  for food

       &
- fortification
3
  foiifiian;,                   o.15
                                                                     Post      3 010 1/2010   Non-
                                                                                              Pooled
  distribution                                                                                Category
  and stora e
4 Supply o f                                                         Post      3 010 1/2010   Non-
  dossifiers and                                                                              Pooled
- installation                                                                                Category

              (b) ICB contracts for goods estimated to cost above US$500,000 equivalent per
             contract and all direct contracting will be subject to prior review by the Bank.
             However, a specified number o f NCB contracts identified in the Procurement Plan
             shall be prior reviewed.




                                                 20
2.       Consulting Services.

         (a) List o f Consulting Assignments with short-list o f international firms.
         (us$'ooo)

           Contract        Estimated     Procure-      Review      Expected       Comments
     ~    mescription)       cost          ment        by Bank       Bid-
                                         Method        (Prior I    Opening
                                                        Post)        Date
         Develop and       195         CQ            Post         11/03/2010      Non-pooled
         implement                                                                Fund
         regulations,
         food standards,

                           200.0       QCBS          Prior        18/02/20 10     Non-pooled
     I evaluation                                                                 Fund
         consultants
3        Sensitize         160.0       CQ            Post         25/02/20 10     Non-pooled
         decision                                                                 Fund
         makers,
         producers,
         consumers and
          eneral ublic
r-l%dkK                    220.0       sss*          Prior        0 110 1/20 10   Non-pooled

/HSRSg
    * An
         reconfi uration
         Note:        ongoing TA
                                                                                  Fund




(b) Consultancy services estimated to cost above US$200,000 equivalent per contract and
single source selection o f consultants (firms) w i l l be subject to prior review by the Bank.
Consultancy services estimated to cost above US$ 100,000 equivalent per contract for
individual consultants will be subject to prior review by the Bank in exceptional cases
only, e.g., when hiring consultants for long-term technical assistance or advisory services
for the duration o f the project.

(c) Short lists composed entirely o f national consultants: Short lists o f consultants for
services estimated to cost less than US$200,000 equivalent per contract may be
composed entirely o f national consultants in accordance with the provisions o f paragraph
2.7 o f the Consultant Guidelines.




                                               21
                   Annex B: Financial Management Assessment


As part o f the Health Sector Development Project APL-I1 Additional Financing
preparation, a financial management assessment was carried out in accordance with the
Financial Management Practices Manual issued by the Financial Management Sector
Board on November 3, 2005. The objective o f the assessment i s to ensure that the
MOH&SW has adequate financial management arrangements to ensure that (a) HSDP-I1
funds will be used for the purposes intended in an efficient and economic way; (b)
HSDP-I1 financial reports will continue to be prepared in an accurate, reliable and timely
manner; and external audit report will be prepared in line with international accepted
audit standards and issued on time. The assessment concluded that positive actions have
been taken which helped to address most o f FM matters arising from the previous
supervision missions and audit reports.

External audit unqualified audits o f the project special account have been submitted on
schedule and Statement o f Expenditure (SOE) reviews have been satisfactory. Audits o f
the pooled fund - which encompasses both the central basket and each o f 121 districts -
have been submitted with some delay and have mostly been qualified, although on a year
to year basis, they show improvement. The mains reasons for the qualification were (i)
0.3% o f the expenditures for which payment vouchers could not be located because o f
poor filling; the situation i s currently being addressed by the new PS who i s also an
accountant. (ii)   delays in obtaining a refund from an M O H S W employee who was
supposed to be on unpaid leave as a consultant, amounting to 0.03% o f the basket funds;
since this employee i s back on the government books there i s no question that this will be
collected. (iii)error in the amount reported as being refunded to the holding account. This
last issue relates to year-end procedures and where various funds should be reported; this
last issue will be addressed by revising the financial statements to reflect the actual
transfer.

Reporting, Unaudited Interim Financial Reports (IFRs) will be produced by the
M O H S W quarterly following the calendar year quarterly periods which helped in
monitoring the progress o f the project. The IFRs will be sent to IDA within 45 days after
the end o f the quarter. Comprehensive IFRs template has been provided to the project
accountant for easy reference.

Accounting, the MOH&SW mainly uses the government I F M S accounting system for
consolidated fund transactions. For stand-alone projects, separate packages are installed
such as Pastel for Malaria program. The Ministry is in the process o f installing the
customized ACPACK software that can interface with the I F M S system so as to reduce
on transaction costs and easy reporting for projects. It i s anticipated that this software
will be ready for use in the ministry when this project becomes effective. Accounting
policies and procedures in place follow the Government Accounting Manual developed
by the Accountant General o f Tanzania when implementing I F M S procedures.



                                            22
Staffing, the Permanent Secretary o f the ministry takes full fiduciary responsibility as the
accounting officer while the day-to-day financial operations are overseen by the Chief
Accountant and the Director o f Policy Planning. The Project Manager and a project
Accountant are responsible for daily transactions and reporting requirements. The
existing Accountant has previously worked on Bank funded projects for seven years and
i s considered appropriate. H e will require some training in Bank FM and Disbursement
procedures given the changes in recent years.

Internal Controls the financial accounting policies and procedures in place are sufficient
to ensure that the project complies with the relevant Bank policies (OP/BP 10.02). These
include the establishment o f internal controls and proper accounting procedures which
are documented in the Government Accounting Manual developed by the Accountant
General o f Tanzania when implementing IFMS procedures. In line with government
accounting, the project accounts and transactions will be prepared on a cash basis.

The conclusion o f the assessment i s that project's financial management arrangement
satisfies the Bank's minimum requirement under OP/BP 10.02 and the existing system i s
adequate to provides, with reasonable assurance, accurate and timely information on the
status o f the project as required by the IDA. The Financial Management risk rating
remains modest.




                                            23
