The World Bank                                            1818 H Street N.W.                (202) 477-1234
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT     Washington, D.C. 20433            Cable Address: INTBAFRAD
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION                     U.S.A.                            Cable Address: INDEVAS


                                              CONFORMED COPY
                                                                                               June 24, 2011

        Honorable Mustafa Haidi MKULO
        Minister of Finance and Economic Affairs
        Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs
        P. O. Box 9111
        Dar es Salaam

               Re: Swiss Grant for Co-financing of the Tanzania Emergency Obstetrical Care
                  Equipment Project (Grant No. TF099967) Support of the Health Sector
                                     Development Program - Phase II

        Excellency:

                  In response to the request for financial assistance made on behalf of the Untied Republic of
        Tanzania (“Recipient?), I am pleased to inform you that the International Bank for Reconstruction
        and Development/International Development Association (“World Bank?), acting as administrator
        of grant funds provided by the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation under the Trust
        Funds for Co-financing of the Tanzania Emergency Obstetrical Equipment Project (TF071538) and
        to support the World Bank financed Health Sector Development Program - Phase II, proposes to
        extend to the Recipient, a grant in an amount of one million eight hundred sixty four thousand nine
        hundred seventy six United States Dollars (U.S.$1,864,976) (“Grant?) on the terms and conditions
        set forth or referred to in this letter agreement (“Agreement?), which includes the attached Annex, to
        assist in the financing of the project described in the Annex (“Project?). This Grant is funded out of
        the abovementioned trust fund for which the World Bank receives periodic contributions. In
        accordance with Section 3.02 of the Standard Conditions (as defined in the Annex to this
        Agreement), the Recipient may withdraw the Grant proceeds subject to the availability of such funds.

                 The Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement below, that it is authorized to enter
        into this Agreement and to carry out the Project in accordance with the terms and conditions set
        forth or referred to in this Agreement.
         Please confirm the Recipient’s agreement to the foregoing by having an authorized
official of the Recipient sign and date the enclosed copy of this Agreement, and returning it to
the World Bank. Upon receipt by the World Bank of this countersigned copy, this Agreement
shall become effective as of the date of the countersignature.

                            Very truly yours,
                      INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT/INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
                            ASSOCIATION



                                 By /s/ John Murray McIntire
                        Country Director for United Republic of Tanzania
                                       Africa Region


AGREED:

UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA



By /s/ R.M. Khijjah
      Authorized Representative
Name _______________________
Title Permanent Secretary
Date: _27/06/11_______________


Enclosures:

    (1)       Standard Conditions for Grants Made by the World Bank Out of Various Funds,
              dated July 31, 2010
    (2)       Disbursement Letter of the same date as this Agreement, together with World Bank
              Disbursement Guidelines for Projects, dated May 1, 2006




                                               2
                                                                           Grant No. TF099967
                                                                                      ANNEX



Article I

Standard Conditions; Definitions

1.01. Standard Conditions. The Standard Conditions for Grants Made by the World Bank out
of Various Funds dated July 31, 2010 (“Standard Conditions?), constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.

1.02. Definitions. Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Standard Conditions or in this Agreement.

                                           Article II
                                       Project Execution

2.01. Project Objectives and Description. The objective of the Project is to provide financing
for the purchase of emergency equipment as an essential element of an integrated effort to improve
emergency obstetrical care in Tanzania. The Grant is provided in support of the World Bank
financed Health Sector Development Program Phase II.

         The Project will provide assistance in the procurement of emergency obstetrical equipment
for health centers and hospitals, allowing them to provide emergency obstetrical care to women in
Tanzania.

2.02. Project Execution Generally. The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project. To this end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project through the Ministry of
Health and Social Welfare, in accordance with the provisions of: (a) Article II of the Standard
Conditions; (b) the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects
Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants?, dated October 15, 2006 and revised in
January 2011 (“Anti-Corruption Guidelines?); and (c) this Article II.

2.03. Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation. (a) The Recipient shall monitor and
evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions
of Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions and on the basis of the indicators acceptable to the
World Bank. Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be
furnished to the World Bank not later than 45 days after the end of the period covered by such
report.

        (c)     The Recipient shall prepare the Completion Report in accordance with the
provisions of Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions. The Completion Report shall be furnished
to the World Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date.

2.04. Financial Management. (a) The Recipient shall ensure that a financial management
system is maintained in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of the Standard
Conditions.


                                               3
          (b)     The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the
provisions of Section 2.07 (b) of the Standard Conditions. Each such audit of the Financial
Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Recipient. The audited Financial
Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than six months
after the end of such period.

 2.05.   Procurement

         (a)      General. All goods required for the Project and to be financed out of the
 proceeds of the Grant shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred
 to in: (i) Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement of Goods, Works and Non-consulting
 Services under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants by World Bank Borrowers? dated
 January 2011 (“Procurement Guidelines?); and (ii) the provisions of this Section, as the same
 shall be elaborated in the procurement plan prepared and updated from time to time by the
 Recipient for the Project in accordance with paragraph 1.18 of the Procurement Guidelines.

         (b)      Definitions. The capitalized terms used in the following paragraphs of this
 Section to describe particular procurement methods or methods of review by the World Bank of
 particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in Sections II and III of the
 Procurement Guidelines.

         (c)     Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods

                Goods shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of International
 Competitive Bidding and National Competitive Bidding.

          (e)      Review by the World Bank of Procurement Decisions. The Procurement Plan
 shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the World Bank’s Prior Review. All other
 contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the World Bank.

                                         Article III
                                 Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds

 3.01. Eligible Expenditures. The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in
 accordance with the provisions of: (a) the Standard Conditions; (b) this Section; and (c) such
 additional instructions as the World Bank may specify by notice to the Recipient (including the
 “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects? dated May 2006, as revised from time to
 time by the World Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions),
 to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the following table. The table specifies the
 categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant
 (“Category?), the allocations of the amounts of the Grant to each Category, and the percentage of
 expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category:




                                                4
          Category                  Amount of the Grant                  Percentage of
                                          Allocated                   Expenditures to be
                                     (expressed in USD)                    Financed
                                                                      (inclusive of Taxes)
 (1) Goods                                1,864,976                100%




 TOTAL AMOUNT                             1,864,976



3.02. Withdrawal Conditions. Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 3.01 of this
Agreement, no withdrawal shall be made for payments made prior to the date of countersignature
of this Agreement by the Recipient.

3.03. Withdrawal Period. The Closing Date referred to in Section 3.06 (c) of the Standard
Conditions is June 30, 2011.

                                         Article IV
                           Recipient’s Representative; Addresses

4.01. Recipient’s Representative. The Recipient’s Representative referred to in Section 7.02
of the Standard Conditions is the minister at the time responsible for finance.

4.02. Recipient’s Address. The Recipient’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard
Conditions is:

                Minister of Finance and Economic Affairs
                Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs
                P. O. Box 9111
                Dar es Salaam

4.03. World Bank’s Address. The World Bank’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the
Standard Conditions is:

       International Bank for Reconstruction and Development/International Development
       Association
       1818 H Street, N.W.
       Washington, D.C. 20433
       United States of America

       Cable:                  Telex:                 Facsimile:

       INTBAFRAD
       INDEVAS                 248423 (MCI) or        1-202-477-6391
       Washington, D.C.        64145                                                    (MCI)



                                             5
6
