Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3841-1-TA 
(Amendment) 
 
Agreement Amending 
Development Financing Agreement 
 
(Project in Support of the Health Sector Development Program - Phase II) 
 
between 
 
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated July 31, 2007 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3841-1-TA 
(Amendment) 
AGREEMENT AMENDING DEVELOPMENT FINANCING   AGREEMENT
 
AGREEMENT, dated July 31, 2007, between UNITED REPUBLIC OF 
TANZANIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association). 
 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower and the Association have entered into 
 
a
Development Financing Agreement (Project in Support of the Health Sector 
Development Program - Phase II), dated January 13, 2004 and as amended to date  
(the Development Financing Agreement), for the purpose of supporting Phase II of the 
Health Sector Development Program, as described in Schedule 2 of the Development 
Financing Agreement (the Project); 
 
(B) 
the Borrower has requested the Association to provide further assistance 
in support of the Project by increasing the amount made available under the Development 
Financing Agreement by an amount in various currencies equivalent to forty million  
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 40,000,000); and 
 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to provide such additional assistance to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
Amendments to the Development Financing Agreement 
 
Section 1.01. 
Section 1.01 of the Development Financing Agreement is 
deleted in its entirety and replaced with following: 
“Section 1.01. The General Conditions (as defined in Section 1.02 of this 
Agreement) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.” 
 
Section 1.02. 
 Section 1.02 of the Development Financing Agreement is 
amended by: (i) rephrasing subsection (s); (ii) deleting the word “and” after sub-section 
(cc); (iii) deleting the period after subsection (dd) and replacing it with “;and”; and  
(iv) inserting subsections (ee) through (kk), to read as follows:  
 
“(s)  
“MOH” or “MOHSW” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Health 
and Social Welfare;”  
Page  3
-
2
-
“(ee)  “Amending Agreement” means this agreement amending 
 
the Development Financing Agreement between the Borrower and the 
Association, dated July 31, 2007;” 
 
“(ff) 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on 
Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006;” 
 
“(gg) 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and 
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the 
Bank in May 2004 and revised in October 2006;” 
 
“(hh) 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development 
Association General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated 
 
July 1, 2005 (amended through October 15, 2006);” 
 
“(jj) 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement 
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credit” published by the Bank in May 2004 
and revised in October, 2006;” and  
 
“(kk) 
 “Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for 
the Project, dated July 4, 2007, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the 
Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, as the same shall be updated from time to time in accordance 
with the provisions of the said paragraphs.” 
 
Section 1.03. Section 2.01 of the Development Financing Agreement is amended 
to read as follows: 
“Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the 
terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement: 
 
“(a) 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to sixty 
seven million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 67,900,000) (the Credit), which includes: (i) an original 
amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-seven million, 
nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
 
(SDR 27,900,000) (the Initial Credit); and (ii) an additional 
amount in various currencies equivalent to forty million Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR 40,000,000) (the Additional Credit).”” 
Section 1.04. Section 2.03 of the Development Financing Agreement is amended 
to read as follows. 
Page  4
-
3
-
“Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2009 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the 
Borrower of such later date.” 
Section 1.05. Section 2.04(b) of the Development Financing Agreement is 
amended to read as follows:  
“(b) 
“(i) 
from the date sixty days after the date of this Agreement 
(the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall 
be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or the 
Grant Account (as the case may be) or canceled; provided 
however that the commitment charge on the Additional Credit 
shall accrue from a date sixty days after the date of the 
Amending Agreement.”” 
 
Section 1.06. Section 2.04(c) of the Development Financing Agreement is 
deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following: 
 
“Section 2.04 (c) 
“Each commitment charge is to be paid: (i) at such 
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without 
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; 
and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of 
Section 3.07 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.”” 
 
Section 1.07. Section 2.05 of the Development Financing Agreement is amended 
to read as follows: 
 
“
Section 2.05.   The Borrower shall pay to the Association: (i) a service 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Initial Credit withdrawn and outstanding 
from time to time; and (ii) a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of 
one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Additional Credit withdrawn from time to time.” 
 
Section 1.08. Section 2.07(a) of the Development Financing Agreement is 
amended to read as follows: 
“(a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay:  
 
“(i) 
the principal amount of the Initial Credit in semiannual 
installments payable on each March 15 and September 15 
commencing March 15, 2014 and ending September 15, 2043. 
Page  5
-
4
-
Each installment to and including the installment payable on 
September 15, 2023 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal 
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent 
(2%) of such principal amount;
”
and  
 
“(ii) 
the principal amount of the Additional Credit in 
semiannual installments payable on each March 15 and 
September 15 commencing September 15, 2017 and ending 
March 15, 2047. Each installment to and including the 
installment payable on March 15, 2027, shall be  one 
percent  
(1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.”” 
 
Section 1.09. Section 2.08 of the Development Financing Agreement is deleted in 
its entirety and replaced with the following: 
 
“Section 2.08. “The Payment Currency is Dollars.”” 
 
Section 1.10. Section 3.03 of the Development Financing Agreement is deleted in 
its entirety and replaced with the following: 
“Section 3.03. For the purpose of Section 4.07 of the General Conditions 
and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Association not later than six (6) months before the 
Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a 
plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to 
exchange views with the Borrower on the said plan.”” 
 
Section 1.11. Section 5.01 of the Development Financing Agreement is deleted in 
its entirety and replaced with the following: 
“Section 5.01. “The Additional Events of Suspension shall be the 
following: 
(a) 
 A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable 
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
Subject to paragraph (ii) of this paragraph: 
(A) 
 the right of the Borrower to withdraw the 
proceeds of any grant or loan made to the 
Page  6
-
5
-
Borrower for the financing of the Project shall 
have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in 
whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the 
agreement providing thereof; or 
(B) 
any such loan shall become due and payable 
prior to the agreed maturity thereof. 
 
(ii) 
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the 
Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association  
that: (A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or 
prematuring is not caused by the failure of the Borrower  
to perform any of its obligations under such agreement; and  
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available to the Borrower 
from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the 
obligation of the Borrower under this Agreement.”” 
 
Section 1.12. Section 5.02 of the Development Financing Agreement is deleted in 
its entirety and replaced with the following: 
“Section 5.02. “The Additional Event of Acceleration shall be that the 
event specified in Section 5.01
 
of this Agreement occurs and is 
continuing for a period of sixty (60)
 
days after notice of the event has 
been given by the Association to the Recipient.”” 
 
Section 1.13. Section 6.01 of the Development Financing Agreement is deleted in 
its entirety and replaced with the following: 
 
“Section 6.01. “The date ninety (90) days after the date of this agreement 
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 8.04 of the General 
Conditions.”” 
 
Section 1.14. The table in Paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to the Development 
Financing Agreement is deleted in its entirety and replaced with the Table set forth in 
Annex 1 to this Amending Agreement.  
 
Section 1.15. Paragraph 3 of Schedule 1 to the Development Financing 
Agreement is amended by inserting a new sub-paragraph (d), to read as follows: 
“3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no 
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: 
“(d) 
payments in an amount exceeding $5 million 
from the proceeds of the Additional Credit under 
Category 1, unless: (i) the Association shall have 
received satisfactory procurement audits for 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
FY 2003/2004, FY 2004/2005 and FY 2005/2006; and 
(ii) the Borrower shall have adopted action plans, 
satisfactory to the Association, to adequately address any 
issues that may be identified through the financial and 
procurement audits.
”” 
Section 1.16. Schedule 3 to the Development Financing Agreement is deleted in 
its entirety and replaced with Annex 2 to this Amending Agreement. 
Section 1.17. Schedule 4 to the Development Financing Agreement is amended 
by inserting paragraph 10 under Section 1 to read as follows: 
 “10. 
“Anti-Corruption”
“The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.”” 
Section 1.18. All other provisions of the Development Financing Agreement, 
including all the Schedules shall remain in full force and effect. 
ARTICLE II 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 2.01. This Amending Agreement shall not become effective unless 
evidence satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished to the Association that 
the execution and delivery of this Amending Agreement on behalf of the Borrower have 
been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental action.  
 
Section 2.02. As part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to Section 2.01 of 
this Amending Agreement, there shall be furnished to the Association an opinion  
or opinions satisfactory to the Association of counsel acceptable to the Association 
showing, on behalf of the Borrower, that this Amending Agreement has been duly 
authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and  
is legally binding upon the Borrower in accordance with its terms. 
 
Section 2.03. This Amending Agreement shall come into force and effect on the 
date upon which the Association shall dispatch to the Borrower notice of its acceptance 
of the evidence required by Section 2.01 of this Amending Agreement. 
 
Section 2.04. If this Amending Agreement shall not have come into force and 
effect by a date ninety (90) days after the date of this Amending Agreement, this 
Amending Agreement and all obligations of the parties hereunder shall terminate, unless 
the Association establishes a later date for the purposes of this Section. If this Amending 
Agreement shall terminate under the provisions of this Section, the Development 
Page  8
-
7
-
Financing Agreement shall continue in full force and effect, as if this Amending 
Agreement had not been executed. 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Amending Agreement to be signed in their 
respective names in Dar es Salaam, United Republic of Tanzania as of the day and year 
first above written. 
 
UNITED REPUBLIC OF TANZANIA 
 
By /s/ Gray S. Mgonja  
 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ John Murray McIntire 
 
Authorized Representative 
Page  9
-
8
-
ANNEX 1 
 
Category 
Amount of the 
Initial Credit 
Allocated  
(expressed  
in SDR) 
Amount of the 
Additional 
Credit Allocated
(expressed  
in SDR) 
Amount of the 
Initial Grant 
Allocated  
(expressed  
in SDR) 
%
of 
Expenditures 
to be 
Financed 
(1) Pooled Funds 
Expenditures financed under the 
Subprograms, including civil 
works, drugs, equipment, vehicles, 
training and associated materials, 
consulting services, Operating 
Costs and CHF Grants after FY 
2004 
23,500,000 
 
23,320,000 
 
17,400,000 Such 
percentage of 
Pooled Fund 
Expenditures 
as the 
Association 
may 
determine for 
each Fiscal 
Year 
(2) Non-Pooled Expenditures 
financed under the Subprograms, 
including civil works, drugs, 
equipment, vehicles, training and 
associated materials, consulting 
services, Operating Costs 
4,240,000 16,680,000 
 
100% 
 
(3) CHF Grants for FY 2004 only 
160,000 
 
 
100% of 
amounts 
disbursed 
(4) Unallocated 
0 
 
 
 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
27,900,000 40,000,000 17,400,000 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
ANNEX 2 
“Schedule 3” 
“Procurement”
“A. General
1. Goods 
and 
Works:
 
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
2. Consultants’ 
Services:
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
3. Definitions:
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding:  
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works:  
The following methods 
of procurement, other than International Competitive Bidding, may be used  
for goods and works under the circumstanced specified in the Procurement Plan 
for each such method: (a) Limited International bidding; (b) National 
Competitive Bidding; (c) shopping; (d) Direct Contracting; (e) Procurement from 
UN Agencies; and (f) Community participation.  
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection:
 
Except as otherwise provided in 
 paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
:
The following 
methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, may be 
used for consultants’ services under circumstances specified in the Procurement 
Page  11
-
10 
-
Plan for each such method: (a) Least-cost-Selection; (b) Selection Based on 
Consultants’ Qualifications; (c) Single Source Selection; (d) Selection Under a 
Fixed Budget; and (e) Individual Consultants.  
 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the 
 
Borrower, the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by  
the Association: (a) each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent  
of $200,000 or more; (b) each contract for works estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $500,000 or more; (c) each contract for consultants’ services provided by  
a
firm estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; (d) each contract for 
consultants’ services provided by an individual estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $50,000 or more; and (e) each contract for consultants’ services procured on 
single source basis. 
 
2. 
All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Association.” 
 
