Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19903
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GUYANA
FINANCIAL SECTOR AND BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
(Credit No. 2669-0 GUA)
December 25, 1999
Finance, Private Sector & Infrastructure Department
Caribbean Country Department
Latin American and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties.
Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GUYANA
FINANCIAL SECTOR AND BlJSINESS ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
(Credit 2669-GUA)
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(October 31, 1999)
Currency Unit: Guyana Dollar (G$)
1US$ = G$ 180.5
Fiscal Year of Borrower
April 1 - March 31
Vice President:       Mr. David de Ferranti
Country Director:     Ms. Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
Sector Director:      Mr. Danny Leipziger
Task Team Leader:     Mr. John Pollner



FOR OFFICLIL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASI         Adam Smith Institute
BOG         Bank of Guyana, Central Bank
BSD         Banking Supervision Department of the Bank of Guyana
FIA         Financial Institutions Act
FISBEC      Financial Sector and Business Environment Credit
GAIBANK   Guyana Cooperative Agricultural & Industrial Development Bank
GBTI        Guyana Bank for Trade and Industry
GCFS        Guyana Cooperative Financial Service
GCIS        Guyana Cooperative Insurance Service
GHMBC       Guyana Home Mortgage Banking Company
GNCB        Guyana National Cooperative Bank
GOG         Government of Guyana
GO-INVEST Guyana Office of Investment
GUYMIDA   Guyana Manufacturing Industrial Development Agency
HIPC        Highly Indebted Poorest Countries
ICR         Implementation Completion Report
IDA         International Development Association
IMF         International Monetary Fund
IDB         Inter-American Development Bank
MOF         Ministry of Finance
NBIC        National Bank for Industry and Commerce
POS         Bringing state enterprises to the Point-of-Sale
PU          Privatization Unit
PSDAC       Private Sector Development Adjustment Credit
SAC         Structural Adjustment Credit
SAR         Staff Appraisal Report
TAC         Technical Assistance Credit
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their official duties.
Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface .. .     .     .    .    . .       .    .     .    . .       .    .     .      .
Evaluation Summary ..................
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.  Statement/Evaluation of Objectives                          .I
B.  Implementation / Achievement of Objectives                      .4
C.  Major Factors Affecting the Project .11
D. Project Sustainability .13
E. IDA Performance .13
F. Borrower Performance .14
G. Assessment of Outcome .14
H. Future Operation .15
. Key Lessons Learned .15
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1.       Summary of Assessments
Table 2.       Related IDA Credits
Table 3.       Project Timetable
Table 4.       Loan/Credit Disbursements
Table 5.       Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6.       Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7.       Studies Included in the Project
Table 8A.      Project Costs
Table 8B.      Project Financing
Table 9.       Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10.      Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11.      Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12.      IDA Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13.      IDA Resources: Missions
Appendix A. Borrower's Evaluation






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GUYANA
FINANCIAL SECTOR AND BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
Credit 2669-0 GUA
Preface
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Financial Sector and
Business Environment Project in Guyana, for which Credit 2669-GUA in the amount of
SDR 2.4 million (equivalent to US$ 3.5 million), was approved on December 15, 1994, signed
on January 11, 1995 and made effective on March 28, 1995.
2.    The credit was closed on June 30, 1999. As of October 30, 1999, 100% of the credit was
disbursed. The project closed one year after the original estimate of June 30, 1998.
3.    The ICR was prepared by John Pollner (Task Manager, LCSFP) and Manuel Lasaga (ICR
Consultant). The ICR was reviewed by Fernando Montes-Negret (Sector Manager, LSCFF), Raj
Nallari (Sr. Country Economist, LCC3C), and Maria Victoria Lister, Quality Assurance Officer
(LCSFP). Preparation of this ICR was begun during the final supervision/ICR mission, which
took place in July 1999. The ICR is based on materials in the project file, interviews with IDA
staff involved in project preparation and implementation, interviews with the Borrower's staff in
Guyana, and additional information requested of the Borrower to facilitate IDA's review of the
project. The Project Unit in the Ministry of Finance, prepared the Project Review from the
Borrower's perspective (Appendix A). Comments on the draft ICR received from the
Government have been largely incorporated into this final version.






- ii -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GUYANA
FINANCIAL SECTOR AND BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
Credit 2669-0 GUA
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    Beginning with an Economic Recovery Program in 1988, Guyana adopted far-reaching
adjustment measures and structural reforms shifting towards a market-oriented economy,
supported by IMF resources and IDA Structural Adjustment and Technical Assistance Credits
approved in June 1990. While growth resumed in 1991 and continued strongly in 1992-1993,
significant weaknesses continued to hamper private sector development. In particular, debate
within the government regarding the role of the state delayed the privatization program. This set
the backdrop for design of a project to support private sector investment and sustained growth
through the adoption of clear and consistent policy reforms under a Private Sector Development
Adjustment Credit (PSDAC).
Project Objectives
2.    The Financial Sector and Business Environment Credit (FISBEC) was designed as a
stand alone Technical Assistance Credit (TAC) that would provide institutional development
skills necessary to achieve the goals of the PSDAC. Through sustainable institution building the
FISBEC was designed to support reforms undertaken by the PSDAC in the following three areas:
a.    Reducing the role of the State in the economy through privatization;
b.   Improving the solvency and efficiency of financial intermediation; and
c.    Enhancing the business environment through the encouragement of both domestic
and foreign investment.
3.    Preparation of this project was based in large part on the analytic work contained in an
IDA private sector assessment report prepared in 1993. The main conclusions of that report had
been that the Government should move rapidly with privatization, restructuring of the financial
sector, and reform of the regulatory framework.
4.    Within the financial sector, the project addressed both the general framework as well as
the role of public sector intermediaries. Taking advantage of the recently enacted Financial
Institutions Act (FIA), the FISBEC sought to support the Bank of Guyana's (BOG) efforts in
drafting and implementing prudential regulations. The FISBEC also took on a specific role in
the restructuring and development of two large state-owned banks, which had been slated for
merger at the time of loan preparation. However, the design of this component may have made
the task at hand more difficult.
5.    The design of the business environment component was very appropriate in view of the
policy reforms dealing with investment incentives and the government's own limitations in terms
of its ability to effectively respond to inquiries from potential investors.



- 111 -
Implementation Experience and Results
6.    Despite the high risk associated with a limited institutional capacity, and after significant
delays, the borrower was able to comply with its project commitments. A principal cause of
delays, which was also mentioned in the ICR for the PSDAC, was the Borrower's resistance to
hiring external consultants at international salary levels to provide expertise lacking in the
government. This issue was a determining factor in the outcome of the privatization and
financial sector components of the project.
Reducing the role of the state
7.    The core of the privatization strategy consisted of a two step process; first, targets vwere
set on the number of enterprises that were to be brought to the point-of-sale (POS); and second,
those enterprises that were brought to POS had to be sold by a certain date. There were
numerous obstacles, both organizational and political, which initially hindered PU's response
time.
8.    The FISBEC was largely successful in achieving its privatization objectives of selling off
the large majority of government enterprises. The majority of the state-owned enterprises that
were brought to POS, were either sold or leased. The lessons and experience accumulated
during this project should enhanlce the prospects for successful privatization in a follow up
operation, recently approved by IDA.
Improving the financial sector
9.    The financial sector component of the project was divided into three separate sub-
components: (i) support of the Bank of Guyana's (BOG's) management of monetary policy; (ii)
strengthening of the banking supervision capabilities; and (iii) restructuring of the state-omned
merged bank GNCB/GAIBANK or the new GNCB (Guyana National Cooperative Bank). Since
it dealt with the operational aspects of monetary policy, the IMF, whose specialty is the
management of monetary policy, assumeid the principal responsibility for the first task. The
FISBEC built on previous IDA work to reinforce the BOG's Banking Supervision Department
(BSD). The strengthening of th[e BSD's institutional capabilities was a highly successful
component of the project and has had a notable impact on financial sector performnance.
10.   The goal of improving financial sector performance related to the restructuring of the
state-owned banks was not accomplished, although future progress by the new management team
may reach an acceptable resolution regarding the status of the New GNCB. Despite the
extensive attention given to this component of the project, the implementation of the
GNCB/GAIBANK post-merger restructuring has been a slow process that has yielded mixed
results. The restructuring of the merged institution, the New GNCB, was beset with problems
from the start.
Strengthening the business environmenlt
11.   As a newly created agency, the direction of GO-INVEST was heavily influenced by
management's vision of investrnent facilitation. Unfortunately, the Government did not give this
agency adequate support in terrns of resources and cooperation from other agencies involved
with the regulatory oversight of investment activities. This issue was brought up regularly
during IDA supervision missions. GO-INqVEST has not yet been successful in facilitating the



- iv -
investment process. The agency has also not provided sufficient information on the investment
projects that it has supported.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
12.   The outcome of the FISBEC is judged to be Satisfactory. The goal of reducing the role
of the state in the economy was generally satisfactory. The goal of improving the solvency and
efficiency of financial intermediation was moderately satisfactory. The strengthening of banking
supervision was satisfactory; however, the restructuring of the New GNCB was unsatisfactory,
due to the continued losses of the bank and absence of a clear strategy to achieve profitability.
The goal of enhancing the business environment as related to investment facilitation is judged to
be marginally unsatisfactory.
13.  In view of the pending agenda concerning the privatization program and the
strengthening of the financial sector, a new TAC would help to complete these initiatives and
help assure the sustainability of these measures. The TAC would help to carry out the second
phase of the privatization program. Another area involves the restructuring of the New GNCB,
which still needs to be completed.
14.   The above analysis of project design, implementation, and outcome suggests the
following main lessons:
*  Government commitment to a project is crucial for its success. However, this commitment
has to go beyond the implementing agency to all governmental stakeholders. At the same
time, this commitment must be made cognizant of the political implications and
governmental capabilities for its effective implementation.
*  In privatization it is the quality of the outcome as measured by final sales, rather than the
number of entities offered for sale that is important in terms of effectiveness and also in
terms of borrower satisfaction. Privatization also proceeds most successfully when all
stakeholder interests, particularly those of workers from the enterprises as well as small
investors, are taken into account. Open consideration of social and environmental issues is
critical: labor continuity, severance arrangements and employee stock ownership options,
greatly enhance community support for privatization programs. On the environmental side,
explicit auditing and documentation of environmental liabilities in investor contracts is
essential. Finally, due diligence in the form of title searches before formal bidding begins as
well as subsequent pre-drafting of investor contract agreements for bidder review, greatly
facilitate the ensuing privatization process.
* One of the main obstacles to institutional development was the Government's inability to
attract and retain qualified staff due to inadequate civil service salaries. Many of the delays
encountered during implementation were attributed to personnel problems.
*  Individuals are the main building blocks of institutions and choosing the right individuals for
the job will have a decisive impact on the outcome. During the initial phase of
implementation, the PU made little progress in part because the director did not have the
experience and the background to manage a privatization program. It is also more cost
effective to spend more money to get the right people. By not hiring international
consultants early on to work on the restructuring of the New GNCB, the Government missed
the opportunity to prevent major losses that were incurred subsequently.



- v -
* Merging two institutions does not make the final task of restructuring easier. The decision to
merge should be driven by the complexity of the organizations involved relative to their
compatibility, and in the final analysis, on the operational economies achieved through such
a combination. In the case of GAIBANK and GNCB, the two institutions were very
different, and their merger only addecl to the complexity of the restructuring.
*  Project design needs to be simple. This includes setting realistic implementation targets and
key indicators of performance as well as few components. In this regard, the project may
have one too many components to ensure full success all across the board.
*  Experience with IMF. Joint: support by the Association and the IMF on the banking
supervision strengthening component under the project proved highly productive. The IMF's
funding of an on-site advisor along with IDA's support to the central bank's banking
supervision department ensured a continuous yet complementary presence which helped to
structure the supervisory function, implement a scheduled periodic on-site inspection cycle,
and upgrade banking prudenritial regulations.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GUYANA
FINANCIAL SECTOR AND BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
Credit 2669-0 GUA
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A.   STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
1.    Beginning with an Economic Recovery Program in 1988, Guyana adopted far-reaching
adjustment measures and structural reforms shifting towards a market-oriented economy,
supported by IMF resources and IDA Structural Adjustment and Technical Assistance Credits
approved in June 1990. While growth resumed in 1991 and continued strongly in 1992-1993,
significant weaknesses continued to hamper private sector development. In particular, debate
within the government regarding the role of the state delayed the privatization program. This set
the backdrop for design of a project to support private sector investment and sustained growth
through the adoption of clear and consistent policy reforms under a Private Sector Development
Adjustment Credit (PSDAC).
2.    The Financial Sector and Business Environment Project (FISBEC) was designed as a
stand alone Technical Assistance Credit (TAC) that would provide institutional development
skills necessary to achieve the goals of the PSDAC. Through sustainable institution building the
FISBEC was designed to support reforms undertaken by the PSDAC in the following three areas:
a.    Reducing the role of the State in the economy through privatization;
b.   Improving the strength and efficiency of financial institutions; and
c.    Enhancing the business environment through the encouragement of both domestic
and foreign investment.
3.   In order to achieve the above mentioned objectives, the project was designed with the
following components:
o Reducing the role of the state. Support the Privatization Unit operations for public
enterprise privatization, through development of prospectuses, pre-qualification and
privatization execution, including environmental audits;
o Improving the financial sector. Support the financial sector in the following areas: (i)
Central Bank management of monetary policy through development of procedures and
training; (ii) banking supervision through regulatory advice and training; and (iii) the
restructuring of state-owned banks, including the merger of GNCB and GAIBANK, through
advisors in credit policy, accounting system, financial controls and rationalization; and
o  Strengthen the business environment through support of GO-INVEST and the
development of regulations under the Companies Act.



- 2 -
4.     The PSDAC was structured to provide support for restructuring and privatization of'
public enterprises; for reforms in the financial sector; and for reforms in the business
environment. The FISBEC in tLLrn was designed to support these reforms in those areas where
institutions had been found to be weakest. The focus was on institutional development of the
Privatization Unit (PU), the Central Bank's Department of Banking Supervision Department
(BSD), the restructuring of a major state-owned bank, and the development of an agency to
facilitate investment.
5.     The objectives of this project, in tlhe context of the PSDAC, addressed key areas in the
development of the private sector. The two decades that preceded this project had seen a
progressive decline in the role of the private sector in the economy. Through nationalization, the
government had assumed control of over half of the economy. At the same time the areas of the
economy dominated by the private sector were subject to strict controls which limited their
ability to produce efficiently. Through neglect, the state of the country's infrastructure had
worsened considerably. A new administration in the early 1990s began the process of creating a
more appropriate environment for private-sector led growth. However, progress was very slow.
A new government at the time of preparation of this project sought IDA support in key areas for
private sector development.
6.     Preparation of this project (FISBEC) was based in large part on the analytic work
contained in an IDA private secltor assessment report prepared in 1993.1 The main conclusions of
this report were that the Government should move rapidly with privatization, restructuring of the
financial sector, and reform of the regulatory framework. While it recognized earlier
privatization efforts that had succeeded in the sale of 14 out of 32 public enterprises, the report
urged the sale of the remaining companies. Nevertheless, concerns were expressed by the lack
of transparency and questionable procedures that had been applied during the earlier
privatization experience. In this context the report recommended the establishment of a
Privatization Unit (PU) to coordinate the process in a clear and transparent fashion. The goal of
the FISBEC was thus to build the capacity of the PU to manage the preparation and eventual sale
of state enterprises - consisting of anotheir 17 enterprises. In view of the rather demanding
schedule of privatization called for by the PSDAC, the TA under the FISBEC was a much-
needed component of the overall policy reform program.2
7.     Within the financial sector, the project addressed both the general framework as well as
the role of public sector intermediaries. Taking advantage of the Financial Institutions Act (FIA)
developed under the project, the FISBEC also sought to support the Bank of Guyana's (BCIG)
efforts in drafting and implementing prudential regulations. With respect to the implementation
of prudential normns, the project provided assistance in the drafting of various supervisory
manuals. Privatization was also a key ingredient in the financial sector component. In this regard
the FISBEC supported the privaLtization of the government insurance company (GCIS), the
bank/pension trust company (GNCB Trust), the largest state commercial bank (NBIC), and
liquidation of the mortgage bank (GHMB C). The project also took on a specific role in the
restructuring and development of the Guyana National Cooperative Bank (GNCB) and the
Guyana Cooperative Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank (GAIBANK), which had
been slated for merger at the time of credit preparation.
i See Guyana: Private Sector Development, The World Bank, Report Number 12409, 1993, this report was influential in the
preparation of the PSDAC, and the FISBEC.
2 For further discussion of the policy reforms dealing with privatization as well as the other objectives see the ICR for the
PSDAC, Report No. 17999, June 11, 1998.



- 3 -
8.    While it was not in the purview of the FISBEC to have prescribed the ideal method for
handling the restructuring of GNCB / GAIBANK merger, or what has subsequently been
referred to as the "New" GNCB, the design of this component may have made the task at hand
more difficult. As per the private sector assessment study, initially IDA's view had been to
liquidate GAIBANK and to privatize GNCB. However the government was concerned that
liquidation of GAIBANK would make it difficult to collect overdue loans. At this juncture a
decision was made to set up a loan recovery unit to collect GAIBANK's bad loans, and then to
merge the two intermediaries. In retrospect, this greatly complicated the problem of what would
have been the reorganization of just one institution, GNCB. To a large extent, the TA
component was designed to develop policies and procedures manuals that would serve as a
resource for the institutional development of the new GNCB. Perhaps another component of the
TA could have dealt with a broader institutional role through the development of a detailed
business plan for the merged institution, and through the assessment of the government's
commitment to the eventual privatization of GNCB. As it turned out, the government has
continued to insist on having a development bank as a separate operational entity. Once again,
the FISBEC could have included in this component an analysis of the needs for a proper
development-financing vehicle and to what extent the New GNCB was an effective solution to
the financing problem.
9.    The design of the business environment component was very appropriate in view of the
policy reforms dealing with investment incentives and the government's own limitations in terms
of its ability to effectively respond to inquiries from potential investors. In the past, investment
had been promoted through a system of discretionary incentives consisting of income tax
holidays and waivers of import duties and consumption taxes. The implementation of this
inefficient regime was placed in the hands of a government agency - Guyana Manufacturing
Industrial Development Agency (GUYMIDA). Incentives were applied without a specific
criteria and only after long delays from GUYMIDA in evaluating each applicant, and once
granted, there was limited monitoring of the actual performance by investors. As part of its
reform program, the government disbanded GUYMIDA along with the discretionary incentive
system and established, in March 1994, the Guyana Office of Investment (GO-INVEST) as a
new agency to stimulate and assist private investment. The project provided TA to GO-INVEST
to assist in the design and implementation of investment promotion strategies. With the
elimination of the "give-away" incentives, the task at hand was to develop an efficient game plan
to sell the country's competitive advantage and to offer logistical support to potential investors
who were required to navigate through a maze of bureaucratic rules and regulations.
10.   The objective of the FISBEC was to enhance the business environment through a more
effective advocacy for the private investor. GO-INVEST's mission statement was thus to service
the needs of the investor, and not to promote investment as was implied or at least contemplated
by IDA at the time of credit approval.3 While it was inevitable for GO-INVEST to engage in
promotion through its network of overseas contacts, its primary role was to be that of a
facilitator. Promotion and facilitation are two different functions. This separation of activities
was evident in the project's privatization component, where the consultant, ASI, and not GO-
INVEST, was charged with identifying interested investors. If GO-INVEST were to also engage
in investment promotion, it would have required a much more extensive budget for overseas
travel and for the hiring of external investor relations firms. In view of the rather limited
3 See Guyana: Financial Sector and Business Environment Project, Technical Annex, Report No. T-64 11 -GUA, November 22,
1994.



- 4 -
resources and capabilities of the Government in this endeavor, the project's own limited scope
was quite appropriate.
11.   At the time of appraisal, IDA was familiar with the problems posed by the investment
climate. An analysis of the situation at the time had identified the following challenges facing
the promotion of investment in Guyana: (i) Guyana ranked low with respect to the Caribbean in
terms of incentives; (ii) there were long delays in obtaining responses to inquiries; (iii) there was
a general lack of foreign exchange as well as concerns about the health of the financial system;
(iv) there were high duties on imports; and (v) the government kept GO-INVEST out of the loop
regarding some investment promotion activities.4 Both the PSDAC and the FISBEC addressed
some of these issues through policy reforrns and the associated TA efforts. GO-INVEST sought
to remedy the problems associated with twvo of the above challenges: the lack of response to
investor inquiries, and the need to gain greater acceptance by other government agencies of its
role as a facilitator. The design of the project was realistic in focusing on goals that were waithin
the reach of the government's irnstitutional capabilities, although a design for rationalizing the
involvement of the various agencies charged with reviewing investment decisions could have
made implementation of this component rnore successful.
12.   The experience from a previous TAC approved by IDA in June 1990, was helpful in
designing the FISBEC. The banking supervision component of that project had already moved
forward successfully. However., the dearth of professional and skilled personnel in the public
sector was seen as a major constraint to Guyana's development efforts. The experience of this
earlier TAC perhaps should have alerted IDA to the possibility of slow progress in terms oi the
initial development of the PU and the restructuring of GNCB/GAIBANK. Perhaps a simpler
design might have been more effective. Such an alternative approach might have considered
fewer privatizations and a less complicated restructuring or even liquidation of GNCB that did
not involve a merger with GAIEIANK.
B.   IMPL]EMENTATION / ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
13.   Despite the high risk associated with a limited institutional capacity, and after significant
delays, the borrower was able to comply with its project commitments. While the FISBEC was
approved before the PSDAC, it closed about one year later. The longer implementation period
was needed in order to allow for additional follow up work on the sale of the companies which
had been brought to POS as per the PSDAC, and also to support further privatizations which
were introduced as part of the HFIPC Debt Reduction program objectives. Overall, the FISBEC
was moderately successful in achieving its objectives, with a better outcome experienced in the
area of banking regulation supervision.
14.   A principal cause of delays, which was also mentioned in the ICR for the PSDAC, was
the Borrower's resistance to hiring external consultants at international salary levels to provide
expertise lacking in the government. This issue was a determining factor in the outcome of the
privatization and financial sector components of the project. By not hiring the appropriate
experts early on, valuable time was lost. And in the case of the GNCB/GAIBANK restructuring,
it actually led to a worsening of the loan portfolio problems, when the bank continued to make
bad loans after the initial clean up of the portfolio.
4Constraints to Attracting Investment, by Sandra Baptiste, Director, GO-INVEST, October 14, 1994.



-5 -
Reducing the role of the state
Implementation
15.   The core of the privatization strategy consisted of a two step process as specified in the
PSDAC; first, targets were set on the number of enterprises that were to be brought to the point-
of-sale (POS) at each of the PSDAC tranches; and second, those enterprises that were brought to
POS had to be sold by a certain date. The PU was to coordinate the whole process from start to
finish along with the guidance of a Privatization Board represented by government, labor,
consumer groups and private industry. Progress was initially very slow; in fact, the IDA had to
marginally reduce the PSDAC's second tranche conditionality on the number of companies
brought to POS. This slow progress can be attributed in part to an initial reluctance by the
government to earnestly promote the privatization process, the lack of technical expertise and
experience by earlier staff of the PU, and a lack of vision and management capabilities exhibited
by the initial PU management team.
16.  Implementation of the PU TA component was subsequently facilitated by the
participation of a British consulting firm, Adam Smith Institute (ASI), under a grant from the UK
government, the deployment of U.S. legal advisors, and the appointment of better qualified and
entrepreneurial national staff to head and operate the PU. ASI consultants and the legal advisors
were instrumental in the moving the process forward. The PU's role in this process consisted in
gathering information on each enterprise, preparing a valuation, drafting a prospectus or
information memorandum, identifying investors, negotiating the sale, and arranging the final
closing.
17.   There were some obstacles, however, both organizational and political, which hindered
the PU's response time. A number of issues were raised by the consultants, some of which were
beyond the control of the PU. These reflect a number of institutional weaknesses in the economy
as a whole and issues which are in part being resolved through the follow up operation
establishing new regulatory frameworks and enhancements in the privatization due diligence
process:
(a) Lack of information: many of the enterprises were not operational, thus there were no
reliable financial records that could be used in the preparation of the information package,
(b) Available information was out of date: when financial statements were found, usually
they were two to three years old, (c) Fixed assets were in poor conditions: in some cases
there was no redeeming operational value in the enterprise, thus the decision was made to
sell the assets, the land and the facilities. However, these were usually in very poor
conditions, and thus had little economic value, (d) Titles and other legal documents were
unreliable or unavailable: one of the infrastructural limitations has been the absence of a
working and reliable titles/deeds registrar agency. This has been one of the collateral issues
that were addressed by a parallel InterAmerican Development Bank loan, (e) The
methodology used in valuation involved discretionary decisions: while the analysis
performed by the PU was constrained by the absence of reliable information, the financial
valuation models were not accurate. The government also adjusted the sales price as
determined by the valuation process in order to maximize the sales proceeds. This in turn
reduced investor interest, (f) The privatization process lacked a consistent strategy: this
problem can be attributed in large part to the government's own view towards
privatization, which favored certain types of investors (e.g.: distributing shares among the
public in some cases, to avoid concentrations of ownership), and which misread the
investment climate in making decisions, and (g) Bidders did not have a clear business plan,



- 6 -
including financing: most bidders did not have experience in the businesses being offered
for sale and they usually sought direct financing from the government in order to acquire
the enterprise with a minimuma of invested capital.
18.   Nevertheless, despite the above problems, towards the second half of project
implementation, the PU took a number of measures which permitted the fulfillment of the sales
targets under the program. These measures, which were critical to the success of the program,
included in depth consultation and consideration of the interests of key stakeholders, including
workers in the enterprises and small potential investors (as well as consumers, government
representatives and large investors). In addition, consideration of social and environmental
issues was crucial. This included the explicit structuring of labor continuity and/or severance
provisions in investor contracts aLS well as consideration in some cases of employee stock
ownership plans, so as to obtain employee and community support. Environmental audits were
conducted a priori so that any remaining environmental liabilities were explicitly included and
priced within the contracts. Other important transactional issues which helped the privatization
process in the latter half of the program, were the ex ante conducting of title searches on land and
properties prior to the request for bids, and issuing draft contracts and terms of agreements
during the bid request stage to allow investors a fuller understanding of the government's
negotiating position. Most of the 17 companies brought to POS were substantially sold, or
liquidated. The enterprises were:
Demerara Distillers      Clay Brick Factory               Forte Crest Hotel
GNCB Trust Co.           Guyana Bank for Trade & Industry  Guy.Coop.Insurance Services
Guyana Electricity Co.   Guyana Mortgage Bank             Guyana National Engineering
Guyana Stockfeeds        Linden Wharf                     NBIC
National Edible Oil Co.   Sanata Textiles
19.   Divestiture of these companies was in the form of an outright sale of either 100 percent
ownership or of a controlling interest, or thirough the lease of the land and facilities. In the case
of GNEC there have been delays in lease payments that may result in a re-negotiation of their
terms. Closing of three other companies has been delayed by problems, these involve Linden
Wharf, GNCB Trust, and one of the entities under the SANATA textiles complex. In the case of
Guyana Electric the transaction iinvolves a joint-venture between the Government and a strategic
investor governed by an investors' agreemnent that gives the private sector investor management
control over the company. The privatized financial services firms appear to be generating good
earnings. Overall, these sales mark an important step toward achievement of the goals. The PU
was actively involved in each of these transactions from the appraisal stage through the
completion of the sale or lease.
Environmental assessment of public enterprises
20.   One of the components cf the privatization strategy was to perform an environmental
assessment of the public enterprises that were slated for privatization. This task was performed
by ASI, which completed the environmental reviews of 18 enterprises. No major problems were
found, and in almost all cases the remedial action only called for surface clean ups.



-7 -
Achievement of Objectives
21.   The FISBEC was successful in making possible the realization of the privatization
objectives of selling off the large majority of government enterprises. Most of the state-owned
enterprises on the privatization list have been brought to POS, the great majority of these have
either been sold or leased. However, the state still continues to play a significant role in the
economy, although much less than before this project given its reduction by over 40% of its
previously owned productive assets. Towards the end of this project the Government finally
began to express greater interest in the sale of the remaining enterprises. Further success in the
sale of these enterprises could be forthcoming with the implementation of an IDA follow-up
operation.
22.   With the support of the FISBEC, the PU has assumed a more effective role in the
privatization process, although more progress is still needed. With the support of ASI, the PU
has begun to issue regular reports on the status of privatization. Based on the consultants' report,
it was also recommended that the General Manager of the PU should delegate more
responsibility to the staff in order to free up his time for management responsibilities as well as
to give the staff greater participation in the process. Progress in institution building has been
slow and hampered somewhat by insufficient support from the Government. Nevertheless, the
PU has moved along the learning curve and has been able to make productive adjustments to the
sales strategies. For example, now bidders are expected to review a draft of a sales contract that
is included in the information package when presenting their offers, whereas earlier bidding
procedures did not allow for consideration of the sales contract until after the finalist was
selected. At that point, the drafting of the sales contract became a prolonged ordeal.
Improving the financial sector
Implementation
23.   The financial sector component of the project was divided into three separate sub-
components: (i) support of the BOG's management of monetary policy; (ii) strengthening of the
banking supervision capabilities; and (iii) restructuring of the merged bank GNCB/GAIBANK or
the new GNCB. Since it dealt with the operational aspects of monetary policy, the IMF, whose
specialty is the management of monetary policy, assumed the principal responsibility for the first
task. An IMF specialist was stationed in Guyana to assist in the development of monetary policy
capabilities. IMF staff considered that the BOG had made satisfactory progress in strengthening
its monetary policy department, although it was still too early to reach a definitive conclusion.
One of the remaining institutional impediments is the absence of a secondary market for
government securities, which limits the ability of the BOG to make necessary adjustments to the
monetary aggregates.
24.   The FISBEC built on previous IDA work to reinforce the BOG's Banking Supervision
Department (BSD). Building on the achievements of an earlier TAC, this project applied
reinforcements and helped to keep the Department moving along the learning curve. The earlier
TAC had financed an adviser to the BSD for a 24-month period. The advisor helped with the
organization of the BSD and the establishment of sustainable systems and procedures for on-site
' The earlier loan was a Technical Assistance Credit, Credit No. 2169-GUA, which was approved in June 1990 and closed on
June 1996.



- 8 -
examination of credit portfolios. The TAC also financed training of staff at the FDIC and the
Examiner Training School of the Federal Reserve Bank.
25.   One of the first tasks accomplished by the FISBEC was the development of regulations
and prudential norms based on the new Financial Institutions Act (FIA). The credit also financed
the purchase of lap top computers far banking supervisors. It also financed the development of a
Manual of Accounts and of an Operational Manual. The only task that was not performed was
the development of a Credit Risk Bureau in part due to an already busy agenda with the
development of examination policies and procedures. According to IDA supervision missions,
the BSD has made considerable progress in its supervisory fimction. BSD staff has also received
extensive training.
26.   While the project sought to support government efforts to restructure the state-owned
barks, the focus was almost exclusively on GNCB/ GAIBANK because of its sheer size and
cormplexity of the problems and because all the other government banks were eventually
privatized. Despite the extensive attention given to this component of the project, the
implementation of the GNCB/GAIBANK post-merger restructuring has been a slow process that
has yielded mixed results. The restructuring of the merged institution, the New GNCB, was
bes;et with problems from the start. While the project called explicitly for the hiring of a credit
policy advisor, an accounting and financial control advisor, and a restructuring and
rationalization advisor, none was hired until vvell into the final phase of the project in 1998.
Once again, initial Government reservations about hiring international consultants undermined
the success of this component of the project.
27.   The merger of a commercial bank and a development bank, both in poor working
coinditions, aggravated the implementation problems. This was a tactical error that continues to
plague the restructuring of the New GNCB. These two institutions had very different mission
statements working under two very different management cultures.
28.   One of the first challenges was to create a Loan Recovery Unit (GCFS) as a separate
entity that would assume all the bad loans of lthe combined institution. As with other tasks, it
took an inordinate amount of time to establish GCFS and even more to separate it financially
from the New GNCB.6 Nevertheless, poor documentation and absence of adequate collateral for
non performing borrowers will hamper any meaningful progress towards loan recovery by
GC'FS. A large portion of the assets of GCFS should be written off.
29    The New GNCB lacked sufficient capital to operate under the new banking guidelines.
Twao of the major problems were the huge loan losses that the bank needed to recognize in order
to clean up the loan portfolio and a large government debenture that had been issued as a means
to capitalize GNCB over the years. In the case of the debenture, the government had not paid
interest, and when it did, it was miniscule on percent per annum basis. Thus the value of this
asset was highly questionable.
30.   The selection of weak senior management combined with delays in hiring external
consultants contributed to a serious worsening of the bank's financial position after 1995. New
management in 1995 was not effective, loans on the books at that time kept getting worse. New
locns were being made with inadequate credit appraisals. In the absence of appropriate credit
policy manuals, loan approvals did not fully take into account prudential lending criteria. The
6 Initially GCFS was set up as a separate division within the New GNCB, but after much IDA insistence, GCFS was finally made
into a separate entity in 1997.



General Manager resigned in October 1997. And it was not until early X4998, after much IDA
insistence, that the government finally acceded to the hiring of external experts to review the
bank and support its restructuring efforts.
31.   External consultants were brought in during 1998 to diagnose the state of affairs. Two of
the consultants prepared an exhaustive analysis of the bank and its problems.7 In March 1999, a
team of experienced bank consultants was brought in to manage the bank and to implement a
restructuring program. The new team issued a preliminary report on the bank in June 1999,
which painted a bleak picture for the bank and its outlook.
Achievement of Objectives
32.   The strengthening of the BSD's institutional capabilities was a highly successful
component of the project and has had a notable impact on financial sector performance. First it
built on previous IDA and IMF work in this area, and second, BOG staff was highly committed
to an institutional development program. The introduction of new examination techniques and
the adoption of new regulations giving BSD clear directives regarding its responsibilities were
on target. Nevertheless, experience cannot be learned. While the BSD has received extensive
training, they now need to strengthen their enforcement powers. One issue that needs to be
addressed is the actions taken by BSD regarding the New GNCB. In view of the precarious
nature of that institution, perhaps more forceful actions need to be taken by the regulator either in
the form of a Memorandum of Understanding with strict conditions, or the elimination of the
banking license.
33.   The goal of improving financial sector performance through the restructuring of the
state-owned banks was not accomplished, although future progress by the new management
team may reach an acceptable resolution regarding the status of the New GNCB. The
unsatisfactory outcome can be traced to a number of issues that will be difficult to resolve.
These issues include the following:
o  Solvency: the New GNCB has a large negative net worth arising from chronic losses. Unless
the government injects a substantial amount of capital into the bank, it could run out of
operational cash. At this point the only valuable asset of the bank is its customer base, which
is comprised of mostly small depositors.
L  Management Team: lack of qualified and experienced bankers in the local market has made
it difficult to put in place an effective senior management team below the externally
contracted General Manager and Deputy. The gap in salaries between the New GNCB and
other banks has resulted in a significant exodus of qualified personnel. At the same time,
government control of the bank interferes with management decisions. Since the government
controls the Board, a local General Manager may not be in a position to make painful
recommendations for the restructuring of the bank. In this regard the hiring of an external
management team financed by the FISBEC will assure an objective and professional
approach to the restructuring in the interim. However, it is not certain whether after the
external consultants leave, that a local management team under Government ownership will
be able to run the bank profitably.
7 See Report on Guyana National Co-operative Bank, by McGuire & McGuire, May 1997, and report by ICC Consulting,
Ireland, October 1998.



- 10-
o  Credit Quality: A very high proportion of the loan portfolio, 73 percent, consists of problem
loans. This is after the transfer of the earlier bad loan portfolio to the Loan Recovery Unit.
Nineteen of the 20 largest loans are value impaired. Because of the small size of the local
market, there are few opportunities for loan diversification.
• Operating Performance: chronic losses have been the norm. Much of this is related to the
very poor quality of the loan portfolio. In addition, the bank is over-staffed with over 450
employees despite a downsizing exercise conducted in 1996. At the same time, the branch
network is in poor condition.
• Privatization and Development Financing: the merging of GNCB and GAIBANK points
to a flaw in the thinking about the role of commercial and development banks. The initial
strategy was to merge the two, even though development and commercial banking are not
compatible operations. In their preliminary report, the ICC management advisors
recommended three options for the New (GNCB: (i) immediate sale, or what is termed as a
distress sale; (ii) a restructuring of GNCB as a development bank; and (iii) a rehabilitation of
the New GNCB and eventual privatization. Interestingly, this points to what should have
been the recommendation at the time of p:roject identification: to restructure GNCB alone
followed by its privatization, an(d to restructure GAIBANK into an effective development
lending agency - an apex lending institution. The external consultants reached this
conclusion without having been involved in the early design and implementation of the
project.
34.   The New GNCB is a continuing threat to financial sector efficiency, although significant
improvements have been made. On the other hand, its own inefficiencies have begun to erode its
market share as the newly privatized banks have stepped in with more aggressive strategies.
This might be a signal that a combination of the first and third options proposed by the
consultants might be desirable: to irnmediately sell or liquidate GNCB and to rehabilitate
GAIBANK as a development bank.
Strengthening the business environment
Implementation
35,  In March 1994, the government established GO-INVEST to guide private investors
through the maze of government regulations and thus facilitate investment in Guyana.
Institutional development of this agency has been a slow process whose continuity was
interrupted by changes in the agency director. The experience of GO-INVEST demonstrated that
inclividuals build institutions and so it is critical to have the right individuals even if it means
having to pay more in terms of salary or compensation. As a newly created agency, the effective
de velopment of GO-INVEST was highly dependent on its director and their vision of investment
facilitation. The first director was a dynamic individual, but the individual who replaced her was
not as effective. Subsequently another director was recruited in 1998, who is still in that position
today. Under his leadership numerous initiatives have been made to streamline the bureaucratic
hurdles facing investors. Unfortunately, his limited resources and ability to cut through the red
tape has left a number of investors unhappy with the lack of response to their inquiries. An
entrenched bureaucracy combined with a lack of Government support for GO-INVEST's
mission, has not allowed the agency director to find effective solutions for investors' problems.
36.   As with other components cf this project, the development of GO-INVEST was delayed
by the lack of staff and management skills. This issue was brought up regularly during IDA



- I1 -
supervision missions. As explained earlier, the government preferred to use local grants before
drawing on IDA funds, and this limited the availability of resources to support GO-INVEST.
Typically investors go to the agency based on referrals or by recommendation from other
government agencies such as the Ministry of Agriculture. GO-INVEST then sets out to do most
of the leg work including finding suitable land, reviewing occupancy, performing surveys, and
processing the appropriate government approvals. At the time of this report, the director of the
agency felt that other government agencies were taking them more seriously, in fact they are
sending more of their own projects to GO-INVEST, but this practice was still limited to very few
departments within the government. The agency usually works with small to medium-sized
investments.
37.   GO-INVEST has been remiss in terms of providing critical information on its services for
investors; on the number of projects they have facilitated; and in monitoring the completion of
those projects in terms of their impact on output, employment, and tax revenues. In fact, this
implementation analysis was hindered by the lack of basic information on project output, which
would have made possible a more accurate assessment of the outcome.
38.   While the President's Report recommended that GO-INVEST should eventually charge
for its services, this might not be a feasible option. In view of the disappointing results so far, no
attempts have yet been made to collect a fee from investors. On the other hand, many countries
that compete aggressively for foreign investment usually fund these types of agencies through
earmarked resources, private sector contributions, and grants, rather than direct charges to the
users of these services. Keen competition worldwide for limited foreign investment resources
should make promotion a subsidized activity. Once the investment materializes, the government
can recoup its share of the promotional expenses from tax collections. At the same time, private
sector participation on the Board of agencies like GO-INVEST will assure that the agency will
be responsive to market needs.
Achievement of Objectives
39.   Even though the lack of investment interest in Guyana may be a reflection of an
unfavorable investment climate, GO-INVEST has not been successful in facilitating the
investment process. While the agency hired individuals who were able to serve as advocates,
they did not receive the resources and support to effectively carry out their assignments.
Nevertheless, there have been some positive results based on the periodic Progress Reports
issued by GO-INVEST. Improved economic conditions and government actions to strengthen
the financial sector through privatization have also reduced systemic risk for investors. With
more experience and under the leadership of effective management, GO-INVEST can have a
noticeable impact on investment only if the government is able to prompt the affected agencies
to become more cooperative towards GO-INVEST. At the same time, GO-INVEST needs to pay
much more attention to the monitoring of investments and their impact on the economy. The
best type of promotion is referrals from existing investors, and GO-INVEST is only beginning to
build up a list of satisfied clients.
C.    MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
40.   During the period of implementation, 1995-1999, Guyana enjoyed a period of relatively
healthy economic growth due in part to the success of macro-economic reforms. Major exports -
rice, sugar and timber, performed well due to favorable market conditions and increased
domestic output. Nevertheless, the economy remains highly vulnerable to adverse external
developments.



- 12 -
41.   Overall government commitment to the project was mixed. On the one hand, strong
support was given to the strengthening of banking supervision and to the passage of various
reg;ulations dealing with both the Financial Institutions Act and the Companies Act. However,
the Government was initially much more ambivalent regarding privatization. Perhaps the shift
from state domination of the econorny towards a more market-determined system took longer
than initially anticipated or perhaps the government was more concerned about distributing the
fruits of privatization equitably rather than obtaining single investors with business management
experience. Public sector employees also did not appear to be convinced of the benefits from
privatization. This situation did improve with time, as a new Minister of Finance halfway
through project implementation, showed greater commitment to the privatization process. With
respect to GO-INVEST, initial skepticism on the part of other government ministries and
agencies has delayed its effectiveness. The changes in GO-INVEST directors also had a material
adverse impact on its development.
42    As with the earlier TAC, the project was plagued form the start by a shortage of
professional and skilled personnel to serve as effective counterparts that could eventually
become progressively more self-reliant. The civil service is usually unable to recruit and retain
qualified personnel. In an effort to breach the gap, the Government hopes to reach 80 percent of
private sector wages by 2000. Whille the FIS:BEC project helped to finance the hiring of
directors for the PU and for GO-IN'VEST, unless they are subsequently able to hire sufficient and
qualified staff, their effectiveness as managers is also severely constrained. In some cases where
they were able to recruit good candidates, once these individuals were trained at their job, private
sector firms offered them much higher compensation and greater responsibilities.
43.   As is brought out in the ICR. for the PSDAC, another critical factor that initially led to
dif-ficulties during implementation was the unwillingness of the Government to hire external
consultants at international salary levels to provide expertise lacking in the Government. IDA
was persistent on this issue, and eventually reached a mutual agreement with the Government
that the success of the project hinged on havi:ng experienced personnel to manage the complex
tasks of institutional development. Whereas the Government saved funds initially by hiring local
staff, in the final analysis this decision cost them more in losses and lost opportunities. In terrms
of the New GNCB, by not hiring the appropriate external consultants in 1995 the bank went on
to lose a substantial amount of money through bad loans that were made at that time. The sale of
state enterprises would have yielded more funds to the Government if it had accepted the
recomrnendations of the external consultants regarding the valuation of the companies.
44.   When finally hired, the external consultants were able to provide valuable assistance in
terms of the outcome for two components of the project: the privatization process and the
restructuring of the New GNCB. With respect to GO-INVEST, the Government was able to hire
local staff who proved to be effective in the cLevelopment of this entity. The ASI consulting
group were and the second General Manager appointed to head the PU were instrumental in
maintaining an active pipeline of eniterprises that were brought to POS, most of which were
subsequently sold. The consultants also made significant contributions through the training of
PUJ staff. The consultants that were eventually hired to manage the New GNCB have a good
grasp of the problems and the options. However, the final decision as to the fate of the bank still
lies with the Government.



- 13 -
D.   PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
45.   The sustainability of the project is judged to be fair. While the Government may be
committed to the privatization of many of the remaining state-owned enterprises, if the goal is to
reduce the role of the state in the economy, then a more aggressive approach to the sale of the
enterprises may be needed in order to reduce delays from POS to final sale of the enterprises, and
place more productive enterprises within the private sector. The follow-up operation discussed
later in this report, however, can help move the program closer to its final goal.
46.   The financial sector outcome is mixed, and so is its sustainability. The strengthening of
BSD was a very successful component that is expected to continue, as examiners become more
experienced in the application of the new examination techniques. This will help ensure the
safety and soundness of the financial sector. However, the restructuring of the New GNCB has
not yet produced a positive outcome, for this reason, its sustainability at this juncture would have
to be assessed as unlikely. If the new management team is able to turn the bank around, or if the
Government agrees with their recommendation, whether that includes liquidating the bank, then
a basis for sustainability can be established.
47.   The goal of enhancing the business environment is considered mixed without substantial
additional support from the Government. Under the leadership of a dynamic director, GO-
INVEST has made some progress in facilitating the investment process . Nevertheless, greater
monitoring of investment projects is necessary in order to incorporate that information into
future agency activities and enhance the sustainability of its positive outcome. Also, while the
revised Companies Act was successfully implemented, significant strengthening of the Registrar
of Deeds, Properties and Companies is required to support the private business environment. In
this latter area, the Inter-American Development Bank is investing significant resources.
48.   With respect to the non-competitiveness of government wages, resolution of this problem
would also be an important determinant in the sustainability of the outcome of this project. The
sustainability of institutional development initiatives hinges on the quality of the people who run
those institutions. Paying competitive wages to public sector officials may actually be less
expensive in terms of the final outcome. Both IDA and IDB are also currently developing
programs with the government to address this issue.
49.   Overall, project sustainability is likely. With the completion of privatizations of a critical
mass of enterprises, private sector involvement in previously state-owned industries has been
assured. In the banking supervision area, procedures and modernized regulations have been
institutionalized -- additional personnel capacity, nevertheless, might help strengthen this
function further. The bank restructuring component outcome would be considered sustainable if
the government achieved the goal of reducing its liability which the state bank poses -- this will
be a determinant issue in the follow up project. The foreign investment agency, while still
requiring improved definition of its mandate, is nevertheless fully funded under the government
budget and an already established institution.
E.    IDA PERFORMANCE
50.   Project Identification: Satisfactory. The Private Sector Assessment provided a strong
base of information and recommendations for project identification. The experience of the
earlier TAC provided valuable insights into the government's needs as well as their capabilities.



- 14 -
In addition a Policy Framework Paper prepared in December 1992 served to identify key policy
areas for improvement and in particular, the importance of a privatization strategy.
51.   Project Preparation and Appfraisal: Satisfactory. IDA was proactive in assisting the
Gcvernment to define and choose among policy options. The IDA's Loan Committee raised a
nuimber of important questions dealing with the quantitative goals under privatization and the
merger between GNCB and GAIBANK. Per:haps more analysis of the problems facing the
privatization process may have resulted in a less ambitious target for the PU. At the same time,
the viability of a GAIBANK and GNCB merger might have been considered. The latter
comnponent was particularly deman(ling on the borrower's resources and capabilities.
52,   Project Supervision: Satisfactory. Supervision missions were scheduled according to
norrmal IDA operating procedures. Supervision reports kept track of the problems and sought
appropriate follow-up actions. The changing of task manager early during implementation
proceeded very efficiently. IDA staff were instrumental in getting the Government to hire
extlernal consultants. Perhaps more emphasis on reporting of project information by the
borrower may have been useful, for example, an up-to-date list of each enterprise to be
privatized with corresponding information on valuations, bidding process, and actual transaction
va ,ues. Also, more aggressive interventions r egarding the activities of the New GNCB may have
alerted IDA to the problem of bad loans that were made after 1995.
F.    BORROWER PERFORMANCE
53.   Project Identification through Appraisal: Satisfactory. In view of the rather limited
administrative resources and shortage of skilled personnel, as well as the limited IDA exposure
in the country, the Borrower perfonned in a satisfactory manner during identification through
ap praisal.
54.   Project Implementation: Satisfactory, Progress in meeting project commitments was
initially rather slow. Government commitment to privatization was not enthusiastic at the start
of the program. Because of the resistance to hiring external consultants, the staffing of the PU
and GO-INVEST was less than desirable during the early phase of development. On the other
hand, the BOG programn to strengthen banking supervision received strong support from the
Borrower as well as BOG's own commitment of resources to support this initiative. During the
second half of the program, the new leadership at the Ministry of Finance and the change in the
technical leadership at the PU, were instrumental, however, in ensuring that the program's
targets were met, despite the initial delays.
G.   ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
55.   The outcome of the FISBEC is judged to be Satisfactory. The goal of reducing the role
of the state in the economy was generally satisfactory. In the parallel operation, the PSDAC,
partial waivers were required due to delays in completing the sale of state enterprises. While the
Borrower complied with all the conditions regarding the bringing of state enterprises to POS, and
most of these have been fully sold, there still remain a few where the deal needs to be closed.
The goal of improving the solvency and efficiency of financial intermediation was moderately
sat:isfactory. The strengthening of banking supervision was satisfactory; however, the
restructuring of the New GNCB was unsatisfactory, due to the continued losses of the bank and
absence of a clear strategy to achieve profitability. The goal of enhancing the business
environment is judged to be marginally unsatisfactory. While the Companies Act regulations
were enacted, and GO-INVEST has the potential to become an effective advocate for investors,



- 15-
it will not achieve this objective until the Government supports their efforts. It has so far made
marginal progress in the facilitation of the investment process.
H.   FUTURE OPERATION
56.   In view of the pending agenda concerning the privatization program and the
strengthening of the financial sector, a new TAC was set up to help complete these initiatives
and help assure the sustainability of these measures, in addition to developing supporting
regulations in the insurance and securities areas. The new TAC will help to carry out the second
phase of the privatization program. This program will require quick deployment of international
experts in investment, legal, economic, and financial analysis as well as to continue to provide
logistical support to the PU.
57.   Another area involves the restructuring of the new GNCB, which still needs to be
completed, or at least to reach a final decision on the status of that institution. The restructuring
team that was hired at the beginning of 1999 will need further funding to complete their
assignment. Further strengthening of financial sector regulations and additional training of
banking regulators would be highly desirable in order to ensure continuity of institutional
development initiatives.
58.   Under the new TAC, investment promotion will also be focused within the role of the PU
given its closer proximity to the international investment community. Independently, GO-
INVEST needs to apply more resources to the monitoring of actual investment projects, and in
particular to review the adequacy and beneficiary compliance with general tax incentives.
I.    KEY LESSONS LEARNED
59.   The above analysis of project design, implementation, and outcome suggests the
following main lessons:
* Government commitment to a project is crucial for its success. However, this commitment
has to go beyond the implementing agency to all governmental stakeholders. At the same
time, this commitment must be made cognizant of the political implications and
governmental capabilities for its effective implementation. In the case of the privatization
program, there was Government commitment. Privatization was something new to the
Government, however, and it was not familiar with the political implications and the
magnitude of the obstacles that had to overcome. This component of the project suffered
initial delays.
*  In privatization it is the quality of the outcome as measured by final sales, rather than the
number of entities offered for sale that is important in terms of effectiveness and also in
terms of borrower satisfaction. Privatization also proceeds most successfully when all
stakeholder interests, particularly those of workers from the enterprises as well as small
investors, are taken into account. Open consideration of social and environmental issues is
critical: labor continuity, severance arrangements and employee stock ownership options,
greatly enhance community support for privatization programs. On the environmental side,
explicit auditing and documentation of environmental liabilities in investor contracts is
essential. Finally, due diligence in the form of title searches before formal bidding begins as
well as subsequent pre-drafting of investor contract agreements for bidder review, greatly
facilitate the ensuing privatization process.



- 16 -
*  One of the main obstacles to institutional development was the Government's inability to
attract and retain qualified staff due to inadequate civil service salaries. Many of the delays
encountered during implementation were attributed to personnel problems. The
sustainability of this project is also undermined by the lack of incentive for public sector
employees.
*  Individuals are the main building blocks of institutions and choosing the right individuals for
the job will have a decisive impact on the outcome. During the initial phase of
implementation the PU made little progress in part because the director did not have the
experience and the background to manage a privatization program. In the case of GO-
INVEST, one of the directors vwas more bureaucratic in the management of the investment
projects rather than having a more proactive and innovative problem solving approach. Thle
turnover of project directors also impacted negatively during the project's first four years of
execution, and some of these changes responded to shifts in political orientation/leadership
within the government.
*  It is more cost effective to spend more money to get the right people. By not hiring
international consultants early on to work on the restructuring of the New GNCB, the
Government missed the opportuinity to prevent major losses that were incurred subsequently.
In effect, it has had to pay much more than if it had hired the external consultants from the
start.
*  Merging two institutions does riot make the final task of restructuring easier. The decision to
merge should be driven by the complexity of the organizations involved relative to their
compatibility, and in the final analysis, on the operational economies achieved through such
a combination. In the case of GrAIBANK; and GNCB, the two institutions were far from
compatible, and their merger only added to the complexity of the restructuring.
Development and commercial banking do not mix easily. Each has very different mission
statements.
*  Project design needs to be simple. This includes setting realistic implementation targets and
key indicators of performance. The PU's assignment was perhaps a bit ambitious although
final targets were eventually met. On the other hand, the high degree of success of the
BOG's BSD enhancement program can be attributed to the fact that this component provicded
support to an existing institution, whose staff had already been in place before the design of
this project, and the TA was directly related to the job they were performing.
*  Experience with IMF. Joint support by the Association and the IMF on the banking
supervision strengthening component under the project proved highly productive. The IMF's
funding of an on-site advisor along with [DA's support to the central bank's banking
supervision department ensurecL a continuous yet complementary presence which helped to
structure the supervisory function, implement a scheduled periodic on-site inspection cycle,
and upgrade banking prudential regulaticns.



- 17-
PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1.     Summary of Assessments
Table 2.     Related IDA Credits
Table 3.     Project Timetable
Table 4.     Loan/Credit Disbursements
Table 5.     Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6.     Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7.     Studies Included in the Project
Table 8A.    Project Costs
Table 8B.    Project Financing
Table 9.     Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10.    Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11.    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12.    IDA Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13.    IDA Resources: Missions
APPENDIX A. BORROWER'S EVALUATION



Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives        Substantial       Partial        Negligible      Not applicable
Macro Policies
Sector Policies
Financial Objectives                                                 E                L0
Institutional Development           El                I              L                I
Physical Objectives                                LI 0l                              E]
Poverty Reduction                  LI              [I                Lii
Gender Issues                                                                         F 0 
Other Social Objectives            fl
Environmental Objectives           Ix1              Li               0i 
Public Sector Management            Li              Li               0i
Private Sector Development                                          LI                LI
Other (specify)                    []              []               LI                   I
B.Project Sustainability           Likely                  Unlikely                  Uncertain
(/)                      (V/)                      (V)
|0:Xi                                        E a



C. Bank Performance                    satisfactory          Satisfactory               Deficient
Identification                     i:                       II                        i
Preparation Assistance              ri                      El                        D
Appraisal                           cl                      Ix 
Supervision                        LI                                                 La
D. Borrower Performance                         Highly
satisfactory   Satisfactory     Deficient
(/)            (i/)            (1)
Preparation                                   a              Ezi
Implementation                                              LxI g
Covenant Compliance                           lI
Operation (if applicable)                     n7C
Higl                                             Highy
E. Assessment of Outcome              satisfactory    Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory   unsatisfactory
(L)                             LI)              (L) EI



Table 2: Related IDA Credits
Credit Title                                 Purpose                        Year of
l _____________________                  ______________________________    A pproval          Status
Preceding Operations
1. Second Structural Adjustment    Macroeconomic s4abilization                           1990       Closed
Credit (Cr. 2168-GUA)            and adjustment.                                                  1994
2. Technical Assistance Credit     Public sector modernization, banking supervision       1990      Closed
i(Cr. 2169-GUA)                institutional strengthening                                      1994
Parallel Operations
3. Public Sector Development       Help spur progress in improving the environment for    1994      Closed
Adjustment Credit Cr.(2746-GUA the private sector as a means to stimulate growth.                 1997
Followving Operations
4. Financial & Private Sector      Improving regulatory environment for financial &       1999     Effective
Institutional Development Cr.   private sector development, and improving central
(Cr. 3290-GUA)            goveniment institutional capacity.



Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle            Date Planned        Date Actual /
Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)   January 1994       March 1994
Pre-appraisal                                April 1994          June 1994
Appraisal                                  September 1994      September 1994
Negotiations                               November 1994       November 1994
Letter of Development Policy (if applicable)    n.a.              n.a.
Board Presentation                         November 1994       December 1994
Signing                                    December 1994        January 1995
Effectiveness                               January 1995        March 1995
First Tranche Release (if applicable)           n.a.
Midterm Review                                May 1994           June 1995
Second (and Third) Tranche Release              n.a.
Project Completion                         December 1997       December 1998
Loan Closing                                  June 1998          June 1999
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
Fiscal Year               95     96      97      98      99       00    Total
Appraisal Estimate        0.5    2.0    0.8    0.3    0.0    0.0         3.5
Actual                    0.0    0.2    0.3    0.4    2.2    0.1         3.2
Actual as % of Estimate   0%     7%      16%    27%    91%    93%       93%a
Date of Final Disbursement:    October 29, 1999
a/ Credit was fully disbursed in SDRs -- due to exchange fluctuations, dollar amount was reduced.



Table 5: Key Indicators iFor Project Implementation
No.                   Indicator                      Estimated       Actual
1 Privatization: Preparation of information      6 months before Average delay
memorandum on public enterprises slated for  privatization target   time: 4
privatization.                                     date          months
2 Privatization: Advertising sale of each government             Between 2nd
enterprise and supplying interested investors with  Within 1st quarter   and 2rd
information package and bidding information.    of each year     quarter
3 Privatization: Conducting environmental audits of
public enterprises to be privatized.              Jun-96         Dec-95
4 Financial Sector: Drafting of regulations in
accordance with the Banking Legislation.          Jun-95         Jun-96
5 Financial Sector: Central Bank supervision
department preparation of supervision manuals.    Dec-95         Sep-96
6  F'inancial Sector: Enactment of new Banking Law   Dec-94         Jun-95
7 Financial Sector: Complete the merger of
CGAIBANK and GNCB                                 May-95        May-95
8 Financial Sector: Complete the restructuring of the
New GNCB to become a profitable institution.      Sep-96         Jun-99
9 Financial Sector: Establish a Loan Recovery Unit   Jun-95         Jun-96
10 Enhancing the business environiment: Develop
new regulations in accordance with the Companies
Act                                               Jun-96         Sep-95
I Enhancing the business environiment: support the
development of GO-INVEST by hiring appropriate                    Not
staff and developing investment guidelines.       Jun-97       completed
12 Project Unit: Submission of acceptable annual
project audit 3 months after year end.           Annually      6 mo. delays



Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Estimated    Actual
I. Key Implementation Indicators in SAR/President's Report
a. Development of revised prudential banking regulations  1995     1996
b. Completion of privatization of public enterprises   1997        1998
c. Restructuring and improvement of the state-owned bank  1996     1999
II. Modified Indicators (if applicable)
a. Appointment of international management team for GNCB    1997   1999
III. Modified Indicators for Future Operation (if applicable)
a. Implement second phase of privatization program     2001



Table 7: Studies Included in the Project
Study            Puirpose as Defined at Appraisal  Status  Impact of Study
and/or Redefined
Report on GNCB Operations    Evaluation cf credit appraisal    Done  Identification of
(Mc Guire and McGuire)       procedures and internal controls of     risky lending
CirNCB                                 practices
Report on GNCB financial     Assessment of financial viability  Done  Recommended
condition (ICC Bank)         of GNCB in short and medium term        options for
stemming losses
and resolution of
bank problems
Environmental audits of the  Identification of clean up require-  Done  Clean up actions
state owned enterprises to be    ments and environmental liabilities  conducted prior
privatized (Adam Smith Inc.)   prior to sale of enterprises          to sale of gov't
enterprises
Analytical review of banking law  To assure that new banking law met   Done  Banking law
and regulations (C. Horn)   international standards as required      modernized with
under project conditions                 increased
provisioning
requirements for
doubtful loans



Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal Estimate (US$)   Actual/Latest Estimate (US$)
Item           Local   Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign    Total
Costs    Costs             Costs    Costs
I. Financial Sector
a. Banking Supervision    140,000  857,000   997,000   12,000  250,000   262,000
b. Monetary Management          102,000   102,000            10,000    10,000
c. Restructuring of    230,000  400,000   630,000  420,000  325,000   745,000
state-owned banks
II. Privatization Program
d. Privatization Unit   60,000  725,000   785,000  487,000 1,695,000 2,182,000
e. Environmental Audits   30,000  440,000   470,000    5,000   90,000    95,000
II. Business Environment
f. Go-Invest           282,000  250,000   532,000   30,000             30,000
g. Companies Regulation   50,000  100,000   150,000   10,000           10,000
IV. Project Unit          78,000             78,000  110,000  256,000   366,000
. Other/Unallocated     30,000  226,000   256,000
Total Project Costs      900,000 3,100,000 4,000,000 1,074,000 2,626,000 3,700,000
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal Estimate (US$)   Actual/Latest Estimate (US$)
Source          Local   Foreign    Total    Local   Foreign    Total
Costs    Costs             Costs    Costs
IDA                     400,000 3,100,000 3,500,000  864,000 2,352,000  3,216,000
Government              500,000             500,000  210,000  274,000   484,000
Total                  900,000 3,100,000 4,000,000 1,074,000 2,626,000  3,700,000



Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
This project consisted of a technical assistance credit involving consultant support and funding
infolmatics equipment for banking supervision department of the Central Bank.
In this context, the original project documents did not include any cost/benefit or cost effectiveness
analysis. Nevertheless, while exact benefits carnot be directly imputed from a project of this nature,
this section attempts to list some of th-ie qualitative benefits achieved, and which will have direct
impacts in the cost and efficiency of private sector investments, financial sector intermediation, and
public sector finances.
Principal Components in Cost / Benefit Analysis:
BENFITS:
Privatization:
1. PU: increase the capabilities to perform valuations of the enterprises and to
negotiate their sale.
2. Through more effective performance by PU, augment actual sales proceeds.
Financial Sector:
I. BSD: strengthening of supervision leads to more efficient and sound banking.
Improved supervision results earlier detection of potential bank problems.
2. BSD: more rigorous supervision results in improved qluality of banks' loan
portfolio, increased capital requirements, and higher reserves for loan losses.
3. GNCB: restructuring of GNCB results in a return to profitability of this
institution and hence the feasibility of its future operation and privatization.
Business environment:
1. GO-INVEST: development of management capabilities in facilitating the
investment process contributes to a sustainable agency that can effectively
attract new investments.
2. GO-INVEST: as this agency is recognized as an efficient facilitator, it will
begin to receive increased business through referrals from satisfied investors.
As a result, Guyana will benefit from additional capital inflows, employement,
and transfer of technology and know-how.
COSTS:
I. Costs in terms of wages and other compensation paid to local staff and external
consultants, cost of equipment to be used in project related activities, and
the interest cost of the FISBEC credit and of local funding supplied by the
government.
2. Loss of employment arising from the sale of state-owned enterprises or from
their liquidation.
3. Higher prices charged by newly privatized companies for their products as
part of aligning prices with market costs and profitability.
The actual cost / benefit outcome for this project is not certain at this time due to the following
reasons: (i) lack of quantitative information to measure the various cost and benefit components;
(i,) partial achievement of some of the project's objectives such as the restructuring of GNCB
and the facilitation of investment by GO-INVEST. With respect to privatization, total proceeds from
the sale of state-owned enterprises would be a direct measure of benefits, which in the case of long
tenr leases, should be calculated as the present value of cash flows discounted at the 12% ROR
threshold. Preliminary estimates show that privatization proceeds exceed the PV of the project cost.



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement  Section Covenant Present  Original Fulfilment    Revised                        Description of Covenant                        Comments
Type    Status          Date           Fulfilment
| __________ .__              _  .     _          .  .    . _  .  D ate
evelopment  3.01b                 C                                       The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance   PSDAC conditionality
Credit                                                                   with the Implementation Letter                         ensured meeting targets
Agreement
3.03a               CD           Mar-95                      The Borrower shall establish and operate a Project      Project unit staffed but
Implementation Unit within Ministry of Finance         with insufficient specia-
lists to cover all areas.
3.04                C            Jun-96           Dec-95    The Borrower shall carry out the environmental audits
or assessments for enterprises to be privatized
3.05                CP       Semi-Annually       Annually   Borrower shall prepare a report on progress             Reports were prepared
in the implementation of the project.                  annually and at mid-term
3.06                C          Annually                      Review with the Association the progress on the
program.
3.07               CD         3 mnths after       Jun-96    Establish a Loan Recovery Unit for the bad loans        Recovery operations
effective date                 of GAIBANK and GNCB                                    were started earlier, but
official LRU only later.
3.08a                C         Continuous                    Borrower shall operate and maintain the Privatization
Unit
3.09                C           May-95                       Borrower shall cause GAIBANK and GNCB to merge.   Condition met but final
results were delayed
4.0lb               CD         Continuous                    Borrower shall maintain records and furnish the         Initial audit reports were
Association a certified copy of an audit report of such    not adequate. Final report
records and accounts.                                  was considered OK.
Status                                   Covenant Class
C - Complied with                        1. Accounts/Audit
CD - Compliance after Delay              2. Financial performance           8. Indigenous people
NC - Not complied with                   3. Flow & utiliz. of project funds  9. Monitoring, review and reporting
SOON - Compliance Expected               4. Counterpart funding             10. Implementation
in reasonably short time               5. Management aspects of project    11. Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
CP - Complied with Partially             6. Environmental covenants         12. Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action
NYD - Not Yct Due                        7. Involuntary resettlement        13. Other



Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement Number and Title    Describe and Comment on Lack of Compliance
n.a.                No Lack of Compliance was Evidenced
Table 12: IDA Resources: Staff Inputs
_ ______________________         Planned        Revised         Actual
Stage of Project Cycle         Weeks   US$   Weeks  US$ Weeks  US$
_  (OOOs)                       (OOOs)
Preparation to Appraisal         18.0   39.6                  10.2   25.5
Appraisal                        8.0    17.6                   9.5    24.8
Negotiation through Board Approval  4.0    8.8                 1.8    5.5
S upervision                    48.0   105.6                  61.0   120.4
Completion                       4.0    10.0                   5.0    15.0
TOTAL                            82.0   181.6                 87.5   191.2



Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Stage of      Month/ No. of Days  Specialized  Implemen- Develop.                     Types of
Project Cycle    Year  Persons  in   Staff Skills   tation   Objectives                 Problems
Field  Represented    Status
A. Through Appraisal
1. Identification  Mar-94    3       5  Task Mgmt/                                            n. a.
PSDlFinancial/
Trade
. Pre-appraisal    Jun-94    4      9  Task Mgmtl                            Obtaining commitment from government
PSD/Financial/                  to a targeted, time-bound privatization program.
Trade
3. Appraisal        Sep-94    4      5  Task Mgmtl                            Government initial reluctance to borrow
PSD/Financial/                  technical assistance funds alongside adjustment
Trade ! Legal                    credit.
B. ADDraisal through
Board Approval     Nov-94                                                                     n.a.
C. Board Approval                                                                             n.a.
through Effectiveness Mar-95
D. Supervision
Supervision I      Nov-95    2          Task Mgmt. /       I         I
PSD/ Finance/                    (i) Government resistance to hiring external
Trade                            consultants; (ii) GO INVEST progress is slow
Supervision 2      Mar-96    4           Task Mgmt./       I         I    (i) restructuring of GNCB has been too slow; (ii)
Finance,                         only modest progress achieved on privatization:
PSD,                             (iii) GO-INVEST needs more structure and
Trade/Tax                        better documented procedures.
Supervision 3       Oct-96    2          Task Mgmt./       2         2    (i) New management at GNCB still fails to make
Financial                        significant progress; (ii) While entities have
been brought to point of sale, very few have
been sold; (iii) activities of GO-INVEST still no
up to expectations.



Performance Rating
Stage of      Month/  No. of Days   Specialized  Implemen- Develop.                    Types of
Prcject Cycle    Year  Persons  in    Staff Skills   tation   Objectives                 Problems
Field  Represented    Status
Supervision 4       Apr-97    2       7  Task Mgmt/         S         S    (i) Restructuring of the New GNCB still suffers
Fiinancial /                     from inadequate procedures and independent
P:SD I Banking                   loan recovery agency still not operational; (ii)
third year privatization targets still not complete;
(iii) GO-INVEST manuals have not yet been
produced agency needs to become more
independent.
Supervision 5       Sep-97     2          Task MgmtV        U         S    (i) Restructuring of the New GNCB requires
Financial /                       much more strengthening in the area of credit
Economist                        policy and loan recovery unit needs substantially
more resources; (ii) while progress achieved in
privatization, there is still a substantial pipeline
of enterprises.
Supervision 6       Apr-98                Task Mgmt. I      S         S
Financial
Supervision 7       Oct-98     4      12  Task Mgmt./       S         S
Financial                         (i) Restructuring of the New GNCB continues to
Analyst                           be problematic. Financial position not
Banking                           improving.
Specialists (2)
Supervision 8       Jan-99     2      5  Task Mgmt./        S         S
Financial,                       (i) Agreement reached with Government on
Financial                         hiring of experienced international restructuring
Analyst                          and management team for GNCB.
Supervision 9      Jul-99   4       6    Task           S         S
Mgmt./Finance
/ Banking /
Accounting



Appendix A
GOVERNMENT ASSESSMENT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
FINANCIAL SECTOR AND BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT PROJECT
Summary and Conclusions
This implementation Completion Report (ICR) is an evaluation of the Guyana Financial
Sector and Business Environment Project (FISBEC). The purpose of the credit was to
support sustainable institutional capacity building to support structural reforms taken
under the government's private sector development and reform program which was
supported by the Private Sector Development Adjustment Credit (PSDAC).
Since 1988, the Governnent has been implementing far-reaching structural reforms under
the Economic Recovery Program to reverse decades long decline in growth and
deterioration of social and economic conditions. Despite, improvements in the economy,
the lack of skilled and technical staff slowed down the pace of the implementation of
these reforms. FISBEC was designed, in part, to fill this gap by providing technical
assistance to achieve the goals of the private sector development and reform program.
Project Objectives
The private sector development and reform program set out to (i) reduce the role of the
state in productive enterprises and commerce; (ii) improve the regulation and supervision
of the financial system and restructuring of key financial institutions; and (iii) enhance
the business environment.
To achieve its broad objectives of improving the private sector framework, the following
components were identified under the PSDAC: (i) privatization of public enterprises; (ii)
financial sector reform; and (iii) improvement in trade regime and the business
environment.  The role of FISBEC was to provide technical resources in the
accomplishment of these goals.
Overview of Project Achievements
Support of technical assistance under FISBEC assisted the Government to achieve all the
key components of the reforms envisaged under the private sector development and
reform program. Except some minor delays in the privatisation process, conditionalities
associated with the credit were met. Specifically, the PSDAC program's privatization
targets were exceeded, legislation and regulations for financial sector reforms were
substantially improved and new financial institutions act and conforming regulations, and



a central bank act was passed. In addition, prudential regulations were enhanced while
the capacity for banking supervision at the Bank of Guyana was strengthened.
Furthermore, public ownership of financial institutions was divested or liquidated
although progress was slow in 1he restructuring of the "new" GNCB. Trade liberalization
also continued apace. Tariff rates wvere reduced to a band of 0-20 percent in accordance
with the CARICOM common external tariff agreement. To further strengthen trade
reforms, discretionary incentives were eliminated, tax holidays removed and later re-
introduced for pioneering and high technology industries and statutory exemptions from
tariffs and consumption taxes for favored categories and associations were eliminated.
EVALUATION OF FISBEC
The evaluation of FISBEC would have to be examined in the context of the private sector
development refonm program supported by the PSDAC.
Assessment of the Privatization Program
To reduce its role in the state, the Government set up the Privatisation Unit to coordinate
the implementation of over 23 public sector enterprises., As a result of poor records and
inter-agency transfers, privatisation of several enterprises took longer that envisaged.
Most targets for completion of sales were met with a few exceptions in which
unanticipated factors delayed the closure of sales. Such factors included disputes over
land title ownership, (Versailles Dairy Complex), a court injunction by a customer/staff
of the National Bank of Industry and Commerce against the due diligence procedure, and
a lack of market response to some entities offered for sale (National Printers, Guyana
Stores).
Nevertheless, by end-1999, the Government had divested itself of enterprises that
constituted approximately 60 percent of total net assets of entities originally owned by the
public sector. In terms of revenues, those entities constituted about 45 percent of total
proceeds that accrued to the Government.
The remaining six public enterprises that remain are Guyana Sugar Company
(GUYSUCO), Guyana National Shipping Corporation (GNSC), Guyana National
Cooperative Bank (GNCB), Guyana Oil Company (GUYOIL), Linden Mining Company
(LINMINE) and Berbice Mining Company (BERMINE). The first 4 enterprises are
undergoing restructuring to improve efficiency while the last two had already been
advertised for sale.
As part of the privatisation programme, and as an additional component which was not
part of the IDA supported projects per se, the Government has also improved the
regulatory framework for private sector development. In the energy sector, The



Parliament in 1997 enacted the electricity sector reform bill; the public utilities
amendment bill and the energy sector bill to regulate and encourage investment within
the sector.
Although, the privatisation programme has been successful, the process encountered a
number of difficulties. Lower bids and in some cases no bids caused delays in
implementation, often leading to re-tendering of enterprises. This problem continues to
plague the full privatisation of LINMINE and BERMINE.
In addition, institutional constraints, poor documentation of public enterprise files, and
intertwining of public enterprise arrangements slowed the pace of the divestment process.
Although worker participation was an important objective of the program, the level of
participation so far has been weak. This, in part, may be attributable to low levels of
income and poor infornation dissemination. In other cases, delays in procurement of
consultants slowed down technical analyses and the pace of the program. Nevertheless,
the gains made so far are sustainable.
Commitment to the privatisation programme and support under the FISBEC were factors
that led the Government to take measures beyond targets agreed with the World Bank
under the PSDAC.
In particular, Government:
*  conducted post-privatization audits of 15 entities privatized between 1982 and 1992;
legal actions for unpaid balances instituted against Paint Company and possible
litigation for two rice mills with outstanding balances in excess of US$1.8 million;
*  advertised 4 BIDCO (bauxite holding company) properties in 1998;
*  prepared Ruimveldt Industrial Estate for sale to occupants;
*  prepared BV Industrial Estate for sale to, occupants;
Assessment of Financial Sector Reforms
The key issues for reforms under financial sector regulation and supervision were (i)
establishing and implementing regulations under the revised Financial Institutions Act
(FIA); (ii) continued implementation of prudential regulations; and (iii) the presentation
of the Bank of Guyana (BOG) Act to Parliament.
(i) Establishing and Implementing Regulations under the Revised Financial Institutions
Act
The Financial Institutions Act 1995 took effect on May 29, 1995. This Act gave the
Bank of Guyana full authority to regulate and supervise financial institutions licensed



under the Act. In order to implement the provisions of the FIA, an initial set of seven
supervision guidelines on Insipection Fees and Costs; License of Financial of Financial
Institutions; Branching and Acquisition. of Control of Financial Institutions were issued
on June 19, 1997. Regulations made under the FIA along with notices published in the
Official Gazette provided added guidance for the conduct of non-depository financial
business.
in addition, Section 9 of the FIA was amended in 1996 to restrict the acquisition of
control of another depository licensed financial institution by anyone who already owns
or controls one such institution, and to prohibit the acquisition of shares directly o0r
indirectly in excess of 20 percent of th e total paid-up capital of all depository licensec
financial institutions incorporated in Guyana. This latter prohibition does not obtain
where any person has alrea.dy acquired control of a depository licensed financial
institution. Regulations are still to be drafted to implement other aspects of the FIA.
(ii) Continued Implementation. of Prudential Regulation
The revised Financial Institutions Act that was passed by Parliament in 1995 has
strengthened the regulatory authority of the BOG, mandated capital requirements and
imposed prudential standards including capital adequacy, lending concentration and
related party lending limits.
(iii) Bank of Guyana Act
The Bank of Guyana Act (1995) amended the Bank of Guyana Act (1965). Some of the
amendments, which were made to bring it into conformity with FIA, included:
* redefining the objectives of the Bank in relation to promoting price stability;
* composition of the Board of Directors, by whom they should be appointed and terms
of office;
* minimum reserve of external assets of not less than one hundred percent of the total
amount of currency in circulation;
* exclusive responsibility for the supervision and regulation of financial institutions;
* limits on the extension of credit to the Government; and
o issuance of securities on its own termns and conditions.
The Bank of Guyana Act 1995 was amended in 1998. The Act reaffirms the Bank's,
independence in matters of monetary management.
Reducing the State Ownership in Commnercial Financial Sector
The Government under the private sector development and reform program as also
supported by the FISBEC and PSDAC projects, committed itself to reduce its role in the
financial sector. Specifically, Government agreed to (i) reduce its share in banks and



insurance company to 20 percent; (ii) bring to the point of sale its direct holdings in
financial entities that represented a further 40 percent of such banks; and (iii) ensure that
banks with Government ownership are not more than 25 percent of the end 1993 asset
value.
These commitments have already been met. The Government sold its shares in the
Guyana Bank of Trade and Industry, divested its shares in the National Bank of Industry
and Commerce, and sold the Guyana Co-operative Insurance Scheme.
Modernizing Commercial and Development Banking
The Government under the FISBEC committed itself to financial and operational
restructuring of GNCB. In 1996 and 1997, $4.4 billion in non-performing loans were
written off to the loan recovery unit while liabilities were transferred out of GNCB to re-
capitalize its financial base. A salary increase in line with other private banks was
effected in 1996 to ensure retention of technical staff.
The Government also liquidated GAIBANK and merged its usable assets into GNCB.
Recoverable loans from GAIBANK was separated out and put in the new GNCB Trust
while loans with uncertain recovery were assigned to a collection agency. A modernized
and computerized loan accounts system, improved credit appraisal and administrative
procedures were implemented in 1997 at GNCB.
Despite these reforms, the performance of the Bank continued to deteriorate. In 1999,
international consultants were to assist in the restructuring of the Bank. Consistent with
their terms of reference, two reports have been submitted which also explores options
available to Government with respect to this institution. Thus, intervention in
modernizing GNCB has been mixed. While progress has been made, it is clear that a lot
remains to be done.
Assessment of the Business Environment
The key components of reforms in this area were: (i) strengthening of investment
promotion; and (ii) revision of the Common External Tariff with removal of non-tariff
trade barriers and quantitative restrictions.  The latter item was not specifically an
objective of the FISBEC although it did fall indirectly under GO-INVEST's work
activities as part of investment promotion.
Investment Promotion
A new Companies Law and Regulations were developed promulgated on schedule within
the FISBEC. This replaced the 1913 law and represented a major boost to the private
sector development. In order to promote private sector business, the Government



established the Guyana Office of Investment (GO-INVEST) to speed private investors
through government regulation and to promote investment opportunities in Guyana.
Although the agency is fully operational and has benefited from assistance from USAIDi,
its impact has been limited. This in part is due to the frequent changes at the leadership,
duplication of functions between the agency and the Export Promotion Council. In 1999,
the Government merged Go-Invest and the Export Promotion Council as one entity.
Assessment of the Common External Tariff
While not a project component of the FISBEC itself, this area was supported by the
PSDAC. The technical assiistance support provided under the FISBEC in order to
improve the business environmnent and the investment climate, was nevertheless
consistent and related to the trade sector reforms which had indirect impacts on the work
of GO-INVEST. The CARICOM Heads of Government agreed in October 1992 to revise
the Common External Tariff schedule under which tariffs will be lowered in three phases
to arrive at a range of 0-25 percent as early as January 1, 1997. Countries on the fast
track including Guyana opted to reduce tariffs on an accelerated schedule.
The Parliament passed the enabling legislation for the implementation of the new CET
tariff schedule. The Government met in a timely manner all its commitments to tariff rate
reduction under the CET. Tariff rates were reduced to a band of 0-20 in accordance with
the CARICOM common external tarifi agreement. In addition, goods requiring import
and export licenses were substantially reduced and the time required for approvals from
the Ministry of Trade was cut to less than a day.
The reduction of import tariffs despite its impact on revenues is essential. It (i) enhances
the framework for private sector development, reduces the cost of living and de--
emphasizes international trade as the sole source of government revenue.
Assessment of Tariff Exemptions
In addition, the Government agreed with IDA under the PSDAC to initiate a program to
reduce import duty exemptions. Through assistance from IDA, Government designed and
timely implemented a prograrr. of duty exemptions.
Assessment of Tax Reforms
Under the PSDAC, the Government committed itself to (i) rationalize the consumption
tax; (ii) rationalize fiscal inc entives; (iii) reduce corporate taxes; and (iv) integrate
corporate and personal taxes. Consistent with these cornmitments:
* discretionary incentives were removed
* the issuing of tax holidays was stopped and ongoing ones allowed to expire;



* statutory exemptions from tariffs and consumption taxes for favored categories of
producers were largely eliminated;
* introduction of zero tariff and consumption tax rate to capital goods and raw
materials.
Nevertheless, the Government was not able to equalize the corporate tax rate for
commercial and non-commercial firms. Although the Government was keen in reducing
the company tax rate on commercial companies, continuing tight fiscal conditions did not
permit this to be accomplished. Still, the equalization of taxes across financial
instruments, elimination of double taxation and integration of personal and corporate
taxes has reduced disincentives to equity investment.
Lessons Learned and Recommendations for Future Assistance
In privatisation, the process encountered several problems. Inter-agency arrangements
both financial and institutional and, in particular, the absence of documentation delayed
the privatisation process. Although resistance of management of public enterprises
somewhat delayed the sale of few enterprises, strong resolve from the Government
continued to push the process through. There was also the issue of valuation of
enterprises. In several instances, wide disparity in the value of the same asset base
presented a dilemma to the Privatisation Unit in arriving at the true value of assets.
Worker participation was one of the key objectives of the privatisation programme. In
spite of this, the financial status of many workers and the large asset base of most
enterprises made this difficult to happen, except in GNEC where workers bought part of
the enterprise.
In the area of the trade regime and the business environment, the establishment of Go-
Invest has been positive. Nevertheless, the agency has not been as effective as was
envisaged due to several changes at the leadership thereby delaying capacity building.
Government is considering several options in strengthening this agency. In the area of
the incentive regime, reduction of the import duties in the context of the CET, tax
reforms, and elimination of quantitative and other non-trade barriers have been positive.
Trade volumes have increased, level of revenue is higher, and the investment framework
enhanced.
In restructuring of the commercial banks, the initial legal steps to merge GNCB and
GAIBANK and the establishment of the loan recovery unit (GCFS) proceeded on
schedule. However, in part due to the severe economic downturn during 1998 as well as
management of the bank which could not adequately stem the decline in the bank's loan
portfolio, the financial situation of the new merged GNCB deteriorated. The government
at that point, decided to contract a specialized international consulting team financed
under the FISBEC, to manage the bank starting in the first quarter of 1999. To-date, the
new management team has been able to stem further losses and recover some fund



overdue from borrowers, however, substantial work remains to place the bank on a sounid
financial footing.
Government's View of the Project
This IDA intervention under the FISBEC provided critical assistance necessary to
implement the government's private sector development and reform program. Results
deriving out of this project are already apparent:
* Role of Government in thie productive and commercial sector has been substantiall,y
reduced;
*  Financial sector reforms have strengthened the banking system and assisted in the
expansion of the sector;
* Restructuring of the remaining commercial bank under Government control is
ongoing and various options are being examined; and
e Go-Invest and GECPC have been merged to provide improved capacity to assist
private sector investment.
More importantly, implementation of the FISBEC was smooth, Bank staff was
responsive and worked closely with Government staff to ensure the accomplishment of
project goals.
Continuation of Program and Next Steps
Following the successful implementation of the private sector development and reform
program, the government requested IDA for a follow-up T.A. operation to continue
privatisation reforms and undertake second generation regulatory reforms. These follow
up reforms include privatising another 13-15 public enterprises as well as implementing
improvements in the banking., securities and insurance regulatory frameworks to further
support private sector activity following the last privatisation stage. Such reforms under
the follow up project would ensure that a conducive business environment was in place to
ensure an effective and adequately supervised framework for continued growth in private
sector activity with adequate counterpart public support.



