Page  1
                                                            CONFORMED COPY
                                                 CREDIT NUMBER 2669-0 GUA
                       Development Credit Agreement
            (Financial Sector and Business Environment Project)
                                  between
                            REPUBLIC OF GUYANA
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          Dated January 11, 1995
                                                 CREDIT NUMBER 2669-0 GUA
                       DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
    AGREEMENT, dated January 11, 1995, between REPUBLIC OF
GUYANA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
    WHEREAS: the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule
2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in
the financing of the Project; and
    WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower
upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
    NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
    Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.
Page  2
    Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
    (a)   "BOG" means the Bank of Guyana, the Borrower's Central
Bank, established under Chapter 85:02 of the Bank of Guyana
Act;
    (b)   "Companies Act" means the Borrower's Companies Act
1991, No. 29 of 1991;
    (c)   "Deeds Registry" means the Deeds Registry of the
Borrower established under the Borrower's Companies Act No. 29
of 1991;
    (d)   "GAIBANK" means the Guyana Agricultural and Industrial
Bank, a bank established under Chapter 75:01 of the Borrower's
Cooperative Financial Institutions Act;
    (e)   "GNCB" means the Guyana National Cooperative Bank, a
bank established under Chapter 75:01 of the Borrower's
Cooperative Financial Institutions Act;
    (f)   "GO-INVEST" means the Borrower's Guyana Office of
Investment, established by Order No. 38 of 1994 under the
Borrower's Public Corporations Act, No. 21 of 1988;
    (g)   "Guyanese Dollars" means the Borrower's currency;
    (h)   "Implementation Letter" means the letter of even date
herewith from the Borrower to the Association which includes
the Implementation Plan as an annex thereto;
    (i)   "Implementation Plan" means the Borrower's plan of
objectives, activities and expenditures to be achieved, carried
out and financed under the Project, respectively;
    (j)   "MOF" means the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower;
    (k)   "PIU" means the Project Implementation Unit referred to
in Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement;
    (l)   "PPFP" means the Borrower's Privatization Policy
Framework Paper approved by the Borrower's Parliament on July
16, 1993;
    (m)   "PU" means the Privatization Unit within MOF referred
to in Section 3.08 of this Agreement;
    (n)   "Public Enterprises" means all entities, whose capital
or net worth is partially or wholly owned by the Borrower; and
    (o)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE II
                                The Credit
    Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to two million four hundred thousand
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 2,400,000).
    Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
Page  3
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
    (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in BOG, on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
    Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
    Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the
Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the
rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
    (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the Accrual Date)
to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by
the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the
Accrual Date or at such other rates as may be set from time to
time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next
payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement.
    (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of,
the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as
may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the
provisions of that Section.
    Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
    Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each
year.
    Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on each June 15 and December
15 commencing June 15, 2005 and ending December 15, 2034. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on
December 15, 2014 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent
(2%) of such principal amount.
    (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded
$790 in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and
(ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank
lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association
and after due consideration by them of the development of the
Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of
installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring the
Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not
yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have
been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association
may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some or all
Page  4
of the increases in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment
of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant
element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
    (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly,
the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of
installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
    Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
    Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end, through MOF, shall carry out
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial, managerial,
environmental and business practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.
    (b)   Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions
of paragraph (a) of this Section and except as the Borrower and
the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry
out the Project, in accordance with the Implementation Plan set
forth in the Implementation Letter.
    (c)   Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions
of paragraphs (a) and (b) above, the Borrower shall provide in
its annual budget, and make available promptly as needed, in
Guyanese Dollars equivalent, the amounts required as
counterpart funds for the execution of the Project.
    Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule
3 to this Agreement.
    Section 3.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall establish and thereafter operate and
maintain, until the completion of the Project, a Project
implementation unit (the PIU), within MOF, with functions and
responsibilities satisfactory to the Association, including,
inter alia: (i) the coordination of the procurement of goods
and the selection of consultants to be financed out of the
proceeds of this Credit; and (ii) the preparation of the
reports referred to in Section 3.05 of this Agreement.
    (b)   The Borrower shall ensure that the PIU is, at all
times, headed by a Project manager with qualifications
satisfactory to the Association and assisted by qualified staff
in adequate numbers.
    Section 3.04. Without limitation to the provisions of
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out
the environmental audits or assessments, as the case may be,
referred to in Part E.1 of the Project, in a manner and under
terms satisfactory to the Association.
    Section 3.05. Without limitation to the provisions of
Page  5
Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, the Borrower, through
MOF and with the participation of the PIU, shall not later than
June 30 and December 31 of each year of Project implementation,
starting in June 1995, prepare and furnish to the Association,
for its review, a report of such scope and in such detail as
the Association may reasonably request, on the progress in the
implementation of the Project during the semester prior to the
date of presentation of such report.
    Section 3.06. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions, the Borrower, through
MOF and with the participation of the PIU shall review jointly
with the Association by not later than March 31 of each year
during the execution of the Project, starting in March 1996,
the progress made by the Borrower in carrying out, and
achieving the objectives of the Project.
    (b)   As a result of each such review the Association may
require that the Borrower prepare an action plan, satisfactory
to the Association, to make adjustments in Project
implementation. If so, the Borrower shall furnish such action
plan to the Association not later than thirty days after the
conclusion of the review in question and shall thereafter carry
out, or cause to be carried out, such action plan in accordance
with its terms.
    Section 3.07. Without limitation to the provisions of
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall, not later
than three months after the Effective Date, establish the loan
recovery unit referred to in Part B.2 of the Project, in a
manner acceptable to the Association, and thereafter operate
and maintain such unit with functions and responsibilities
satisfactory to the Association.
    Section 3.08. (a) The Borrower shall operate and maintain,
at all times, the PU with functions and responsibilities
satisfactory to the Association.
    (b)   The Borrower shall ensure that the PU is, at all times,
headed by a professional with qualifications satisfactory to
the Association, and assisted by a qualified staff in adequate
numbers.
    Section 3.09. Without limitation to the provisions of
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and in order to enable the
Borrower to carry out Part B.1 of the Project, the Borrower
shall cause GAIBANK and GNCB to merge and, therefore, create a
new entity as a result of such merger.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
    Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices, the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
    (b)   The Borrower shall:
          (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                paragraph (a) of this Section including those for
                the Special Account for each fiscal year audited,
                in accordance with appropriate auditing
                principles consistently applied, by independent
                auditors acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
                but in any case not later than three months after
                the end of each such year, a certified copy of
Page  6
                the report of such audit by said auditors, of
                such scope and in such detail as the Association
                shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
                concerning said records, accounts and the audit
                thereof as the Association shall from time to
                time reasonably request.
    (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
                with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
                separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the
                Association has received the audit report for the
                fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the
                Credit Account or payment out of the Special
                Account was made, all records (contracts, orders,
                invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                evidencing such expenditures;
        (iii)   enable the Association's representatives to
                examine such records; and
         (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                included in the annual audit referred to in
                paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report
                of such audit contains a separate opinion by said
                auditors as to whether the statements of
                expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                together with the procedures and internal
                controls involved in their preparation, can be
                relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                                 ARTICLE V
                        Effective Date; Termination
    Section 5.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions, namely, that the Borrower shall have
established the PIU and shall have appointed the Project
manager as provided in Section 3.03 of this Agreement.
    Section 5.02. The date April 11, 1995 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VI
                Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
    Section 6.01. The Minister of MOF is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
    Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
    For the Borrower:
          The Ministry of Finance
          Main and Urquhart Streets
          Georgetown
          Guyana
          Cable address:                 Telex:
                MINFIN                     3038
Page  7
                Guyana
    For the Association:
          International Development
           Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                 Telex:
                INDEVAS                    248423 (RCA)
                Washington, D.C.            82987 (FTCC)
                                            64145 (WUI) or
                                           197688 (TRT)
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to
be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
                       REPUBLIC OF GUYANA
                       By /s/ June Persaud
                                                Authorized Representative
                       INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                       By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                          Latin America and the Caribbean
                                SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.  The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                                Amount of the
                              Credit Allocated           % of
                               (Expressed in         Expenditures
    Category                  SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Goods                          100,700          100% of foreign
                                                    expenditures,
                                                    100% of local
                                                    expenditures
                                                    (ex-factory
                                                    cost) and 85%
                                                    of local ex-
                                                    penditures for
                                                    other items
                                                    procured locally
(2)  Consultants'                1,850,000          100%
     Services
(3)  Training                      235,000          100%
(4)  Unallocated                   214,300
                                 ---------
Page  8
        TOTAL                    2,400,000
                                 =========
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower; and
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and (b)
payments made for expenditures under Part B.1 of the Project
unless the merger between GAIBANK and GNCB referred to in
Section 3.09 of this Agreement has been completed and executed
and the new entity created as provided in such Section.
4.  The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure
for expenditures under contracts estimated to cost less than
$25,000 equivalent for goods or consultants' services, under
such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by
notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in
the implementation of policy reforms in the financial and
commercial sectors in order to foster private investment within
the Borrower's territory, through: (a) the strengthening of the
regulatory framework within the financial sector and the
supervisory capacity and monetary management of BOG in order to
improve the solvency and efficiency of financial
intermediation; (b) the reallocation of selected assets of the
Borrower to a more efficient use through the privatization of
Public Enterprises in accordance with the PPFP; and (c) the
improvement of the business environment through: (i) the
dissemination of information on foreign investment to potential
investors; and (ii) the reduction of barriers and limitations
to foreign and domestic investment.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Strengthening of BOG
1.  Strengthening of BOG's banking supervisory functions
through: (a) the drafting and issuance of banking prudential
regulations; (b) the training of BOG's staff in the analysis
and monitoring of the activities of financial institutions
(including the acquisition and utilization of the equipment
required therefor); (c) the drafting and issuance of directives
for the carrying out of the supervisory and analytical
functions and responsibilities of BOG; (d) the design and
implementation of a credit risk qualification system for
financial institutions in order to avoid concentration of
credits in one or more borrowers (including the acquisition and
utilization of the equipment required therefor); and
2.  Strengthening of BOG's monetary management functions
(including the acquisition and utilization of the equipment
required therefor), through: (a) the design and implementation
Page  9
of directives and procedures for open-market operations; (b)
the establishment of a money market unit within BOG; (c) the
design and implementation of procedures for foreign exchange
operations; and (d) the training of BOG's staff in order to
implement the directives and procedures referred to in (a) and
(c) herein and to manage the unit referred to in (b) herein.
Part B:   Technical Assistance to the New Entity
1.  Provision of technical assistance to the entity to be
created as a result of the merger between GAIBANK and GNCB as
referred to in Section 3.09 of this Agreement for assisting
such entity in: (a) the design and implementation of uniform
credit policies for management of portfolio risks; (b) the
design and implementation of loan review and approval
procedures to ensure that the credit policies referred to in
(a) herein are implemented; (c) the design and implementation
of a uniform accounting and financial control system; (d) the
drafting and issuance of directives for the implementation of
the system referred to in (c) herein (including the acquisition
and utilization of the equipment required therefor); and (e)
the design and implementation of a strategy to reallocate the
staff of the entity referred to herein and restructure its
branch network.
2.  Establishment of a loan recovery unit.
Part C:   Strengthening of the PU
    Provision of technical assistance to the PU in order to
assist such unit in all the necessary actions to be taken by
the PU in connection with the privatization of Public
Enterprises, including the acquisition and utilization of the
equipment required therefor.
Part D:   Improvement of the Business Environment
1.  Provision of technical assistance to GO-INVEST for assisting
such office in the design and implementation of institutional
procedures for promoting investment, including the training of
such office's staff and the acquisition and utilization of
equipment required therefor.
2.  Provision of technical assistance to the Borrower for
assisting it in: (a) the drafting and issuance of regulations
to the Companies Act, including the training of the Borrower's
staff to become acquainted with such regulations; and (b) the
design and implementation of a program to strengthen the
institutional capacity of the Deeds Registry, including the
training of the Registry's staff to implement such program.
Part E:   Environmental Audits or Assessments
1.  Carrying out of environmental audits or assessments of
Public Enterprises to, inter alia, identify mitigatory measures
for negative environmental impacts related to the past and
current operating practices and inadequate design features of
such Public Enterprises.
2.  Strengthening the institutional capacity of the Borrower's
environmental protection agency.
                                   * * *
    The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1997.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Page  10
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.  Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines), and in
accordance with the following additional procedures:
    (a)   When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid
validity period, such period may be extended once, subject to
and in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.59 of the
Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete
the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and clearances and
award the contract. The bid validity period may be extended a
second time only if the bidding documents or the request for
extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment of the bid
price to reflect changes in the cost of inputs for the contract
over the period of extension. Such an increase in the bid price
shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation. With
respect to each contract made subject to the Association's
prior review in accordance with the provisions of Part D.1 (a)
of this Section, the Association's prior approval will be
required for: (i) a first extension of the bid validity period
if the period of extension exceeds sixty (60) days; and (ii)
any subsequent extension of the bid validity period.
    (b)   In the procurement of goods in accordance with this
Part A, the Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding
documents issued by the Association, with such modifications
thereto as the Association shall have agreed to be necessary
for the purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard
bidding documents have been issued by the Association, the
Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other
internationally recognized standard forms agreed with the
Association.
2.  To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$25,000 or more.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in
Guyana may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and
2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix
2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
    Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $25,000
per contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from a list of
at least three suppliers from at least two different countries
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association.
Part D:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.  Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
    (a)   With respect to each contract for goods to be awarded
under Part A of this Section, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the
Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure
that the two conformed copies of the contract required to be
Page  11
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d)
shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of
the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.
    (b)   With respect to the first contract to be awarded under
Part C of this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs
3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the
two conformed copies of the contract together with the other
information required to be furnished to the Association
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the
Association as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to
paragraph 4 to this Agreement.
    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure with the exception of the first contract to be
awarded under Part C of this Section, as referred to in
subparagraph (b) above.
2.  The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.  In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be
selected in accordance with principles and procedures
satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based
assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants under
contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants'
services issued by the Association, with such modifications as
shall have been agreed by the Association. Where no relevant
standard contract documents have been issued by the
Association, the Borrower shall use other standard forms agreed
with the Association.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply to contracts
estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent each. However,
said exception to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the
terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source
selection of consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical
nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; or (d) amendments
to contracts raising the contract value to $25,000 equivalent
or above.
                                SCHEDULE 4
                              Special Account
1.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement;
    (b)   the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories
Page  12
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement; and
    (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $300,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule; provided, however, that unless the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation
shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $100,000 until the
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus
the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR
335,000.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals
of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate
amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                requests for deposits into the Special Account at
                such intervals as the Association shall specify.
         (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                by said documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of the Special Account for Eligible
                Expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective Eligible Categories,
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
Page  13
    (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Association, within the period of time specified in Section
4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for
the Special Account;
    (c)   if, at any time, the Association shall have notified
the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions; or
    (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the Eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the Eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association
shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of
such notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible
Expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for
an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible
or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for Eligible Expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association,
refund to the Association all or any portion of the funds on
deposit in the Special Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the
Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
