Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22472
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(SCL-42 180)
ON A
LOAN/CREDIT/GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 75 MILLION
TO THE
ARGENTINA
FOR A
PROVINCIAL REFORM LOAN - RIO NEGRO
06/28/2001
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performnance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective)
Currency Unit = Peso
ARG$ 1 = US$ 1
US$ 1 = ARG$ 1
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 1
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                         Country Assistance Strategy
CPSP                        Ministry of Public Health
EGB                        Educaci6n General Bdsica (General Basic Education)
ERR                         Economic Rate of Return
HQ                          Headquarters
IBRD                        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR                         Implementation Completion Report
IDB                         Inter-American Development Bank
IPPROS                      Provincial Health Insurance Fund
IDEVI                       Provincial Housing Authority
IPPV                        Provincial Road Directorate
LPR                         Letters of Provincial Reform
OECD                       Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
PDP I                       First Provincial Development Project
PDP II                      Second Provincial Development Project
PRESSAL                     Provincial Health Sector Development
PRISE                      Programa de Reformnas en el Sector Educaci6n
(Reform Program on Education Sector)
PRL                         Provincial Reform Loan
PRL II                      Second Provincial Reform Loan
PRODYMES I                  Secondary Education Reform I
QAG                         Quality Assurance Group
TOR                        Terms of Reference
UNDP                        United Nations Development Program
Vice President:    David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:    Myrna Alexander
Sector Manager/Director:    Ernesto May
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Mark Hagerstrom



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ARGENTINA
PROVINCIAL REFORM - RIO NEGRO
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                        1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                       1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry             3
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                 13
6. Sustainability                                                                     16
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                      17
8. Lessons Learned                                                                    21
9. Partner Comments                                                                   23
10. Additional Informnation                                                          23
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                  37
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                  39
Annex 3. Economric Costs and Benefits                                                 41
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                  42
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                  43
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                    44
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                 45
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P051695                                      Project Name: P.RFM(R.NEGRO)
Team Leader: Mark V. Hagerstrom                         TL Unit: LCC7C
ICR Type: Core ICR                                      Report Date: June 28, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: P.RFM(R.NEGRO)                                L/C/TF Number: SCL-42180
CountryIDepartment: ARGENTINA                                          Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: BB - Public Sector Management Adjustnent
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  09/25/96                               Effective:  12/31/97          12/22/97
Appraisal:  04/11/97                                MTR:
Approval:  08/26/97                               Closing:  12/31/99          06/30/2000
Borrower/Implementing Agency: GOVERNMENT/MIN OF ECONOMY/PROVINCE
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:     David De Ferranti                         Shahid Javed Burki
Country Manager:     Myrna L. Alexander                       Gobind Nankani
Sector Manager:      Ernesto May                              Paul Meo
Team Leader at ICR:   Mark V. Hagerstrom                      Maria Emilia Freire
ICR Primary Author:   Mark V. Hagerstrom
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development Impact: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: U
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: S                     S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
1.     Designed to help the province of Rio Negro to reduce the role of the public sector in the regional
economy, promote participation of the private sector, restructure the provincial govemment and ensure
an efficient delivery of public services. The objectives for the period 1997-99 are the following:
A. Fiscal and public finance:



(i) Improve tax collection and administration to promote higher reliance on own-source revenues;
(ii) civil service reform and reduction of personnel expenditure as percentage of net current
revenues;
iii) rationalization and prioritization of govemment spending, maintaining 1996 level as a floor for
social       spending.
B. Improve efficiency in the education and health sectors,
B1. Education reform will ensure the extension of mandatory education and improve access to
the poor within budget constraints. Priority actions include:
(a) increasing the student/teacher ratio and the ratio of staff actively teaching to total staff;
(b) reduce the disproportionate use of temporary and substitute education personnel;
(c) improve incentives for quality achievement;
(d) increase participation of the private sector; and
(e) reduce administrative costs.
B2. Health reforms will improve efficiency and equity in the health sector, by:
(a) separating the provision and financing of public health services,
(b) increasing cost recovery,
(c) consolidating hospital facilities,
(d) reducing excessive staff and reallocating resources to non-personnel expenditures,
(e) improving targeting to the poor and
(f) increasing health insurance coverage (within the current health budget constraints).
3.2 Revised Objective:
2.    n.a.
3.3 Original Components:
3.    Component; Cost; Rating
FIRST TRANCHE RELEASE; $25,000,000.00; S
SECOND TRANCHE RELEASE; $25,000,000.00;  S
THIRD TRANCHE RELEASE; $25,000,000.00; U
3.4 Revised Components:
4.     n.a.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
5.    The project was reviewed by QAG with a Rapid Quality at Entry Assessment and received
an Overall Assessment of Satisfactory. Good consistency of project with CAS. Selection of
provinces rather eclectic: orginal concept of 3-4 small and poorer provinces in NW Argentina
(with competitive access to single loan) abandoned with selection of Rio Negro, an oil rich
province in Western Argentina: all four provinces with strong interest and commitments to fiscal
reform - leading to four separate loans. Overall interesting approach/deepening of reforms at
provincial level. Program put together rather quietly, but recent elections confirmed incumbents
in all four provinces, thereby ensuring basis for political commitment to project implementation".
The assessement gave marginal ratings for the following aspects:
- 2 -



* Social and Stakeholder Aspects: Incomplete quantitative assessment of social impact
* Institutional Capacity: TORs and staffing requirement of provincial Executing Units are
missing.
* Readiness for Implementation: initial delays in functioning of Executing Units may be
expected in addition because of uneveness regarding signing/effectiveness.
6.    The assessment of quality at entry in the ICR as satisfactory is discussed in the context of
Bank performance, Section7.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Background
7.    In Argentina, provincial governments have long played an important role in overall fiscal
performance and macroeconomic stability. Argentina's public sector is highly decentralized, with
provinces and municipalities accounting for about half of total public spending. In particular, they
have increasingly become the key public sector level for providing public services in health,
education and infrastructure, with responsibility for over 90 percent of public spending in health
and basic education.   Thus, provincial reform becomes a central element in the efforts of
Argentina to reduce its macroeconomic vulnerability through improved fiscal performance and to
increase competitiveness and enhance equity through human resource development.
8.    During the 1980s, high inflation rates, lack of budgetary discipline, easy access to
borrowing and reliance on the Federal Government for transfers and bailouts all contributed to
persistent fiscal deficits. The situation improved in 1992, due to the reforms that the Federal
Government had initiated under the Convertibility Plan, and a major national tax effort, which
resulted in windfall revenues for the provinces. However, the situation began to deteriorate due
to excessive spending by the provinces. With the financial crisis of 1995 the fiscal situation
became critical again, when the pool of total public revenues fell dramatically. Provincial
revenues dropped 5 percent in real terms, provincial expenditures failed to adjust, and the
provincial deficit reached a record high of $3.5 billion or 1.4 percent of GDP, about half of the
consolidated public sector deficit. In 1995-96, out of 24 provinces, only four had balanced fiscal
accounts. Most of the others faced important liquidity shortages, increased borrowing, and
accumulated arrears.
9.    Recognizing the importance of provincial finances to macro-stability in a federal state,
provincial reform has been a priority for the Federal Government since the early 1990s. During
1992 and 1993, it negotiated two agreements with the provinces to promote structural reforms.
The provinces agreed to improve own-source mobilization, restructure provincial taxes and
eliminate distortionary taxes, privatize public enterprises, including the provincial banks and
utilities, deregulate the provincial economy, and transfer the provincial pension funds to the
national system. In exchange, the Federal Government guaranteed a shared-revenue floor to each
province, sheltering them from downfalls in revenue. It also provided a Transformation Fund,
which helped finance those reforms and provide technical assistance and advisory services. While
some provinces began implementing reforms during 1993-94, it was not until the financial crisis of
1995 that a large number of provinces began to reform in earnest.
-3-



10.   The Bank has been a major partner of the Government since the early 1990's in supporting
provincial reforms and institutional strengthening. The first generation of IBRD operations
developed during the late 1980s that targeted at sub-national governments were the First
Provincial Development Project (Ln. 3280-AR) and Municipal Development Project (Ln.
2920-AR) and subsequent follow-up operations-- for the provinces (Ln. 3877-AR) and
municipalities (Ln. 3860-AR). These loans were multi-sector operations covering all provinces to
provide, at a minimum, support for institutional strengthening. For those satisfying
creditworthiness criteria, financing was provided for investments linked to sector reforms and
improved fiscal performance. In time, these loans were complemented by a series of sector
investment operations aimed at improving the efficiency of delivering secondary education, public
health, provincial roads, water supply, and agricultural services and infrastructure. In terms of
reform, the multi-sector operations had been successful in strengthening the weak technical
capacity of provincial and municipal governments and introducing the concept of rewarding good
fiscal performance. However, the operations were not adequate for providing the necessary
financial support to those provinces willing and able to implement major structural reforms. The
First Provincial Reform Loan (PRL-1 Ln. 3826-AR) was designed to fill in this gap.
11.   Targeted at a group of reform-minded provinces, the PRL-1 was aimed at deepening the
fiscal reforms underlying macroeconomic stability and enhancing the capacity of the provincial
governments to fulfill their increasingly-important role as providers of public goods and services.
To accomplish these objectives, the operation was designed as a quick-disbursing adjustment loan
with conditionalities both at the federal and at the provincial levels. The loan proceeds were used
to capitalize the Transformation Fund, established by the national government in April 1993 to
promote structural adjustment in the provinces. The national government established individual
agreements with the participating provinces, determining in each case the measures to be taken by
the provincial governments, their needs for technical and financial support, and the terms for
repayment. The national government, in turn, was responsible for maintaining a supportive
incentive framework. The PRL-1 operation in concert with the complementary Provincial Bank
Privatization (Ln. 3878-AR) and the Provincial Pension Reform (Ln. 4116-AR) loans were
highly successful in deepening public sector reform among participating provinces. Some of their
specific accomplishments include the reduction of 55,000 provincial agents, the privatization or
concessioning of 48 provincial enterprises, the privatization of thirteen provincial banks, and the
transfer of eight provincial pension funds to the national social security system.
12.  In 1996, the Federal Government recognized the need for a second phase of provincial
reforms. After undertaking some of the basic structural reforms, including privatization, which
provided a better balance in the role of the state and its fiscal means and a more stable, immediate
fiscal situation, it was clear that the provinces needed to address issues of the quality and equity of
core public services, especially in health and education, which had been decentralized. The
Second Provincial Reform Loan (PRL-2) came as the next step in the progression towards more
direct interaction with selected, reform-minded provinces. Targeted directly to individual
provinces that had demonstrated their willingness and ability to implement reforms, the PRL-2
was conceived as a more agile lending tool tailored to fit the reform programs of individual
provinces, thus avoiding the administrative bureaucracy of programs administered at the central
- 4 -



level and increasing borrower ownership.
13.   The PRL-2's specific objective, as stated in the Report and Recommendation of the
President (Report No. P-7136-AR, July 30, 1997) was to support the provinces to reform and
restructure their governments so as to ensure an efficient and responsive delivery of public
services, particularly in health and education, within fiscally sound policies. To accomplish these
objectives, the PRL-2 was structured as quick-disbursing adjustment loans to the individual
provinces to support fiscal adjustment combined with structural reform in the social sectors. The
operation was to finance the adjustment cost of the provincial programs and to provide technical
assistance and analytical support to the provinces. The PRL-2 was fully consistent with the 1997
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), which defined a strategy towards the provinces that focused
on reform and sector investment operations aimed at deepening reforms in selected provinces by
improving the efficiency of social expenditures. While the nature of the problems varied across
provinces and the reform programs are tailor-made to each, the pillars of the reform program
were common and include three basic components: public finance, education, and health.
14.   Reforms in public finance focused on achieving a sustainable fiscal situation based mainly
on strengthening ongoing reforms in the participating provinces, particularly in increasing current
savings to lower the debt burden. Local resource mobilization was emphasized not only to
increase revenues, but to enhance accountability and to reduce, at least somewhat, the pro-cyclical
impact of federal transfers. Civil service reform was promoted to enhance the productivity of
public and to increase resources available for investment by reducing the wage bill. Increased
local revenues, changes in the structure of expenditures, and lowering debt were required to
provide for greater flexibility in the face of economic downturns, such as the Tequila crisis and
more recently the external shocks from Asia, Russia and Brazil. Technical assistance and
financing for institutional development was to be provided through ongoing Bank operations, in
particular the Second Provincial Development Project. The basic elements of the program
included:
3 improvement in tax collection and administration to promote higher reliance on own-source
revenues and increased accountability;
* civil service reforrm including reduction of the wage bill and redundant personnel; improved
training and compensation; control to lower absenteeism and overpayments; and,
* rationalization of public expenditures and prioritization of government spending, with
emphasis on privatization and outsourcing to improve reliability and quality of public services
and lower the fiscal burden.
15.   On the social sector side, the emphasis was to increase the efficiency and quality of the
education and health sectors, focusing on demand and poverty reduction aspects, while promoting
increased involvement by the private sector. The large majority of provinces devote sufficient
resources to public health and education, most at levels higher than OECD countries relative to
per capita incomes; however, the efficiency and quality of this spending are poor. The basic
strategy was to protect current levels of spending, while at the same time changing the structure
- 5 -



of expenditures to increase investment and providing incentives for improvements in efficiency,
quality and equity
16.  In education, despite attractive returns to higher education, dropout rates from secondary
school among the poor are high. In Argentina only 24 percent of students in the lowest quintile
complete secondary school, compared to 76 percent for the upper quintile. Proposed education
reforms sought to ensure the extension of obligatory education (from six to nine years) as
mandated the National Education Law, while improving efficiency and quality. Given the low
productivity in most provinces, with student/teacher ratios in some cases double those of
comparators, and high levels of teacher absenteeism (sometimes four times as high as
comparators), much of this was to be financed within the current budget, with some short-term
increases to cover investment in classrooms, materials and teacher training. In addition, most
provinces also needed to undergo important reforms to provide incentives to improve quality,
including changing seniority-based teacher remuneration systems into merit-based systems, and
decentralizing greater control to the school level. Technical assistance and financing for
institutional development was to be provided through the ongoing Bank operations, First and
Second Secondary Education Projects (Lns. 3794 and 3971) as well as through IDB sector
operations. Priority actions included:
* Increasing low student/teacher ratios and the participation of staff actively teaching as a share
of total staff;
* Reducing disproportionate use of temporary and substitute education personnel;
3 Improving the incentives for quality improvement;
* Increasing the participation of the private sector; and,
* Reducing administrative costs.
17.  In health, despite the availability of health care, generally through public hospitals, care is
of poorer quality for poorer people. For example, 25 percent of women in the lowest income
levels are delivered by non-doctors, while none at the upper level; over 30 percent of women in
the lowest quintile have no post delivery follow-up, compared to only 2 percent of those in the
upper quintile; 74 percent from lowest have to wait more than 24 hours for a consultation, as
compared to only 45 percent of those in the upper quintile. Proposed health reforms sought to
increase overall investment largely within the current budget envelope and to induce
improvements in efficiency, quality and equity by separating the supply of services from the
financing, promoting cost-recovery for care provided by public hospital to insured patients,
promoting hospital accreditation and quality assurance systems, and providing the indigent
population with health insurance. A fundamental element of this strategy, self-administered public
hospitals, was pioneered in Argentina under the ongoing Provincial Health Development Project
(PRESSAL, Ln. 3931-AR). On the financing side, the Bank supported reforms in the national
health insurance system (Health Insurance Reform Loan Ln. 4002/3AR and Health Insurance
Technical Assistance Project Ln 4004-AR) to enhance efficiency and promote competition. The
PRL-2 program combined these two reform elements in participating provinces and promotes the
incorporation of the uninsured poor into the system to help ensure equity in access to services.
The main actions to be undertaken cover reforms in the area of personal health care delivery,
public health finance and public health administration and included:
- 6 -



* Extending the Provincial Health Insurance to the uninsured poor;
* Restructuring the Provincial Health Insurance carrier (Obra Social Provincial);
* Reducing staff and reallocating resources to non-personnel expenditures;
* Reallocating resources from personal health care to essential public health services, and;
* Promoting public hospital autonomy
18.   According to the eligibility criteria and the focus of the program agreed between the
national government and the Bank, the PRL-2 loans were to be made available to provinces that
had: (i) introduced significant structural reforms in terrns of the size of the provincial government
and the privatization of major public enterprises; (ii) accepted the transfer of the provincial
pension funds to the national system; and (iii) demonstrated ability and political commitment to
further reforms. On the basis of these criteria, four provinces were selected for piloting this
approach: Rio Negro, Salta, San Juan, and Tucuman. These provinces represented a diverse
pool in terms of their main demographic and socio-economic indicators, economic base, and the
political affiliation of the provincial administrations. Together, they account for 6 percent of
Argentina's GDP and 10 percent of the country's population.
19.   The borrower of the four adjustment loans was the Argentine Republic, which in turn was
to onlend funds equivalent to the loan amounts to each province. The amount of each loan was
determined as a function of the population of each province, its adjustment needs, and the depth
of each program. Tranche conditionality was also tailored to match the depth and pace of reforms
in each participating province. Disbursements for each loan were conditioned on Board approval
(i.e., loan effectiveness) and subsequent positive evaluations on the compliance of the loan
conditionality agreed with each province. While the formal tranche-release actions were limited
to key measures, the operations supported an ambitious reform program in each of the
participating provinces that were detailed in the Letters of Provincial Reform (LPR) drafted by
each province.
Rio Negro
20.   Rio Negro is an Argentine province endowed with economic resources and good
development potential. The provincial per capita income was about $7,200 in 1995, somewhat
lower than Argentina's average, but in most social indicators it performs better than other
provinces, particularly those participating in the PRL-2. The province is strategically positioned to
take advantage of important energy, mining, agricultural and tourism potential. However, during
the early 1990s, the province failed to initiate the adjustment needed under the Convertibility Plan.
Rapid growth of recurrent expenditures in support of inefficient public enterprises and growth in
public sector employment led to major deficits and increased debt, undermining its ability to
adequately support the restructuring of the economy through public services and infrastructure.
Governed by the opposition party, the provincial administration during the early 1990s had
politically rejected the liberalization policies of the national administration and had defiantly
maintained statist policies until the virtual fiscal collapse of the province during the Tequila crisis.
21.   The fiscal crisis in the province had apparently reached its depths in 1995, when the then
- 7 -



governor ran for the presidency. In the face of the fiscal pressures associated with the Tequila
crisis, the provincial administration was defiant in maintaining deficit spending, supporting
bankrupt state enterprises, including the provincial bank, increasing public sector employment and
wages, and running up significant debt to cover the current deficit. By 1995, the provincial deficit
reached 45% of current revenues, the wage bill absorbed 109% of current revenues, and capital
outlays were limited to those financed by earmarked transfers from the national government. The
debt stock reached $599 millions at the end of 1995, or 130% of current revenues. More than
half of the province's revenue sharing from the federal government, representing 70% of total
revenues, was affected to pay the debt.
Rio Negro - Achievement of Development Objectives
22.   The objective of helping the province of Rio Negro to reform its public sector so as to
ensure an efficient and responsive delivery of public services in education and health within
fiscally sound policies was not met. Early advances in fiscal, education and health objectives were
not adequately pursued. In particular, the province failed to advance as quickly as needed in
improving fiscal performance during 1998-99 period. The economic downturn in Argentina had
a negative affect on implementation, but timely provincial measures could have reduced the
impact. The lack of such measures can be attributed largely to the advent of national and
provincial elections, which both limited the political scope for actions at the local level and
engendered hope that a change at the national level might bring a transfer of resources that would
alleviate the need for the more effective, but potentially politically costly, measures to reach fiscal
balance. This change at the Federal level did not occur. Despite the failure to achieve most
development objects, there was some modest institutional impact that along with federal
government initiatives could support sustainability and the possible deepening of the reforms in
the future. The fiscal reform, in particular, is now expected to be achieved by 2003. A detailed
assessment of the three main components, fiscal and public finance, education, and health, are
provided below:
4.2 Outputs by components:
Fiscal and Public Finance
23.   Faced with the critical fiscal situation of the mid- 1990s, the newly-elected governor began
to take important measures in 1996, such as privatizing public enterprises, including the provincial
bank, the electricity utility and provincial casinos; reducing teachers' costs by cutting teaching
hours, and transferring the provincial pension fund to the National government. As a result, the
fiscal accounts improved somewhat, although the situation remained extremely fragile. The
current deficit declined to 21 % of current revenues, personnel costs fell to 94% of net current
revenues, and the cash situation improved substantially going from a monthly deficit of $21.5
million (at the end of 1995) to $7.3 million at the beginning of 1997. On the other hand, the debt
stock reached $741 million at the end of 1996, or 157% of the current revenues, in part to finance
the privatization of the provincial bank, and debt service absorbed 39% of the current revenues at
the end of the year.
24.   Under the program, the provincial government sought to reach a sustained fiscal balance,
-8 -



by attaining a current surplus every year beginning in 1998, reducing personnel expenditures to
65% of current revenues and assuring fiscal surpluses large enough to reduce the debt stock to a
sustainable level while keeping investment levels an adequate level. Despite some advances,
particularly in reducing the wage bill, these goals where not achieved under the program during
the 1997-99 period. Based on current projections, they are unlikely to be achieved before the
year 2003. Modest achievements in the areas detailed below were insufficient to produce the
outcomes expected, due to rising interest payments on the debt (which grew from $53 million in
1997 to $80 million by 1999), the failure to cut capital spending, and non-personnel spending,
including transfers to public enterprises. As a result, the deficit in current spending reached about
13%, the same as 1996. The stock of debt, which had been expected to peak at about $815
million in 1998, increased to $947 million by 1999.
(i). The effort to improve tax administration and collection was effectively pursued during the
1997-98 period and the province was able to achieve an increase by 1998 of almost 20% over
1996, and thus to meet a target of 25% of own-resources relative to total revenues. This effort,
however, was not sustained in 1999, which saw local revenues decline by 10%. Institutional
measure supported by the Provincial Development Projects included updating of the property tax
rolls, and decentralization and modernization of provincial tax offices. These could provide an
important basis for regaining the previous achievement in the future, provided that there is
adequate political support to pursue collections.
(ii). Civil service reform and reduction of personnel expenditure as a share of current
spending. Initial efforts in restructuring the line ministries were used to identify redundancies and
programs of early retirement and voluntary separation were implemented. While there were some
achievements in downsizing early in the program, with 3,400 workers leaving the public sector by
1998, this was only slowly reflected by reductions in the wage bill, and the voluntary approach
began to stagnate by 1999. Outsourcing was also used based on the creation of micro-enterprises
run by ex-employees, but protracted negotiations with public sector unions delayed progress and
reduced possible savings. Other reforms to promote attendance, improve the wage scale and
introduce merit-based remuneration were initiated, but impact on savings are also not likely to be
great in the short-term. Although Rio Negro's efforts, which resulted in a 4% decline in the wage
bill during the 1996-99 period, can be seen as heroic in the context of Argentina, where the
aggregate wage bill of the provinces increased by 22% during this period, with a failure to contain
spending in other areas, to reach the desired current balance would have required a doubling of
efforts. During this period, the province was unable to accelerate its program of voluntary
separation, nor was it willing to introduce other measures, such a wage cuts, an approach used
successfully by other provinces and recently by the federal government. Overall, public sector
employment still remains high relative to other provinces. Although public employment in the
province is the lowest among patagonian provinces at 47.1 per 1,000 inhabitants, these levels are
correlated with the level of oil royalties received by the provinces and not staffing requirements.
In contrast, Rio Negro's per capita public employment is about 25% higher than that of the
provinces of Tucuman and Salta, which successfully implemented fiscal reforms under the PRL-2.
(iii) Rationalizing and prioritizing spending, including maintaining levels of spending in
health and education. Performance was mixed in this area. While the province achieved its
-9-



commitment to protect spending in health and education, the failure to adequately cut back on
capital spending and to control non-personnel expenditures to accommodate the slower than
expected cuts in current spending helped to undermined the fiscal program. The province also
failed to move quickly enough to deepen the privatization effort and continued to transfer funds to
maintain these enterprises. Agreements reached with the Bank to step up this process in 1999
were not implemented in a timely manner. This effort, however, is expected to continue under
encouragement by the Federal Government.
Education
25.  At preparation it was noted that education performance in the province of Rio Negro
compared well in many aspects to those of other provinces, particularly to those participating in
the PRL-2. The coverage was almost universal at the primary level (96%) and reached 56% at
the secondary level, and the province ranked third among provinces in terms of quality. On the
other hand, Rio Negro faced significant problems in education similar to those of most other
provinces. Personnel expenditures dominated the education budget, leaving little room to finance
non-personnel inputs and investment. The average costs per student was high due to low
student/teacher ratios the and disproportionate use of temporary and substitute teachers.
Teachers often abused the leave system and their pay was unrelated to teaching quality or
effective classroom hours. These problems were exacerbated because of expectations for a
significant increase in educational demand due to demographic growth and extension in
compulsory education from six to nine years, as mandated by the Federal Education Law. Given
the fiscal situation there was little room for increased budget to meet these needs. Indeed, in
1996, the education budget was cut $23 million, or 12%, by reducing the central administration
and paring down activities outside of primary and secondary education.
26.  Measures were expected to support the extension of compulsory education and to improve
access to the poor. Along with raising more investment resources by improving the
administration and efficiency of the education sector, additional activities were planned to pilot
decentralization to the school level, enhance the incentives and transparency of private sector
subsidies, and improve the role of public sector teacher training institutes. By 1998, at the time of
the second tranche, the share of personnel expenditures had been reduced to 88%, and further
reductions in the wage bill were subsequently achieved. Nevertheless, the province was less
successful in translating these savings into greater investment. Recurrent spending in other areas
rose (reflecting less than expected net savings from the outsourcing efforts) and the investment
programs themselves were negatively affected by delays, including a lack of counterpart funding.
In addition, the federal reforms, which were already resisted by many local teachers and elements
of sector leadership, also suffered from the elections of 1999, as many felt that a new Federal
administration would rescind the Law. As such, the expected impact of accelerating
implementation of the Federal Education Law was undermined and the province remained one of
the slowest provinces in terms of implementation, despite the combined support of the PRL and
the Secondary Education Project. Further, there is no evidence that access by the poor has
improved, or how the project expected to achieve this, as there were no monitorable indicators in
this regard. The modest achievements of the measures undertaken are discussed below:
i) Increasing student/teacher ratio and more teachers in front of the classroom. The
-10-



objective of the component was to achieve savings in personnel costs in order to provide for
spending needed in investment. The reduction in personnel costs was also sought through early
retirement to allow the reduction in the average number of years in service, the reduction of
central administration staff, outsourcing of general services and increasing class size. Early
achievements in this area, which saw an improvement in the student/teacher ratio from 15: 1 to
17: 1 by 1998. Third tranche targets sought a further improvement to 19: 1.
(ii) Reduce the disproportionate use of substitute teachers. The implementation of a new
system for controlling abuses of sick leave was successful. Sick leave declined from about 12%
of the workforce in 1997 to less than 6% by late 1998. This was an important achievement in
contributing to greater discipline among public sector workers, enhancing the morale of the
majority of teachers, and reducing the disruptions to teaching associated with the use of
substitutes. As such, the ratio of expenditures on substitute/ regular teachers has fallen from a
high of 26.5 in 1993 to 10.0 in 1999.
(iii) Improve incentives for quality. Perhaps the most significant measure was to improve
working rules for teachers and to base part of their salary on merit. The legal provisions for such
a change have yet to be submitted to the legislature. Another effort to promote quality and
efficiency was to develop a model for decentralized schools. This effort led to 30 pilot schools,
but the program was largely unsuccessful because of the lack of institutional capacity at the local
level. The province is continuing its efforts in this area, but providing greater budgetary
autonomy to the school level remains difficult given the fiscal situation of the provinces and the
desire to maintain central control over spending. Another activity was to enhance the role of
teacher training institutes by restructuring them to reduce excess capacity (they graduated about
five times more teachers than needed) and by reorienting them to training for the new curriculum
needed under the Federal Education Law. This consolidation is still underway and is not expected
to be met until 2001. Overall, there is some evidence of improvement in quality, with a decline in
repetition rates from 18.1% in the mid-1990s to 15.5% in 1998, but the role of the PRL-2 and
Secondary Education Project is not clear.
(iv) Increase participation of the private sector. The measures included in the program sought
to improve the improve the efficiency and quality of privately managed schools by enhancing the
allocation of public subsidies, which constituted less than 8% of total sector spending. Although
spending per student was somewhat higher in these schools, the greater concern was the
transparency and incentives being provided. A new formula-based system incorporating cost per
student was proposed. As of late 1999, the province had instituted regulations requiring
improved student/teacher ratios for these schools, and had drafted a law to allocate subsidies
based upon objective criteria including efficiency and equity, implementation of which was a third
tranche condition. The law has yet to be implemented.
(v) Reduce administrative costs. Measures undertaken included the reduction of the central
administration and the reassigning of teachers from non-teaching administrative positions was
largely successful. Efforts to outsource janitorial services are ongoing.
- 1 1 -



Health
27.   At preparation poor health statistics were judged to be largely the result of structural
deficiencies in the province's health delivery capacity. The health system was predominantly
hospital-based, with hospitals being managed primarily by the provincial government. Public
hospitals were inefficient, with low occupancy rates averaging only 57 percent, low personnel
productivity and low quality of care. Personnel costs absorbed 82 percent of the health budget in
1996, leaving little room for essential complementary inputs. Many hospitals were obsolete and
lacked basic maintenance, both in terms of equipment and physical facilities. As decision-making
was highly centralized at the level of the Provincial Ministry of Health, hospitals had limited
authority and incentives to achieve improvements in efficiency
28.   To promote a more efficient production of health services the program sought to support
the transformation of public hospitals into decentralized hospitals, defined by the local
administration of human resources and financing associated with the volume and quality of
services offered. Essentially public hospitals were to be financed by the sale of services to private
and public insurance providers rather than by direct budget lines from the Ministry of Health, with
poor, non-covered, clients benefiting from a new health insurance program. All of this was to
contribute to improving the quality of the services and to make the subsidy extended to those
services or activities considered public goods more transparent.
29.   Despite some early accomplishments in setting up the legal framework and initiating
changes in a few hospitals, achievement of this objective is rated as negligible. Changes in impact
indicators for targeting the poor, quality and efficiency were developed during implementation
(and are therefore not included in the original indicators that focus on processes and outcomes),
but changes, either positive or negative are unlikely to be attributable to a program itself, given
the low level of implementation. Assessment of the individual components of the program are as
follows:
(i) Separating the provision from the financing of public health services. This was the
fundamental transformation expected under the program. Even under the most favorable
environments, this objective appears to have been overly ambitious for a two-year program. As
of 1999, only about 9% of the overall budget was funded through the hospitals own resources.
This is only about a third of what might have been expected to be recovered from insured
patients. This deficit and the financing of non-insured patients is still allocated by the Ministry of
Health based upon historical budgets, although efforts to establish a capita system are underway.
(ii) Increasing cost recovery. In several hospitals, outsourced systems for recovering for
services provided to those with private or social health insurance were implemented early on in
the program. With some of the recovered funds allocated to provide salary bonuses, staff were
enthusiastic. However, apparently fears of creating disincentives for attending poorer patients
without health insurance (see v-vi) have inhibited greater use of cost recovery (see i).
(iii) Consolidating hospital facilities. No specific activities were included in the program to
- 12 -



achieve this objective, beyond that which might have been realized under a system effectively
separating financing from services.
(iv) Reducing excess staff and reallocating resources to investment. Under the program,
through reductions in staff and outsourcing, the province was able to lower the share of the wage
bill to 65% by 1999. Still, increased spending in goods and services meant that only about 2% of
the budget was devoted to capital expenditures.
(v) Improve targeting to the poor. Beyond the health insurance scheme (see v), there were no
explicit activities designed to support this objective. Indeed, it is likely that the access of the poor
may have suffered to extent that hospital staff had less incentive to attend to them in some public
hospitals (see ii).
(iv) Increasing health insurance coverage (within the current health budget constraint).
Despite some important advances in creating a roster of those with health insurance (and thereby
as a first approximation identify opportunistically those without) and the putting forward of
legislation to create a publicly-funded health insurance scheme for the poor, the system envisaged
at appraisal is far from being implemented. The major limitation has been fears of the budget
impact. The province has indicated its desire, however, to seek technical assistance on the issue
from the recently approved Health Insurance for the Uninsured being financed by the Bank.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
30.   n.a.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
31.   n.a.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
32.   Despite the unsatisfactory assessment in achieving development objectives under the loan,
some areas are likely to benefit in the future from initiatives undertaken during the program and in
conjunction with ongoing support from the Federal Government. Improvements were achieved in
civil service reform at the central level and in human resource management in the education
sector, although the pilot for decentralization was not successful in developing a sustainable
model of school-based management. Improvements were also seen in financial management,
although control over decentralized spending remains a major weakness. Finally, tax
administration benefited from modernization efforts, although collection efforts may have been
adversely affected by the econonic downturn.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
33.   Macroeconomic performance: It would be difficult to imagine a more favorable
economic environment to support implementation during the initial years of the program.
Economic growth was on the upswing, with real GDP growth of 5.5 percent in 1996, 8.1 percent
in 1997, and 6.6 percent in the first half of 1998. However, as a result of the combined effects of
the downturn in East Asia, the devaluation of the Russian ruble and the Brazilian real, and
deterioration of commodity prices, the economy began to decelerate falling to -0.6 percent in the
- 13 -



fourth quarter of 1998, and 3.9 percent for the year as a whole. For 1999, GDP is estimated to
have declined by 3.1 percent in 1999, a larger drop in output than experienced during the Tequila
crisis of 1995. Unemployment, after falling to about 12 percent from the high of 18 percent
reached in 1996, increased to 14 percent in late 1999. At the end of 1999, the economy began to
gradually recover from the recession; however, the recovery has been slow. In the first quarter of
2000, GDP grew by a mere 0.9 percent (year-on-year). Industrial production grew by 2.7 percent
and 1.7 percent (year-on-year) in the first and second quarters of the year; however, this is due to
a bump up at the end of 1999, and further growth has stagnated since then. Unemployment rose
somewhat from 13.7 percent in October 1999 to 15.4 percent in May, 2000. In general, access to
international financial markets was limited, with a high degree of volatility in spreads. Fiscal
performance deteriorated during 1999 and the fiscal program went off track in the latter part,
ending the year with a deficit of about $7.4 billion, considerably higher than the target of $5
billion agreed with the IMF. The higher deficit was the result of higher interest costs, the duration
of the recession, and a general weakening of fiscal discipline during the election year. Provincial
governments encountered similar conditions and they ended the year with a deficit of about $4.5
billion, almost twice the deficit in 1998. In total the consolidated public sector fiscal deficit
amounted to about 4.2 percent of GDP, excluding privatization receipts. As a result, the new
administration took swift action in December 1999 to restore order in the fiscal accounts,
including those of the Provinces.
34.   Beyond the obvious impact in Rio Negro on provincial finances due to a 2.5% (or about
$10 million) decline in federal transfers and the increased cost of debt servicing, it is difficult to
measure changes in local economic activity and employment from the macroeconomic events of
1998-99, due to a lack of consistent provincial level indicators. In broader terms, analysis of
households incomes throughout the country during the 1 990s, indicates that incomes in the
regional economies are much less volatile than that of the country in general, which is heavily
weighed to events in Greater Buenos Aires. On the other hand, anecdotal information suggests
that the agricultural sector in Rio Negro suffered with lower exports to Brazil in 1999, with
important decreases in prices and demand for fresh fruit following the devaluation of the Real. In
any event, provincial policy decisions were greatly affected by real and perceived changes in the
economic environment.
35.   National and Provincial Elections. The electoral campaign in 1999, at both the national
and provincial level, and the subsequent change in the national administration later that year had
an important negative affect on the program. Again, this was magnified because the province had
achieved by 1998 only about half of the required adjustment. As such, major affect of the
elections was to make it extremely difficult for Rio Negro to regain the reform initiative it had
demonstrated during the 1996-97 period.
36.   The Governor was the key political actor as regards the reform program. Most measures
contemplated under the operation had upfront legislative support, which, in any event was
dominated by the governing party. The key political opposition was from the labor unions for
public sector workers, but most of the downsizing program was based on voluntary separations
and consensus approach to outsourcing. During the early years of his administration, the
Governor was able to implement important fiscal measures and privatization, overcoming a local
- 14 -



plebiscite against privatization promoted by his predecessor. From this high water mark, with the
advent of the electoral campaign, the reform effort of the province began to wane. In late 1998,
when the province put forward measures designed to reform the civil service, with little real
impact on wages, there were violent street demonstrations. Henceforth, the province essentially
shut down the reform effort in 1999, despite the ever-deepening fiscal hole. The province was
comforted in this decision by the real possibility that their party would win the national elections.
It was felt that this would put the province in a position to received preferential treatment from
the Federal Government, or at the very least to settle favorable some disputed debts. Although
the Governor's party did win the national elections, and he was reelected, the province did not
receive any preferential treatment in this regard.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
37.   Along with specific sector-level reforms promoted by the federal government, the
provincial efforts benefited from a consistent system of fiscal incentives at the national level that
combined a hard budget constraint and federal resistance to providing bailouts, with proactive
programs to support state reform. In Argentina, a set of critical actions was implemented during
the 1992-1996 period, including the signing of the Fiscal Pacts, the elimination of quasi-deficit
financing through Central Bank rediscounts and provincial banks, and support for transferring
provincial pension funds to the national government, and privatizing provincial banks and public
enterprises, and institutional strengthening for financial and tax administration.
38.   While this framework was firmly in place during the implementation of the program in Rio
Negro, as noted above, beginning in late 1998 the prospects of a change in the national
administration to a government of the same party as the Governor raised expectations in the
province that there might be a general loosening of these fiscal constraint in general, or at the least
a more favorable treatment of the province in particular. This had a negative affect on
implementation of the needed fiscal measures. Although the new federal administration did
provide a program to support provinces to service their short-term debt, other measures taken
actually hardened the budget constraint by requiring federal authorization for external borrowing
and linking more explicitly for two years the level of co-participation transfers to overall growth
of the economy.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
39.   While the external economic environment undermined the province's fiscal program, the
provincial government could have taken the measures necessary to adjust to the situation. While
the economic boom that lasted till late 1998 provided a most favorable environment for the
reforms contemplated under the program, the province failed to take adequate advantage of the
situation and felt comforted in its decision to take a more gradual approach than the one agreed
with the Bank. The onset of the recession found the province in a much more fragile situation
than it otherwise might have been in. While the deficit in current spending was reduced by 40
percent in 1997, and further cut by about 25 percent in 1998, the failure to achieve the target of
producing surpluses to begin paying off the debt stock, left the province with a need to finance
current spending of more than $50 million in that year, and with greater deficits in subsequent
years. In turn, the province pointed toward increased debt servicing requirements due to the hike
in interest rates as the reason why it could not close its accounts. However, debt restructuring
- 15 -



efforts in 1997 had greatly improved the debt profile inherited from the previous administration.
By 1998, Rio Negro, one of the best among provinces with 9% annual cost and a
weighted-average maturity of over six years, while reducing debt with financial entities from 59%
to 50% of the total. To be sure, the variable rate increases on the cost of previous debt had a
negative impact, but this was probably less than half of the cost associated with the additional
debt taken on during 1997-99.
40.   On the revenue side, the recession clearly had an impact, but again it is difficult to
substantiate that the affects could not have been mitigated by a government committed to the
reform effort. While the Bank had advised the provincial government and it was general
knowledge in government circles that the federal estimates of transfers for 1999 were based on
overly-optimistic growth projections, the province choose to base it expenditure program on
unrealistic expectations of transfers. At the local level, about 70% of the tax yield is pro-cyclical
and should have been expected to decline. Indeed, in the aggregate, local revenues declined by
about 6 percent for all provinces. However, the drop in local tax collection in Rio Negro was
almost twice this rate, including a substantial drop in non-cyclical property tax, suggesting
inadequate collection efforts.
5.4 Costs and financing:
41.   n.a.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
42.   In the context of an overall rating of unsatisfactory in achieving the major development
objectives, sustainability would have to be rated as unlikely. At the same time, those few
measures that were successfully initiated could be deepened under the transitional arrangements
outlined below. Most notably, as regards the fiscal objectives and an agreement with the Federal
Government, which offers the possibility of their achievement by the year 2003.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
43.   Despite the closing of the loan and a difficult implementation environment, a framework
for supporting the reforms of a committed provincial government remain in place. In late 1999,
the federal government launched a program to help highly indebted provinces to service their
short-term debt based on ten-year federal loans in return for fiscal measures. Rio Negro entered
into the program, along with eight other provinces, and agreed for the year 2000 to reduce its
current deficit to $23 million (compared to the third tranche target of a surplus of $7.5 million)
and maintain its debt stock at around $1 billion (as compared to the Bank target of $815 million).
Prior to canceling the third tranche, the Bank discussed the possibility with the provincial
government of using the new federal program more fully, but was unsuccessful with getting
agreement on additional measures that could have allowed the province to meet the fiscal targets
of the loan. Still, the federal program, which is renewable each year, includes strict quarterly
monitoring and is targeted to achieving an overall fiscal balance by the year 2003. Among the
specific actions required by the province, is the passage of a Law of Fiscal Discipline embodying
the fiscal targets of the program.
- 16-



44.   The ongoing attempt to improve public administration would continue to be supported
through the Second Provincial Development Project. In education, the new federal
administration has reaffirmed the Federal Education Law and the province remains an active
participant in the Secondary Education Project. However, while the province would continue to
receive support from Provincial Health Development Project, and has requested to participate in
the recently approved Health Insurance for the Uninsured Project, Federal support for reforms
such as hospital autonomy are likely to be less energetic than during the previous administration.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
45.   Identification was on target and innovative, setting the basis for a shift in Government and
Bank strategy toward the provinces, which was later embodies in the Country Assistance
Strategy. First, through important upfront nationwide analysis, the Bank correctly identified
correctly the need to promote reforms in the social sectors in a framework of fiscal soundness
centering on the provincial government. With spending in the social sectors representing about
half of the budget in most provinces, increased efficiency is fundamental for attaining a sustainable
fiscal situation. At the same time, with provincial government responsible for more than 80% of
overall public spending in education and health, improvements in access and quality there are
central to the medium and long-term effort in Argentina to support human capital development
and alleviate poverty. Secondly, the program design to deal with individual provinces with
integrated fiscal programs and second generation reforms was an important next step, following
successful Bank operations to promote first generation reforms among groups of provinces.
46.   As regards preparation, Rio Negro was a late entrant into the PRL-2 program and while it
did not benefit from the in-depth public expenditure analysis that was undertaken in the other
three provinces, the team was able to draw on previous sector analysis undertaken for the First
Secondary Education Project and to use technical assistance provided through the Bank-financed
Provincial Health Development Project. Nevertheless, a collaborative data-gathering and analysis
exercise working with local staff might have helped to deepen support for the reform effort. This
may have been particularly important in the case of Rio Negro, where long-standing statist
approaches prevailed and where many of the reform policies promoted by the national
government were rejected out of hand for political reasons. Moreover, as noted in the QAG
Assessment a social assessment and impact analysis, including beneficiary participation could have
helped to identify local support for proposed reforms and anticipated needed mitagory measure,
giving more confidence to the Governor when faced with having to take difficult measures.
47.   At appraisal Rio Negro was not considered by the team to be an ideal candidate for the
PRL-2, given its fiscal situation. However, not to have included it in the program probably would
have been a bigger mistake. The Governor was eager to join the program and had demonstrated
his willingness and capacity to begin the adjustment process. In addition, there was a strategic
importance of including a province from the opposition in the pilot program. The risks involved
were recognized.
- 17-



48.   It should be noted that a Rapid Quality of Supervision Assessment for FY99 performed by
QAG did not agree with the QAG assessment of Quality at Entry. In particular, it noted that
project design was not sound in attempting to combine fiscal adjustment with social sector
reforms and was critical of the lack of second tranche fiscal targets.
7.2 Supervision:
49.   In addition to the field-based TM and a local staff member dealing with fiscal and public
administration issues, Rio Negro received particular attention on its public finances. The apparent
slippage in the fiscal program was identified in early 1998 and followed up by several special
missions of both HQ and local consultants, with support from the Federal Ministry of Economy.
Additional missions, focused on tax administration, and procedures for issuing bonds. The Bank
also facilitated exchanges with the Uruguayan Government, which was effectively implementing
an outsourcing strategy including the development of micro-enterprises by former public servants.
Special assistance was also provided in reviewing the province's program for promoting fiscal
discipline in municipal governments, which was later financed by the IDB. In addition, a review
of gender policies and impacts undertaken by the Bank in Rio Negro was later used as the basis
for including a gender perspective in subsequent PRL operations with other provinces.
50.   Supervision of the social sectors, included a field based health specialist, as well as a local
professional in education providing day-to-day contact between HQ-based missions. Project
implementation also benefited from supervision and financing of activities by the Second
Provincial Development Project (financial administration, tax cadaster modernization, civil
service reform, debt restructuring, and hospital rehabilitation), the Secondary Education Project
(teacher work rules, school decentralization, and human resource administration), and the
Provincial Health Development Project (hospital decentralization, payment system and reform of
the obra social).
51.   By mid-1998, the province requested disbursement of the second tranche of $25 million
based on compliance. Although, there were no explicit second tranche conditions for fiscal
performance, the Bank indicated that it could not release the second tranche without assurances
that third tranche fiscal conditions were feasible and that the government was committed to
achieving them. Over the course of several months, the Bank worked together with the province
on a revised program to meet the third tranche by the end of 1999, with major fiscal measures to
be taken beginning in March 1999, following local elections. Initial measures taken in October,
seemed to confirm the continuing commitment of the province, but the measures were met with
strong street protests and also underlined the potential political costs and implementation risks of
a stronger effort prior to local elections. The second tranche was released in December 1998.
However, by mid-1999, it became clear that the province was no longer prepared to implement
the required fiscal measures. Most importantly, gubernatorial elections had been shifted by the
national party to September and all reform efforts on the fiscal side grounded to a halt for the
remainder of 1999, in anticipation of local and national elections and the prospects for a possible
bailout.
52.   The Rapid Quality of Supervision Assessment for FY99 by QAG found that project design
was not sound and that the province was not committed to the project and rated the supervision
- 18 -



effort as marginal, particularly as regards identification of problems and actions taken. The
assessment cited the release of the second tranche, and indicated that the Bank should have
known that the third tranche fiscal targets were not feasible and should have discussed further
options at that point.
53.   Loan closing, scheduled for December 31, 1999 was extended with two three-month
extension. During this period, the Bank sought to restart the province in the fiscal reform effort
to little avail, in part, because of the availability of a new federal debt relief program under which
the province expected to receive about $180 million in federal loans to cover short-term financing
needs for the year 2000. The Bank argued that this support should be used to its fullest and that
the Bank was willing to discuss extending the loan, if the third tranche targets could be reached
within a reasonable amount of time. However, the province was not willing to commit to the
additional measures needed.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
54.   On balance, Bank performance was satisfactory, although implementation might have
benefited from the social consultant and institutional capacity analysis, which QAG noted as
weaknesses at entry.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
55.   The Bank's work had the full collaboration of both the province and the federal
government. Staff from the Ministries of Interior, Economy, Education, and Health participated
in the preparatory work, ensuring not only that the proposed policies were consistent with the
national policies but also that the provinces could count on the support of the federal government
during the implementation of the reforms. On the other hand, as noted provincial staff had less
direct involvement in preparation in Rio Negro, than in the other PRL-2 provinces.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
56.   The performance of the Federal Government was largely positive in promoting the
achievement of the development objective. As noted above, implementation by Rio Negro
benefited from a consistent system of fiscal incentives that combined a hard budget constraint and
federal resistance to providing bailouts, with proactive programs to support state reform. This
framework remained in place throughout the implementation of the program. Although a request
by the provincial government for support in debt restructuring to support its reform program was
denied, subsequently the province was able to achieve this on its own in 1997. The new federal
administration did subsequently provide a program to support provinces to service their
short-term debt, but this support was only provided in return for meeting fiscal targets under a
strict program of monitoring. In addition, the new administration took other measures to actually
hardened the budget constraint by requiring federal authorization for external borrowing and
linking more explicitly for two years the level of co-participation transfers to overall growth of the
economy.
57.   At the federal level, the coordinating unit for the PRL-2 program provided important
support in monitoring fiscal performance and the federal ministries of Health and Education
- 19-



supported implementation through a variety of national programs, including those with external
financing from the Bank and the IDB.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
58.   As noted above, the implementation performance of the provincial government was largely
unsatisfactory in the critical area of public finance. Education reforms also suffered from a lack
of continuity in leadership and weak support among staff. Health, on the other hand received
energetic leadership which helped to overcome the lack of adequate preparation. Finally, the
provincial coordinating unit was exemplary in maintaining close contact with the Bank and
provided information in a timely manner. Dialogue with the province was further enhanced by the
direct access to the Governor enjoyed by the coordinator, his status within the cabinet, and his
general role of coordinating all externally-financed projects. On the other hand, beginning with
the electoral campaign in 1999, the coordinating unit sought to limit access of the team to lower
level staff in the field, and to orient contact with the Bank to meetings with higher level authorities
outside the province.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
59. While the performance of the federal government was satisfactory, that of the provincial
government in implementing the reforms was unsatisfactory. Given the importance of the latter
the overall rating of the borrower would be unsatisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
60.   As one of four provinces participating in a pilot program for supporting reforms, the
lessons learned draws upon the experiences of the provinces as a group, while highlighting those
of Rio Negro. Drawing on the ongoing ICR effort, including the intensive learning ICRs carried
out for Salta (Report No: 20698) and Tucuman (Report No: 20699), which included local
workshops and institutional assessments, important lessons from this experience include:
61.   A national framework for fiscal reform  is criticaL Along with specific sector-level
reforms promoted by the federal government, the provincial efforts benefited from a consistent
system of fiscal incentives at the national level that combined a hard budget constraint and federal
resistance to providing bailouts, with proactive programs to support state reform. In Argentina, a
set of critical actions was implemented during the 1992-1996 period, including the signing of the
Fiscal Pacts, the elimination of quasi-deficit financing through Central Bank rediscounts and
proyincial banks, and support for transferring provincial pension funds to the national
government, and privatizing provincial banks and public enterprises, and institutional
strengthening for financial and tax administration. While these constraints were firmly in place
during the implementation of the program in Rio Negro, the prospects of a change in the national
administration raised expectations that there might be a general loosing of these fiscal constraint
in general, or at the least a more favorable treatment of the province in particular. This had a
negative affect on implementation of the needed fiscal measures. Although the new federal
administration did provide a program to support provinces to service their short-term debt, other
measures taken actually hardened the budget constraint by requiring federal authorization for
external borrowing and linking more explicitly for two years the level of co-participation transfers
to overall growth of the economy.
- 20 -



62.   Sequencing is important, and the PRL-2 approach is more successful and sustainable
for provinces that have already achieved a level of control in theirfiscal and debt situations.
There can be important tensions between fiscal and sector reform objectives that are exacerbated
when fiscal adjustments are not taken upfront and need to be undertaken in the middle of the
reform process. Although the programs provided for protecting overall spending in health and
education, politically, sector reforms often become associated with fiscal adjustment resulting in
unwarranted resistance. Moreover, urgent needs to downsize staffing may result in losing better
qualified staff before adequate human resource management systems for the social sectors can be
put into place to provide incentives for better performance. Finally, under fiscal duress,
cost-cutting or income generating activities receive priority over other reforms. For example, in
health cost recovery was actively pursued, whereas the creation of health insurance for the poor
was delayed. Fears of losing control over spending also undermined the efforts to promote school
decentralization.
63.   Length of Engagement and Political Cycle:The loans were designed to fully disburse
within 12-18 months of effectiveness; however, the social sector reforms in particular took longer
than anticipated to put into place and even longer to begin showing results. Conditionality went
beyond merely the enacting of legislation and decrees, and required that new systems be
effectively up and running. Depending upon the institutional capacity and commitment of a
province, the time frame for implementation could easily be double the length originally
contemplated. Given the negative impact of elections and changes in provincial administration,
the preferred approach would be to have programs that cover the entire four-year period of a
provincial administration. With such a time frame, given that the programs combined policy
actions with longer institutional development activities a more flexible instrument, other than a
traditional adjustment operation, might be more appropriate.
64.   Projectpreparation should be informed by social and institutional assessment. Social
impact analysis and assessments can provide provincial leadership with greater confidence in the
measures to be undertaken and provide a tool for program design and garnering public support
for the reforms, and would have been useful in the Rio Negro context. The reforms also
introduced institutional arrangements that affect incentives governing policymaking and service
delivery. Institutional assessments in support of expenditure reviews undertaken jointly with the
province could help to identify complementary accountability and transparency mechanisms to
support improved implementation and greater sustainability. In the more successful instance they
combined mechanisms of voice, competition and hierarchy into service delivery reforms. In other
cases, however, there were no clear signals within the public administration to ensure allegiance to
these reforms. Perhaps the most clear example is on the fiscal side, where both Salta and
Tucuman passed legislation binding the province to parameters of fiscal behavior. In the latter,
despite a change in administration, the objective of fiscal discipline remains as a standard for
performance.
65.   Participatory approaches can facilitate implementation and support sustainability. The
legitimacy of the reforms were enhanced in those cases were a participatory process was followed
involving stakeholders such as teachers, medical staff, and parents and where an effort was made
- 21 -



to inform the general public on the nature of the reforms. This was the case, for example, with
the implementation of the new subsidy formula to private schools in Salta. The participatory
approach facilitated the resolution of the constraints that appeared during its implementation and
provided options to resolve the potential conflicts. Also, this approach guaranteed the legitimacy
of the new formula. Tucuman demonstrates that participatory approaches in the health sector
supported sustainability even with a change in local administration. On the other hand, such
approaches are not a panacea. For example, in Rio Negro the outsourcing effort were largely
unsuccessful, in part because the government failed to give priority to the fiscal situation and the
urgent need to bring these negotiations to a conclusion. In general, the was clearly a better
performance among the provinces where reform measures were openly debated and implemented.
66.   The Experience of the PRL2 Pilot. Emerging lessons from the ongoing experience
suggests that the loan design for a direct relation between the Bank and the participating province
is important in enabling the Bank to bring to bear its international experience and facilitating
relations between federal and provincial stakeholders. Project design also puts local governors at
the forefront of implementation and dialogue has helped to improve performance under other
investment operations in which the provinces participate. In addition, the provincial approach to
promoting needed sector reforms in health and education appears to be a fundamental
complement to the Bank's efforts in these areas at the national level.
67.  In the case of Argentina, the link between fiscal balance and macroeconomic stability is a
particularly important one due to the strict restrictions on currency emission established by the
Convertibility Law. By putting pressure on the balance of payment, persistent fiscal deficits at the
provincial level can be a source of strain on the money supply and the financial system, thus
reducing the credibility of the government's long-run ability to maintain the Convertibility Plan.
Clearly, as a pilot involving only four provinces representing 10 percent of Argentina's population,
PRL- 2 in and of itself was not expected to have a major direct impact on the country's fiscal
situation, but it did demonstrate that the provinces can make an important contribution to the
further consolidation of Argentina's macroeconomic stability. Despite the delays experienced in
Rio Negro, at the late reversal in San Juan, in the four participating provinces large deficits in
current spending, which totaled -$310 million on average annually during the 1995-96 period
were reduced to only -$17 million for the 1998-99 period. This performance compares well to
the overall consolidated accounts of the provinces, where the current balance declined for $75
million in 1995-96 to -$690 million in 1998-99. The PRL-2-provinces as a group, as compared
to non-PRL-2 provinces during the 1996-99 period improved their own-source revenues by 18
percent between 1996 and 1999, compared to 9 percent for non-PRL-2 provinces. Similarly,
PRL-2 provinces showed an average increase in personnel expenditures of only 8 percent between
1996 and 1999, compared to 17 percent for the remaining provinces. Finally, the performance
of PRL-2 provinces was also superior with respect to the provincial debt, with PRL-2 provinces
increasing their stock of provincial debt by an average of only 3.6 percent during the 1996 to
mid-99 period, compared to 30 percent for the remaining provinces. Since completion of the loan
PRL2 loans in 1999, the performance of the PRL2 provinces continues to compare favorable with
that of other provinces. For 2000, as a group, on-source revenues increased by 2.3% in PRL2
provinces, compared to a decline of almost 1 % in other provinces; and, as a group PRL2
provinces were able to freeze expenditures on personnel, while other provinces increased
- 22 -



spending in this area by almost 4%.
68.   Assessing the impact on social service delivery of the PRL2 provinces with those not
participating is far more difficult at this point, due to the longer gestation period needed to realize
benefits and to the lack of readily available comparative data. However, preliminary results are
encouraging in Salta and Tucuman, which completed the reform program. Indicators suggest
improvements in both health service efficiency and quality in the self-administered hospitals. In
education and the implementation of the federal reforn, Salta in particular has been able to
increase enrollments in secondary schools, reduce costs per student and realize improvements in
student achievement over the 1993-1999 period.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Comments regarding the Provincial Reforrn Program in general were received form the Undersecretary for
Provincial Relations of the Federal Ministry Of Economy on behalf of the Borrower. In summarizing the
overall experience of the PRLII, they note:
Although it proved impossible to complete the third tranches of the operations for San Juan and Rio Negro,
the design of the PRL program, as direct operations with the provinces with untied funding and not
requiring the creation of large bureaucracies to disburse, along with advantages financing terms, are
extremely attractive for the provinces in Argentina.
To the extent that the provinces are able to comply adequately with the conditions established by the Loan
Agreement, the PRL constitutes an appropriate instrument to introduce and implement reforms of a fiscal
nature, as well as in reforming public health and education. As untied financing they were able to both help
finance the needed social sector reforms, as well as help in restructuring burdensome provincial debt. The
creation of a Coordinating Unit at the National level concerned with monitoring compliance with
agreements and in ensuring the transfer of disbursements to the provinces facilitated implementation and
did not require an expensive bureaucracy.
As regards difficulties encountered during implementation, some might have been easier to resolve with
better coordination between the Bank, the Coordinating Unit and the participating Provinces. While
coordination was generally satisfactory, it could have been improved in the sequencing of negotiations
regarding fiscal targets. Each party should have a better idea of their roles upfront, as well as in respect to
the presentation and content of the provincial reports so that they might be timely and with adequate
information.
In addition, other problems might have been avoided if the provinces during negotiations had a better
appreciation of the importance that the Bank attaches to full compliance with the conditionalities, as well as
in the importance of the Letter of Provincial Reform and the program of expenditures, which the Bank use
as an exhaustive monitoring tool during supervision. Another area that the provinces need to pay attention
to is in ensuring uniform reporting across all sectors, fiscal, health and education to facilitate meeting
conditionalities In sum, it is important that the provinces keep their promises and show a willingness to
fully implement the actions to which they agree.
The Provincial PRL Coordinator provide comments on behalf of the Provinces, as follows:
- 23 -



As the Bank report indicates the development objectives of the program were not fully met, although they
might have been too ambitious to begin with, given the relatively short time available to implement the
reforms. Without doubt the difference between the targets and what was actually achieved has much to do
with the initial design. The weaknesses in preparation noted in the report were beyond the control of the
Province and are of the sort that typically plagued such pilot programs. The design of the program should
have been less ambitious and more limited in scope.
The provincial administration appreciates the help of the Federal government in obtaining Bank support.
This allowed the Govemor to take political decisions to go ahead to implement reforms, with the support of
the cabinet, to improve the weak administrative and management of the social sectors. The push to
improve resource management was facilitated by Bank financing of a new financial management and
control system, the benefits of which the Province continues to enjoy.
The results of the fiscal measures taken in terms of staff reductions on cost efficiency are difficult to
measure over such a short period and were not include as conditions in the loan agreement, but it is clear
that the measure taken were insufficient to date to meet the development objectives. At the same time, it
should be recognized that the performance was influenced by events beyond the power of the Provincial
government to control, but that lie within the responsibility of the National government. Extemal crisis
negatively affected the Province, with an economic recision of more than 24 months, which reduced tax
revenues at both the national and provincial levels.
Notwithstanding the failure to fully met the development objectives, the Province's relation with the Bank
has been fruitful. A political consensus to support reforms was developed, along with a technical capacity
to implement them. Although the loan has now expired, these new resources have been effectively put to
use in continuing the reform effort through the Federal government debt-relief program. The Province also
benefited from the program as it provided confidence to the markets and allowed for the restructuring of the
debt in 1997. In education, the PRL component was fundamental in helping to improve execution of the
PRODYMES sub-project to implement the Federal Education Reform. Prior to the PRL in 1997,
execution of PRODYMES was practically nil, but in subsequent years the Province was able to use all of
the resources assigned to it. On the other hand, the health sector did not benefit from investment and
technical assistance from a Bank project to help carry out the deep structural reform effort, other than
financing received from the Provincial Development Loan to rehabilitate one hospital. Still, the experience
gamered by the province under the PRL has allowed it to put together a program in health with the support
of the UTNDP using own resources to implement a program with infrastructure, training and re-engineering
of management. This is expected to be completed 2003.
(b) Cofinanciers:
n.a.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
n.a.
10. Additional Information
LETTER OF PROVINCIAL REFORM
Translation
- 24 -



Viedma, June 26, 1997
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn
1 .  This letter of Provincial Reform describes the main objectives of the reform program of
the Province of Rio Negro as well as the actions to be taken in the areas of public finance,
education and public health. To implement this reform, the Provincial government requests the
financial and technical assistance of the World Bank. Below are the details of the envisaged
actions,
Background
2.   Rio Negro is an Argentina province endowed with economic resources and good
development potential. The provincial per capita income was about $7,200 in 1995,
somewhat lower than Argentina's average. The province is strategically positioned to take
advantage of the substantial gas deposits and agricultural potential but it needs an efficient
provincial economy in order to compete under an open trade framework
3.   In the last few years, the lack of adequate policies and a rapid growth of recurrent
expenditures led to a very critical situation in the provincial financial situation. In 1995, the
provincial deficit reached 45% of current revenues, the wage bill absorbed 109%; capital
outlays were limited to those financed by earmarked transfers from the national government.
The debt stock reached $599 millions at the end of 1995, or 130% of current revenues. More
than half of the shared revenues was affected to pay the debt.
Recent Development and Initial Adjustment
4.  To face the financial situation and improve the role of the public sector in the regional
economy, the provincial government took some important measures in 1996, such as
*  Privatization of public enterprises, including the provincial bank, the electricity utility (ERSA)
and provincial casinos.
*  Reduction of teachers' costs by cutting teaching hours and the Reconversion Law of the State
(Ley 2989)
*  Enactment of the Civil Service Law (Funcion Publica)
*  Transference of the Provincial Pension Fund to the National government
*  Refinancing of 75% of the financial debt whose average maturity was extended to seven years.
5.  As a result, the fiscal situation has improved. While the provincial accounts are very
poor, the cash situation improved substantially, going from a monthly deficit of $21.5 million
(at the end of 1995) to $7.3 million at the beginning of 1997. The current deficit declined to 2
1 % of current revenues and the personnel costs fell to 109% of net current revenues. The
- 25-



debt stock reached $741 million at the end of 1996, or 157% of the current revenues; the debt
service absorbed, 39% of the current revenues at the end of the year.
The Reform Program of the Province of Rio Negro
6.   The strategy of the Provincial Government is to reduce the role of the public sector in
the regional economy, promote participation of the private sector, restructure the provincial
government and ensure an efficient and responsive delivery of public services. For the period
1997-99, the reform program includes the following components.
7.   On the fiscal and public finance front, the program calls for:
*  Improvement in tax collection and administration to promote higher reliance on own-source
revenues;
*   Civil service reform and reduction in personnel expenditure;
*   Rationalization of public expenditures and prioritization of government spending, maintaining
current spending levels as a floor for the social sectors.
8.  In the social sectors, the objective is to improve efficiency in the education and health
sectors, focusing on demand and poverty reduction aspects, while promoting major
involvement of the private sector.
* Education reform will ensure the extension of mandatory education and implementation of
the "polimodal" as well as guarantee access to the poor within current budget constraints.
Priority actions include: (a) increasing the student-teacher ratio and the ratio of staff actively
teaching to total staff, (b) reduce the disproportionate use of temporary and substitute
education personnel; (c) improve incentives for quality achievement; (d) increase participation
of the private sector, and (e) reduce administrative costs.
* Health reforms will improve efficiency and equity in the health sector, notably by
separating the provision and financing of public health services, increasing cost recovery,
consolidating hospital facilities, reducing excessive staff and reallocating resources to
non-personnel expenditures, improving targeting to the poor and increasing health insurance
coverage (within the current health budget constraints).
Public Finance
9.   The provincial government is committed to obtain a sustained fiscal balance by the end
of 1998 and to abide by strict creditworthiness rules. In particular, it intends to (a) obtain a
current surplus every year beginning in 1998; (b) reduce the personnel expenditures to 65% of
net current revenues, beginning in 1999; (c) assure fiscal surpluses large enough to reduce the
- 26 -



debt stock to a sustainable level while keeping investment levels an adequate level; and (d)
maintain the debt service at an adequate level even if this will be possible only after the debt
stock is completely refinanced and restructured.
10.  Table B (in Annex to this Letter) shows the results obtained with the planned
improvement in tax collection and further discipline in spending. Rio Negro will be able to
improve its fiscal situation but the debt burden will continue to be high, with debt service
absorbing a large proportion of the current revenues. The tax collection is estimated to grow
40% from 1995 to 1999. The capital expenditures will continue limited, and financed by
national resources. However, the government expects to be able to maintain a stable policy of
improvement in tax collection and decline in expenditures.
(a) Improved Tax collection and Administration
11.   The provincial tax revenues increased steadily during 1990-94, but in 1995 there was a
sudden decline as a result of the economic recession, and the changes introduced in the
provincial tax rates in line with the agreed Pacto Fiscal. In particular, the elimination of the
turnover tax (Impuestos sobre Ingresos Brutos) on the primary sector and a series of other
activities, including tourism, constitutes an important fiscal sacrifice, given the orientation of
the province towards exports and it is not easy to compensate these losses by an increase in
the tax burden on the conmnercial or other services sectors.
12.   The provincial government is committed to a sustained effort to improve tax collection
and administration. A series of measures are beginning to be implemented to improve the
processes of collection, billing and auditing:
e  Development of the tax-payer current account for the vehicle tax.
e  Updating of the census of tax payers of the Ingresos Brutos
e   An auditing plan (with 26 auditors) and massive controls over the tax payers of the Ingresos
Brutos
*   Outsourcing the auditing of the tax payers under the Convenio Multilateral de Ingresos
Brutos
*  Updating of the cadastral valuation with effect after January 1997
*  Massive collection of data on property lots and computation of the basic unit values for the
urban and rural property, allowing the revaluation integral of the property values and enabling
a substantial increase in the collection of the property tax after 1998.
*  Bidding to adjudicate: the collection of data by aero photography and of improvements which
completes the project of cadastre reform and establish the basis for an efficient management of
the cadastre and the property tax connected with it.
*   To eliminate tax evasion, preferential treatment will be eliminated
*   Inclusion of information technology and network between the central collection and the
territorial agencies
*  Incentives for tax collectors as a function of collection targets, recovery of the debt and
- 27 -



productivity in the implementation of certain measures.
13.  These measures will enable tax revenues to increase to $126 million in 1997, $148
million in 1998 and $153 million in 1999.
b) Personnel Expenditures and Civil Service Reform.
14.  Personnel expenditures in Rio Negro represented 109% of net revenues in 1995. To
help the province's fiscal recovery, the government has implemented several measures which
have led to a reduction of 10% of the wage bill in 1996 and about 1500 positions.
15.  Despite these efforts, the fiscal situation of the province and the need to improve the
quality of public service justifies that the government will double the efforts in this area.
During 1997-1998, the government program includes a deep restructuring of the provincial
public sector based on the analysis of the mission and function of the public sector in Rio
Negro, the application of the Civil Service Law (ley de Funcion Publica) and the transference
of public employees to the private sector through programs of privatization, outsourcing of
peripheral services, early retirement, direct separation, and attrition. This strategy aims at
minimizing the social cost of the restructuring process while abiding by the government
objectives. The strategy of promoting the creation of cooperatives with ex-public employees
who will offer services to the public sectors is one of the examples in which all the interested
ones, including the labor unions, have participated with interesting solutions.
16. The provincial government intends to begin a Program of Outsourcing of Services
whereby services will be carried out by public employees who decide to quit the public sector
and to this new function. Potential areas include (i) maintenance and cleaning; public works,
official gazette, professional services and some areas of the IPPV (roads) and IDEVI
(housing). In addition, a permanent program of outsourcing will be initiated to the private
initiated of public employees.
17.  In addition, the government will strengthen the Early Retirement Program so that the
public employees who wish to retire could use it.
18.  A program of Direct and Voluntary Separation is also planned to allow public
employees who so which to quit the public sector and have access to compensation which will
provide the capacity to begin their own private activity or help while looking for another job.
19.  In addition, the application of the Public Service Law, enacted at the end of 1996, will
allow the downsizing of the structure of the public sector to conform with the functions which
were defined and selected as the ones to be the responsibility of the government. The Program
of Civil Service Reform (Reconversion Laboral) will be an instrument which will offer training
to public employees while guaranteeing re-entry during two years.
20.  Training will be made available to workers who stay as well as those entering the
- 28 -



private sector.
21.  This program of restructuring of personnel will lead to a new system of personnel
administration and a new wage scale and regimen of public employment for which it is crucial
to provide technical assistance.
(c) Rationing Public Expenditure
22.  In parallel with reduction of personnel expenditures and improvement of tax collection,
the government will continue the policy of not subsidizing public enterprises (now mostly
privatized) and will ensure that public spending will be oriented to priority sectors having in
line strict criteria of economic and financial justification.
23.  Capital expenditures will increase from $81 million (9% of total expenditures) in 1996
to $90 million in 1999, but they will be financed almost exclusively by earmarked transfers
from the center. The planned level of investment expenditures would be reduced to the extent
that the anticipated financing sources do not materialize.
24.  The stock of debt will not go above $815 million. Since the effect of the reforms will
have a budgetary impact only after 1998 and the interest service is very large, the debt stock
will begin declining only after 1999. Beginning in 1998, any new debt will be contracted
exclusively to refinance the old debt, to pay amortization, and finance projects of well justified
profitability.
25.  The Three year Public Expenditure Plan that the government will prepare during the
present year reflects the priorities of the government, e.g. social sectors, poverty alleviation,
including education, health, potable water and environment. All investrnent projects will have
adequate justification, with an ERR of at least 10%.
26.  To ensure the continuity of the process of transparency and budgetary accountability,
the government will propose and pass in the Legislature a law of financial discipline based on
four principles of financing management: (i) balanced annual budgets with current surplus --
no borrowing will be permitted to finance current, expenditures; (ii) annual external auditing
by independent auditors; (iii) limits in the personal costs below 65% of net current revenues;
(v) public works will be procured in line with the new law of procurement of the province, as
it will encourage increased participation of the private sector.
Education
27.  Education in the province of Rio Negro has a relatively good performance level. The
coverage is almost universal at the primary level (96%) and reached 56% at the secondary
level. The province is ranked third place in terms of quality. In terms of educational efficiency,
- 29 -



the teacher-student ratio is 15:1.
28.  The province faces several challenges. First, the fiscal situation has obliged the sector to
suffer from important and unplanned. budgetary cuts. The government is committed to
preserve the share of education m the budget of the 1997-99 period to 22% of the total
(excluding debt service). Second, educational demand is expected to growth significantly due
to demographic growth (2% per year) and extension in compulsory( education from 6 to IO
years. Third, there is a need to improve the education quality in the context of the change of
curriculum.
29.  Investment in education in the Province in 1997 is financed almost totally with national
and international funds (Plan Social Educativo, $2.5 million, Pacto Federal $6 million; PRISE
and PRODYMES, $7 million).
30.  In 1996, the education sector suffered a new adjustment. The budget was cut $23
million or 12% through (i) cut of positions in the central administration (51 workers), (ii)
elimination of 1,000 hours of teaching at the level of higher education; (iii) consolidation in
agro-livestock school; (iv) elimination of the service of labor training; (v) re-ordering of the
schools in the secondary level; (vi) reallocation of 217 teacher-secretaries to teaching.
31. The government intends to deepen the process of transformation in the education sector
which with generate savings to finance a better wage level, maintaining the budget at the level
established in the Budget law of 1997, and generate the capacity for the province to finance
some investment in the order of $8.4 million within 2 years, equivalent to 5% of the budget
(15% including goods and services).
32. The government program unfolds into five components which will generate to the
province a potential capacity of investment while lowering the share of personnel costs to
85% of the educational budget. The objectives of the five programs are the following (i)
improving the administration of the education sector; (ii) improving the efficiency of the
sector; (iii) promote decentralization of the sector, (iv) extend incentives to the private sector
and (v) restructure the teacher training institutes.
a) Improving the sector administration. The reduction in -the personnel costs will take
place through: (i) early retirement to allow the reduction in the average number of years in
service, and the reduction of 100 positions (28% of the central administration staff) through
voluntary early retirees which will generate savings about $6.2 million) (ii) implementation of
a system to control absenteeism and reform the leave system ($2.3 million savings); (iii)
implement a program to control sick leave ($3 million savings); (iv) outsourcing of general
services -- transference of 2,162 porters to cooperatives (savings of $4 million); and (v) the
necessary procedures to implement a new teacher regimen (Estatuto Docente) with a system
of incentives to promote quality and to replace the system of automatic increases which was
frozen in January 1997.
- 30 -



b) Improving educational efficiency. The provincial government will promote a better
utilization of primary schools and part of the secondary schools. The CPE (Provincial
Educational Council) established in February 1997 that the minimal number of students per
section is 25. In primary education the student-teacher ratio will increase from 15.6 to 17,
leading to savings of about $1.2 million, and to 19:1 by the end of the program. In secondary
education, there is a large dispersion of costs per student (from I to 5) - it varies from $416
per student to $1,924 with an average of $907) which shows the inefficiency in some schools.
The re-ordering of the planta will allow savings of about 5,600 hours representing 10% of the
personnel cost, or $2 million.
c) Decentralization of school management. The government will prepare before the end of
the year a management model for the decentralized schools. Some pilot cases will be
implemented.
d) To improve the allocation of resources to the public schools with private
management. In general the 49 public schools with private management have cost per
student 10% higher than the public schools managed directly by the CTIE. Moreover, the
allocation is not fair and is inefficient. The cost per student in primary education varies from I
to 5 ($312 to $1,313) and from I to 2 ($858 to $1560) in secondary schools. The current
subsidies ($11.2 million) will be replaced by a new formula-based system integrating the cost
per student.
e) The 13 teacher training institutes have an excessive capacity in comparison with the
needs of the sector. The growth of enrollments (2% per year) generates about 120 teachers a
year while the training institutes graded five times ignore teachers (at the current efficiency
level). In addition, the average cost per student is $1,589 and the cost of a graduate is
$10,000, which is too high. The government has frozen new enrollments in five institutions
and changed the planta funcional. These institutes will close in June 1998. The government
will study a plan to reconvert the remaining 8 institutes into 2 or 3 of higher training and to
produce around 20% of the output currently produced
33. Monitoring system. To be able to follow the evolution of the quality of the services
rendered to the community, the government of Rio Negro will use a system of indicators
discussed with the Bank (Table B4 in Annex). These include the way how the reform unfolds
and the long-run impact in the education quality and school coverage.
Health
34.  The provincial government is committed to improving public health services while
maintaining the objectives of adjustment, associating the increase in spending with the,
improvement in coverage and quality of services and targeting subsidies to the poor
population without health insurance. This program requires the maintenance of a health
budget at an adequate level which would not be less than 10% of the total provincial budget.
The policy instruments to be used in this process include (a) adjustment in staff size, following
any downsizing with a new system of incentives to reward performance; (b) structural reforms
- 31 -



and management in the sector. All of this would contribute to improve the quality of the
services, improve the position of the public sector as a supplier of services, on the basis of
payment models associated with greater production; and make the subsidy extended to those
services or activities considered public goods more transparent.
35.  This policy will include changes in the following areas
a) Public Sector Providers: to promote a more efficient production of health services the
government will deepen the transformation of public hospitals into decentralized hospitals
which, per Law 2,570, is defined by the local administration of human resources and financing
associated with the volume and quality of services offered.
b) Financing: the restructuring and strengthening of IPROSS and the creation of a
Provincial Health Insurance will ensure the financing and targeting of services to the poor,
consolidation of hospital sales which will allow more efficiency and equity while consolidating
the capacity of adaptation of the Provincial Obras Social in the face of larger competition
which will have in the Seguridad Social with the deregulation of the affiliation;
c) in the Consejo Provincial de Salud the role of regulator will be reinforced through
formulating policies and the exercising responsibility in the control and auditing of measures
that reduce As functions of direct management of provision and financing.
36.  As a tool of budgetary policy, the provincial government will produce a budget for
public health which will contain all expenditures in the sector, especially those investments in
the sector which are included in the budget of public works.
37.  The outcomes of the reform will be the following ones:
a) Establishment of at least five Autonomous Hospitals, financed by new payment systems
and by the sale of services to the Obras Sociales or private insurance
b) Strengthening and elimination of IPROSS' debts with third parties
c) Design of the Provincial, Health Insurance financed by public resources which will cover
the population, with formal insurance, especially the poor
d) restructuring of the CPSP
38.  As a result of the above measures, the following results will be reached at the end of
the program
a) Downsizing of the health public sector by outsourcing services or other means,
b) Substantial advance in the administration and financial transformation of the Decentralized
Hospitals
c) Increased capacity of cost recovery through better billing systems and management of the
payment of the Obras Sociales Nacionales, Provinciales and Private Insurance
d) Reduction of up to 25% of the personnel of IPROSS to reduce administrative costs at
most
- 32 -



12% of total costs
e) Use savings to pay incentives to people in the decentralized hospitals, goods and services
and investment performance; (b) structural reforns and management in the sector. All of this
would contribute to improve the quality of the services, improve the position of the public
sector as a supplier of services, on the basis of payment models associated with greater
production; and make the subsidy extended to those services or activities considered public
goods more transparent.
39.   This policy will include changes in the following areas
a) Public Sector Providers: to promote a more efficient production of health services the
government will deepen the transformation of public hospitals into decentralized hospitals
which, per Law 2,570, is defined by the local administration of human resources and financing
associated with the volume and quality of services offered.
b) Financing: the restructuring and strengthening of IPROSS and the creation of a Provincial
Health Insurance will ensure the financing and targeting of services to the poor, consolidation
of hospital sales which will allow more efficiency and equity while consolidating the capacity
of adaptation of the Provincial Obras Social in the face of larger competition which will have
in the Seguridad Social with the deregulation of the affiliation;
c) in the Consejo Provincial de Salud the role of regulator will be reinforced through
formulating policies and the exercising responsibility in the control and auditing of measures
that reduce As functions of direct management of provision and financing.
40.   As a tool of budgetary policy, the provincial government will produce a budget for
public health which will contain all expenditures in the sector, especially those investments in
the sector which are included in the budget of public works.
41.   The outcomes of the reform will be the following ones:
a) Establishment of at least five Autonomous Hospitals, financed by new payment systems
and by the sale of services to the Obras Sociales or private insurance
b) Strengthening and elimination of IPROSS debts with third parties
c) Design of the Provincial, Health Insurance financed by public resources which will cover
the population, "with formal insurance, especially the poor"
d) restructuring of the CPSP
42.   As a result of the above measures, the following results will be reached at the end of
the program
a) Downsizing of the health public sector by outsourcing services or other means,
b) Substantial advance in the administration and financial transformation of the Decentralized
Hospitals
- 33 -



c) Increased capacity of cost recovery through better billing systems and management of the
payment of the Obras Sociales Nacionales, Provinciales and Private Insurance
d) Reduction of up to 25% of the personnel of IPROSS to reduce administrative costs at
most
12% of total costs
e) Use savings to pay incentives to people in the decentralized hospitals, goods and services
and investment
f) Change in the health payment system with new payments to the providers, which will
increase efficiency and transparency
g) Strategy for strengthening the Public Health Network
h) A Strategic Plan to strengthen the Network of Public and Private Health Services
Providers
43.  Monitoring system. To be able to follow the evolution of the: quality of the services
rendered to the community, the government of Rio Negro will use a system of indicators
discussed with the Bank (Table B5 in Annex).
4. Impact of the Reform Program in Environment
44.  Given the nature of the reform program, its implementation should have no negative
impact on the environment. To this end, the province will undertake environmental audits for
the hospitals included in para. 37, financed by the technical assistance of PRESSAI, and
before the transformation of the Autonomous Public Hospitals. The terms of reference, the
proposed consultant, and his/her report will need to be satisfactory to the Bank. The
recommendations will be included in the contracts of transference and the constitution of the
Autonomous Public Hospitals. The government is fully committed with environment
protection and is obliged to review and revise the legal and institutional framework -- which
includes the government agency in charge of the environmental control - of the management
of the hospital and pathological waste. The government is committed to implement the
imnprovements in the legal and institutional framework which will be needed, in agreement
with the normal rules and standards, accepted in the Argentine Republic, to ensure t-he
adequate collection, transport, treatment and final deposit of pathological wastes.
5. Justification for the request of World Bank Assistance
45.  Three reasons justify the importance our provincial government gives to the support of
the World Bank. First, I would like to mention the importance of the financial support which
will allow the financing of the adjustment costs and priority outlays. Second, I would mention
the technical and professional support receive form your staff. Third, the fact that the bank is
supporting our reform program gives us confidence in the quality of our own program, and
will help us attract private investors from Argentina and other countries.
6. Letter of Provincial Reform of Rio Negro
- 34 -



46.  In line with the above, the Provincial Government agrees that the National Govenmment
should include, in the Loan Agreement to be signed with the World Bank, one Annex with the
details on the objectives considered in the Provincial Development Letter and referred to in
the Policy Matrix attached.
Sincerely,
Dr. Pablo Verani
- 35-



Policy Matrix
Activity                      Accomplished                     Second Tranche                       Third Tranche
General Condition                 Legal opinion confirming the
constitutionality of the reforms
included in the program and
conditions of tranche disbursement
PUBLIC FINANCE
Fiscal Balance                    Agreement on targets for the                                         Current account six month surplus
program                                                              of at least $7.5 million equivalent
Cut in personnel                  Agreement on the personnel and    Commence implementation of Law     Personnel Cost equal to no more
Cost and Conversion of Public     Civil Service Reform              3052 (new personnel and            than 65% of net current revenues
Employment                                                          administration regime)
Law of Civil Service (Law 3052)                                      Implementation of new wage scales
approved;                                                            in line with article 21 of Law 3052
Conversion of public employment    Agreement on program of          Compliance with public sector staff  Compliance with public sector staff
privatization, early retirement,  rationalization program            rationalization program
separation voluntary severance
Reduction of 400 positions in the
provincial public sector, plus
additional reductions as the result
of the restructuring of the
Department of Water
- 36 -



EDUCATION POLICY CHANGE
Improve Administration of Human  New leave system; completed                                Outsource of peripheral services
Resources                     project to change "Estatuto                                   (such as maintenance and security)
Docente"                                                     to the private sector.
Education Budget              Agreement on the budget floor to   Education Expenditures at least    Education expenditures at least
be kept for the sector         US$170 million (whichever is   US$170 million or 22% of the
lower)                        consolidated provincial budget
(whichever is lower)
Savings in personnel costs were    Savings in personnel cost can be
retained in the sector and used to   retained in the sector and used to
finance investment            finance investment
Safeguards in place to maintain    Safeguards in place to maintain
education budget              education budget
Re-conversion of Teacher Training  Interrupted enrollments in the  Restructure or downsize public  Maintain no more than three (out of
Institutes                    teacher training institutes. Froze    teacher training institutes managed  eight) institutions for training new
enrollments in five institutes and    by the province        teachers.
change in plantafuncional                            ..
Activity                   Accomplished                  Second Tranche                 Third Tranche
Sector Management             Restructuring oftheplanta      Personnel cost of more 91% of  Personnel cost at most 91% of
funcional                      education budget               education budget
Private Sector Incentives                                                                   Implemented new formula for
awarding provincial public
subsidies to private schools in the
province
- 37 -



HEALTH SECTOR REFORM
Sector Budget                  Preparation of an expenditures plan, Actual spending maintained at least Actual spending maintaned at least
1997-99                        at $70 million or 10% of the   at $70 million of 10% of the
budget, whichever is lower     consolidated provincial budget
(whichver is lower)
Authorization to use savings in
personnel to pay performance   Authorization to use savings in
premiums or non-personnel      personnel to pay performance
expenditures                   premiums or non-personnel
expenditures
Safeguards in place to maintain
health budget                  Safeguards in place to maintain
health budget
Personnel                      Agreement on the quantified targets Implementation of incentive system  Payroll expenditures is not more
and the mechanics to reduce    for autonomous hospitals       than 70% of the total spending in
personnel                                                      the sector
Present to Legislature draft law                               Staff in CPSP limited to 956;
allowing the outsourcing of given                             IPOSS staff limited to 292
services
Autonomous Hospitals           Definition of hospitals that will be  At least two hospitals are made  At least three additional hospitals
transformed into Autonomous    autonomous (from among five     are made autonomous
Hospitals                      identified candidates)
New payment system is          New payment and remuneration
Consulting contract to help define  implemented               system is implemented
the legal framework of the
Autonomous Hospitals
Provincial Health              Agreement to create a provincial    Define the basic health package  Presentation to the Province's
Insurance/lnstituto Provincial de   insurance to cover the poor  which identified the types and level legislative of bill of law to create the
Seguridad Social                                               of medical services to be provided   Provincial Health Insurance
System.
Roster with potential beneficiaries
prepared.
Restructuring of the functions of    Agreement to change CPSP into a   New structure, functions and
CPSP                           regulatory agent                personnel of CPSP as a health
service regulatory entity
- 38 -



Change in Own-Source Revenues by Province
1996-2000
__ __ _ __ _ ____ __   f(US$  '000
PRL-2 Provinces          1996        1997         1998         1999        2000       Growth
96-2000
Rio Negro               124,120.0    129,720.8   147,502.6   135,428.2   141,852.1       14.3%
Salta                   115,031.6    130,543.0   133,560.1   146,925.9   142,424.7       23.8%
San Juan                 79,313.6     91,389.0   100,168.2    90,432.4    92,161.0       16.2%
Tucuman                 150,007.7    166,957.0   179,318.3   179,107.9   188,125.7       25.4%
Sub-Total     468,472.9    518,609.8   560,549.2   551,894.4   564,563.5       20.5%
NON PRL-2 Provinces
Sub-Total   9,333,461.2  10,378,610.2 11,089,894.0 10,410,055.0 10,295,941.3   10.3%
TOTAL PROVINCES
Total    9,801,934.1  10,897,220.0 11,650,443.2 10,961,949.4 10,860,504.8  10.8%
Change in Personnel Expenditure by Province
1996-2000
(US$ ' 000)
PRL-2 Provinces          1996        1997         1998         1999        2000       Growth
________________________  _____________  _______________  ______________   _____________  96-2 000
Rio Negro               391,865.3    383,556.0   386,949.7   377,392.7   374,218.7       -4.5%
Salta                   467,365.9    458,324.3   462,830.6   474,718.7   459,137.6       -1.8%
San Juan                317,479.8    347,125.7   386,195.0   400,344.7   417,793.7       31.6%
Tucuman                 507,825.0    538,765.0   522,370.0   557,937.0   548,431.3        8.0%
Sub-Total   1,684,536.0   1,727,771.0  1,758,345.3  1,810,393.1  1,799,581.3    6.8%
NON PRL-2 Provinces
Sub-Total  13,067,621.3  13,919,037.1 15,077,395.5 16,207,831.3 16,896,438.0   29.3%
TOTAL PROVINCES
Total  14,752,157.3 15,646,808.10 16,835,740.8 18,018,224.4 18,696,019.3   26.7%
- 39 -



Letter to Governor Verani: Summary of ICR
14 de junio de 2001
Dr. Pablo Verani
Gobemador de Rio Negro
Laprida 212
(8500) Rio Negro
Ref: Segundo Programa de Reforma Provincial (4218-AR)
Estimado Sr. Gobernador:
Me dirijo a usted para presentarle la sintesis del informe final sobre el Segundo Prestamo
Reforma Provincial (PRL II), con el fin de analizar el desarrollo del mismo, y compartir con usted
algunas reflexiones acerca del programa.
En primer lugar, queremos agradecerle los comentarios realizados por el Coordinador de
Programa, Sr. Oscar G6mez, en el informe preliminar y sus observaciones sobre la experiencia de
Rio Negro en el programa piloto de relaciones directas entre el Banco y la provincia. Esto nos ha
ayudado innensamente en el desarrollo y disenlo de subsecuentes operaciones con otras
provincias.
El objetivo del prestamo, de ayudar a reformar el sector puiblico de la provincia de Rio
Negro y asegurar una prestaci6n efectiva y responsable de servicios puiblicos en educaci6n y salud
junto a politicas fiscales, no fue completamente alcanzado como se concibi6 en un principio. Por
una variedad de razones, los logros iniciales en los componentes fiscales, de salud y de educaci6n
no fueron adecuadamnente mantenidos y superados, pero consideramos que se han iniciado
importantes mejoras que pueden servir como base para futuras esfuerzos de reforma en la
provincia.
En materia fiscal, el programa busc6 alcanzar un balance fiscal sostenido, logrando
superivit corrientes cada aho, comenzando en 1998, reduciendo el gasto en personal al 65% de
los ingresos corrientes, manteniendo las inversiones a niveles adecuados, y asegurandose
excedentes fiscales suficientes para reducir el stock de deuda a niveles sostenibles. Estos
objetivos no fueron logrados durante el periodo 1997-1999. Con respecto al gasto, aunque Rio
Negro era una de las pocas provincias que redujo el gasto en salarios durante este periodo, el
esfuerzo puesto en este asunto se redujo en relaci6n al mostrado durante el periodo de evaluaci6n
inicial, y el nivel de personal en el sector publico permaneci6 bien por sobre el de las demas
provincias participantes del programa. Lamentablemente las medidas incluidas en el rediseiio del
programa fiscal que se acord6 con el Banco a fines de 1998 para ajustarlo al deterioro de la
situaci6n macroecon6mica y a la necesidad de profundizar los ajustes no fueron implementadas.
-40 -



En cuanto a los ingresos, si bien aument6 la recaudaci6n de impuestos, todavia se requieren mas
esfuerzos para sostener este incremento. Para el futuro, estamos motivados por la decisi6n de la
provincia de participar en el programa federal de asistencia a las deudas provinciales bajo el fondo
fiduciario, y le deseamos el mejor de los exitos en el logro del objetivo de alcanzar el balance
fiscal en el afio 2004.
En relaci6n al sector Salud, el programa busc6 apoyar la transformaci6n de hospitales
puiblicos en hospitales descentralizados para promover una prestaci6n de servicios mas eficiente.
Tempranamente se lograron avances importantes con un fuerte liderazgo del sector. A pesar de
algunos logros tempranos en el asentamiento de un marco legal y en la implementaci6n de
reformas en algunos hospitales, estos cambios no pueden ser considerados significativos. Por
otro lado, se espera que continuen los esfuerzos para separar la provisi6n de los servicios de salud
puiblica de su financiaci6n. Al mismo tiempo, restaria tomar las medidas necesarias tendientes a
aumentar la recuperaci6n de costos hospitalarios, Ilegar a los pobres, e implementar un sistema de
seguro de salud para aquellos que no lo poseen. Respecto de este iiltimo punto, la provincia ha
indicado su deseo de buscar asistencia tecnica para el recientemente aprobado programa del
Banco Seguro para los No-Asegurados. Entendemos que estan lanzando un nuevo programa
para el sector Salud con el apoyo del PNUD y los alentamos para que continuien con los esfuerzos
destinados a mejorar la eficiencia, calidad y equidad del servicio de salud en la provincia.
En el sector Educaci6n, el desempefio de Rio Negro estaba bien posicionado respecto de
otras provincias al inicio del programa, pero existian problemas relacionados con el gasto en
personal, el costo promedio por estudiante, el uso desproporcionado de maestros sustitutos y
temporarios, y la calidad de la educaci6n. Bajo el programa, se logr6 aumentar la proporci6n
entre alumno y maestros, y la cantidad de maestros a cargo de una clase, lo que ayud6 a reducir
los gastos en personal. Tambien fue exitosa la implementaci6n de un nuevo sistema de control del
abuso de licencias por enfermedad, y se disminuy6 la proporci6n de gastos entre maestros
sustitutos y regulares, lo cual ayud6 a aumentar la disciplina entre los trabajadores del sector
puiblico. Auin asi, habria que continuar con estas reformas y mejorar el traslado de los ahorros en
mayores inversiones. Por otra parte, las medidas emprendidas para reducir los costos
administrativos, que incluyeron la reducci6n de la administraci6n central y la reasignaci6n de
maestros, fueron en gran medida exitosas. Se espera que pronto se sancione una ley
correspondiente al proyecto presentado para implementar un nuevo sistema de asignaci6n de
subsidios a escuelas privadas, y otra para basar parte de los salarios docentes en meritos
obtenidos. En materia de descentralizaci6n escolar y mejora de la calidad y eficiencia educativa,
se busc6 reformar el rol de los institutos de capacitaci6n docentes, y se crearon 30 escuelas
pilotos. Si bien se continuda trabajando en este uiltimo proyecto, es necesario mejorar la capacidad
institucional a nivel local y descentralizar el control del gasto y de las decisiones. Ademas de
continuar con las reformas ya emprendidas, se recomienda trabajar para mejorar el acceso de los
pobres a la educaci6n y continuar con la tercerizaci6n de algunos servicios puiblicos.
Si bien no se lograron los objetivos del tercer tramo del prestamo, creemos que el impacto
institucional alcanzado favorece la sustentabilidad de los programas en curso, y que las iniciativas
del gobierno pueden ayudar a que se acuerde la manera de implementar las reformas pendientes.
-41 -



Sin otro particular, lo saluda muy atentamente,
Myrna Alexander
Directora
Direcci6n Subregional
Argentina, Chile, Paraguay y Uruguay
-42 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
IndicatorlMatnx                     Projected in last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
PUBLIC FINANCE                        Current deficit of about $50 million in both   Estimated at $40 million for 2000
(a) Fiscal balance: current surplus every year 1998 and 1999.
beginning in 1998;.
(b) Personnel cost: reduce the personnel   Estimated at 67% for the first semester of   Estimated at about 65% for 2000.
expenditures to 65% of net current revenues, 2000, and projected to reach about 62%.
beginning in 1999                     during the second semester of 2000
(c) Reduction and conversion of public  Staff ratonalization of 3400 agents achieved
employment: reduction of 5,500 positions (in at second tranche
three phases), new wage scale,
implementation of Law 3025.
(d) Stock of debt: reduce the debt stock to a  Debt stock at $1.07 billion for first semester  Overall deficit of $65 million increased debt
sustainable level ($815 million),     of 2000, not projected to dedine during  stock during 2000.
second semester
(e) Public expenditure program ensuring  Social sector targets met for first and second The province has not provided updated
sound investment projects and adequate    tranches.                          figures for 2000.
allocation for social sectors
EDUCATION POLICY CHANGE               New system of leave and sick leave.    System continues to be implemented, no
(a) Improve administration of human   Reduction in absenteeism and "sick leave' of updated results reported by province.
resources with (i) early retirement   25% during 1997-99; outsourcing being
opportunities; (ii) control of absenteeism and initiated.
reform the leave system, including sick leave;
(iii) outsourcing of peripheral services (e.g.
porters);
(a) (iv) system of incentives to promote  Not yet implemented.               Freeze on automatic increases continues in
quality and to replace the system of                                         effects.
automatic increases which was frozen in
January 1997.
(b) Education budget: at least $170 million or $190 million in 1998 and 1999.  No new estimates provided by the province.
22% of the provincial budget.
(c) Reconversion of Teacher Training  Five institutes still operating,       Target expected to be achieved by 2001
Institutes: limited to three.
(d) Sector Management: personnel costs at  Student-teacher rato 17:1. Personnel costs: No updated informaton provided by the
most 91 % of the education budget; increase  84% of the education budget in 1999  province.
in teacher/student to 19/1 for primary
education.
(e) Private Sector Initiative: current subsidy   Student/teacher ratios increased for private  New law for transfers to private schools still
system to be replaced by a formula-based   schools.                          pending.
system integrating the cost per student.
HEALTH SECTOR REFORM                  Health budget: $72 million for 1999    More recent data not provided by the
(a) Sector budget: spending will be                                          province.
maintained at least at $70 million (10% of
budget); savings with are kept within the
sector.
(b) Personnel: payroll will not be more than   Payroll represented 76.4% of the sector  More recent data not provided by the
70% of the sector budget; staff in CPSP  budget in 1998.                     province
limited to 956 and IPROSS to 292.
- 43 -



(c) Autonomous hospitals: establishment of  5 hospitals identified for decentralization;    New program with UNDP providing support
at least five Autonomous Hospitals, financed program under way in 2 hospitals.  for hospital improvements.
by new payment systems and by the sale of
services to the Obras Sociales or private
insurance.
(d) Provincial Health Insurance: define basic Roster underway.               Province has requested support for
health package with levels of services; roster                               completing measures.
with potential beneficaries;
(e) Design of the Provincial Health Insurance
financed by public resources will cover the
population without formal insurance,
especially the poor;
(f) Presentation to the provincial Assembly of Law pending                   Law passed, by regulabon pending support
Law to create the Institute                                                  for measures under (d).
(g) Restructuring of the functions of CPSP   The Health Councl formally transformed Into Strengthening being supported under UNDP
(Consejo Provincial de Salud) so as to  a regulatory agency in 1998.         program.
reinforce its role as regulator, policy
formulator and control and auditing of
measures that reduce its functons of direct
management of provision and financing.
(h) Quarterly preparation of indicators of    Complied                       Not provided since cancellation.
progress
Output Indicators:
lndicaterlMatrlx                    Pr*ftsd In IIIC ' PM1                 MtulL*W Estimate            -A
End of project
-44 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest  Percente of
Estimate     Estimate      Apprisal
Projet Cost By Component            uS$ million    US$ million
Total Baseline Cost                               10.1           0.00
Total Project Costs            0.00
Total Financing Required            0.00           0.00
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category    ICs                   Metho2          N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                    0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00
________________________    (0.00)  (0.00      (0.00)       (0.00)     (0.00)
2. Goods                    0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00
________________________    (0.00)     (0.00)       (0.00)                  (0.00)
3. Services                 0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00
I_____________________    (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)      (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00
I   (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)      (0.00)
Total                    0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
I______________________-   (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivaIent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category    ICB          NCr        Other         N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                    0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                    0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)      (0.00)
3. Services                 0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)      (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous            0.00         0.00        0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)      (0.00)
- 45 -



5. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                 0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
f0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                         0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
I____________________(0.00)                     (0.00)        (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
iFigures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
Component               Aprasa :stsimate:        :   Actual/Latest Est e         :   :t:
__Cost_____________    Bank     Go|t      coF.       Bank      Govt.      CoF.    Bank   Govt.  CoF.
- 46 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
- 47 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty           PerformanceRating
(e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                     Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
12/96                       7   TM, FM, EcF, PS, SS, ED, PS
Appraisal/Negotiation
4/97                        7   TM, EcF, SS, ED, PS, C, C
Supervision
12/97                       8   TM, EcF, SS, ED, SS, PS, C,        S             S
C
2/98                        2   TM, PSM                            S             S
4/98                        1   EcF                                S             S
5/98                        6   TM, Hlt, EcF, ED, PS,SS            S             S
6/98                        4   TM, Ecf, PS, C                     S             S
8/98                        1  Hlth                                S             S
11/98                       4   TM, Hlth, ED, PSM                  S             S
3/99                        1  PSM                                 S             S
9/99                        4   TM, Hlth, ED, PSM                  U             U
12/99                       2   TM, PSM                            U             U
3/00                        3   TM, Hlth, ED                       U             U
ICR
9/00                        3    TM, Hlth, ED                      U             U
11/00                       3    TM, Hlth, ED                      U             U
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
_____________________ _ i  : No. Staff weeks           US$  ('000)
Identification/Preparation                20                     $73,531
Appraisal/Negotiation                      8                     $29,482
Supervision                               25                     $32,900
$32,710 (WPA)
ICR                                        7               $43,000(WPA)
Total                                     60             $135,913 (direct)
$75,710 (WPA)
- 48 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                        O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
0 Sector Policies                       O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
O Physical                              O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
D Financial                             OH OSUOM ON *NA
O Institutional Development             O H  O SUO M  O N  0 NA
L Environmental                         O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
] Poverty Reduction              O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
O Gender                         OH OSUOM ON *NA
O Other (Please speci)            OH   OSUOM  O N  O NA
O Private sector development            0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
* Public sector management              0 H  O SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
El Other (Please specify)               O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
-49-



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                 Rating
O Lending                                           OHS*S OU OHU
O Supervision                                       OHS OS  OU  OHU
C Overall                                           OHS OS  O  U  C HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
E Preparation                                       OHS OS   Q U  Q HU
O Government implementation performance              O HS O S  C U  C HU
O Implementation agency performance                  O HS O S  0  U  O HU
O Overall                                           OHS OS  *  U  C HU
- 50 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Report and Recommendation of the President (Report No. P-7136-AR)
Intensive Learning ICR for Salta (Report No. 20698)
Intensive Learning ICR for Tucuman (Report No. 20699) .
Release of the Second Tranche (SecM98-1016)
Project File containing Bank documents and provincial progress reports)
- 51 -






MAP SECTION






IBRD 29348
70                                        '         6                                                 5 o.
-208'               '         BOLIVIA                                                                                                         2 50-
'& \4 $e,.PARAGUAY
-  ,-'       nS/1Iadar                                                        B  R  A   Z  I L
I                        /   N.s9S  -I  0
')                                          *_   \~. _  S A t TA; , _ Formosa/
.   0   )  Co   \'   Tug4 m6n    j CHAC 
Clt) TUCUcNANAG                      Resistenciao. -        __
*   l  -  t1tf>\  0{]  \SaDntiaga el te,ro   ,      orrienteS
f,  e-                    ~~~~DEL0
|w . J                           ESTERO   :                         /5
.   -J J i    %La Rioj)                                     CO jS T.,   r..
I \~  '-.* RIOJA\.                          SAN TA
SAN~\                          i            ) 
30'        rv u_> r   SJUAN  \                 C         3  FE
\    f        (j)San JuA           R        C O nF6a@  r6 ?an6
-RDaBAn                 i ENTRE\
ta     1   MedoaX    Suins|              Rs        1URUGUAY 
- u (4    f                    \  SANi
U         lL                            :                             ,s  fBuenoqs Aires
J MENDOZA:  r l
--                 B~~UENOS
Santa RosaG
u1   1              i \               LA                  AIRES
-:  (2w,    s  i        <          PAMPA         j
\NEUQUEN1   *,.  -
'  Neuqu6          '
4'     ( ('   NNEGRO                                                                              NAa
$, __                                                              ...... _ $8 ARGENTINA
. W 8 C H U B U T                                              o   @ PROVINCE CAPITALS
- -  t  <07  .>     /                                                 69     NATIONAL CAPITAL
-   -    _JPROVINCE BOUNDARIES
.->  -  -    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
SANTA X
CRUZ                           FA1JKL-' S
4                   (M~~A
50 -   ' '8)'   <io OQ1109t       '0  100 200 300 400 500 600 KILOMETERS
$ --aA9oT  i        9.  i,<~'~"  . HJ %EV+eD s ,/              -0    100    200    300    400Mi6es
-  AVi;>z>V&s    l  X                     This rmop was produced by the Mop Desi4n Unit of The World Bank,
Us                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~the boundaries, colors, denominations and aniy other information shown
- .  . :- -TIERRA                                 on this mop do noi imply, an the port of The Word Bank Group, any
~" DEL FUEGO                               judgment an the legralstatus of any territory,or any endorsement or
acceptonce of such boundaries.
70.                                                 600                                                 500
APRIL 1998



