                                                 Document of
                                               The World Bank

                                        FOROFFICIALUSEONLY



                                                                                   ReportNo: T7683-AF




                                           TECHNICAL ANNEX

                                            FORA PROPOSED


                                   GRANT OF SDR 81.2 MILLION

                                  (US$120 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                                   TO THE

                              ISLAMIC REPUBLICOFAFGHANISTAN

                                                     FORA

                SECONDEMERGENCY NATIONAL SOLIDARITY PROJECT

                                                     (NSPII)



                                             November 10,2006




AgricultureandRuralDevelopmentUnit
SouthAsia Region

This document has a restricted distribution andmaybe usedbyrecipients only inthe performance oftheir
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosedwithout World Bank Group authorization.

                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENT

                  Currency Unit          -     Afghani
                  US$1                   -
                                         -     50.05 AFN (As of October 31, 2006)
                  SDRl                   -
                                         -     US$1,47789 (As of October 31,2006)


                           GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR

                                  March 21-March 20


                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS




      Plan
ERR   Economic Rate ofReturn                NPV        Net Present Value
ESMF  Environmental and Social Management   NRVA       NationalRural Vulnerability Assessment




                            econstruction




                         Vice President  : Praful C. Pate1
                      Country Director   : Alastair J. McKechnie
                        Sector Director  : ConstanceA. Bernard
                        Sector Manager   : GajanandPathmanathan
                    Task Team Leaders : NormanPiccionVNihalFernando




                                          ..
                                          11

                       ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OFAFGHANISTAN
           SECOND EMERGENCYNATIONAL SOLIDARITY PROJECT
                                  TECHNICAL ANNEX

                                     Tableof Contents


                                                         Page
A. BACKGROUNDAND STRATEGY                                     1
  1. ProjectRationale                                         1
  2. Government Strategy                                      2

B. BANKRESPONSE AND STRATEGY
  1. The NSPand the I-ANDs
  2. Implementation Progress
  3. Rationale for Bank Involvement

C. DETAILED PROJECTDESCRIPTION
  1. Project Objectives
  2. Project Components
  3, Project Description
  4. Risks

D. INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTSAND PROJECTIMPLEMENTATION        19
  1. Introduction                                             19
  2. Institutional Arrangements                               19
  3. Budget and Cofinancing                                   19
  4. Procurement                                              21
  5. FinancialManagement, Disbursement, and Audit             21
  6. Monitoringand Evaluation                                 23

E. FINANCIALAND ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION                        23
   1. Project Benefits                                        23
  2. Project Risks                                            23
  3. Alternatives Considered                                  25

F. ENVIRONMENTALAND SOCIAL SAFEGUARDS                         26
   1. Environmental and Social Impacts and Safeguards         26
  2. LandMineRiskManagement                                   29

G. APPENDICES

H. MAPS: IBRDNo.34818




                                              ...
                                              111

                                   Listof Appendixes


Appendix 1:  ResultsFrameworkandMonitoring
Appendix 2:  SummaryofProjectCosts
Appendix 3: FinancialandEconomic Analysis
Appendix 4: ImplementationArrangements
Appendix 5: ProcurementArrangements
Appendix 6: FinancialManagementandDisbursement Arrangements
Appendix 7: MonitoringandEvaluationArrangements
Appendix 8: Arrangements for QualityAssurance of Subprojects
Appendix 9: ImplementationPlan
Appendix 10 RiskAssessment andControl
Appendix 11: The OpiumProblemandthe NSPI1
Appendix 12: CommunicationsStrategy
Appendix 13: EnvironmentalandSocialManagementFramework




                                          iv

A. BACKGROUND AND STRATEGY

1. ProjectRationale

Late 2005 saw the culmination o f the political transformation established for Afghanistan
by the Bonnagreement in2001,forming the basis for the state-building and development
ina country emerging fromnearlythree decadesofconflict andpolitical turmoil.

Despite unmet expectations for some o f the population, Afghanistan's progress in some
sectors has been impressive - development o f road networks had reduced travel times
and improved rural access; school enrolments have reached historic highs; health
facilities are gaining outreach; thousands o f rural communities have been mobilized for
development; commercial banks have opened up for business andmicrofinance programs
have extended services to thousands, predominantly women. Real GDP, excluding opium
production, i s projectedto grow by 14 percent in2005/06 (SY 1384), following increases
o f 29 percent in 2002/03, 16 percent in 2003/04 and 8 percent in 2004/05. However, the
situation i s far from normalized and the country has not fully emerged from its state o f
conflict. For every success, there remain formidable, numerous challenges.

These challenges are particularly demanding in rural Afghanistan, which i s home to
nearly 80 percent o f the population, and where incidence o f rural poverty is high,
penetration o f insurgency growing, and opium production booming as the country
recovers from the long-term effects o f the recently ended six-year drought.

To address state building, local governance, warlordism, and to urgently provide basic
rural infrastructure for irrigation, drinking water, electrification, rural roads and school
the government has promoted since 2003 a massive effort to outreach rural communities
through the National Solidarity Program (NSP). The NSP, supported by the International
Development Association (IDA) and several donors, has been progressing successfully in
the last three years quickly positioning itself as the government's most tangible
intervention in rural areas, significantly contributing to the process o f pacification,
democratization andreconstruction.

Executedby the Ministry o f Rural Rehabilitation andDevelopment (MRRD)on behalf o f
the Government o f Afghanistan, the NSP first commenced as a component o f the
Emergency Community Empowerment & Public Works Project inJune 2002 (HOO9-AF,
closed in Dec 31, 2004). It became a full fledged National Priority Program in 2003
under Afghanistan's National Development Framework and over the last three years has
grown to become the government's flagship rural development program, with its outreach
extending to more than half the rural population across all 34 provinces o f the country
(Map 1).

Known inDari as Hambastagi Milli and inPashtu as Milli Paiwastoon, the NSP targets
the needs o frural communities through a community-driven approach and a collaborative
partnership encompassing central andprovincial government, local and international non-
governmental organizations (NGOs), andthe communities themselves.




                                            1

Implemented by the MRRD through an extensive network o f contracted Facilitating
Partners (FPs), the NSP: (i)    Facilitates a process o f establishing inclusive, voluntary
community institutions (Community Development Councils, CDCs) through democratic
elections, reaching consensus on development priorities, developing eligible investment
proposals, and implementing community projects; (ii)Provides direct Block Grant
transfers to a bank account established inthe name o f the CDCs to support rehabilitation
and development activities planned and implemented by the elected CDCs; (iii)          Builds
capacity to enhance the competence of members o f CDCs (men and women) interms o f
financial management, procurement, technical skills, and transparency; and (iv) Links
local institutions to government administration and aid agencies with available services
andresources.

The NSP is very popular in Afghanistan. The program i s widely recognized as the main
instrument for strengthening local governance and supporting the planning and
implementation o f community-based subprojects that invariably generate labor for the
poor, stimulate local economies, andprovide basic rural infrastructure.

2. Government Strategy

The NSP i s the main instrument o f the Government for restoring and reconstructing the
village social and economic infrastructure. It will be a key vehicle in the delivery o f the
benchmarks for the L A N D S Agriculture andRural Development pillar, particularly inthe
areas o f rural infrastructure and community development.         NSP community projects
cover nearly all the areas o f priority investments for rural infrastructure: drinking water,
sanitation, small-scale irrigation, roads and structures, schools andvillage electrification.

Article 140 o f the Constitution o f Afghanistan stipulates that `In order to organize
activities involving people and provide them with the opportunity to actively participate
inthe local administration, councils are setup indistricts andvillages inaccordance with
the provisions o f the law. Members o f these councils are elected by the local people
through, free, general, secret anddirect elections for a period of three years.'

Along with the impelling need to rebuild and rehabilitate basic rural infrastructure, the
government strategy i s therefore to establish the CDC as the democratically recognized,
development body at the community level inthe whole of Afghanistan. Toward this end,
the MRRD is committed to creating a CDC constitution to provide legal status to the
CDCs inthe future. As a first step toward this goal, MRRDhas made substantial progress
in drafting a CDC by-law. The draft CDC by-law recognizes the CDCs as the lowest
form o f local governance, institutionalized at the village level, in line with the
Constitution. It also recognizes the CDC as the interface between the government and
the communities for the decision making, planning and implementation o f all rural
development inventions o f the other government ministries and agencies. The CDC by-
law i s expected to be submitted to the President for approval after review by the National
Steering Committee in the forthcoming months. This will take the country one step
further to realizing their Constitution and to consolidate the democratization process
which began in2002.



                                            2

Official recognition and future CDC legislation would enable CDCs to have a legal
footing to harness resources from other relevant government ministries, development
actors, and aid agencies. Additionally, the MRRD recognizes that the role o f the CDC
must be strengthened through coordination with different line ministries as the entry-
point for development interventions targeting communities (health, infrastructure,
education, natural resource management) and through linkages with the existing sub-
national administrations.

For the purpose o f the proposed IDA Grant, the government has developed a seven year
vision which includes the initial phase o f three years to reach out to all rural
communities, so that every rural village is represented by a CDC, and the final phase o f
four years to consolidate assistance to the communities within an exit strategy that sees
the termination o f the NSP as a program, andthe empowerment o f the CDCs as officially
recognized, local development entities.


B. BANKRESPONSEAND STRATEGY

1. TheNSPandthe I-ANDs

NSP is making a significant contribution towards achieving the vision and goals o f the
Government o f Afghanistan set out in the interim-Afghanistan National Development
Strategy (I-ANDs) which will lay out the basis for an Afghanistan Poverty Reduction
Strategy. The NSP is directly in line with the overall vision for the Islamic Republic o f
Afghanistan, `to consolidate peace and stability through just, democratic processes and
institutions, and to reduce poverty and achieve prosperity through broad based and
equitable economic growth'.    The NSP objectives and achievements to date are in line
with overall poverty reduction objective o fthe Bank.

Since its inception, the NSP has covered 274 districts in all 34 provinces o f Afghanistan.
As o f September 2006, 17,278 communities have been contracted to Facilitating Partners
(FPs) with 14,820 communities mobilized and 14,120 Community Development
Councils elected representing an estimated thirteen million people. About 9,3 15 CDCs
had received block grants to fund 17,026 subprojects.          A total o f 7,455 priority
subprojects had been completed with 10,113 subproject proposals approved and currently
being implemented by the communities themselves. A further 2,741 subprojects have
been approved and are waiting for their first block grant disbursement to begin
implementation. A total o f US$246.1 million has been committed to fimd approved
subprojects o f which US$ 200.9 million has been disbursed directly to communities.
IDAhas financed $138 millionto NSP to date.

Returns on NSP outputs are immediate, and the evidence suggests that their benefits to
villagers are high. A sample o f subprojects selected for economic analysis showed
economic rates o f return (ERR) averaging 26.3 to 60.8 percent, with an overall ERR
weighted average o f 38.2 percent.




                                           3

Communities have consistently prioritized infrastructure projects for their block grants
and on average implement two subprojects with their allocations. More than halfo f the
community projects involve productive infrastructure such as irrigation, roads and village
electrification thereby promoting productivity and stimulating local economies. A further
26 percent involves safe water and sanitation which assures better health for the
communities. More than 80 percent o f all labor generated by the subprojects is absorbed
within the communities, with 16.6 million labor days already created, giving the poor
income generating opportunities. Community implemented subprojects have also proven
to be the most cost-effective delivery mechanism for rural infrastructure, often costing 50
percent or less thanthe alternative options on the market.

3. Rationale for Bank Involvement

InMay 2006, the World Bank Board of Executive Directors discussed a new Interim
Strategy Note (ISN) for Afghanistan, which guides the Bank`s engagement for the next
two years, and is aligned with the government's InterimNational Development Strategy
(I-ANDs). The ISNenvisages a grant program o f up to US$540 million over those two
years, which i s inline with the World Bank's five-year pledge o f US$1.2 billion made at
the January 2006 London Conference. Under the ISN, the World Bank priorities are: (i)
buildingthe capacity and accountability of the state, (ii) improving rural livelihoods and
promoting rural economy, and (iii)supporting the growth o f a formal, modern, and
competitive private sector. Because o f its design and outreach, the NSP i s considered one
o fthe key instrumentsto achieve these objectives.

Financing for the NSP i s mainly through IDA grants, the JSDF special window for
Afghanistan, donors co-financing through the Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund
(ARTF), andthrough direct bilateral arrangements (table 1).

Table 1:Disbursement as ofAugust 2006 (IDA and IDA administeredfunds, US$ million)
 IDA              Allocations Disbursed Undisbursed        Effectiveness     ClosingDate
 Administered                                                  Date
 IDAH009                26.90       26.90           0.00    June 11,2002      Dec. 31,2004
 IDAH072                98.30       98.30           0.00    April 5,2004 March31, 2007
 IDAH1740               27.09       27.09           0.00    Aug. 16,2005 March 31, 2007
 IDAH2090               41.04       36.22           4.82    May 31,2005 March 31,2007
 ARTF 53939             121.9      102.79          19.11    Sept. 20,2004  March 31,2007
 JSDF 54367            26.04        18.55           7.49    April 10,2005  March31,2007
 Total                341.27      309.85           31.42

Inaddition to the above, NSP also received bilateral funding from Denmark (US$ 9.0
million) andNorway (US$1.6 million), most ofwhich have beendisbursed.

Funds currently available for the NSP are expected to be entirely disbursed by end o f
December 2006. A new IDA Grant, as a repeater project, i s therefore needed to scale-up
the NSP as a well performing, highly visible national program. The Government
requested the Bank to provide financial support for this repeater operation at World
Bank's annual meetings heldinSep 2006,


                                            4

C. DETAILEDPROJECTDESCRIPTION

1. ProjectObjective

Buildingon the current NSP, the proposed IDA Grant will scale up the program to "lay
the foundations for strengthening o f community level governance, and to support
community-managed subprojects comprising reconstruction and development that
improve access o f rural communities to social and productive infrastructure and
services".

Reaching out to an estimated additional 4,318 new villages, the NSP will (i)     establish a
framework for village level consultative decision making and representative local
leadership as a basis for interaction within and between communities on the one hand,
and with the administration and aid agencies on the other, (ii)      implement social and
economic productive activities addressing the basic village needs, and (iii)develop
humancapitalandlivelihoodwhich will improve householdwelfare.

The government o f Afghanistan envisions the roll-out the program across the entire
country inthe next three years or phase I1o f the NSP for a total cost o f US$525 million
which includes a back-log o f US$ 90 million from the current phase. This amount i s
expected to be financed through IDA, ARTF, JSDF andbilateral resources.

2. ProjectComponents

The Grant will finance about 23 percent o f the total projected cost o fthe National
Solidarity Program inthe next three years and for the following components:

(i)Block Grants for communities (US$94.3 million) to carry out subprojects
      involving reconstruction and development           activities through a facilitated
      participatory planning process. This will cover about a third o f the amount
      estimated to complete block grant disbursement to existing and new communities
      (US$288 million) for the whole program. While the use o f block grants i s demand-
      driven following each Community Development Plan priorities, based on the
      experience gained in the program to date it i s expected that block grants will be
      invested mainly on community-based productive and social infrastructure such as
      irrigation works, roads including culverts and small bridges, erosion protection,
      structures promoting watershed management, water supply facilities, micro-
      hydropower, school buildings etc.

(ii)Community Facilitation and Subproject Preparation (US$9.7 million) to
      support local communities through: (i)   facilitation exercises to establish inclusive
      community institutions (CDCs),       and identify local development needs and
      priorities; and (ii)
                         assistance for preparing subproject proposals. Inthe NSP I1the
      FP cycle o f support to CDCs has been reduced from three to two years. This
      timeframe will still allow the FPs to support communities with mobilization and the



                                           5

      establishing o f CDCs, community planningand implementation o f block grants for
      community projects while substantially decreasing facilitation costs.

(iii)CDCCapacityDevelopment(US$14.4 million) to assistCDCsincarryingout
      subprojects for which block grants have been made available, and capacity building
      for members o f local communities. These services will strengthen local
      communities' capacity infinancial management, procurement, and technical skills.

(iv)  Implementation and Management Support (US$1.5                   million) comprising
      provision o f consultants' services for capacity building in, implementation support
      to, and incremental operating costs for the MRRD. The project will also augment
      theMRRD's human andphysical capacity to supervise andimplement the project.

At the end o f the three years, it is expected that the NSP will have reached out to 21,600
communities (target figure i s 90 percent o f the estimated total o f 24,000 villages across
the country, accounting for inaccessible areas due to security reasons), established a
corresponding number o f representative bodies to lead community development planning
and financing in their areas per the CDC by-laws, and made available basic social and
productive infrastructure and other services in75 percent o f the communities.

3. ProjectDescription

The project description reflects the operational policies described in detail in the NSP
OperationalManual (OM), which are summarized below.

Approach: The NSP provides a single-window framework for village level reconstruction
and development activities. It consists o f four core elements: (i)      Facilitation at the
community level to assist communities establish inclusive community institutions
through secret ballot and democratic elections; reach consensus on priorities and
corresponding subproject activities; develop eligible sub-proposals that comply with NSP
appraisal criteria; and implement approved project sub-proposals; (ii)   A system o f direct
block grant transfers to support rehabilitation or development activities (subprojects)
planned and implementedbythe elected CDCs; (iii)        Capacitybuildingthe capacities of
CDC and community members (men andwomen) inparticipation, consensus building,
financial management and accounting, procurement and contract management, operations
and maintenance, and monitoring; and (iv) Activities linking CDCs to government
agencies,NGOsand donorsto improve accessto services andresources.

Coverage: Each year MRRD develops a NSP roll-out plan that identifies target districts
and establishes the total number o f communities within each district to be mobilized.
Districts are selected based on vulnerability factors (level o f poverty and risk o f drought
or food insecurity), the number o f returnees or internally displaced persons, and security
conditions.

Community Development Councils: Communities are identified on the basis o f existing
local settlement and social patterns. However, this will not prevent different distinct
villages, whether small or large, from joining together to develop assets (e.g. a school, a


                                            6

pipe water system, or a road) that serve more than one village. The CDC is responsible
for: (i)Overseeing preparation o f the Community Development Plan (CDP) with
prioritized needs and subproject activities that address these needs; (ii)Convening
community wide meetings to ensure community participation during all phases; (iii)
Overseeing planning and preparation o f specific subprojects either directly or through
community project management committees; (iv) Mobilizing community contributions;
(v) Presenting subproject plans for appraisal; (vi) Managing and supervising subproject
implementation with assistance from the Facilitating Partner agency; (vii) Overseeing (or
directly handling) procurement and financial management at the community level; and
(viii) Reporting to the community andto MFNDonproject progress anduse o f funds.

Elections:   The CDC is established through an election conducted according to the
following rules: (i) Everybody inthe community (both men and women) who i s entitled
to vote ingovernment elections is eligible to be registeredas a voter; (ii) Eachpersonhas
one vote; (iii)The voting will be conducted through a secret ballot; (iv) Candidates and
electioneering is prohibited; (v) At least 60 percent o f eligible voters have to vote for an
election to be valid; (vi) The FP must verify the accuracy o f the cast ballots on a sample
basis; and (vii) Only one CDC is elected per community. After the election, the CDCs
are registeredwith MRRD.

To ensure inclusiveness interms o f different socio-economic, factional, and ethndtribal
(qaum) sub-divisions within the community, the electionprocess i s based on a division o f
the community into groups o f families (clusters). Each cluster elects two representatives
for the CDC: one male and one female. Since neighbors are usually also relatives, this
approach will reduce purdah restrictions on women and thereby facilitate their active
involvement in discussions and the election. Cluster sizes will vary depending on the
size o f the community, but should not exceed about 20 families. The clusters will also
serve as the framework for community-wide consultations, whereby elected members
meet with and seek feedback from their electorate before making decisions on priorities,
subprojects, and community contributions.

Experience from NSP Iindicates that equity can be achieved even in extremely
conservative communities if the basic equity principles are presented early in the
mobilization process and time is taken to work with community leaders to identify ways
in which the principles can be honored without compromising cultural and religious
norms.

InNSP I1there are no longer separatemale or female CDCs. Communities may choose
to establish Men's and Women's Sub-Committees where it is not possible for men and
women to meet together for cultural and/or religious reasons. Insuch cases, four officers
for each sub-committee are elected and an Executive Coordination Committee is
established, comprising two officers from each Sub-committee.


Block grant allocations to villages are based on the following three principles: (i)     One
block grant (budget) will be allocated to each CDC at a rate o f US$200 per family with
an upper limit o f US$60,000 per community.             This allocation requires that the


                                            7

community develops one or more eligible subproject proposals within the framework o f
the block grant allocation and its own contributions; (ii)                One CDC will be established
for each community. CDCs cannot be established for sub-sets o f an existing village (e.g.,
a village can not be split into its constituent political or ethnickinship (qaum) sub-
divisions); and (iii) community is a village o f more than 25 families.
                            A                                                                      However,
clusters o f adjoining communities may opt and are encouraged to pool up their block
grant entitlements and allocations to plan and implement subprojects o f common interest
andbenefit to them.

Eligibility: Inorder to be eligible for ablock grant allocation, a community must develop
one or more subproject proposals that fulfill the following criteria: (i)                    Subproject is
proposed by a CDC that has been elected in accordance with the NSP guidelines; (ii)
Subproject is endorsed by the community through a community-wide consultative
process; (iii) Subproject provides equitable access to benefits; (iv) At least one subproject
identified by women as a priority must be targeted for NSP funding; (v) Subproject is
technically and financially sound (uses the engineering specifications in the Technical
Manual, where appropriate); (vi) Subproject is compatible with social, environmental,
andmine risk safeguards; (vii) The community has committed to contributing an amount
equal to at least 10 percent o f the Block Grant towards costs o f proposed subproject(s);
(viii) Subproject has an Operations andMaintenance Plan; and (ix) The CDC commits to
ensuring transparency inthe use o f Block Grant funds.

Subproiects:        Two types o f subprojects are financed under NSP: (i)Community
infrastructure (the investments will comply with defined technical standards described in
the NSP Technical Manual, and only comprise public goods);' and (ii)                       Humancapital
development activities (e.g., time-bound literacy classes, hygiene education etc, that will
not incur recurrent costs from the state).

In the case of subproject proposals involving rehabilitation or new construction of
schools, a condition for approval is the endorsement by the Ministryo f Education that the
proposed school fits within the overall planning o f the ministry, and that the ministry will
cover the operating costs o f the school (fully or with committed contributions from other
agencies).    If undertaken, rehabilitation and new construction of clinics will require
careful planningand coordination.

Inclusion o f new returnees (refugees and Internally Displaced Persons who return to the
community after the initial CDC election i s held): Ifmore than 20 families return, the FP
facilitates a sub-election for each returnee cluster (comprised o f 20 families each) within
one month o f their return andthe community incorporates the new cluster representatives
into the CDC. The CDC revises the CDC Registration Application accordingly and
submits to the OC. If less than 20 families return, no elections are held but the CDC is
responsible for ensuring that returnees are encouraged to participate fully in subproject
committees and all program activities.


 Such infrastructure projects would include, but not necessarily be restrictedto irrigationworks, roads
including culverts and small bridges, erosion protection, structures promoting watershed management,
water supply facilities, village electrification projects (ex. micro-hydropower), and school buildings.


                                                      8

Community Development Plan and Subproiect Proposals:                In consultation with the
community at large, the CDC develops a Community Development Plan (CDP) that
prioritizes the specific needs o f the community, and proposes subprojects that address
these needs.    The facilitation o f an inclusive planning process in which various
stakeholders and interest groups have an opportunity to discuss their priorities is a key
step in the NSP methodology. The process promotes dialogue on community potentials,
opportunities and needs to produce a planthat i s holistic and strategic. It provides a basis
for coordinated government interventions at the community level, as well as sectoral
planningat the district, provincial andnational levels.

4. Risks

The NSP is a high risk - high reward program. While some of these risks can be
mitigated through measures incorporated inthe design o f the program, others are beyond
its reach and can only be closely monitored with adjustments made on a continuous basis.
The matrix below shows a summary o f the key operational risks, while Appendix 10
provides a more comprehensive risk analysis.

  Type of risk          Brief description                   Measures to mitigate risk
 Fiscal           Estimatedcost of the project      Diligent programplanning androllout, budget
 affordability    i s US$ 525 million of which      and cashmanagement inthe NSP 11.
                  IDA grant is only US$ 120        0Close coordination of the MRRDwith the
                  million (23 %). Iti s expected    MinistryofFinance to mobilize funds from
                  that the balance US$405 m         donors.
                  (77%) i s providedbyARTF,         TheNSP I1will have a full time External
                  JSDF andbi-lateral donors.        Relations Specialist to liaise with ARTF and
                  There i s arisk the full project  other donors for mobilizing funds for the NSP.
                  outcomes may not be               FinancingAgreement includes safeguards to
                  achieved ifthe co-financing i s   impose diligent budget and fiscal management
                  not hllymaterialized.             for the NSP 11.
 Elitecapture     Riskofvillage elites suchas      0External facilitation of the establishment of
  of benefits     landlords, elders,                CDCs through secretballot andthe
                  commanders collude and try        participatory sub-project planningprocess.
                  to capture the benefits.         0Focus on public rather thanprivate goods, and
                                                    transparency inbudgetingandthe use o f block
                                                    grants by communities.
  Corruption      Managerial and financial          Same as above, as well as financial
                  weakness inimplementing           management arrangementswhere MRRD,
                  agencies and at the               Facilitating Partners, and Management Support
                  community level                   Consultant staff do not handle cash.
                                                    Complaints Handling System and external
                                                    audits to be introduced.
 Delays inblock Managerial weakness in             0Financial Management functions and Block
  grant           implementing agency               grant management outsourced.
  disbursement                                      Improvedplanning and management capacity
                                                    buildingarrangementsto be introduced.
 Decreasing       Support for NSP among             Empower inter-ministerial Steering Committee
 political        cabinet memberscould              to make key decisions.


                                               9

 support for      seriouslyweaken inthe e v e n t   Communication strategy anddisseminationof
 NSP              of changes inpolitical            MISdatato harnesspoliticalsupport.
                  leadership.                       Impact evaluationandanalytical work
                                                    conductedto provide information on the NSP's
                                                    achievements.
 Decreasing       Deteriorating security          e Close monitoring andflexibility inthe design
 security         conditions mayprevent             andplanning.
                  operationsinspecific areas.     e Community involvement inmonitoring, to
                                                    complement the FP's monitoring.
 Perceptionsof    Deterioratingsecurity             Expansionaiming to cover all districts.
 inequitable      conditions mayrequire             Randomizedroll-out to the communities within
 ethnic coverage suspensionofoperationsin           eachdistrict.
                  the southandeast, fostering       Direct implementation by MRRDof
                  perceptionsofinequitable          community development activities that would
                   ethnic coverage.                 not haveto comply with NSP appraisal
                                                    requirements, andthat would thereforebe
                                                    financed from other sources.


D. INSTITUTIONALARRANGEMENTSAND PROJECTIMPLEMENTATION

1. Introduction

Duringthe first three years o f implementation o f the NSP the MRRD has been assisted
by an internationally recruited Oversight Consultant (OC) to carry out the overall
management o f the program. Facilitation o f and technical guidance for the village level
project planning and implementation was outsourced to 24 international and national
NGOs (facilitating partners, FPs) and a UNagency. The FPs facilitated the mobilization
o f the target communities to form the CDCs and to provide them with technical guidance
for the management o f block grants and planning and implementation o f the subprojects
at village level using the block grants.

The program was initially centralized. However, during the course o f the last two years
five regional offices have been established, and regional and provincial management
capacity has been slowly but consistently developed and strengthened, and project
oversight has been gradually decentralized to regional andprovincial offices.

Most of MRRD civil servants at the central and provincial levels have been integrated
into the NSP management structure over the past two years. Two MRRD staff from
every province has been seconded to the provincial NSP OC offices to provide additional
engineering andmonitoring support.

Taking into account the challenges and constraints that continue to be posed by the
operating environment, the NSP I1 institutional arrangements build on successful
elements o f the existing structure, but significant adjustments have also been introduced,
with a special attention to the institutional strengthening of the MRRD, reduction of
delivery costs, security riskmitigation, and decentralizationo f the program management.



                                            10

2. InstitutionalArrangements for the NSPI1

Implementation arrangements showing the project organizational setting and elaborating
the roles and responsibilities o f all project implementing partners at each level o f the
Government and community level are in Appendix 4. The implementing arrangement
over the next three years will rely on the regional and provincial office structure as was
the case inNSP I.  It is proposed, however, that it will have arather autonomous structure
withinthe MRRDas opposed to the OC ledimplementationstructure.

The NSP I1management will continue to be supported by a reduced level o f international
technical assistance, while the MRRD will lead and provide the oversight for the
program. Unlike inthe first phase, inthe NSP 11, the MRRDwill carry out core functions
such as policy and strategy development and application, coordination with other
ministries, external relations with donors, resource mobilization, management o f relations
with FPs, appraisal, approval andprocessing o f subprojects, engineering, monitoring and
quality assurance - focusing on achievements, outcomes and program impact, and
training and capacity development at central andregional levels.

Other functions, such as consolidated financial management, Block Grant Management
and Management Information System (MIS) operations will be outsourced to an external
consultant. All remaining operational h c t i o n s (including M&E, Human Resource
Development, Procurement, General Administration, Public Communications,                FP
Management, and Technical Support) will be handled directly by MRRD NSP staff with
limitedtechnical assistance from international consultants. These MRRDstaff, however,
will be contracted staff and not MRRD civil servants as there is still an acute shortage of
civil servants within the MRRD.

The staff o f the outsourced departments (Financial Management, Block Grant
Management andMIS) will remain employees o f the consultant while all national staff o f
the other departments will be contracted directly bythe MRRD.

An inter-ministerial steering committee will guide the NSP for the overall policy,
strategic planning and management o f the project and for integration with other rural
development programs. Chaired by the Second Vice President o f the Government, the
Committee is represented by the Ministers o f Finance, Agriculture and Irrigation, Energy
and Water, Education, Public Health, Women's Affairs, Public Works, Rural
Rehabilitation andDevelopment, Justice and Interior.

An external donor committee composed o f the donors financing the NSP I1will monitor
the program planning, implementation anddevelopment outcomes.

The program will be managed by Management Units established at the central and
provincial levels. At the center, the Minister will be assisted by an Executive Director
responsible for policy formulation, program planning, external and donor relations,
budget and h d management and overall oversight. The Executive Director will be



                                            11

assisted by a Director o f Operations. The Executive Director will be a senior and
experienced Afghan national appointed by the MRRD within the existing government
civil service or selected through a competitive process. The Director o f Operations will
be an experienced and competent consultant who will bring international experience in
the planning and execution o f similar community driven development programs. The
Director o f Operations will be hired directly bythe MRRD.

ManaPement Support Consultant (MSC)

MRRD would hire a Management Support Consultant through international competition
to take responsibility for financial management, block grant management and MIS.
Outsourcing these functions aims to ensure accountability and transparency to donors and
stakeholders, and compliance with World Bank fiduciary rules andregulations. The main
management support responsibilities o f the MSC will include budget and financial
management, financial procedures & controls, personnel administration, MIS, IT and
database and other management related information provision.

At the field level, seven Regional Offices (ROs) will support the provincial RRD offices
inapprovingblock grants, liaisonwithFPs, overseeingthe procurement administrationof
subprojects andbuildlocal management capacities o f the provincial staff through on-the-
job training. The Provincial RRD offices will be responsible for overseeing the work o f
the FPs and for managing the outcome o f the NSP: the mobilization o f the communities,
formation o f the CDCs and planningand implementation o f the subprojects.

Once the FPs complete their cycle o f support to and withdraw from the communities,
MRRDthrough these provincial offices will act as the primaryinterface between CDCs
andother development actors. These community leddevelopment teams o fthe provincial
offices will support and guide the CDC re-elections and potential revisions to the CDPs.
In addition once the CDC Constitution, which is under preparation by the MRRD, is
approved by the Government, these teams will facilitate the implementation o f the
provisions o f the Constitution at CDC level with further and future guidance from the
MRRD.

Facilitating Partners (FPs)

At present 24 facilitatingpartners are engaged inthe ongoing program.    The contracts o f
the FPs will expire on March 31, 2007. However, almost all these FPs will require
completing the ongoing community mobilization cycle leading to the satisfactory
completion o f subprojects, some beyond March 31,2007. Inaddition, FP services will be
required to ensure the continuity o f the program inthe NSP I1as the program rolls out to
new communities covering the districts where FPs are already present and new districts
whereno FPs are presently working.

Communitv Development Councils (CDCs)

CDCs will be the primary units responsible for the planning and execution o f the
subprojects under the facilitation and technical guidance o f the FPs. The CDC is a



                                            12

community-based decision making body that includes a chairperson, vice-chairperson,
secretary, and treasurer. CDCs are responsible for overseeing and preparation o f the
CDP for their respective villages facilitated by the FPs. The CDPs are the basis for
identifying and prioritizing the block grant investments for subprojects in the villages.
The CDCs are also responsible for the management o f block grants within the village,
procurement o f subprojects and their implementation. Project Management Committee,
selected by the community, are responsible for withdrawal o f block grant funds from the
community account and procure the goods and services required to implement the
subprojects.     Additional subproject committees are established as preferred by the
communities to manage individual subprojects or oversee specific tasks such as
procurement, construction management etc.

Implementation inHighRisk Areas

The security environment inwhich the NSP operates has significantly deteriorated over
the course o f the program and is currently at its worst level. The number o f communities
and districts where NSP activities are suspended has steadily increased. The security
situation remains highly volatile and i s the single most important risk the NSP I1faces to
achieve its stated goals.

The deterioration insecurity presents a number o f dilemmas. The government has made a
commitment to bringthe NSP to all rural communities, and communities yet to start with
the NSP are impatient. As part o f the national government, MRRD has the political
mandate and commitment to roll out to all areas o f the country. The NSP to date has
been considered by the communities as an effective rural development and village
governance/state building program. Its presence has ensured government visibility and
the perception that the government is taking responsibility for its citizens, even in the
most remote rural areas. It is also the Government's main vehicle to achieve rural
development benchmarks o f the I-ANDs. Precisely because NSP promotes the existing
government's interests, however, it has been targeted by anti-government elements linked
to drug trafficking, terrorist groups, and insurgency. If the NSP suspends its activities,
there i s a political risk that the absence o f government and support in those areas would
provide an advantage to anti-government elements to win sympathy and support from the
people inthose areas. On the other hand, to continue the NSP activities poses enormous
challenges o f physical insecurity (in the last year the number and casualties doubled),
higher delivery costs, and limited supervision (and therefore technical, fiduciary and
safeguard risks).

The planning o f the implementation o f NSP I1in high risk areas therefore requires to
strike a pragmatic balance between the state building objectives o f the Government and
need to comply with the development effectiveness and outcomes as well as the diligent
fiduciary management o f the project.

Extensive discussions have taken place with the FPs operating in insecure areas and
between the government and the OC to identify various options for planning and
implementing the NSP I1in high risk areas. Map 1 shows the districts where FPs are



                                             13

active at present and villages in those districts either partially or fully covered. Map 2
shows districts with low, moderate and high security risks at the time o f appraising the
project for illustrative purpose. Districts rated at low risk at present may become highrisk
area and vice versa during the course o f the implementation, andplanning o f the roll out
will needto be adjusted accordingly.

Based on the current estimate, the NSP I1 is expected to cover an additional 4,318
villages in the next three years. This number is subject to change, however, due to the
dynamic and unpredictable nature o f the security situation. Sufficient flexibility has
therefore been incorporated in the cost tables and procurement planning. Actual rolling
out to new communities and districts will be adjusted during the implementation with
guidance from the National Steering Committee after proper assessment o f the security
conditions.

Unwillingness o f the FP andprovincial/district staff to travel to risk prone villages could
undermine the achievement o f the development objectives o f the NSP 11. The restricted
accessibility would pose many other potential programmatic, fiduciary, and reputational
risks. These include: (i)  inability to mobilize and train CDCs to ensure transparency and
equity in carrying out a democratic election leading to potential risk o f capturing the
decisionmakingpower o f CDCs and misappropriation o f fundingby elites, warlords, and
anti-government elements; (ii)    inability to supervise diligently, the financial management
and procurement administration o f the subprojects and block grant disbursements and
accounting;     (iii)reduced quality of the design, billing and construction of the
subprojects leading to potential avenues o f corruption, potential risk o f block grants
ending up partially in the hands o f anti-government elements, and questionable
usefulness and sustainability o f the subprojects; and (iv) risk to life o f the operating staff.

Under these circumstances, it is very difficult to filly respect the NSP guiding principles
inpursuit of the NSP objectives ininsecure areas. Inhighrisk areas the main threat to
the NSP objectives is the inability to establish the foundation for local governance, as FPs
have restricted access to the communities and therefore cannot offer the full facilitation
support to develop the capacity o f the CDCs and to ensure the CDCs are representative
and consultative in their formulation o f the community development plan. As a result,
the focus is more on the delivery o f state building services, rather than inclusive local
governance. This means that any alternative approach is only realistic in communities
that have already been mobilized, elected their CDCs, formulated their development
plans, andwhere subprojects have already been reviewed and approved by the OC. It is
not possible to facilitate the governance component o f the program by remote control,
when FPs cannot access the communities.

Therefore, it has been agreed that the project, through the National Steering Committee,
will obtain guidance for program planning and implementation in the high risk areas,
particularly for the roll out to new communities and new districts. If the accessibility o f
these villages and districts is restricted, the program roll out to new communities andnew
districts will not take place until the Steering Committee recommends that the security
situation has eased off, the concerned Communities are willing to receive the services o f



                                              14

FPs, the concerned FP and the staff o f the Regional staff are willing to travel to those
areas, and the Bank task team i s confident that satisfactory arrangements for
implementation supervision, monitoring and fiduciary compliance are inplace.

Inthe case of communities inhighrisk areas who have been partially mobilized and
already included inthe ongoing FP contracts, a different distance based approach will be
utilized. If in any village the CDC is already in place, CDP has been developed, and
subprojects have been approved by the OC, then the CDC will allow to proceed with the
implementation. Inthose instances, the subproject implementation would rely on trusted
and respected independent community members, who could verify the use o f block grant
funds andthe status of implementation. Inaddition, the project implementation will rely
upon the monitoring by community level procurement and financial management sub-
committees. However, technically complex subprojects, such as micro-hydro power,
would not be implementedinthe absence o fproper technical support.

Based on the initial implementation experience with the above proxy oversight and
monitoring arrangements, other possible alternative implementation approaches for the
project implementation in risk areas would be explored later during the implementation
phase.

3. BudgetandCo-Financing

Program andProject Budget

The second phase o f the National Solidarity Program plans to achieve national coverage
(all districts) increasing the number o f total CDCs to 21,600 (that is 90 percent o f an
estimated total o f 24,000 rural communities2). The three year timeframe for the second
phase i s expected to allow at least 75 percent o f these CDCs to have disbursed their block
grant. Within these assumptions, the total fundingrequirement for this three year period
is estimated to be about US$525 million.

In addition to the proposed IDA Grant, further resources are expected through ARTF
(US$244 million), JSDF (US$30 million), and bilateral contributions together with other
sources o f funding to be identified duringimplementation (USS130 million),

ARTF

The Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund (ARTF) represents one mechanism for co-
financing o f the NSP. The ARTF is one o f the main instruments available to the
Government o f Afghanistan to finance key recurrent expenditures (salaries, capital
expenditures, operations and maintenance of key government institutions), as well as
finance urgent investments and reconstruction activities planned in the country's

       ~~          ~



2 It is not known at the current stage how many rural communities exist in Afghanistan, there are just
estimates. At its inception the NSP assumed a total number o f 22,000 rural communities or villages, raising
this number over time to 24,000. The National Rural Vulnerability Assessment (NRVA) using a different
approach estimates 38,000 rural settlements. NSP villages cluster on average 1.5 rural settlements. For
everyNSP village there is one CommunityDevelopment Council(CDC).


                                                 15

economic recovery program. The ARTF can either finance free-standing projects or co-
finance IDA or other donor-funded projects. Modalities have been developedby IDA, as
ARTF Administrator, to allow donors to express preferences for a priority program or
project included in the government multi-year development budget, and for which the
government has requested ARTF funding. To maintain the integrity and principles
underlying a multi-donor Trust Fund, the ARTF cannot be used exclusively for the
purpose o f financing specific programs or projects. Donors who express a specific
preference are expected to also contribute to the general allocation.     The amount for
which the preference i s being expressed cannot exceed 50 percent o f the donor's total
contribution in a given Afghan Fiscal Year (Solar Year - SY). In a non-legally binding
side letter to the Agreement, IDA will communicate its confidence that ARTF will fund
the designated program up to the amount expressed by the donor and this amount would
be transferred from the general fund to the specific project fund.

As of August, 2006, cumulative ARTF contributions for the first phase o f the NSP
amounted to US$122 million. The amount o f ARTF contribution expected for the NSP I1
i s twice as much for the same period o f time. This i s in consideration o f (i)the
expression o f interest o f additional new donors to join the NSP financing, (ii)      the
establishment o f a special external affairs and fund raising function in the NSP
management, and (iii)  the inclusion o f additional ARTF funds that have beenpledged and
that would be made available before the start o f the NSP 11.

JSDF

The Japan Social Development Fund(JSDF) was established by the Government o f Japan
andthe World Bank inJune 2000 as an untiedmechanism for providing direct assistance
to the poorest and most vulnerable groups in eligible member countries o f the World
Bank Group. The main purposes o f the JSDF are to: (i)        Support innovative programs
which directly respond to the needs o f the poorest andmost vulnerable groups insociety;
(ii) rapidanddemonstrablebenefits, whichcanbesustained,tothepoorestand
     Provide
most vulnerable groups; and (iii) capacity, participation and empowerment of civil
                                  Build
society, local communities andNGOs.

The Government o f Japan and the World Bank agreed to set up a special window within
the JSDF to support activities in Afghanistan under a program o f assistance for the
country's reconstruction andtransition toward political, economic and social stability.

As o f August, 2006, cumulative JSDF contributions for the first phase o f the NSP
amounted to US$26 million. Based on preliminary discussion with the Japanese
authorities, the expected financing from the JSDF for the next three years i s expected to
be inthe order o f about US$30 million.

Bilateral Parallel Financing

The government's preferred co-financing mechanism would be joint co-financing under
an arrangement where funds from different donors are channeled through the Treasury or



                                           16

through multi-donor trust funds such as the ARTF. Some donors however could not, for
different reasons, pool their resources with other co-financiers, and it is expected that in
the NSP I1there will still be a portion o f the program financing that will be channeled
under direct bilateral agreements between the Government and the donors. It is expected
that additional funds will be provided to the order o f 3-5 percent o fthe total budget.

Other Sources o f Financing

Other sources o f financing to complete the budget needs have not been identified at this
stage. Taking in consideration the projected financial plan, the program i s likely to be
currently under-funded for an estimated 25-30 percent o f the total. However, because o f
the scope and outreach o f the NSP, and the attractive program performance, it i s
reasonable to expect that additional funding will be made available during
implementation, including IDA supplemental funding. Under the NSP 11, an MRRD
officer will be incharge of public relation initiatives and fund raising for the program.

4. Procurement

The Procurement administration o f the NSP I1 would be carried out in accordance with
the World Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated
M a y 2004, "Guidelines: Selection and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers" dated M a y 2004, and the provisions stipulated in the Financing Agreement.
For each contract to be financed by the Grant the different procurement methods or
consultant selection methods, the need for prequalification, estimated costs, prior review
requirements, and time frame are agreed between the Grant Recipient and the Bank
project team are described in the Procurement Plan agreed with the Government at
appraisal and finalized during negotiations. This Procurement Plan will be updated at
least annually or at lesser time intervals as required to reflect the actual project
implementation needs and improvements inthe institutional capacity.

ProcurementMethods

Procurement of Works: A largemajority o f the works to be procured under this project
would include community sub-projects. These subprojects are implemented by the
communities using Block Grant provisions made by the project. Each community will
get a Block Grant o fUS$200per familywith anupper ceiling o f limit o fUS$ 60,000 per
community. Therefore, the estimated value o f most o f the community subprojects would
be lesser than US$ 60,000 per project. Community will carry out procurement following
paragraph 3.17 o f Bank's Guidelines. The detailed procurement procedures are listed
under the procurement chapter in the Operational Manual. The OM includes shopping,
direct contracting and other methods for the procurement o f gooddand works for the
community subprojects for the selection o f individuals to provide the necessary
professional inputs inthe implementation o f the subprojects. The procurement o f all other
works contracts will be done using the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) for
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) and National SBD agreed with (or satisfactory
to) the Bank for all National Competitive Bidding (NCB) and other procurement
methods. A sample bidding document for N C B has already been agreed between the


                                           17

Bank andthe MRRD.All contract estimated to more thanUS$ 100,000 will be procured
following N C B procedures and contracts below US$ 100,000 will be procured following
shoppingprocedures

Procurement of Goods: All goods contracts estimated to cost more than US$ 200,000
will be procured following ICB procedures. The contracts estimated to cost more than
US$ 100,000 and less thanUS$200,000 will be procured following N C B procedures and
contract estimated to cost less than US$ 100, 000 will be procured following shopping
procedures, With the prior agreement with IDA, Direct Contract method will be used to
procure goods and services which meet the requirements as per the provision under
paragraph 3.6 o f Bank's Guidelines.

Selection of Consultants: There will be a large number o f Technical Assistance (TA)
contracts under the project. These TA will include the hiring o f Management Support
Consultant (MSC) and Facilitating Partners (FPs), totaling around 78 contracts.            The
MSC will provide the management oversight support and technical assistance to the
MRRD at center and provincial offices and manage the FP contracts. A shortlist has
already been prepared for the selection o f the MSC and the procurement process i s
underway to ensure that MSC begins operations fiom April 1, 2007. There are 24
ongoing FP contracts awarded to international and national NGOs. These FPs are already
active inall 34 provinces o f the country covering 276 districts out o f total 364 districts o f
the country.

The FP contracts under NSP Iwill end by March 31, 2007. However, these contracts
need to be continued to complete the second and third year cycles o f community
facilitation process o f the communities included in the NSP I.An estimated number o f
6,866 communities will undergo the third year cycle, and 5,005 communities will
undergo both year 2 and year 3 cycles. These contract assignments couldbe considered in
compliance with paragraph 3.9-3.12 o f Bank's Guidelines for the Selection o f
Consultants and the Government, and IDA agreed that the ongoing FP contract that will
expire on March 31, 2007 will be extended following Single Source Selection (SSS)
Procedure.

As the NSP I1rolls out around 4,300 new communities will be added to the program in
districts where the present FPs are already active and in districts where no FP has moved
to yet. A SSS and competitive selection process would be followed respectivelyto select
the FPs for such districts. The selection o f consultants under the project will include
QCBS, QBS, CQS, LCS, FBS SSS and individual consultants inaccordance with Section
V o f bank's Guidelines for the Selection o f Consultants. Threshold for CQS procedure
willbeUS$200,000 per contract.

Individual consultancy contracts will be procured following Section V o f Bank's
Guidelines for the Selection o f Consultants. Short lists for services estimated to cost less
than$50,000 equivalent per contract maybe composed entirely o fnational consultants in
accordance with the provisions o fparagraph 2.7 o f the Consultant Guidelines.




                                           18

Incremental Operational Costs will be procured using the implementing agency's
administrative procedures which were reviewed and found acceptable to the Bank.

Assessment o f the agency's capacity to implement procurement

An assessment o f the capacity o f the MRRD and the NSP unit to implement the
procurement actions under the project was carried out in September 2006. The
assessment reviewed the proposed organizational structure for the implementation o f the
NSP and the capacity o f the MRRD is adequate to handle the procurement activities o f
the proposed project. The NSP Unit will be responsible for day-to-day project
management including procurement, financial management, progress and financial
reporting, staff appointment and management, andproject monitoring and evaluation.

The MRRD currently procures items such as vehicles, generators, pumps, office
equipment etc using their own resources as well as the funds received from the other
donors. The Deputy Minister for Programs has delegated the authority to approve
procurements valued up to AF250, 000 (approximately US$S,OOO) and the Minister has
delegated the authority to approve procurements valued up to AF3, 000,000 (US$60,000)
underthe current ProcurementLaw.

However in order to strengthen the capacity o f the MRRD, capacity buildingprograms
are planned (See Appendix 5). Inaddition, provisions are included in the project's cost
estimate to provide advanced procurement training to 1-2 selected procurement staff o f
the MRRD at a reputed overseas institute as a measure for long term procurement
capacity building o f the MRRD. These internationally trained staff will be used as
trainers to train a cadre o f local procurement staff within the MRRD during the project
period.

While the procurement risk at the MRRD level could be considered as "Average", as the
majority o f the procurement i s carried out by communities at the village level that risk i s
"High". However such high risk will be mitigated by having clear procurement
procedures in the manual and training o f communities to comply with such procedures
and also by social audit."

Procurement Plan

The Grant Recipient,      at appraisal, developed a Procurement Plan for project
implementationwhich provides the basis for the procurement methods. The planwill also
be available in the Project's database, NSP website (www.nspafghanistan.org), and on
the Bank's external website (www.worldbank.ordaf). The Procurement Plan will be
updated in agreement with the Project Team annually or as required to reflect the actual
project implementation needs andimprovements ininstitutional capacity.

Procurement Supervision

In addition to the prior review supervision to be carried out from Bank offices, the
capacity assessment o f the Implementing Agency has recommended one procurement


                                           19

review per year in the field to carry out post review of procurement actions and the
compliance with the agreed procedures at community level. Inaddition, as recommended
by the Operational Procurement Review Committee (OPRC), the Bank will carry out a
financial audit o fthe ongoing contract o f the OC and audit recommendations will be used
as a learningground to further improve the quality o f procurement supervision o f all TA
contracts o fthe project.

Social Audit

Considering that procurement under the large number o f subprojects will be carried out
bycommunities and due to large sum o f subprojects, it would not be feasible to carry-out
procurement review/audit as in a normal investment project. Therefore it i s proposed to
carryout a social audit through participatory and transparent process. Institutional
arrangements for social audit at the village level (CDC) will provide the framework
needed to ensure that there i s checks//balances and transparency in the procurement
process including access to information related to procurement. The information related
to procurement under block grants will be disseminated to the public. Such infomation
will be provided inthe notice board o f the village mosque, CDC office notice board and
NSP website. In addition the information i s disclosed at village meetings as per the
current practice under NSP. Experience has shown that social audit including
participatory and transparent process i s the most powerful tool to ensure the funds are
used for the purposes intended.

5. FinancialManagement,DisbursementandAudit

A PFM performance rating system has been recently developed for Afghanistanby the
Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability (PEFA) multi-agency partnership
program, which includes the World Bank, IMF, EC, and other agencies. Afghanistan's
ratings against the PFM performance indicators portray a public sector where financial
resources are, by and large, being used for their intended purposes as authorized by a
budget that i s processed with transparency and has contributed to aggregate fiscal
discipline.

Financial management and audit functions for proposed project will be undertaken
through the agents contracted under the Public Administration Capacity Buildingproject.
This is the primaryinstrument for continuing to strengthen the fiduciary measures put in
place for ensuring transparency and accountability o f funds provided by the Bank and
other donors. Under these contracts, two advisers-Financial     Management and Audit-
are responsible for working with the government and line ministries to carry out these
core functions. The Financial Management Agent (FMA) i s responsible for helping the
MoF maintain the accounts for all public expenditures, including IDA-financed projects
andfor buildingcapacitywithinthe government offices for these functions.

At present, financial management at project level has been outsourced to the Oversight
Consultant (OC). In the NSP 11, the financial management responsibility will be
transferred to a Management Support Consultant (MSC) to be appointed at the end o f
OC'S contract in April 2007. The OC/MSC will utilize a computerized accounting


                                            20

system to maintain relevant accounting records and generate required periodic reports on
the project activities. This accounting system which will also be utilized for the financial
management o f block grant to communities for sub-projects will be integrated with
monitoring and evaluation by the M I S unit within the MSC, to ensure a close link
between technicaVprogress reporting and financial reporting, and to support the validity
o fthe expenditures.

Quarterly Financial Monitoring Reports will be prepared by the MSC/MRRD finance
department. Consolidatedproject reports will be prepared, reviewed, and approvedby the
MoF, supported bythe FMA.

A Designated Account (DA), will be opened at D a Afghanistan Bank (DAB, Central
Bank) or in a local commercial bank in the name o f the project on terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA.The DA will be maintainedby the MoF. Withdrawal applications for
replenishment will be submitted monthly. Financial management arrangements for the
project are detailed inAppendix 7.

FundFlows

Fund management for the Gran will follow existing procedures. As with all public
expenditure, all payments under the project will be routed through MoF. The FM Agent
will assist the MoF inexecuting and recordingproject payments. Inkeeping with current
practices for other projects in Afghanistan, the DA will be operated by the Special
Disbursement Unit (SDU) inthe Treasury DepartmentMoF. Requests for payments from
DA funds will be made to the SDUbyMRRD. Inaddition to payments from DA funds,
MRRD can also request the SDU to make direct payments to consultants or consulting
firms, and special commitments for contracts covered by letters o f credit. Such requests
will follow World Bank procedures.        All withdrawal applications to IDA, including
replenishment, reimbursement, and direct payment applications, will be prepared and
submitted byMoF.

Accounting andReporting

A Financial Management Manual will be prepared by MSC/MRRD documenting the
financial management arrangements for the project. The manual will outline guidelines
for project activities including specific requirements for communities benefiting from
block grants for sub-projects, and establish a project financial management system in
accordance with standard Afghan government policies and procedures. This will include
use o f the Chart o f Accounts developed by the FMA to record project expenditure.
Project accounts will be consolidated centrally in MoF, through the SDU and supported
by the FMA. Consolidated Project Financial Statements will be prepared for all sources
anduses o fproject expenditures.

DisbursementMethod

Disbursements from the IDA Grant will be transaction-based, with replenishment,
reimbursement, direct payment, andpayments under Special Commitments including full
documentation or against statements o f expenditures, as appropriate.


                                           21

Audit o fProiect Funds

The Auditor General, supported by the Audit Agent, is responsible for auditing the
accounts of all IDA-financed projects. Annual audited project financial statements will
be submitted within six months o f the close o f GOA'Sfiscal year. The audit agreement
include audit o f CDCs on random basis.

Retroactive Financing

To provide maximum financing flexibility, it has been agreed that the Government may
claim up to US$40,000,000 (33 % o f the IDA grant amount) as retroactive financing for
expenditures financed after October 1, 2006 and prior to the signing date o f the Grant
Agreement,

6. Monitoring and Evaluation

The NSP Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Department o f the MRRD will be
responsible for coordinating the M&E tasks, liaising with FPs, provincial M&E staff and
OC in the collection and reporting o f the required data. The M&E data will be
continuously updated and consolidated quarterly for provision to the Bank task team, and
will be made available to coincide with the supervisionmissions o fthe project. The M&E
department will be supported by the Provincial M&E staff as well as the FPs at the
province and district level.

ImplementationMonitoring

At community level, CDCs will be responsible, with the support from the FPs, for
monitoring their own progress based on a few selected key indicators (e.g. on
process/participation, implementation progress/results, and expenditures). At the same
time, a well designed community participatory monitoring system will be piloted during
the first six months and expanded if successful. Communities will monitor procurement,
financial management, implementation and maintenance o f the subprojects, and FP's
performance   .

Facilitating Partners (FPs) will continue to be responsible for the implementation
monitoring, focusing on inputs, process and output level, using the communities as the
basic unit of monitoring. The FPs will prepare a brief monthly report on the
implementation status.

At district level, FPs will prepare quarterlyprogress reports, which cover the district(s) or
province(s) inwhich the particular FP is responsible for the facilitation o fNSP.

At Province level, FPs will prepare a quarterly report based on the district reports and
feed the M I S with the information collected. The Provincial M&E staff of MRRD will
further assess the quality o f the subprojects as well as the governance capacity o f CDCs.




                                            22

At the national level, MRRD M&E department will analyze the data collected and
prepare quarterly progress reports for the project as a whole, which will be shared with
key stakeholders. The MRRDwill provide monthly progress reportsto the Bankandany
other reports required by the Bank andthe National Steering Committee.

Post-implementation monitoring

The objectives are primarily to assess the sustainability o f the subprojects and the
governance capacity o f CDCs beyond subproject completion. This will be carried out, on
random sample basis, by the NSP M&E department three and six months after the
subprojects are completed.

Complaints Handling

A Complaints Handling Mechanism will be introduced in NSP 11. This serves as an
important channel for the community members to report their complaints especially when
there are problems vis-&vis the FPs or other aspects o f the program. A Complaints
HandlingSpecialist inthe MRRDwillbe hired anda phone numberpublicized onposters
where communities can directly call or send an SMS. There will also be a suggestion box
at strategic areas such as mosques, community halls, markets, and shops. The complaints
can also come from facilitators. The complaints will be collected by Fops once a month
inthe presence o f designated CDC membersandhandedover to provincial offices under
confidential cover to be transmittedto the Complaints HandlingSpecialist inthe MRRD.
The incoming complaints are categorized and registered into database by the Complaints
Handling Specialist. Verification and problem solving will be followed-up by both the
FPs and the Complaints Handling Specialist. Should there be complaints regarding the
FPs, the Complaints Handling Specialist, together with MRRD and MSC will decide on
the most appropriate and timely actions. Complaints handling Specialist i s expected to
prepare a monthly summary o f the complaints received, actions taken and outcomes and
share the report with the NSP core staff including the Executive Director and Director
Operations as well as the Bank's task team. If there are alleged or suspected corruption
cases, the Bank will take appropriate action to investigate those cases immediately. If
complaints have larger policy, political or security implications, MRRD will consult the
Steering Committee for the next steps.

Baseline Survev

During the facilitation process, FPs will collect some key basic information o f the
communities, such as demographic data, availability o f resources etc., using a
standardized form called "Community Profile Form". The data will be entered into the
M I S and be analyzed to generate baseline information. A GPS code will be added to the
form inorder to provide accurate geographical position o f targeted communities.

Ex-post Review

A number o f verification and ex-post review mechanisms on utilization o f block grants
are inplace and are described indetail inthe NSO Operation Manual. At the CDC level,


                                          23

elected Project Management Committee i s designated to withdraw funds and procure
goods and services on behalf o f the community. These committees are supported by
community level sub committees on procurement, financial management, monitoring and
M&E. Fops verify the usage o fblock grants andthe physical status o f subprojects when
they recommend the provincial oversight offices to release o f block grant installments.
Also once a subproject is completed, FPs carry out an ex-post review o f all the
subprojects and submit a completion report endorsing that the subproject has been
satisfactorily completed both in quantity and quality.     Release o f the final block grant
installment to CDCs i s based on this verification. In addition, provincial OC staff i s
expected to verify the usage o f block grants and subproject completion at least on a 10%
sample o f CDCs in each district. In addition, the project will carry out analytical work,
inter-alias, to assess the construction quality o f the subprojects as an integral activity o f
theproposedM&Estrategy.

Impact Evaluation

The absence o f a baseline beyond the community profile made it difficult inthe NSP Ito
accurately assess the economic, political, and social impact o f NSP implementation on
targeted communities. Information on the role o f CDCs in facilitating institutional
changes at village-level has been particularly absent. NSP I1will therefore finance an
impact evaluation, focusing on key institutional indicators o f CDCs in addition to some
basic socio-economic data. As a methodology, randomization o f communities will be
used, by randomly selecting communities which receive the project within a targeted
district, and by assigning randomly the control groups to those which do not. The
communities o fthe control groups will be eventually coveredby the project duringyear 2
and year 3 o f the project. Randomization i s considered to be the most reliable way to
compose a credible comparison group, which would have hadoutcomes identical to those
communities that were exposed to the project. Due to the fact that project communities
andcontrol communities are compared through arandomprocess, systematic pre-existing
differences between those that receive the program and those that do not can be
identified.

Analytical Works

Running analytical work in parallel to the ongoing activities will enable an iterative
process whereby findings from the field can be fed into design modification. Running a
longitudinal qualitative analytical work also enables to look at the process o f how local
dynamics change over the course o f program intervention. Some important themes
include: women's empowerment, changing roles among different local actors, changes
over time in villager's decision-making /dispute resolution process, changes in the
government's service delivery mechanism etc. Other technical studies which are equally
important in improving the quality o f program include engineering design quality o f
electrification projects, construction quality o f sub-projects, social and environmental
impact o f sub-projects, and economic rate o f return analysis. FPs will be asked to write
up case studies oncertain topics which canbewidely shared as lessons learned.




                                          24

Mid-termReview

Duringthe second year o f the project, a mid-term review will be conducted in order to
assess whether the NSP I1i s achieving the objectives as planned, and to initiate corrective
measures ifdeemed necessary.

ExternalEvaluations

At the end o f the three years, an external evaluation will assess NSP impact andprovide
recommendations for a third (and final) phase o f consolidation. The evaluation will
specifically assess whether the target set in Appendix 2 had been achieved at the end of
the project, based on findings from the analytical works, the impact evaluation and
monitoring records during the project. An independent external evaluation will also be
carried out to evaluate the performance of the Management Support Consultant and
FacilitatingPartners.

7. ProjectCommunicationUnit

Since September 2003, the Oversight Consultant               (OC)   established a Public
Communication Unit (PCU) to raise awareness about the program's objectives and to
disseminate program's achievements. As o f December 2005, the PCU produced about 4
hours o f broadcast TV news, 15 hours o f documentaries, and 100 hours o f radio
broadcast divided in features stories, news and soap opera episodes. It produced about
75,000 print media products (posters, brochures leaflets, poem books and news articles),
eight exposure trips, and one national Community Development Councils congress. The
total cost estimated o fthe PCUis about US$1.2 million a year.

During the first semester o f 2006, the PCU carried out a baseline assessment to
understand the level o f awareness and perception o f NSP program effectiveness. As a
result, a new communication strategy was outlined. The strategy was developed in
consultation with representatives o f MRRD, Facilitating Partners (FPs), the CDCs the
UN,andthe WorldBank.

The NSP I1 Communication approach aims at consolidating the existing PCU
communication activities based on the findings and recommendations provided by the
baseline assessment. It creates a multi-functional and multi-dimensional communication
framework: (i)   communication to enhance projects effectiveness and help achieve the
intended operational results,      (ii)communication for education,          learning and
dissemination o f information to large audiences, (iii)communication for relationship and
coalition building, social and political mobilization, donors relations and institutional
strengthening.

The primary objective o f the NSP I1communication strategy is to build trust in the
government ability to lead the country's reconstruction. The secondary objective is to
assure a broad knowledge and understanding o f the program and to help sustain the
existing institutional and public support for the project. The tertiary objective is to
strengthen the coordination among donors to facilitate find raising and enhance


                                           25

continuous support to the program. These objectives will be achievedby setting up a two-
way communication mechanism that goes beyond one-way information dissemination,
thus allowing the NSP and MRRD to positively interact with all stakeholders. A
summaryo fthe agreed communicationstrategy is inAppendix 12.


E. FINANCIAL AND ECONOMICJUSTIFICATION

1. Project Benefits

The NSP block grants are used to build economically productive infrastructure. Returns
on NSP outputs are immediate and the evidence suggests that their benefits to villagers
are high. A sample o f 22 NSP subprojects selected for economic analysis showed
economic rates o f return (ERR) averaging 26.3 to 60.8 percent, with an overall ERR
weighted average o f 38.2 percent, and a net present value (NPV) at US$1.186 million.
These results were obtained assuming that 30 percent o f the NSP I1subprojects could fail
because o f poor design and/or the growing conflicting situations inhighrisk areas. Water
supply projects show the highest ERR at an average o f 60.8 percent due to their large
benefits stemming from time and costs saved by family members for collecting and/or
obtaining water. These figures do not yet include the benefits from improved health
conditions due to the supply o f safe water. Road and bridge projects show an average
ERR o f 26.6 percent, resulting from time savings and from significant increases in
agricultural product sales, decrease in transport costs to bring products to market, and
opening o f market opportunities. The irrigation projects show an ERR averaging 38.5
percent and the energy subprojects average an ERR at 26.3 percent.          N o value was
assigned to the improvement o f governance, nor to the benefits expected to be generated
bythe follow-up projects that the CDCs are already implementing.

The economic sensitivity o f the program to the major risk facing the country was also
tested. The on-going armed conflict could result in further aggravation o f the security
situation in rural villages increasing the risk o f subproject sustainability. In the case
subprojects failure would reach 50 percent instead o f the assumed 30 percent, the ERR
could fall from 38.2 percent to 27 percent. On the contrary, ifthe situation improves and
scheme failures drop to only 15 percent, the ERR could be increased to 46.4 percent.
These results allow concluding that the NSP has a very low probability o f failure. It could
be safely concluded that it is a very strong probability that the NSP will continue to be
the strongest vehicle for the country's post-war reconstruction inrural areas.

A cost efficiency analysis was also conducted at two levels: (i) block grant delivery
                                                                  the
costs (including MRRD, Oversight Consultants and FPs) as compared with international
experience; and (ii)the cost comparison o f typical block grant investments at the
community level, with other modalities o f investments for delivering the same services in
Afghanistan. At the end o f NSP I1delivery and community development costs would
represent about 28.5 percent o f the total program costs which compares favorably
worldwide. For all analyzedNSP type o f investments, the delivery costs o f NSP resulted
cost effective. The analysis included the 5 sectors which account for 96 percent o f NSP
BG investments: Water & Sanitation, Transportation, Power, Irrigation and Education.


                                          26

According to an analysis carried out during appraisal, delivering Water & Sanitation,
Irrigation, Education, Transportation and Power projects through the NSP costs on
average 31percent less than ifdone through other ministries andprograms.

Table 2: Comparative Cost Efficiency Analysis
                         Ratio NSP costs/      Proposed NSP I1       Costs of providing
         Sector          Alternative costs       Block Grant        proposed infrastruct.
                        (weighted average)       Investments         w/alternative means
                                                (US$ million)           (US$ million)
  Water & Sanitation           68%                   79.4                   117.2
  Irrigation                   73%                   67.9                   93.5
  Education                    92%                   22.9                   24.8
  Transport Infiastr.          57%                   85.3                   150.4
  Power                        67%                   78.7                   116.6
  Total                        69%                  346.6                   502.4



The economic analysis o f the NSP I1 confirms that the NSP i s having a solid and
sustainable financial impact on beneficiaries. NSP non-quantified most important impact
i s expected to relay in its contribution for building governance throughout Afghanistan.
Delivery costs are in line with international standards and the C B D K D D approach i s
creating the foundations for other development projects to build over the local human,
social and institutional capital being developed. The strengthening o f the financial
situation o f beneficiaries, the employment generation, and the women participation inthe
process are also significant contributions for poverty alleviation.

2. Sustainability

Sustainability o fthe NSP

The project will cover the first three years o f a seven-year government proposal for the
expansion and consolidation o f the program. There is no plan to extend NSP beyond the
proposed seven years. Any further activity beyond that period applies to the community
councils established through NSP, not to NSP itself. CDC's can play three important
roles in the bigger picture o f Afghanistan's longer-term development. First, CDC's for
the first time provide the central government with an effective means to deliver basic
services across the entire country. Second, CDC's could carry out certain basic
administrative functions provided that they received a core block grant through the
budget. Third, CDC's could be grouped to provide representative planningbodies at the
district level that would advise local government. These three options to a large extent
hinge on the central government's vision for subnational government and administration.
A more sustained role for CDC's would be equally compatible with continued
centralization or ina more deconcentrated system.




                                           27

Sustainabilitv o fthe CDCs

The central sustainability goal o f the government i s therefore to ensure the continuity o f
the CDCs as a permanent part o f the governance system and for them to evolve to
become the primary service delivery instrument for rural development. However, funds
alone will not guarantee the long-term sustainability o f CDCs.           A national public
consultation o f elected CDCs found that their position as a representative institution in
the villages will only be achieved if they secure legitimacy through legal recognition o f
and status for the CDC as an institution. Without this, the CDC members rightlybelieve
that they have no legitimacy in any political or developmental context outside o f the
NSP. The CDCs must be recognized by all the government ministries and enshrined in
the law of Afghanistan. Ifthe CDCs are legally constituted then they are far more likely
to remain as an active institution far into the future, beyond the perceived timeframe o f
the NSP itself. This legal status and recognition as an institution of local governance
would enable the CDCs to seek funding external to the NSP.

The CDCs are intended to be the engines o f development at the village level and the
CDPs include many activities that fall beyond the mandate o f MRRD. Ifthe CDCs are to
have an ongoing role, it i s essential that they are properly utilized by other ministries and
service providers in their activities aimed at the rural population. For the role o f the
CDCs to be expanded to other ministries, it i s necessary to actively promote the potential
offered by the CDCs as planning, decision making and service delivery instruments
across the board.

Currently a draft by-law has been completed incoordinationwith the MRRD,Ministryo f
Justice and Ministry o f Interior. The by-law has been endorsed by the Inter-Ministerial
Steering Committee in October, 2006 and is expected to be approved by the President.
On recommendation o f the Steering Committee, it i s expected that a Presidential Decree
would be issued to all Government Ministries and agencies clarifying the nature, roles
and responsibilities o f CDCs and Government's vision towards CDCs.               One o f the
important expected outcomes o f the decree would be the recognition o f CDCs as formal
village level bodies that should be considered as the village level interface between the
Government andcommunities for planning and implementing community based andrural
development programs. These steps would lay foundation for long term sustainability o f
CDCs.     However, pending the Presidential approval o f the by-law, the MRRD through
the community lead development teams based intheir provincial offices will continue to
provide assistance to the CDCs, who will complete the mobilization cycle o f the ongoing
NSP, to facilitate the next round o f CDC elections, and assist the CDCs in seeking
additional finds from other ministries or donors/NGOs.

Sustainabilitv o fthe subproiects

At the level o findividual communities, subprojects sustainability is promotedthrough the
NSP eligibility rules for subproject proposals, which require a commitment to contribute
a minimum o f 10 percent o f capital costs and a plan to cover the costs o f operation and
maintenance (O&M) o f community assets. Facilitating Partners will help build the
required technical and financial management capacity in the communities to undertake


                                             28

O&M. Afghan villages have a `traditional' institutional framework for voluntary labor
mobilization (ashar) to create or maintain joint assets, which can respond to the NSP
requirements for community contributions towards capital costs andO&M. Inthe case of
rehabilitation or improvement o f irrigation systems, which comprise a significant share of
the subprojects, `traditional' non-formal water user associations headed by `water
masters' (rnirabs) exist throughout Afghanistan (although some have collapsed as a result
o f conflict and population displacement),       and undertake water distribution and
maintenance o f local irrigation systems.     Experience from other NGO implemented
projects inAfghanistan (e.g. drinkingwater supply) have demonstrated that arrangements
for user payment in cash, kind, or labor for maintenance services provided through the
market have resulted inhighlevels o f asset sustainability. Inaddition, stringent measures
have been included in the NSP I1 to improve the quality o f engineering design and
construction quality o f subprojects.


F. ENVIRONMENTALAND SOCIAL SAFEGUARDS

1. Environmentaland Social Impact Safeguards

Subprojects under the NSP comprise small-scale civil works which during the
implementation o f the first phase o f the program have not created siggificant negative
environmental or social impacts. Nevertheless, it is expected that under the NSP I1there
will be an increase injoint community subprojects which could have potential adverse
environmental or social impact. Also, poor technical quality o f subprojects and weak,
incomprehensive social inclusion in the decision making process may cause general
discontent, and local environmental or safety hazards (see Appendix 8 on technical
quality o f subprojects).

All activities envisaged under the Grant should not entail significant and negative
environmental and social impacts, provided that they are designed and implemented with
due consideration o f environmental and social issues. Rather, most community
*subprojects have proved duringthe first phase to contribute to improving environmental
protection and social inclusion inrural areas inAfghanistan. Certain types o f investments
that carry negative environmental or social impacts will not be undertaken and are
included ina negative list o fprohibited projects (see "Eligible Subprojects'' section inthe
NSP Operational Manual).

2. PotentialEnvironmentalImpact

Environmental adverse impacts may arise due to depletion or degradation o f natural
resources such as stone, earth, water etc. used for the construction o f small-scale
infrastructure. Constructionactivities may cause limitedtemporary and localized negative
impacts. They can be mitigated through the implementation o f an appropriate generic
Environment and Social Management Plan (EMP) to be prepared for joint projects and
owned by the staff o f the FPs and the communities. This generic EMP could be adjusted
to the relevant circumstances o f the subprojects and their relevant environment. The NSP
subprojects can offer a chance to villagers to plan the management o f their natural


                                           29

resources and enhance their conservation through a holistic approach to sustainable
project design and implementation. The FPs will be required to always promote this
approach and specific information andtraining will be provided.

Rating o f safeguards was unsatisfactory in the last ISR (May 2006). While there is some
experience in dealing with negative impacts and mitigation measures for NSP
subprojects, screening for potential environmental and social impacts on a subproject-by-
subproject basis will be introduced inthe operational manual. Subprojects may be located
insensitive andfragile ecosystems requiring special attentionandprecautions. Screening
through a proper check list would help the NSP team to flag flaws in the design and
preparation phase, and to carry out further assessment with consulting the relevant
specialists if needed. Rural roads, groundwater withdrawal, diversion works for water,
construction activities are all example o f subprojects that will require special attention in
understanding their impacts. FPs will be responsible for ensuring that potential impacts o f
are identified, and mitigation measures planned, implemented and monitored.
Additionally, an independent assessment o f potential cumulative impacts o f the NSP
portfolio will be carried out duringthe implementation.

3. Land Acquisition

Under any condition, the NSP will not allow involuntary land acquisition and forced
(involuntary) resettlement caused by acquisition o f land or other property for
implementation o f the subproject.

If a minor plot of land is needed for a subproject, land can only be obtained through
private voluntary donation, purchase by the community (a transaction between a willing
buyer and a willing seller), or from available government land. Private voluntary
donation or community purchase must be documented and an agreement signed; refer to
Safeguard Forms 2 and 3 in Annex 5 o f the Operational Manual attached). It is worth
bringingto attention, once again, that the NSP does not allow, under any circumstance,
the use o f block grant and community contribution (the minimum 10 percent) for
purchasing o f land; plot/s o f land for implementation o f subprojects must be purchased
with additional funds made availablebythe community.

4. MinorityGroups

The design for the project defines a strategy, which ensures that ethnic minority groups
are included as beneficiaries, and that their concerns are addressed. The NSP promotes
equity and full inclusion o f ethnic/tribal minority groups. The procedure for the election
o f CDC representatives, by which each households cluster elects two representatives
(male and female), ensures that minority groups are represented in the CDC. The
Community Profile (Disbursement Form 1 NSP OM Annex 1) provides the baseline
information on minority groups, which can be compared with the CDC Election and
Composition Form (Disbursement Form 2, NSP OM Annex 1) and Subproject Proposal
(Disbursement Form 7, NSP OM Annex 1) to assess the extent to which ethnidtribal
minority groups participate inthe CDC andbenefit from subprojects. Moreover:




                                            30

   0    the project is national in scale and coverage, and consequently reaches all the
        country's different ethnic groups

   0    both internal monitoring and external independent evaluation will assess the
        inclusiveness o f CDCs and thus provide information that would constitute the
        basis for corrective actions, ifnecessary

   0    independent monitoring by civil society (NGOs and the press) will provide
        another mechanism to identify cases where ethnic minority groups would have
        been bypassed or marginalized.

5. CulturalProperty

Duringproject implementation the community may encounter cultural property, defined
as sites and structures (monuments, works o f art, grave sites) having religious, historical,
architectural, archaeological, or paleonthological significance, and natural sites o f
particularbeauty andor special cultural value.

Small-scale infrastructure subprojects are unlikely to pose threat o f damaging these sites.
However, excavations may lead to chance finds, therefore procedures are to be put in
place and followed to assist identification and protection. Chance find procedures are
defined in the law on Maintenance o f Historical and Cultural Monuments (Official
Gazette, December 21, 1980), which decrees that all moveable and immovable historical
andcultural artifacts are property o fthe State, and further:

    0   The responsibility for preservation, maintenance, and assessment o f historical and
        cultural monuments rests with the Archaeological Committee under the Ministry
        o f Information and Culture, which has representation at the provincial level.

    0   Ifamoveable or immovable historical or cultural artifact is found, the provincial
        governor (wali) or district-in-charge (colossal) should be informed within two
        weeks, andthey should inform the Archaeological Committee.
        Incase of a chance find of moveable or immovable historical or cultural artifact,
        the executing agency (MRRD) i s responsible for protecting the artifact from theft,
        pilferage and damage untilresponsibility i s taken over by the competent authority
        specified above.

    0   These procedures must be referred to as standard provisions in construction
        subcontracts, when applicable.

6. PoppyCultivation

Any activity that supports drug cultivation and processing is on the NSP Negative List
(NSP OM, section 1). The activity, most likely to support poppy cultivation, is irrigation
rehabilitation and development in poppy-producing regions. If a CDC in a poppy-
producing area proposes an irrigation subproject, the optiodrisk that the water i s used for
poppy cultivation must be discussed, and the CDC must confirm that drug crop
cultivation will not take place in the area benefiting from the project. This agreement
must be documented inthe Tripartite Agreement (Disbursement Form 8) and Subproject


                                           31

Proposal (Disbursement Form 7) as per annex 1o f the NSP OM.

7. LandMine RiskManagement

The following procedures serve to minimize the risk posed by land mines during the
implementationo fthe subproject:

        Communities are required to complete a questionnaire regarding the potential
        presence o fmines inthe proposedsubproject site; refer to NSP OM annex 1. Only
        subproject sites assessed to have a nil-to-low risk, based on reliable information,
        are eligible.

    0   The Tripartite Agreement makes clear that the community is solely liable in case
        o f a mine-related accident; refer to Tripartite Agreement, NSP OM annex 1.

    0   Ifsignificant mine risk is present or existing mine data is outdated or otherwise
        unreliable, the subproject will not be approved, unless the community has
        included provisions for mine assessment/clearance in the subproject proposal.
        Mine assessment and clearance tasks must be implementedby UN-MACA or by a
        mine action organization accredited by UN-MACA. Communities will be
        penalized if they clear mines on their own (subsequent NSP funding will be
        reduced or cancelled).

8. Safeguards Management Performance and follow up

During NSP Isupervisions, concerns were raised about unsatisfactory monitoring o f
safeguards, particularly o f safeguards compliance related to land acquisition. In spite o f
the instructions inthe OM and the guidelines in the ESMF, there i s neither indication o f
systematic monitoring nor proper documentation o f Land Acquisition at MRRD/NSP
management level. MRRD/NSP Management will aim at ensuring, through specific
mobilization o f FPs, that proper procedures be followed, including the requirements for
full documentation o f the voluntary nature o f land donation and the subsequent
community ownership status o f the land in question. This issue becomes even more
critical inview o fthe increasingnumber o fjoint projects, thus larger subprojects.

Inaddition, a qualified safeguard specialist willbehiredbyeffectiveness to act as a focal
officer to ensure compliance, adequate monitoring, and proper training to the FPs. TORS
for the position have been agreed at the appraisal.




                                            32

m
m

 Y
 c,
 (6




            c.,
            e,
            d
            E
            *
            d
            g.
            e,
            -8
a
8




      ..
     N




     .y
      B8
    d

          E        E




     m
     F         m
               F
      o        o
    3 a        3
               a

     mfi       m
               fi




               0
               I-       v,
                        m
               3s
               Y



               3
               2




W
3
m
a"

E-3          B
             ?s
L
E            c
             nl
w

3
E




EE
x

#
5




       3
       s,

c
a
  3c
3
2 3

097
VI-




o w
c??
m




   1 '
   3




          00
          M

s          o o o c
           ? C t t c ? -



c)
e
I
4

s
                ' 8
c)
e
I          0             I



4

s

c)
e
I
4

s
              3     7   -



c)
e

4
i
a



s

U
a
C          -
           0    ' 8      I



U
i




   8 .I       4          %

             APPENDIX 3: FINANCIAL AND ECONOMICANALYSIS


Table 1. Summary of Benefits
                                                 Financial              Economic

IProiect Benefits                           I      2,577.1     I          1,855.6        I
 Project Costs                                       670.1                  670.1
 Net Present Value                                 1,908.0                1,186.5
 Internal Rate of Return                         93.7.2%                   38.2%


1. Background

The NSP I1cost i s estimated at US$525.7 million for the period between 2006 and 2009.
Expected project targets include: (i)expanding the coverage o f the on-going NSP to new
areas in order to lay the foundations for a strengthening o f community level governance,
and (ii)to support community-managed subprojects comprising reconstruction and
development that improve access o f rural communities to social and productive
infrastructure and services. By completing a first round o f Block Grants to the 17,600
villages mobilized by NSP Iand reaching out to additional 4,300 new villages, the
project's outcomes will be (i) the nation wide establishment o f a framework for village
level consultative decision making and representative local leadership as a basis for
interactionwithin andbetween communities on the one hand, andwith the administration
and aid agencies on the other; and (ii)local level reconstruction, development, and
capacitybuilding(humanand social) which will leadto poverty alleviation.


2. Methodology

Efficiency was addressed fiom two perspectives: (i)     absolute efficiency at the level of
individual subprojects through economic rates o f return (ERRS)and net present value
(NPV)calculations, andits expansion to the overallprogramto be financed underNSP 11;
and (ii) comparative efficiency (cost-efficiency) by comparing the cost o f undertaking
typical public investments through the NSP approach versus achieving the same results
through alternative government's approaches or programs. The overall NSP ERR resulted
from the weighted average rate o freturn generated by a sample o ftypical subprojects. By
usingNSP Icompleted typical subprojects as representative for NSP I1investments, all
costs and most benefits o f the expected demand driven investments are either known or
could be estimated more accurately. Cost efficiency indicators were estimated at two
levels: (i) block grant delivery costs for the government (including MRRD, OC and
           the
FPs in NSP I); and (ii) cost comparison o f typical investments in NSP Iat the
                           the
community level, with alternative modalities in delivering the same public or productive
infrastructure.
The economic and financial analyses aimed to determine: (i)whether the proposed
investments would result in poverty reduction (financial perspective measured through
increased family income and/or reduced costs involved inthe community access to basic
services and infrastructure); and (ii) whether there would be a positive net economic


                                            40

impact from the social (economic) perspective.

FAR MOD^ software was used to build the two scenarios from which incremental cost
and benefits were estimated for each community: the without NSP I1 scenario which
represent the existing situation; and the with NSP II scenario, where the project
investments would allow for enhanced access to basic public goods and/or productive
infrastructure. Data were derived from a sample o f 22 NSP Icompleted subprojects in
Kabul, Khost and Logar Provinces. Data were collected through several visits to the
representative NSP Icommunities - five to six subprojects for each o f the four types o f
most demanded investments: (i)        access rural roads and improved related structures; (ii)
electrification; (iii) supply; and (iv) rehabilitation or improvement o f damaged
                       water
irrigation structures. The information was later verified by subsequent visits by MRRD
andBankrepresentatives to some o fthe sampled communities.

After validation, the data was introduced to FARMOD to estimate the corresponding
indicators (financial benefits per community, and ERRSandNPVs for subprojects andthe
overall NSP). FARMOD output shows results at four levels and the two perspectives
(financial and economic): (i)    at the community level; (ii) subproject level; (iii) each
                                                                  at                            at
o f the four types o f investment level; and (iv) at the overall NSP level. The financial
analysis aims at determining the poverty alleviation impact at the target group resulting
from the demand driven proposed community investments and/or improvements,
independently o f parallel fiscal costs for the country. The economic analysis i s aimed at
testing the viability o f the project from the country's economy as a whole, including all
delivery costs not bared bythe beneficiaries.

Cost information for the cost efficiency analysis was obtained through interviews with
qualified informants and through the revision o f several Bank and other sources' reports.

3. AbsoluteEfficiencyAnalysis

The ERR for the NSP was estimated at 38.2% and the NPV at US$1.186 million,
assuming that 30 percent o f the NSP I1subprojects could fail because o f poor design or
growing conflicting situations in high risk areas. It was also assumed that NSP I1block
grant funds would maintain the same distribution between the type o f subproject as in
NSP I,and that the average costs and benefits of the subprojects would be similar as
those in Phase I.N o value was assigned to the strengthening o f governance in
Afghanistan being achieved through NSP, which is however likely to be the most
important impact o f the program. Neither the benefits expected to be generated by the
 follow-up projects implementedby the CDCs created under the NSP inspite o f its impact
on humanand social capital formation.

FinancialAnalysis.Most beneficiariesobtain significant financial results. It is expressed
both by the overall program's financial rate o f return o f 93.7 percent, and by the family
income increments and/or cost savings intheir daily lives. Villages under NSP facilitation

9 FARMODwas developed underthe leadership ofthe World Bank with the cooperation o fFA0 andIFAD
and is extensively used worldwide for economic and financial evaluation o f agricultural development and
other projects.


                                                41

 approach usually select the most urgent service and/or infrastructure for meeting their
 needs. Table 2 shows that from the 17,026 funded subprojects (as o f August 30, 2006),
 about 26.1 percent focused on supplying drinking water; 21.4 percent in improving
 transport infrastructure (roads, bridges, etc.); 18.6 percent in the rehabilitation o f
 irrigation systems; 15 percent in the provision o f energy (generators, micro-hydro, solar
 energy); 10.3 percent inimproving their livelihood and generation o f income; 6.9 percent
 ineducation infrastructure; and 1.2percent inother investments.




                                  No. of SP             ooos             ooos       I Acumul.
 Transport                      3,641    21.4%    52,124    26.0%   64,931   26.4%     26.4%
 Water Supply 8z Sanitation     4,447    26.1%    47,666    23.8%   59,670   24.2%     50.6%
I Power                     I   2.551 I   15.0% I 42.989 I  21.5% I  50.329 I20.4% I   71.1% I
  Irrigation                    3,162     18.6%   36,267    18.1%   44,984    18.3%    89.3%
  Education                     1,176      6.9%    13,603    6.8%    16,934    6.9%    96.2%




  However, when ordered according to the amounts o f block grants disbursed and
  committed, the transport investment group takes the lead with 26 percent due to their
  higher costs, followed by water supply (23.8 percent), power (21.5 percent), and
  irrigation (18.1 percent). These sectors account for almost 90 percent o f the total
  disbursement and h dcommitments.

  For a rapid assessment o f the on-going 17,026 subprojects, 22 cases were selected
  covering the four most important groups o f subprojects (transport, water supply, power
  and irrigation). The selection was done considering mainly the list o f first completed
  2,544 subprojects which was 15 percent o f the NSP financed subprojects. Their
  representative nature, as well as security and accessibility concerns were the central
  criteria for the selection. For each o f these 22 study cases, costs and benefits were
  estimated, andvisits to the villages for the impact assessment were made.

  Subproject costs were estimated based on: (i)   actual block grant disbursements; and (ii)
  the expected NSP overheads (facilitation and other delivery project costs). Benefit
  estimations were derived by interviewing the respective community and considering their
  assessmentabout actual results.




                                                42

 CDCs facilitation, project preparation and capacity building costs under NSP IIare
 expected to have an average cost o fUS$8,400 per village, to be spent ina two year cycle.
 However, a more conservative amount o f US$9,800 per village in a three year cycle,
 which corresponds to the average cost under NSP                 I ' O ,was used for the evaluation.
 Similarly, MRRD/OC costs per village were estimated at US$3,528for the three year
 cycle.

 Some villages use the assigned block grant for 1, 2 or 3 subprojects (average o f 1.8
 subprojects per village). MRRD/OC overheads and FP facilitating costs per subproject
 were considered proportionally by the ratio between the respective subproject cost' and
 the block grant amount assigned. Each CDC is entitled to receive a Block Grant amount
 o f US$200 per family in the community, up to a maximum of US$60,000. Costs and
 benefit value estimates and the main indicators for the 22 subprojects are summarized in
 the tables at the end o f this Appendix.

 Economic Analysis. The overall NSP ERRwas estimated at 38.2 percent andthe NPV at
 US$1.186 million. Main assumptions were: (i)               30 percent o f the NSP I1 subprojects
 would fail because o f poor design or increased conflicting situations in high risk areas;
 (ii) I1blockgrantfunds wouldbedemandedmaintainingthe samedistribution
      NSP
 between types o f subproject as in NSP I;and (iii)            subprojects would have similar costs
 and benefits as those shown in NSP I.N o value was assigned to the improvement o f
 governance, nor to the benefits expected to be generated by the follow-up projects that
 the program created CDCs are already implementing

 Table 3 below shows the weighted average economic rate o f returns (ERRS)for the four
 groups o f subprojects, based on the 22 case studies sample (including five to six
 subprojects ineach type o f investment) financed by the NSP Iblock grants. Most tradable
 input andproduct economic prices were assumed to be equivalent to their market prices.
 A shadow price o f 0.7 was applied for labor costs, given the high underemployment
  levels in rural areas. All prices are assumed to remain constant in real terms throughout
 the life o f the project. The aggregation o f subprojects, including the about 21,600
  communities to be benefited by the NSP Iand 11, shows that the project is having a
  significant impact for the Afghan economy even assuming that 30 percent o f the
  subprojects in all four categories could fail as a result o f poor design and/or the risks o f
 persistent and even growing violence.
  Table 3. ProjectEconomicResults

I                                                      I        %          I       US$ million         I
  Water Supply                                                60.8%                    581.1
  Irrigation                                                  38.5%                    284.2
I Roads/Bridges                                        I     26.6%          I           184.5          I
  Energy                                                     26.3%                      136.7
           Total CompletedSubprojects 1/                      38.2%                    1,186.5



  10Facilitation costs are expected to be reduced by 10-12%as compared with what was the case inNSP I,
 based on the experience gained bothby the FPs and the MRRD/OC implementationteams.


                                                      43

The high ERRs are due to the fact that CDCs usually develop their Community
Development Plans (CDPs) with the participation o f the whole community, and the
selection o f those subprojects most needed. After decades o f economic stagnation,
population booms, pervasive inequality and injustice, and several armed conflicts, with
the unprecedented NSP governmental support, largely unsatisfied basic needs are
beginning to be covered, and new economic activities are being made possible. Some
examples o f the benefits are: (i)      the supply o f safe water reduces the amount o f time
previously required to convey water for each family, and the cost o f medical treatments
for waterborne diseases; and labor i s released for more productive activities; (ii)                the
rehabilitation and improvement o f damaged irrigation structures increases water
availability for irrigation, agriculture and livestock production; (iii)           the rural roads and
connecting structures enhances access to previously isolated villages, and facilitate -
within other things - carrying their products to reach the nearest markets; (iv) having
electricity reduces the cost o f lamps and other devices, allowing to have machines to
introduce livelihood activities, basic appliances, TV sets, PCs, etc.; (v) school
construction improves or creates educationpossibilities for children and adults, where 70
percent o f the population i s illiterate. Since communities know exactly were their major
needs are, inmost cases highERRs are almost guarantied.

The water supply subprojects show the highest ERRs with an average 60.8 percent
mainly from time and costs saved by family members for collecting andor obtaining
water. Safe drinking water has also important implications for health and productivity o f
the population and thereby for economic growth. Only 13 percent o f population has
access to safe water, and only 12percent to adequate sanitation". Very longjourneys had
to be made by every family to collect potable water and much o f the burden for this task
falls on women and children's hands. The negative impact this had on pre-project local
productivity was substantial, since less time was left for productive activities such as
takingcare o fgardenvegetable crops, orchards and livestock; and for children, going late
to school or missing it altogether. Time savings were transformed to 'work days saved'
which have an opportunity cost represented bywhat is paid for labor work inthe region.

Access roads and accessory projects show an average ERR o f 26.6 percent. The five
cases analyzed in this group showed FRRs between 5.9 percent and 80 percent. Benefits
result again from time savings and from significant increases in agricultural products and
sales, made possible by these investments. They have a significant impact by facilitating
the transportation o f local products at lower cost, opening also market opportunities that
were previously unreachable, as harvesting and transport costs exceeded, most o f the
time, the price in the market. Products previously left on the trees are now being
marketed inincreased volumes.

Energy subprojects average ERRs at 26.3 percent. Individual FRR show a range varying
from 2.9 percent in the case o f a small village o f 137 families (Shir Ahmad Khan in


l1The progressive deteriorationof sector services since 1998 is evident inthat 40% ofthe urbanpopulation
had access to water and sanitationin 1998, a percentage which dropped to 20-25% the following year, and
further deteriorated in2000-2001, As ameasure ofcomparison, the % ofthe populationwith access to safe
water and improved sanitation i s 88% and 61% inPakistan, 75% and 38% inChina, 84% and 28% inIndia,
and 100%for both inSignapore.


                                                    44

Khost, Mandozai) and 70.5 percent in a community o f 296 families (Mohamood Agha,
Nassir Khel, Logar). Benefits are mainly derived from fuel and gas saved from using
small family generators and lamps, against the subprojects' unified diesel, micro hydro
power or solar generators and distribution systems servicing the community. Other non-
quantified benefits include access to domestic appliances, TV sets, computers, and even
small income generating equipment like sewing machines.

The irrigation projects show an ERR averaging 38.5 percent. Inthe case o f a community
growing grapes in Nasiree Village, Kabul, yields were doubled as more water for
irrigating was available at a much lower costs (cost for pumping halfed in the first year
after rehabilitation). However, for this assessment, only 50 percent o f the increase in
yields was considered given that the winter season provided more than usual snow and
water. The FRR in this case was 138.5 percent, while in the other four schemes, it was
estimated to be between 10.3 percent and 58.3 percent. In general, irrigation works in
their first season after rehabilitation only show small increases in cultivated areas and
productivity. As water management improves during the subsequent years due to more
adequate timely watering, villagers beginto grow two crops per year instead o f one and
production increases as more low-cost water becomes available. Additionally, they begin
to introduce higher value crops which further increases family incomes as new marketing
opportunities are identify.

Sensitivity Analysis. The sensitivity o f the program to the major risk facing the country
was also tested. The on-going armed conflict could result in further aggravation o f the
security situation in rural villages increasing the risk o f subproject sustainability. Inthe
case subprojects failure would reach 50 percent instead o f the assumed 30 percent, the
ERRcould fall from 38.2 percent to 27 percent. Bythe contrary, ifthe situationimproves
and scheme failures drop to only 15 percent, the ERRcould be increased to 46.4 percent.
These results allow concluding that the NSP I1has very low probability o f failure. ON the
contrary, the NSP I1has a very strong probability to continue to be the most effective
vehicle for the country's post-war rural reconstruction and for the strengthening o f local
governance, as i s being confirmed by several external evaluations o f the NSP so far.

4. Cost Efficiency Analysis

A cost efficiency analysis was also conducted at two levels: (i) block grant delivery
                                                                    the
costs (including MRRD, Oversight Consultants and FPs) as compared with international
experience; and (ii)the cost comparison o f typical block grant investments at the
community level, with other modalities o f investments for delivering the same services in
Afghanistan.

NSP Delivery Costs. At the end o f NSP IIthe investment costs (including both NSP I
and 11) would be about US$750 million (excluding the School Windows and AIRD
components). Delivery costs would be US$214 million (US$ 64 million correspondingto
MRRDandOC management costs andUS$l50to the facilitation costs through the FPs).
Delivery and community development costs would represent about 28.5 percent o f the
total program costs. Delivery costs were 61.5 percent percent inNSP Ifirst year (1382),
as a consequence o f the slow initiation o f activities and community mobilization process,


                                             45

but as BGare disbursed inthe second andthirdcycle o f facilitation, delivery costs reduce
its share in total costs. However, delivery costs could rapidly increase if funds for
disbursingblock grants were not be available to meet the demand, as was the case lately
inthe NSP I. year 1384, as a consequence o f lack of liquidityof the program (inits
               In
third year o f implementation), block grants disbursements was delayed for several
months while maintaining fixed and expensive administration and facilitation resources
idle.

Cost-Efficiency & Delivery Costs of Alternative NSP I1 Designs. For all analyzed
sectors, the delivery costs o f NSP have resulted cost effective. To measure the cost-
efficiency o f the NSP in terms o f delivering the interim Afghanistan National
Development Strategy (I-ANDs) targets and other service infrastructures, a comparison
exercise was carried out using average costs made available by line Ministries and their
program offices. The analysis included the 5 sectors which account for 96 percent o fNSP
BG investments: Water & Sanitation, Transportation, Power, Irrigation and Education.
By comparing the unit cost for achieving I-ANDs targets by infrastructure provision by
NSP versus other means o f providing that infrastructure, it has been found that NSP I1
offers substantial cost savings. These savings are about 31 percent in weighted average,
since alternative ways o f buildingthis infrastructure was estimated to be 45 percent more
expensive, as shown inthe following Table 4.




                          Ratio NSPcosts /        ProposedNSP I1         Costs ofproviding
                           Alternative costs        Block Grant           proposed NSP I1
        Sector           (weighted average)         Investments          investments with
                                                   (US$ million)         alternative means
                                                                           (US$ million)
Water & Sanitation                 68%                    79.4                   117.2
Irrigation                         73%                    67.9                    93.5
Education                          92%                    22.9                    24.8
Transport Infrastr.                57%                    85.3                   150.4
Power                              67%                    78.7                   116.6
Total                              69%                   346.6                   502.4

By completing the expansion to 90 percent o f all rural villages, NSP would mark a
significant advance on the achievement o f I-ANDs objectives. NSP has proved to be a
key vehicle inthe delivery o f the planned benchmarks, particularly inthe areas o f rural
infrastructure and community development. Worldwide Bank experience shows that
government costs o f introducing a community-based development or demand driven
(CBDKDD) approach has been substantial, but the actual costs to the government for
building social infrastructure have been significantly lower in CBDKDD interventions,
as communities bear a considerable part o f the cost o f the service delivery infrastructure.
A Bank recent self-evaluation o f social funds in six countries (2003) noted that
community management o f investments provides a significant opportunity for cost
savings o f as much as 25-50 percent.




                                             46

5.     Conclusion

The economic analysis o f the NSP I1 confirms that the NSP is having a solid and
sustainable financial impact on beneficiaries, with a parallel ERR o f about 38.2 percent,
even when 30 percent o f the schemes are assumed to fail, and only some o f the benefits
are quantified against all project costs. NSP non-quantified most important impact is
expected to relay in its contribution for building governance throughout Afghanistan.
Delivery costs are in line with international standards and the CBD/CDD approach is
creating the foundations for other development projects to build over the local human,
social and institutional capital being developed. The strengthening o f the financial
situation o f beneficiaries, the employment generation, and the women participation inthe
process are also significant contributions for poverty alleviation.




                                             47


0
0
0-
3
\o
(u

                1




                    0
                    IA
              W
              m
              \o
              co
              v)




0
0        3
         3
2
2        ?
         2

  9    ?
  3    3

0
s2
0      0
       0
       2
       r-
       d


    ?
   3

     In
     0
     2
     2
     3

I




I

m
v,

          APPENDIX 4: IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS


1. Introduction

A weak Government's civil service infrastructure, particularly at provincial and district
levels, and disrupted village level social and community level organizations characterized
the start up o fthe implementationo fNSP in2003. At that time there was an acute shortage
o f national staff and the available staff lacked skills and exposure to planning and
implementation o f rural development programs. The Ministry o f Rural Rehabilitation and
Development (MRRD), which was the anchor ministry o f the NSP, lacked operational,
procurement and financial management procedures and guidelines required to plan and
implement a nation wide community driven development program such as NSP. The
communication infrastructure was limited, with no regular surface mail service between
Kabul andprovinces.

Because o f this situation, during the first three years of implementation o f the NSP the
MRRDhas been assisted by an internationally recruitedOversight Consultant to carry out
the overall management o f the program. In addition, the facilitation o f and technical
guidance for the village level project planning and implementation have been outsourced to
24 international and national NGOs, called facilitating partners (FPs).          These FPs
facilitated the mobilization o f the target communities to form democratically elected
Community Development Councils (CDCs) and provided technical guidance to the CDCs
for the management o f block grants and planning and implementation o f the subprojects at
village level usingthe block grants.

The program was initially managed through a centralized system based in Kabul, due to
the lack o f capacity at the provincial level. However, during the course o f the last two
years five regional offices have been established, and regional and provincial management
capacity has been slowly but gradually developed and strengthened, and decentralization o f
project oversight has been gradually delegated to regional and provincial offices. The
responsibilities for training and engineering support to FPs and CDCs have devolved to
regional offices.

Most MRRD civil servants at the central and provincial levels have been integrated into
the NSP management structure over the past three years. Two MRRD staff from every
province have been seconded to the provincial NSP OC offices to provide additional
engineering and monitoring support, as well as to learn the intricacies o f the program's
processes andprocedures. The MRRD staff at the central level has been integrated across
all program departments o f the OC to be a part o f the implementation and to learnhow the
program operates. The OC has supported all o f these integrated staff with specific but
limitedcapacity buildingtraining, as well as on-the-job mentoring.

Despite the public administration, staffing, skills, security and logistical constraints that
prevailed in the country, these implementation arrangements have resulted in a rapid roll
out o f the program covering nearly two thirds o f the rural villages o f the country to date.


                                              54

The NSP i s now recognized by the government, rural communities as well as the
international donor cpmmunity as a successhl community-driven,                 village-level
infrastructure delivery, and institution buildingprogram.

However, these arrangements have also been subject o f criticism. It has been often noted
that: the NSP reliance on the external oversight consultant has prevented capacity building
o f the MRRD; the Technical Assistance cost was high; there was no clear separation o f
core policy, donor coordination, external relations, fund raising and budget control
functions o f the MRRD from the management oversight and operational responsibilities o f
the OC; intra-ministerial coordination between the ongoing rural development programs
within the MRRD was seen as ineffective; and collaboration and coordination o f the NSP
with other ministries which are mandated for implementing various other complementary
rural development programs have been weak at central, provincial anddistrict levels.

Taking into account these lessons and the challenges and constraints that continue to be
posed by the operating environment, the NSP I1institutional arrangements build on the
successful elements o f the existing structure, but they also introduce significant
adjustments, with a special attention to the institutional strengthening of the MRRD and
the decentralization o fthe program.

2. InstitutionalArrangementsfor the NSPI1

The implementing arrangement over the next three years will rely upon the regional and
provincial office structure as was in the ongoing program, but it is proposed to have a
rather autonomous structure within the MRRD as opposed to the OC led implementation
structure o fthe ongoing program.

The NSP I1management will continue to be supported by a reduced level o f international
technical assistance, while the MRRD will lead andprovide the oversight for the program.
Unlike in the first phase, inthe NSP I1the MRRD will carry out core functions such as
policy and strategy development and application, coordination with other ministries,
resource mobilization, management o f relations with FPs, appraisal, approval and
processing o f subprojects, engineering, monitoring and quality assurance - focusing on
achievements, outcomes and program impact, and training and capacity development at
central andregional levels.

Other functions, such as consolidated financial management, Block Grant Management
and Management Information System (MIS) operations will be outsourced to an external
consultant. All remaining operational functions (including M&E, HRD, Procurement,
General Administration, Public Communications, FP Management, and Technical Support)
will be handled directly by MRRD NSP staff with limited technical assistance from
international consultants. These MRRD staff, however, will be contracted staff and not
MRRDcivil servants as there is still an acute shortage ofregular civil servants within the
MRRD.




                                               55

The staff o fthe outsourced departments (Financial Management, Block Grant Management
and MIS) will remain employees o f the consultant while all national staff o f the other
departments will be contracted directly byNSP.

OverallProjectPlanning,ExecutionandOversight

The MRRD will be responsible for the overall planning, execution, oversight and
monitoring o f the NSP 11. The MRRD will be guided by an inter-ministerial steering
committee for the overall policy, strategic planning and management o f the project and for
integration o f NSP I1 with other complementary rural development programs, This
Committee will be chaired by the Second Vice President o f the Government and i s
represented by the Ministers o f Finance, Agriculture and Irrigation, Energy and Water,
Education, Public Health, Women's Affairs, Public Works, and Rural Rehabilitation and
Development. The Ministries o f Justice and Interior Affairs will be invited to attend the
Steering Committee on need basis. The Minister RRD will act as the Secretary and
Convener o f the Committee. This Committee has already been established and will meet
once in every three months. Terms o f Reference o f the Committee are expected to be
approved by the Committee before Grant effectiveness.

The Minister o f Rural Rehabilitation and Development, with assistance from the Deputy
Minister o f Programs, will be accountable to the national steering committee for the
overall management o f the program aligned with the government policy and rural
development objectives and goals. In addition the Minister is accountable to Ministry o f
Finance for diligent and efficient planning, budgeting and utilization o f funds allocated to
the project by the IDA and various donors within the provisions o f the Grant Agreements
signed between the Government and the donors, including the International Development
Association (IDA). The Minister will also ensure that the NSP I1will be planned and
executed for contributing toward the achievement o f the Government's rural development
benchmarks for the period 2006-2010 as indicated in the Interim Afghanistan National
Development Strategy (I-ANDS).

An external donor committee, consisting with IDA and other donors financing the NSP 11,
will monitor the overall program planning and implementation and its development
outcomes through close liaison with the Minister. Inaddition, the Task Team o f the World
Bank, on behalf o f the contributing donors, will provide fiduciary oversight and technical
guidance to the program through regular implementation reviews in close collaboration
with the donors and the MRRD.

The program will be managed by Management Units established at the central and
provincial levels. At the center, the Minister will be assisted by a Executive Director. The
Executive Director will be responsible for policy formulation, strategic planning, external
and donor relations, budget and fund management and overall oversight with support o f a
small cadre o f support staff. The Executive Director will be assisted by a Director o f
Operations.    The Executive Director, with the operational assistance from the Director o f
Operations, will oversee, guide and monitor the overall project execution with the
assistance from a number o f operational sub-units located within the MRRD. The Director



                                             56

o f Operations will be responsible for operational planning, guiding and overseeing the
Management Support Consultant (see later for details), Technical Assistance Units and
Field Operations at MRRD Regional and Provincial Offices on day to day basis. The
Executive Director will be a senior and experienced Afghan national appointed by the
MRRD within the existing government civil service or selected through a competitive
process. The Director o f Operations will be an experienced and competent international
consultant who will bringinternational experience inthe planningand execution o f similar
community driven development programs. H e will be hired directly bythe MRRD.

A number o f subunits at the NSP unit o f the MRRD will assist the Executive Director in
the planning, execution and monitoring the program. These sub-units will be staffed by
national staff as well as long term and short-term international staff. Inthe initial year, the
respective international staff will head the sub-unit with a senior subject matter national
specialist as the deputy. The deputy heads o f the units will be coached andmentoredby the
international staff. From the second year onwards, the deputies will head the unit. These
sub-units will be responsible for Financial and Block Grant Management, Management
Information System; M&E; Human Resources Development; Engineering; Procurement;
FacilitatingPartner Management; Administration; andPublic Communication. Inaddition,
an independent Controller's unit will be responsible for processing and addressing
complaints from CDCs and carrying out internal and external technical and financial audit
o f the program.

ManagementSupportConsultant(MSC)

The present Oversight Consultant will begin to phase out starting in September 2006, with
a transitional period on a reduced scope o f services until the end o f March 2007. The
transfer o f responsibility to the NSP Central andProvincial Management Units will start in
September. The MSC will replace the present OC from April 2007. The selection o f the
M S C i s underway. The MSC will be outsourced with the responsibility for Financial
Management,       Block Grant Management and Management                Information System
Management. Inaddition, the MSC firm will provide the services o f the international staff
required for the Technical Assistance Units on full or part time basis.

Outsourcing financial management i s intended to ensure accountability and transparency to
donors and stakeholders, and compliance with World Bank fiduciary rules andregulations.
The main management support responsibilities o f the MSC will include:

     0   Budgeting & budgetmanagement for NSP

     0   Serving as a financial management information system for NSP management

     0   Financial management including planning, implementation, monitoring,
         certification, reporting, andrecordkeeping etc

     0   Establishment o f appropriate internal financial procedures & controls

     0   Personnel Administration (excluding recruitment and contracting) o f all NSP
         national staff



                                              57

       Developing & managing the physical workflow from proposal receipt to
       disbursement
       OperatingNSP database & runningthe ITbackbone

    0  Providing timely information & reports regarding program outputs, community
       profile andother management relatedinformation

The maintechnical assistance responsibilities o fthe MSC will include:
        Coaching, mentoring and capacity buildingfor the Departments o f Human
       Resources Development, Monitoring& Evaluation ,Engineering, Controller's
       Office (Quality Assurance), FP Management andPublic Communications

    0  Handles procurement o fNSP facilitating partners.

    0  Elaborates andupdates the NSP OperationalManual

Project implementation and oversight at provincial and field level

Seven Regional RRD Offices (five established under the NSP and two new to be established
under NSP 11) will oversee the planning and implementation o f the project activities at
provincial and field level.       These Regional Offices have been established as a means o f
decentralization for increased efficiency in program implementation and operational issues
such as supervision o f provincial offices, training, non-engineering proposals, FP contract
monitoring, etc. The Regional offices will continue to function and play a vital role in the
smooth h c t i o n i n g o f the NSP. Each RO office will be headed by a regional manager and
consist o f a small cadre o f staff required to carry out its responsibilities. The regional offices
will maintainclose collaborationwith the NSP main office inKabul andthe regionalmanagers
will receive guidance from the Director of Operations and report directly to the Executive
Director through the Director o f Operations. The regional offices provide the support to the
provincial offices in approving block grants, liaison with FPs, overseeing the procurement
administration o f subprojects and build local management capacities o f the provincial staff
through on-the-job training.

Currently the provincial RRD offices have also specific NSP-related finctions such as the
relations with CDCs, approval and implementation monitoring o f subprojects, in some cases
duplicating the functions o f the FPs. Inthe NSP I1this parallel OC provincial offices will be
gradually merged to become one NSP RDD Provincial Management Unit. Core OC staff
currently working at the regional and provincial levels will be integrated into these RRD
offices in a phased manner, initially as contracted staff to ensure that the experienced OC staff
who have benefited from a sizeable investment in their capacity development will be
effectively used for the NSP I1 implementation. At the regional and provincial levels, all
positions will beNSP staff contracted to MRRD.

The Provincial RRD offices will be responsible for overseeing the work o f the FPs and for
managing the outcome o f the NSP: the mobilization o f the communities, formation o f the
CDCs and planning and implementation o f the subprojects. The provincial offices will house
engineering staff as well as Community Lead Development Teams. The engineering staff will


                                               58

be responsible for engineering review and supervision o f subprojects while the Community
Lead Development Teams for ensuring the sustainability o f the CDCs once the block grants
havebeen finished andthe FPs have withdrawn from the villages. Once the FPs complete their
cycle o f support to the communities, MRRD, through these provincial offices, will act as the
primary interface between CDCs and other development actors. These community led
development teams will support and guide the CDC re-elections and potential revisions to the
CDPs. In addition once'the CDC constitution, which i s under preparation by the MRRD, i s
approved by the Government, these teams will facilitate the implementation o f the provisions
o f the Constitution at CDC level with further and future guidance from the MRRD The RRD
team at the district level will comprise o f two staff recruited from that district. Staffs have been
recruited in the Cycle 2+ communities and will be trained by the FPs during their last year o f
support to the CDCs. These staff will work closely with the FPs and will be involved in all
aspects o f facilitation during this year, with CDC re-election a particularly important
component o f their training and experience. These staff will be a part o f the Community-Led
Development Department, so there will be an intense focus on this department at the central
level, to support the development o f their future strategy o f support to the CDCs once the NSP
has been completed intheir communities.

FacilitatingPartners

At present 24 facilitating partners are engaged inthe ongoing program.          The contracts o f the
FPs will expire on March 31,2007. However, almost all these FPs will require completing the
ongoing community mobilization cycle leading to the satisfactory completion o f subprojects,
some beyond March 31, 2007. In addition, FP services will be required to ensure the
continuity o f the program inthe NSP I1as the program rolls out to new communities covering
the districts where FPs are already present and new districts where no FPs are presently
working. The primaryrole o fthe FacilitatingPartner is to:

     0  Facilitate democratic elections o f inclusive CDCs andtheir registrationwith the
        m;
        Facilitate the opening andoperationo f Community Block Grant accounts;

     0  Facilitate consultative community project planningcomprising Community
        Development Plans and subproject proposals;
        Provide technical assistance to develop subproject proposals

     0  Provide technical assistance to communities during implementation;

     0  Provide training to communities (e.g. book-keeping, procurement, contracting);

     0  Conduct monitoring and reporting.


CommunityDevelopmentCouncils

Community Development Councils (CDCs) will be the primary units responsible for the
planning and execution o f the subprojects under the facilitation and technical guidance o f the
FPs. One CDC is formed and established ineach target village through a democratic election
process. CDC is a community-based decision making body that includes a chairperson, vice-


                                               59

chairperson, secretary, and treasurer. CDCs are responsible for overseeing and preparation o f
the Community Development Plan for their respective villages facilitated by the FPs. The
Community Development Plans are the basis for identifying and prioritizing the block grant
investments for subprojects inthe villages. The CDCs are also responsible for the management
o f block grants within the village, procurement o f subprojects and their implementation.
Project Management Committees, selected by the community, are responsible for withdrawal
o f block grant funds from the community account and procure the goods and services required
to implement the subprojects. Additional subproject committees are established as preferred
bythe communities to manage individual subprojects or oversee specific tasks.

ImplementationinHighRiskAreas

The security environment in which the NSP operates has deteriorated over the course o f the
program and i s currently at its worst level. The number o f communities and districts where
NSP activities are suspended has steadily increased. The security situation is the single biggest
risk facing the NSP 11goal o frollingout the programwith full nationalcoverage.

The deterioration in security presents a number o f dilemmas. MRRD has made a commitment
to bring the NSP to all rural communities and communities yet to start with the NSP are
impatient. As part o f the national government, MRRD has the political will and commitment
to roll out all areas o f the country. The NSP to date has been considered by the communities as
an effective rural development and village governance and state building program and its
presence has ensured government visibility and the perception that the government taking
responsibility for its citizens, particularly inremote rural areas. For the same reasons, the NSP
has been targeted by anti-government elements in areas with high security risks. Therefore, if
the NSP suspends its activities, then there i s a political risk that the absence o f government and
support in those areas would provide an advantage to anti-government elements to win
sympathy and support from the peoples inthose areas.

The planning and implementation o f the NSP I1in the high risk areas will have to strike a
pragmatic balance betweenthe state buildingobjectives o f the Government andneedto comply
with the development effectiveness and outcomes as well as the diligent fiduciary management
o f the project.

Extensive discussions have taken place with the FPs operating in insecure areas and between
the government and the OC to identify various options for planning and implementing the NSP
I1inhighrisk areas. Map 1shows the districts where FPs are active at present and covered the
villages inthose districts either partially or fully. Map 2 shows the districts with low, moderate
and highrisks at the time o f appraising the project to illustrate the extent to which the NSP I1
operation i s likely to be affected due to security risks. Districts rated at low risk at present may
become high risk area and vice versa during the course o f the implementation. Adequate
flexibility has been incorporated into the program and procurement planning o f the NSP I1to
take into account the dynamic nature o f the security situation o f the country.

Inaccessibility to the communities and unwillingness o f the FP and provincial/district staff to
travel to risk prone villages will undermines the achievement o f the development objectives o f



                                                60

the NSP 11. The restricted accessibility would pose many other potential programmatic,
fiduciary, and reputational risks.      These include: (i)inability to train CDCs to ensure
transparency and equity in carrying out a democratic election o f the CDCs thereby having the
risk of falling the CDC into the hands of elites, warlords and anti-government elements; (ii)
inability to supervise the financial management and procurement administration o f the
subprojects and block grant management; and (iii)reduced quality o f the design, billing and
construction o f the subprojects leading to potential avenues o f corruption, potential risk o f
block grants ending up partially in the hands o f anti-government elements, and questionable
usefulness and sustainability o f the subprojects; and (iii) risk to life o f the operating staff.

Under these circumstances, it is very difficult to fully respect the NSP guiding principles in
pursuit o f the NSP objectives ininsecure areas. Inhighrisk areas the main threat to the NSP
objectives is the inability to establish the foundation for local governance, as FPs have
restricted access to the communities and therefore cannot offer the full facilitation support to
develop the capacity o f the CDCs and to ensure the CDCs are representative and consultative
intheir formulation ofthe community development plan. As a result, the focus is more onthe
delivery o f state building services, rather than inclusive local governance. This means that any
alternative approach is only realistic incommunities that have already been mobilized, elected
their CDCs, formulated their development plans and subprojects have already been reviewed
and approved by the OC.         It is not possible to facilitate the governance component o f the
programbyremote control, when FPs cannot access the communities.

Therefore, it has been agreed that the project, through the National Steering Committee, will
obtain guidance for program planning and implementation in the high risk areas, particularly
for the roll out to new communities and new districts. Ifthe accessibility o f these villages and
districts are restricted, the program roll out to new communities and new districts will not take
place until the Steering Committee recommends that the security situation has eased off, the
concerned Communities are willing to receive the services of FPs, the concerned FP and the
staff o f the Regional staff are willing to travel to those areas, and the Bank task team is
confident that satisfactory arrangements for implementation supervision, monitoring and
fiduciary compliance are inplace.

However, inthe case o f communities inhighrisk areas who have been partially mobilized and
already included in the ongoing FP contracts, a different distance based approach will be
utilized. If in any village, if the CDC is already in place, CDP has been developed and
subprojects have been approved by the OC, then the CDC will allow to proceed with the
implementation. Inthose instances, the subproject implementation would rely on trusted and
respected independent community members, who could verify the use o f block grant funds and
the status o f implementation.      In addition, the project implementation will rely upon the
monitoring by community level procurement and financial management sub-committees.
Technically complex subprojects, such as micro-hydro power, would not be implemented in
the absence o f proper technical support.

Based on the initial implementation experience with the above proxy oversight and monitoring
arrangements, other possible alternative implementation approaches would be explored later
duringthe implementationphase.



                                               61

Steering Committee
Chair: VicePrt.sidmf




          62

                APPENDIX 5: PROCUREMENTARRANGEMENTS

1. CountryContext

The Bank has gained substantial experience and understanding o f the procurement
environment in Afghanistan through its involvement in the interim procurement
arrangements put in place through Emergency Public Administration Project (EPAP) as
well as with the institutions such as Afghanistan Reconstruction andDevelopment Services
(ARDS) that is holding the current responsibility for government's procurement
administration. As part o f the broader review o f Afghanistan's Public Finance
Management (PFM) system, the Bank recently carried out an assessment o f the
procurement environment inthe country based on the baseline andperformance indicators
developed by a group o f institutions led by the World Bank and Organization for
Economic Co-operation and Development (0ECD)Development Assistance Committee
(DAC).

The first key issue identified through the procurement assessment was the need for
ownership and a champion inthe Government for reform, deepening o f capacity, ensuring
integrity in the operation o f procurement systems, and promoting sound procurement
among ministries."

A new Procurement Law has been adopted inNovember 2005 which radically transforms
the legal and regulatory framework for the procurement administration o f Afghanistan.
While it provides a very modern legal system for procurement, effective implementation o f
the law may encounter difficulties in the current weak institutional structure and capacity
o f the Government.    It relies, for example, on the establishment o f a procurement policy
unit (PPLJ) to ensure the implementation through the creation o f secondary legislation,
standard bidding documents, provision of advice and creation o f the necessary information
systems for advertising and data collection. It further relies on the development o f an
independent complaints review mechanism to ensure enforcement.
These institutional arrangements are yet to be inplace.

Inthe absence of adequate capacity to manage procurement activities effectively, some
interim arrangements have been put in place to improve the procurement management o f
the country. A central procurement facilitation service, ARDS has been established under
the supervision o f Ministry of Economy. The Bank and the Government has agreed on a
program for country wide procurement reform and capacity building, leading to the
transition from centralizedto decentralized procurement services. The Bank funded Public
Administration Capacity Building project (PACBP) is the primary instrument for
implementing the program to strengthen capacity o f the line ministries to manage public
procurement in an effective, transparent and accountable manner.              However, the
implementation o f the procurement capacity buildingstrategy has not made any significant
progress yet due to lack o f coordination and delays in decision making within the
Government. The envisaged radical changes to the procurement management environment
expected from the new Law also require the urgent implementation o f a comprehensive
human resources and capacity development program.              The implementation o f the


                                              63

procurement reform component o f the PACBP should be considered with due priority to
ensure that fiduciary standards are further enhanced and that capacity i s developed in the
Government to maintain these standards.

PartAGeneral

The procurement administration experience o f the ongoing NSP provides useful lessons for
designing the procurement arrangemento f the NSP 11. The Procurement administration o f
the NSP I1 would be carried out in accordance with the World Bank's "Guidelines:
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated M a y 2004, "Guidelines: Selection
and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated M a y 2004, and the
provisions stipulated in the Financing Agreement. The general description o f various
procurements under different expenditure categories are described below. For each
contract to be financed by the Grant the different procurement methods or consultant
selection methods, the need for prequalification, estimated costs, prior review
requirements, and time frame are agreed between the Grant Recipient andthe Bank project
team are described in the Procurement Plan agreed with the Government at appraisal and
finalized duringnegotiations. This Procurement Planwill be updated at least annually or at
lesser time intervals as required to reflect the actual project implementation needs and
improvements inthe institutional capacity.

Procurement of Works: A large majority o f the works to be procured under this project
would include community sub-projects. These subprojects are implemented by the
communities using Block Grant provisions made by the project. Each community will get
a Block Grant of US$ 200 per family with an upper ceiling o f limit o f US$ 60,000 per
community. Therefore, the estimated value o f most o f the community subprojects would
be lesser than US$ 60,000 per project. However, there will be instances where a cluster o f
adjoining communities will pool up their block grant entitlements to finance large civil
works subprojects such as a common electrification of the villages from the main power
grid, rehabilitation o f rural road connecting the villages or refurbishment of an irrigation
canal serving all the villages. In those cases the value o f a subproject may rise to about
US$ 500,000 or more depending on the total number o f beneficiary communities. Such
projects shall be procured following N C B procedures with the assistance o f the
procurement staff at the central level.

There will, be around 4300 new communities to be financed under the repeater project
(totaling to 21,000 communities under NSP). Community shall carryout procurement
following paragraph 3.17 o f Bank's Guidelines. The detailed procurement procedures will
be listed under the procurement chapter in the NSP Operational Manual which is the
guideline that i s now being used by the project staff. The OM shall be revised to include
improved fiduciary oversight and any such revisions will be agreed with the Bank. The
Operations Manual (OM) shall include national competitive bidding, shopping, direct
contracting and other methods for the procurement o f goods/and works for the community
sub projects including methods as required for the selection o f individuals to provide the
necessary professional inputs in the implementation o f the sub projects. In addition, the
NSP I1 will finance 73 district schools under the District School Rehabilitation and
Construction Window (DSCRW) for which contracts have already been awarded under the


                                             64

ongoing NSP. There will be around 15 civil works packages for renovations/
improvementhehabilitation o f provincial offices o f the Ministry o f Rural Rehabilitation
and Development (MRRD). The procurement of all other works contracts will be done
using the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) for ICB and National SBD agreed
with (or satisfactory to) the Bank for all NCB and other procurement methods. A sample
bidding document for NCB has already been agreedbetween the MRRD and the Bank and
has been used under NSP 1 for the procurement of civil works under the DSRCW. All     .
contract estimated to more thanUS$ 100,000 shall beprocured following NCB procedures
andcontractsbelowUS$ 100,000 shallbeprocured following shopping procedures

Procurementof Goods: Goods procured under this project would include vehicles, office
furniture and equipment, I T equipment and software, multimedia equipment, conswnables
for operating equipment, vehicles, basic construction quality control equipment, and office
equipment, etc. The procurement of goods will be done using Bank's SBD for all ICB and
National SBD agreed with (or satisfactory to) the Bank for all NCB. Other procurement
method will be shopping. All goods contracts estimated to cost more than US$ 200,000
shall be procured following ICB procedures. The contracts estimated to cost more than
US$ 100,000 and less than US$ 200,000 shall beprocured following NCB procedures and
contract estimated to cost less than US$ 100, 000 shall be procured following shopping
procedures. With the prior agreement with IDA, Direct Contract method shall be used to
procure goods and services which meet the requirements as per the provision under
paragraph3.6 o fBank's Guidelines.

Selection of Consultants: There will be a large number of Technical Assistance (TA)
contracts under the project. These T A will include the hiring o f Management Support
Consultant (MSC), Facilitating Partners (FPs) and studies. The MSC will provide the
management oversight support and technical assistance to the NSPMRRD at center and
provincial offices and manage the FP contracts. A shortlist and the draft RFP has already
beenprepared for the selection of the MSC and the procurement process is underway to
ensure that MSC begins operations from April 1, 2007. There are 24 ongoing Facilitating
Partner contracts awarded to international and national NGOs. These FPs are already
active in all 34 provinces o f the country covering as much as 276 districts and provincial
centers out of total 398 districts and provincial centers of the country.

The FPs are responsible for community mobilizationandproviding technical support to the
communities for the design and implementation o f subprojects. All these ongoing FP
contracts under the ongoing NSP have a three year cycle to complete community
mobilization and subprojects. All the ongoing FP contracts under NSP Iwill end by
March 31,2007. However these contracts need to be continued to complete the second and
third year cycles of community facilitation process of the communities included in the
NSP.     The number o f such communities will include around 5,100 communities to
undergo the third year cycle (Cycle II+)     and 6800 communities to undergo both year 2
 (Cycle 11) and year 3 (Cycle I1+) cycles. Therefore in order to complete the community
mobilization and subprojects in these villages, it is necessary to adopt a procurement
method to field FPs beyond March 31, 2007 that would ensure smooth continuation o f the
process with no or minimumdisruption to the program. Inthis case, deploying a new FP



                                              65

to take over the work from the existing FP and facilitate the communities through the
remaining cycles would be disruptive to the program.               Therefore these contract
assignments could be considered in compliance with paragraphs 3.9-3.12 o f Bank's
Guidelines for the Selectiono f Consultants. Based on the above it has been agreed between
the Government and IDA that the ongoing FP contract that will expire on or before March
31, 2007 will be extended following Single Source Selection Procedure. MRRD/NSP has
agreed to take action to request for technical and financial proposals from the relevant
Facilitating partners and finalize contracts prior to mid January 2007. Award o f such
contracts shall also be subject to a performance appraisal carried out bythe borrower.

As the NSP I1 rolls out to cover the remaining villages o f the entire country, new
communities will be added to the program in districts where the present FPs are already
active and indistricts where no FP has moved to yet. However, it has been recommended
to reduce the time period for community facilitation cycle from 3 years to 2 years under
NSP 11. The number o f new communities that will be added to the program during the
NSP I1phase in the districts where FPs are already active will be around 2000 and inthe
districts that NSP i s not present currently will be around 2,300 thus making a total o f 4300
new communities to be contracted out to facilitating partners inNSP 11. It has been agreed
with the borrower to the extent possible to package the facilitating partner contracts inthe
on going districts to follow a competitive procedure considering economy, efficiency and
security concerns. Therefore a competitive selection process (FBS) is proposed for the
selection o f FPs in the proposed 2,300 new communities in new NSP districts and
SSSEBS process will be followed to select the FPs for the proposed 2000 new
communities in existing NSP districts. The selection o f consultants under the project will
include QCBS, QBS, CQS, LCS, FBS SSS and individual consultants in accordance with
Section V o f bank's Guidelines for the Selection o f Consultants. Threshold for CQS
procedure will be US$200,000 per contract.

There will be a large number o f individual consultancy contracts for both national and
international. These contracts will be procured following Section V o f Bank's Guidelines
for the Selectiono f Consultants.

Short lists o f consultants for services estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per
contract may be composed entirely o f national consultants in accordance with the
provisions o fparagraph 2.7 o f the Consultant Guidelines.

Incremental Operational Costs which would be financed by the project would be
procured usingthe implementing agency's administrative procedures which were reviewed
and found acceptable to the Bank.

PartBAssessmentof the agency's capacityto implementprocurement

Procurement activities will be carried out by the NSP unit under the MRRD. Inthe NSP,
MRRD has been assisted by an international procurement advisor of the Oversight
Consultant as well as individual international and national consultants to carryout
procurement activities, which involved procurement o f goods/works and technical



                                              66

assistance (FP contracts etc.). At the project start-up, there had been initial delays in the
procurement actions, but the overall procurement administration o f the MRRD has
improved andthe quality of the procurement processinghas been at an acceptable level.

Unlike in NSP Iwhere the procurement of NSP was being handled separately by the
MRRD Procurement Department, the DSCRW Procurement Officers, and the NSP OC
Procurement Advisor, for NSP I1it is proposedthat all NSP procurement inmerged inthe
newly established NSP Procurement Department. The Department will temporarily be
headed by an international contracted through the Oversight Consultants Team till 31''
March 2007. A national deputy head o f department, and 3 senior and 3 junior procurement
officers will staff the department.

The procurement unit o f MRRD i s already having sufficient capacity. At present this unit
has the services o f two national procurement advisors who are familiar with The World
Bank and national procurement procedures. An assessment o f the capacity o f the MRRD
and the NSP unit to implement the procurement actions under the project was carried out
in September by Deepal Fernando, Senior Procurement Specialist, of the Afghanistan
Country Office. The assessment reviewed the proposed organizational structure for the
implementation o f the NSP and the capacity o f the MRRD is adequate to handle the
procurement activities o f the proposedproject. It is also envisaged to obtain the services o f
an International Procurement Advisor together with additional procurement officers to
strengthen the procurement capacity o f the unit for a limitedperiod. .The NSP Unitwill be
responsible for day-to-day project management including procurement,                financial
management, progress and financial reporting, staff appointment and management, and
project monitoring and evaluation.

The MRRDcurrently procures items such as vehicles, generators, pumps, office equipment
etc using their own resources as well as the funds received from the other donors. The
DeputyMinister for Programs has delegated the authority to approve procurements valued
up to AF250,OOO (approximately US$5,000) and the Minister has delegated the authority
to approve procurements valued up to AF3,000,000 (US$60,000) under the current
Procurement Law. For all procurement over these values the approval authority would
remain the Ministryo f Finance and the presidential office for contracts more than US$3.0
m.

However inorder to strengthen the capacity o f the MRRDthe following capacity building
programs are planned.


 No.         Expectedoutcome/      Estimated    Estimated      Estimated
             ActivityDescription Cost           Duration       Start Date  Comments
     1   Procurement Workshop:                        1Days    Jan. 2007   For NSP
         General Introduction                                              Procurement
                                                                           dept and
                                                                           MRRDstaff
    2    Procurement Workshop:                        1Days    Nov. 2006   For NSP
         Selection of Consultants                                          Procurement
                                                                           dept and


                                            67

                                                                             MRRD staff
     3    ProcurementWorkshop:                       2 Days    Mar. 2007     ForNSP
          Procurementof Goods                                                Procurement
                                                                             dept and
                                                                             MRRDstaff

In addition, provisions are included in the project's cost estimate to provide,advanced
procurement training to 1-2 selected procurement staff o f the MRRDat a reputed overseas
institute as a measure for long term procurement capacity building o f the MRRD. These
internationally trained staff will be used as trainers to train a cadre o f local procurement
staffwithin the MRRDduringthe project period.

The procurement risk at the MRRD level could be considered as "Average". As majority
o f the procurement is carried out by communities at the village level that risk i s "High". In
order to mitigate such high risks fiduciary safeguards including those related to
procurement and social audit will be built into the system and explained inthe OM andthe
Financial Manual.

PartCProcurementPlan

The Grant Recipient,       at appraisal, developed a Procurement Plan for project
implementation which provides the basis for the procurement methods. This planhas been
agreed between the Grant Recipient and the Project Team on November 2, 2006 and i s
available at Procurement Department o f the NSP Headquarters, Dam1 Aman, Kabul,
Afghanistan. It will also be available inthe Project's database and on the Bank's external
website. The Procurement Plan will be updated in agreement with the Project Team
annually or as required to reflect the actual project implementation needs and
improvements ininstitutional capacity.

PartDFrequencyof ProcurementSupervision

Inaddition to the prior review supervisionto be carriedout from Bankoffices, the capacity
assessment o f the Implementing Agency has recommended one procurement review per
year in the field to carry out post review of procurement actions and the compliance with
the agreedprocedures at community level.

PartESocialAudit

Major challenge in projects o f this nature lies in ensuring that the accepted procurement
procedures are followed. Considering that procurement under the large number o f sub
projects to be financed under the project will be carried out by communities and due to
large sum o f sub projects it would not be feasible to carry-out procurement review/audit as
ina normal investment project. Therefore it is proposedto carryout a social audit through
participatory andtransparent process.

Institutional arrangements for social audit at the village level (CDC) will provide the
framework needed to ensure that there is checks//balances and transparency in the



                                             68

    procurement process including access to information related to procurement. The
     information related to procurement under block grants will be disseminated to the public.
     Such information will be provided in the notice board o f the village mosque, CDC office
     notice board. In addition the information i s disclosed at large gathering o f villagers at
     meetings as per the current practice under NSP. Experience has shown that social audit
     including participatory and transparent process is the most powerful tool to ensure the
     funds are usedfor the purposes intended.

     IDA shall carryout ex-post reviews during supervision missions to verify the compliance
     with the fiduciary requirements including those related to procurement such as
     procurement planning with the participation o f beneficiaries, procurement actions and
     required approvals recorded in the NSP recordlogbook. In addition such reviews will be
     conducted by an external agency where IDA staff cannot access due to the security
     situation.

                                         ATTACHMENT 1


     Detailsofthe ProcurementArrangementinvolvingInternationalCompetition.

     A       Goods andWorks andNon-ConsultingServices

             (a) List of contract Packages which will be procured following ICB anddirect
             contracting:

 1         2             3           4         5         6            7          8              9
Ref.    Contract    Estimated Procurement     P-Q     Domesti     Review      Expected     Comments
No.   (Description)    Cost        Method                C        byBank       Bid-
                                                      Preferen (Prior I Post) Opening
                                                      ce(yes1n                 Date
                                                         0)
1    Vehicles 43    900,000      ICB         N o     Yes       Prior
     units
2    Construction 200,000        ICB
     Quality
     Control
     Equipment
3    Community      Depends      D C         Not     Not       Post                      The procedure
     Sub -          onthe                    Applic applicab                             as per the
     Projects       nature of                able    le                                  Operations
                    the                                                                  Manual
                    project

             (b) ICB Contracts for works estimated to cost above US$500,000 equivalent per
             contract, for goods above US$200,000 equivalent per contract and all direct
             contracting will be subject to prior review by the Bank. Communities may follow
             Direct Contracting procedures for sub projects in accordance with the project
             Implementationmanual.


                                                  69

     B. ConsultingServices.

             (a) List o f ConsultingAssignments with short-list of international firms/NGOs.


Ref.    Descriptionof             Estimated  Selection Revie        Expected       Comments
No.     Assignment                Cost in    Method                 Proposal
                                  U S $ (m)            W by
                                                       Bank         Submission
                                                       (Prior       Date
                                                       I Post)
1to24 Consultancy contracts       45.6       Single    Prior        December       24 Contracts are expected to
        for 24 FPs for follow-               Source                 06             be submitted for Bank
        up facilitation in                   Selection                             review between 15 Nov and
        communities begun                                                          15 Dec 06
        prior to April 2007
25- 48  Consultancy contracts      16.8      FBS/SSS   Prior        January 07     The contracts shall be
        for 24 FPs for                                                             selected following a
        facilitation innew                                                         competitive procedure to the
        communities indistricts                                                    extent possible or awarded
        where NSPbegunprior                                                        following SSS on a cases by
        to April 2007 (where                                                       case basis
        FPs are already active)
49- 78  Consultancy contracts      19.3      FBS       Prior        March07
        for 30 new FPs for
        facilitation innew
        districts..
80      Consultancy contract      8.0        QBS       Prior        December       ShortlistRFP cleared with
        for management                                              06             IDA
        support
81      MidTermEvaluation         0.25       QCBS      Prior        TBD
82      Baseline assessment       0.30       QCBS      Prior        January 07
83      Survey on the Social      0.25       QCBS      Prior        TBD
        and Environmental
        Safeguards
84      Survey on the technical   0.25       QCBS       Prior       TBD
        Quality of sub projects
85      Economic Benefit          0.25       QCBS       Prior       TBD
        Analysis
86      Survey on the             0.25       QCBS       Prior       TBD
        EngineeringQuality o f
        rural electrification
        Droiects




                                                70

87   Evaluation of            0.35         QCBS        Prior    August07
     Facilitating Partners
88   TechnicalRinancial       0.5          QCBS        Prior    July07
     Audit ofFacilitating
     Partners
88   Financial Audit of       0.1          CQS         Prior    July 07
     ManagementSupport
     Consultants
89   Study for MISfor         0.1          QCBS        Prior      June 07
     MRRD




         (b) Consultancy services estimated to cost above $100,000 or equivalents per
         contract and all Single Source selection o f consultants (firms) and estimated to cost
         US$ 50,000 for individual for assignments will be subject to prior review by the
         Bank.

         (c) Short lists composed entirely of national consultants: Short lists o f
         consultants for services estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract
         may be composed entirely o f national consultants inaccordance with the provisions
         ofparagraph2.7 o fthe Consultant Guidelines.

                                      ProcurementPlan

  A General

         A1       Projectinformation:
         country:         Afghanistan
         Recipient:       Islamic Republic o f Afghanistan
         Project Name: National Solidarity Project I1
         Project ID :     P102288
         Project Implementing Agency: Ministryo fRuralRehabilitation & Development

         A2       Bank's approvalDateof the procurementPlan:November 2,2006

         A3       Dateof GeneralProcurementNotice:June 13,2002

         A4       Periodcoveredby this procurementplan: EighteenMonths

  B. Goods andWorks andnon-consultingservices.


                                                71

   B1    PriorReviewThreshold:Procurement Decisions subject to Prior Review
   bythe Bankas stated inAppendix 1to the Guidelines for Procurement:


                   Procurement                PriorReview Threshold     IComments
                     ~




                                                         ($)
1.       Goods                               200,000 Equivalent or more
2.      Works                               500,000 Equivalent or more
3.      Direct Contracting(Goods and        All                         IIOther than
        Works)                                                            community
                                                                          contracting
4       Community Contracts                 60,000 Equivalent or more     contracts when more
                                                                          than one community
                                                                          opt to pool their block
                                                                          grant resources for
                                                                          sub projects of
                                                                          common benefit and
                                                                          interest

   B2    Referenceto (if any) ProjectOperationayProcurementManual:
         Operations Manual for Implementation. This will be based on the NSP I
         Operations Manualwith suitable modification for the implementation o f
         NSP I1as agreed with IDA



   B3    Any Other SpecialProcurementArrangements:

         Some o f the funding for NSP will come from bilateral funding
         arrangements that were signed in NSP Ibut will continue into NSP 11.
         Several contracts have been entered into by the MRRD utilizing these
         bilateral funds without the Bank's prior review during NSP I.These
         contracts will be continued into NSP 11.

         It should be also noted here that the entire NSP national staff (numbering
         around 600) would be contracted staff ("consultants") and not MRRD civil
         servants. However they will be contracted following staff recruitment
         procedures and not as procured contractors. The recruitment procedures
         follow advertisements and competitive procedures including written tests
         and interviews. Those consultants whose contract value will exceed the
         stated value will be submitted for prior review bythe Bank.

   B4    ProcurementPackageswith MethodsandTime Schedule
         [List the Packages which require Bank's prior review first andthen the
         other packages]




                                      72

-1            ,.           3                4         5            6           7         II
                                                                                         .,          9
Ref.    Contract      Estimated       Procurement   Pre-       Domestic   Reviewby Expected Comments
No.  (Description)    cost (US$)        Method    qualificati Preference     Bank       Bid-
                                                      on        (yeslno)    (Prior I Opening
-                                                  (yeslno)                  Post)      Date
-
1    Vehicles          1,100,000           ICB       No           Yes        Prior   June 07
2    Construction      200,000            I C B                  Yes         Prior   July 07
     Quality
     Control
     Equipment
3    Office               70,000        Shopping      No          N/A         Post   TBD
     Equipment
     (several
-   packages)
4    IT equipment        300,000        Shopping      No          N/A         Post   TBD
     (several
-    Packages)
5    Communicati         200,000        Shopping      No          NIA         Post   TBD
     onEquipment
6    Civil works       1,200,000      Shopping/NC     No          NIA         Post   August
     for                                    B                                        07
     renovationsli
     mprovementk
     ehabilitation
     ofprovincial
     offices
     (packagedper
-   province)
7    Office                                                       NIA         Prior  TBD
-    fiu-niture                                                                                I
     C         Selectionof Consultants

               C1      PriorReview Threshold:Selectiondecisions subject to Prior Reviewby
               Bankas statedinAppendix 1to the Guidelines SelectionandEmployment of
               Consultants:

                           Selection Method             PriorReviewThreshold($)      Comments
            1.  Competitive Methods (Firms)           More than 100,000 Equivalent
           2.   Individual Consultant                 More than 50,000 Equivalent
           3.    Single Source (Firms)                All
           4.    Single Source (Individual)           All

               C2      Shortlistcomprisingentirely of nationalconsultants:Short list of
               consultants for services, estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract,
               may comprise entirely of national consultants inaccordance with the provisions of
               paragraph 2.7 ofthe Consultant Guidelines.

               C3      Any Other SpecialSelectionArrangements:



                                                     73

      Some of the funding for NSP will come from bilateral funding arrangements that
      were signed in NSP Ibut will continue into NSP 11. Several contracts have been
      entered into by the MRRD utilizing these bilateral funds without the Bank's prior
      review duringNSP I.        These contracts will be continued into NSP 11.

      It should be also noted here that the entire NSP national staff (numbering around
      600) would be contracted staff ("consultants")           and not MRRD civil servants.
      However they will be contracted following staff recruitment procedures and not as
      procured contractors. The recruitment procedures follow advertisements and
      competitive procedures including written tests and interviews. Those consultants
      whose contract value will exceed the stated value will be submitted for prior review
      bythe Bank.

      As this is an on goingproject procurementactions for several contracts have been
      initiated inthe first phase o fthe project andmay be eligible for retroactive
      financing.

      C4        ConsultancyAssignments with SelectionMethodsandTime Schedule

 1                 2           ~       3             4           5       ~      6          7
Ref. Descriptionof                              Selection    Review       Expected    Comments
No.  Assignment                    Estimated
                                   cost (US$)   Method       by           Proposals
                                     inm)                    Bank         Submission
                                                              (PriorI     Date
                                                             Post)
1to  Consultancy contracts for         34.0       Single       Prior      December 06 24
 24  24 FPs for follow-up                         Source                              Contracts
     facilitation incommunities                  Selection                            are
     where NSP is begunprior                                                          expected to
     to April 2007                                                                    be
                                                                                      submitted
                                                                                      for Bank
                                                                                      review
                                                                                      between 15
                                                                                      Nov and 15
                                                                                      Dec 06
25-  Consultancy contracts for         10.0      QBSFBS        Prior      January 07
 48  24 FPs for facilitation in
     new communities in
     districts where NSP is
     begunprior to April 2007
49-  Consultancy contracts for         26.0      QBSFBS        Prior      March 07
 79  30 new FPs for facilitation
     innewdistricts
 80  Consultancy contract for           8.0        QBS         Prior      December 06 Shortlist/R
     management support                                                               FP cleared
                                                                                      with IDA
 81  MidTermEvaluation                0.25      QCBS         Prior        TBD
 82  Baseline assessment              0.30      QCBS         Prior        January 07
 83  Survey on the Social and         0.25      QCBS         Prior        TBD
     Environmental Safeguards
 84  Survey on the technical          0.25      QCBS         Prior        TBD


                                               74

  85 I   EconomicBenefit                  0.25  I  QCBS     I  Prior  I TBD
         Analysis
  86     Survey on the Engineering        0.25     QCBS        Prior
         Quality ofrural
         electrification projects
 87      Evaluation of Facilitating       0.35     QCBS        Prior    August 07
         Partners
 88      TechnicaUFinancial Audit         0.5      QCBS        Prior    July 07


I89  I Financial   Audit of               0.1   I  CQS      I  Prior    July 07
         Management Support
         Consultants
 90      Study for M I S for MRRD         0.1      QCBS        Prior       June 07
 91      Financial Audit o f              0.05     COS         Prior    December
         Oversight Consultants                                              06
 92      Impact Evaluation                0.30     QCBS        Prior     February
                                                                            07
 93      FundRaising Consultant         0.27       Indv         Prior   November 07       Internation
                                                                                          a1
 94      Planning Consultants 2         0.216      Indv         Prior   November 07       Internation
                                                                                          a1
 95     1Head,HRM                    I  0.056   I  Indv     I   Prior I March08           National
                                                                                          recruitment
 96     IDeputy, HRM2                 10.039      IIndv       I  Post I March08           National
                                                                                          recruitment
 97     IOther HRD Staff            I   0.22      ISeveral  I    Post I April07     IIIIIINational




                                                                                          recruitment
 104    IHead, Internal Audit         I 0.116     IIndv       IPrior  I March08     III   National
                                                                                          recruitment
 105    IOther Audit Staff            I 0.160     ISeveral    IPrior  I April07      II   National
                                                                                          recruitment
 106    IHead, Technical Support      I 0.116     IIndv       IPrior   IMarch08
                                                                                    I recruitment
                                                                                    II    National

 107    IOther Technical Sup. Staff   I 1.987     ISeveral    1Prior   IApril 07          National
                                                                                          recruitment
 108     Head, Field Operations         0.019      Indv        Prior    March08           National
                                                                                          recruitment
 109     Other Regional Staff           1.455      Several     Prior    April07           National
                                                                                          recruitment
 110     Heads, PMU                     1.619      Several     Prior    April 07          National
                                                                                          recruitment
 111     Deputy Heads, P M U            0.979      Several     Prior    April 07          National


                                                   75

112 I Other staff, PMU        I  5.155     I Several    IPrior   I             I recruitment
                                                                  April07      II   National
                                                                                    recruitment
113 I CLDD Staff              I  1.581     I Several   I Prior   IApril07      I    National
                                                                                    recruitment
114   Head, FP Mgmt              0.058      Indv         Prior    March08           National
                                                                                    recruitment
115   DeputyHead, FP Mgmt        0.039      Indv         Post     March08           National
                                                                                    recruitment
116   Other Staff, FP Mgmt       0.145       Several     Prior    March08           National
                                                                                    recruitment
117 I Head, PCU               I  0.116     IIndv       I Prior   IMarch08           National
                                                                                    recruitment
118  IOther PCU Staff         I  1.529     1 Several   I Prior   IApril 07     IIIIINational
                                                                                    recruitment
119  IHead, M&E               I  0.116     I Indv      I Prior   IMarch08           National
                                                                                    recruitment
120  IOther M&E Staff         I  1.855     I Several    IPrior   IApril07           National
                                                                                    recruitment
121  IExecutive Director      I  0.176     I Indv       IPrior   INovember 07  IIIIINational

D     ImplementingAgency CapacityBuildingActivitieswith Time Schedule

      D1.Inthis section the agreed Capacity BuildingActivities. Inadditionto the
      program conducted by IDA, it is proposedthat MRRDNSP staff involved inthe
      procurement activities o f the MRRD/NSP to be nominated to participate at
      international level training programs for goods/works and consulting services. .
                                                         +
No.    Expectedoutcome/Activity          EstimatedCost    Estimate   1E;;t    Comments
       Description                                        d
                                                          Duration
1      Qualified procurement Staff       US$ 50,000 for                      The trained
       and more familiarity with         4 participants   weeks              staff shall be
       international best procurement                     Per                responsible
       practices                                          course             facilitate
                                                                             training o f
                                                                             other staff in
                                                                             the
                                                                             program/MR
                                                                             RD


      D2       Agreed Proceduresfor NationalCompetitiveBidding
               Inorder to ensure economy, efficiency, transparency andbroad consistency
               with the provisions o f Section Io f the Procurement Guidelines, the
               following criteria shall be followed in procurement under National
               Competitive Biddingprocedures:

      (i)      Standardbiddingdocuments approvedbythe World Bankshall be used;



                                            76

Invitations to bid shall be advertised in at least one (1) widely circulated
national daily newspaper and bidding documents shall be made available to
prospective bidders, at least twenty eight (28) days prior to the deadline for
the submission o fbids;

Bids shall not be invited on the basis o f percentage premium or discount
over the estimated cost;

Biddingdocuments shall be made available, bymailor inperson, to all who
are willing to pay the required fee;

Foreignbidders shall not be precluded from bidding;

Qualification criteria (in case pre-qualifications were not carried out) shall
be stated on the biddingdocuments, and if a registration process i s required,
a foreign firm determined to be the lowest evaluated bidder shall be given
reasonable opportunity o f registering, without any hindrance;

Bidders may deliver bids, at their option, either in person or by courier
service or bymail;

All bidders shallprovidebidsecurity as indicatedinthe biddingdocuments.
A bidder's bidsecurity shall apply only to a specific bid;

Bids shall be opened inpublic in one place preferably immediately, but no
later than one hour, after the deadline for submission ofbids;

Evaluation o f bids shall be made in strict adherence to the criteria disclosed
in the bidding documents, in a format, and within the specified period,
agreedwith the Association;

Bids shall not be rejected merely on the basis o f a comparison with an
official estimate without the prior concurrence o fthe World Bank;

 Split award or lottery in award o f contracts shall not be carried out. When
two (2) or more bidders quote the same price, an investigation shall be
made to determine any evidence o f collusion, following which: (A) if
collusion is determined, the parties involved shall be disqualified and the
 award shall then be made to the next lowest evaluated and qualified bidder;
 and (B) if no evidence o f collusion can be confirmed, then fresh bids shall
be invited after receiving the concurrence o f the World Bank;

 Contracts shall be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidders within the initial
period o f bidvalidity so that extensions are not necessary. Extension o f bid
validity may be sought only under exceptional circumstances;

Extension o f bidvalidity shall not be allowed without the prior concurrence
 o f the World Bank (A) for the first request for extension if it i s longer than


                               77

       eight (8) weeks, and (B) for all subsequent requests for extensions
       irrespective o f the period;

(xv)  Negotiations shall not be allowed with the lowest evaluated or any other
      bidders;

(xvi)  Re-bidding shall not be carried out without the World Bank's prior
       concurrence; and

(xvii) All contractors or suppliers shall provide performance security as indicated
       in the contract documents. A contractor's or a supplier's performance
       security shall apply to a specific contract under which it was furnished.




                                     78

          APPENDIX 6: FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT ARRANGEMENTS


1. CountryIssues

The Bank has gained substantial experience and understanding o f the financial
management environment in Afghanistan through the large number o f projects under
implementation over the past four years. The Public Administration Capacity Building
Project (PACBP) i s the primaryinstrumentto continue and enhance the fiduciary measures
put inplace during the past years to help ensure transparency and accountability for the
fundingprovidedbythe Bank andother donors.

A PFM performance rating system using 28 high-level indicators that was developed by
the Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability multi-agency partnership program
(PEFA) was applied inAfghanistan inJune 2005. PEFA is comprised o f the World Bank,
IMF, EC, and several other agencies. The system is structured around six core dimensions
o f PFM performance: (i)     budget credibility; (ii)
                                                   comprehensiveness and transparency; (iii)
policy-based budgeting; (iv) predictability and control inbudget execution; (v) accounting,
recording, and reporting; and (vi) external scrutiny and audit.

Afghanistan's ratings against the PFM performance indicators generally portray a public
sector where financial resources are, by and large, being used for their intended purposes.
This has been accomplishedwith very highlevels o f support from international firms; this
assistance will continue to be needed over the medium term if these ratings are to be
maintained.

There is also much room for improvement. In spite o f undeniable gains made in
reconstruction since the end o f 2001, the challenges facing Afghanistanremain immense;
not least because o f the tenuous security situation in the region and continued prevalence
o f a large illegal and illicit economy. The policy framework benchmarks have not yet been
fully costed so various priorities are funded through the annual budgeting process. The
rising costs o f the security sector constitute the major constraint on attainment o f fiscal
sustainability. With regard to executive oversight, the national assembly will play an
increasingly active role. All in all, the new national strategy has created highexpectations
o f the executive which could prove to be quite difficult to meet.

The public sector, in spite o f considerable efforts to reform its core functions, remains
extremely weak outside o f Kabul. The lack o f skilled staff in the civil service and the
absence o f qualified counterparts inthe government after 30 years or war and conflicts is a
bindingconstraint. Delays inreforming the pay structure andgrading o f civil servants have
severely crippled the public administration o f the country. Domestic revenues lag behind
expenditures by a factor o f ten to one. Large-scale corruption could emerge to undermine
the government's efforts to enhance aid flows through national accounts. Capacities to
track expenditures and monitor expenditure outcomes have improved, but they need rapid
and substantial strengthening if progress toward the attainment o f national development
targets is to be monitored. Currently, 75% of external revenues bypass government
appropriation systems.


                                                79

The World Bank is financing a Financial Management Advisor to assist the Ministry o f
Finance, an Audit Advisor to assist the Control and Audit Office, and a Procurement
Advisor to assist inProcurement-related activities. Also an Internal Audit function is being
developed within the Ministry o f Finance with World Bank financing. USAID and earlier
the IndianAid Assistance Program are also financing a team o f consultants and advisors to
assist the D a Afghanistan Bank in local as well as foreign currency operations. The
activities carried out under the existing Public Administration projects have helped the
Government to ensure that appropriate fiduciary standards are maintained for public
expenditures, including those supported bythe Bank andthe donor community.

Progress has been slower than expected inshifting from operations support provided by the
three Advisors to capacity development andknowledge transfer to the civil servants. Given
that, is expected that the Advisors will continue to be required for the medium term.
Challenges still remain in attaining the agreed upon fiduciary standards and also to further
enhance them. And to make matters more complex, the regulatory environment in
Afghanistan has advanced significantly in the past three years.              Unfortunately, even
mastery o f basic skills inthe early environment does not fully qualify the civil servants to
work effectively inthe new emerging environment.

2. Risk Assessment and Mitigation

The table below identifies the key risks that the project may face and indicates how these
risks are to be addressed.

Risk                        Risk     Risk Mitigation Measures              Residual Condition of
                            Rating                                         Risk     negotiations,
                                                                                    Board or
                                                                                    EfSectiveness
                                                                                    p/N)

     INHERENTRISK

Country Inherent Risk       M         Source PFM study
                                              -                            M        N
Project Financial           H         MinimizeuseofDesignated              S        Y
Management Risk                       Account, maximize direct
                                      payments to consultants; change in            Disbursement
                                      the TOR of the Oversight
                                      Consultant to include financial
                                      management o f all NSP funds and
                                      these responsibilities will be
                                      assumedby the Management
                                      Support Consultant to be appointed
                                      at the expiration o f OC's contract
                                      inApril2007; allprocurement
                                      through Procurement Advisor
Perceived Corruption        H         Government commitment, internal      S        N
                                      controls and new internal audit will
                                      all help reduce the high level o f
                                     perceived corruption



                                                80

%era11 Inherent Risk                                                   S


    CONTROLRISK

1. Weak Implementing Entity     MRRDwillberesponsible for the         M    N
                                implementation and will utilize the
                                experience gained inphase 1in
                                successful management o fthis
                                secondphase.     .

                                There is a Memorandum o f
                                Understandingsignedby the Da
                                Afghanistan Bank, MRRD and the
                                OC detailing financial and banking
                                arrangements for NSP.

                                The MRRD,MoF andthe
                                OC/MSC have signed a
                                disbursement protocol on financial
                                 arrangements andprocedures

                                The NSP Development Budget
                                Manager will work closely with
                                 the Management Support
                                 Consultant's Financial
                                 Management team to carry out day
                                 to day financial management
                                 operations o f the project.
2. FundsFlow                S    This willbeinaccordance with the      M   N
                                 funds flow arrangements being
                                 utilizedby other projects in
                                 Afghanistan. However, block
                                 grants to communities for sub-
                                 projects will be transferred directly
                                 to the communities by the
                                 Management Support Consultants
                                 from a block grant bank account to
                                 be maintainedbytheminDa
                                 Afghanistan Bank.

                                 To minimize the risko f cash theft,
                                 the communities have beentrained
                                 to pay for goods and services using
                                 cheques and to reduce the amount
                                 o f cash they withdraw from their
                                 accounts at any point intime.
3. Budgeting                S    A budget committee willbe             M   N
                                 appointed to coordinate the
                                 preparation o f annual work plan
                                 and the derivation o f annualbudget
                                 there from. This committee will be
                                 made up o frepresentatives from
                                 MSC and MRRD and will report to
                                 the Project Steering Committee.


                                           81

4. Accounting Policies and                 Will follow international          M    Y
Procedures                                 standards. Project accounting
                                           procedures and detailed financial        Disbursement
                                           management arrangements for
                                           project andbenefiting
                                           communities, to whomblock
                                           grants will be disbursedfor sub-
                                           projects, will be documented inthe
                                           FMManualto be approvedby the
                                           Bank
5. Internal Audit              H           Newly created internal audit        S   N
                                           department will review project
                                           internal control systems
6. ExternalAudit               H           Willbe auditedby CAO with           S   N
                                           support from Audit Advisor
7. Reporting and Monitoring    H           Strengthening the SDUis a priority  S    Y
                                           under the newFMAdvisor
                                           contract, to provide information         Negotiations
                                           that will comply with agreed
                                           format o f financial reports. This
                                           will be facilitated by the
                                           computerized accounting system
                                           that will be utilizedby the MSC to
                                           maintain records and generate
                                           requiredreports ofblock grants to
                                           communities for sub-txoiects.
Overall ControlRisk            H                                               S
Detection Risk                 S           Adequate accounting, recording,    M
                                           and oversight will be providedin
                                           project procedures.

                                           AccountingRecordingJoversight
                                           by SDU-MoF of all advanceshl-
                                           16 supported byFinancial
                                           Management Advisor.
Risk rating: H=hiPh risk: S=sz stantial ri k; M=modest risk; L-low risk



3. Strengths andWeaknesses

Strengths

The Government provides assurance to the Bank and other donors that the measures in
place to ensure appropriate utilization o f funds will not be circumvented. The Government
support for PACBP i s strength in itself to enhance financial management in Treasury
operations, public procurement, internal audit inthe public sector, and external audit by the
Auditor General,

A specific strength o fthe project is that this is a follow-up project, andthat it already has a
number of mechanisms in place which will significantly reduce the financial risks
associated with a large national program. These mechanisms include:



                                                     82

       MRRD has initiated reforms of the ministry's administrative and financial
       f i c t i o n s (including procurement and finance), the appointment o f financial and
       procurement advisers, continuous review and modification, when required, o f
       financial management and audit arrangements as well as disbursement systems, and
       training o f staff at national and provincial levels in financial management and
       procurement.
       The extension o f the contract o f the Oversight Consultant (OC) till March 31, 2007
       and the change in the Terms o f Reference to include financial management o f all
       NSP funds. This centralization i s envisaged to provide top NSP management with
       the required financial indicators for program planning and steering. The OC's
       financial management responsibility will be assumed by the Management Support
       Consultant (MSC) inApril 2007.
       There i s a Memorandum o f Understanding signed by the D a Afghanistan Bank,
       MRRDand the OC detailing financial and bankingarrangements for NSP. Since
       2004, provincial branches o f DAB are being used for the transfer o f block grant
       funds to accounts held by beneficiary communities. The DAB has made an
       exception to its rule o f not servicing private bank accounts inthe case o f the NSP
       Oversight Consultant and C D bank accounts.
       The MRRD, M o F and the OC/MSC have drafted a disbursement protocol on
       financial arrangements andprocedures
       The Oversight Consultant's team o f Headquarters, regional and provincial finance
       and block grant officers have been trained and are proficient in the block grant
       disbursement procedure and financial management requirements.
       The Oversight Consultant's national staff, most o f whom have been employed
       since 2004, will constitute the core NSP implementation staff that will be hired by
       the program. This means that institutional knowledge, technical know how and
       familiarity with financial safeguards gained in Phase 1 will not be lost to the
       program.
       The Operations Manual which includes the financial management arrangement i s
       now in its second version, incorporating changes in disbursement procedures
       gained from 3 years experience o f program implementation.
       The Facilitating Partners, who are in place now for 3 years have also established
       local capacities that include a trained network o f social organizers, engineers,
       trainers, monitors, provincial coordinators. This facilitates the process o f
       community mobilization,           sub-project  preparation and implementation       in
       compliance with NSP transparency rules for sub-project expenditures. Facilitating
       Partners have also provided capacity building on simple financial management in
       beneficiary communities

Weaknesses andAction Plan

The mainweakness inthis project, as inmany others inAfghanistan, is the ability to attract
suitably qualified and experienced counterpart staff especially for Financial Management.



                                               83

The change inthe TOR o f the Oversight Consultant to include financial management o f all
NSP hnds and presence o f financial advisers in the staffing o f MRRD, together with
intensive training programs included inthis project, i s expected to strengthen the fiduciary
arrangements.

ActionPlan

Significant                   Action                          1Responsable      1 Completion
Weaknesses                                                     Agent              Date
Shortage of qualified         Outsourcingof the financial      MRRD               30a October
and experienced FMstaff       managementresponsibility to                         2006 for
                              OC by a Change intheir TOR                          change o f
                              and transfer of this                                OC's TOR
                              responsibility to MSC at the                        and lSt
                                                                                        April
                              expiration of OC's contract in                      2007 for
                              March 2007                                          appointment
                                                                                  o f MSC
Inadequate documentation of FinancialManagement                MRRD               Before
Project   internal  controls,                                                     disbursement
procedures   and    Financial
management      arrangements
for communities



4. ImplementingEntity

The Ministry o f Rural Rehabilitation and Development (MRRD) is responsible for the
implementation o f the project. Given that this i s a repeater project, the experience gained
byMRRDinthe first phase would be o ftremendous advantage. The Inter-Ministerial NSP
Steering Committee chaired by the Vice President o f Afghanistan will serve as the
oversight body. The Committee will convene at least every quarter to review progress with
implementation andreview and approve work plans andbudget.

The Management Support Consultant (MSC) that will take full responsibility for the
financial management o f the project will report through the Minister o f MRRDto the NSP
Steering Committee. The MSC will be headed by a relevant qualified and experienced
staff, and may also double as the head o f one o f the two key units within the MSC; these
are Finance and Block Grant Management unit and Management Information System
(MIS) unit. The Finance and Block Grant Management unit will consist of relevant
qualified and experienced staff to be located inthe NSP Kabul office, regional offices and
provincial offices.

The MSC will also provide adequate financial management guidance and support to the
communities benefiting from block grants, ensure that financial management responsibility
i s devolve to them, that procedures are fully accountable to the government apparatus and
the communities concerned, introduce a high level o f transparency, and simplify
procedures and processes. M S C will work closely with the Director General o f MRRD



                                               84

finance department to carry out day-to-day financial management operations o f the project,
preparation o f M-16 forms (payment orders), project coding sheet, B27 allotment form and
overall contract andproject management.

The M I S unit will also integrate fiduciary management at the community level with
monitoring and evaluation to ensure a close link between technicaVprogress reporting and
financial reporting, andto support the validity o fthe expenditures.

5. Budgeting

A budget committee will be appointed to coordinate the preparation o f annual work plan
and the derivation o f annual budget there from. This committee will be made up o f
representatives from MSC and MRRD and will report to the Project Steering Committee.
The Budget Committee will also coordinate quarterly budget reviews to ensure adequate
budget discipline and control. The committee will be responsible for ensuring that projects
expenditures expended in a fiscal year are captured in the Governmental Development
budget o f that fiscal year. The MRRD must get an approval from the presidential office
and the parliament to be attached to B27 and PCS forms at the time o f requesting yearly
allotments for contracts under development project to avoid delays when payments are
processed.

6. FundsFlow

The standard mechanism o f flow o f funds inAfghanistanwill be followed inthis project.
Project funds will be deposited in the Designated Account (DA) which has already been
opened by the SDU at the D a Afghanistan Bank.           The DA, in keeping with current
practices for other projects in Afghanistan, will be operated by the SDU in the Treasury
Department o f the MoF. Requests for payments out o f the DA will be made to the SDU by
MRRDwhen needed.

The main component under the project i s community Block Grants for sub-projects. Funds
for these grants will be transferred to the communities by the Management Support
Consultant from a block grant bank account maintained by the Management Support
Consultant in the D a Afghanistan Bank.        Funds to the block grants account will be
transferred through direct payment by the World Bank. Evidence o f utilization o fprevious
advance for the purpose intended including progress reports and bank statements from
communities should be provided by MSC through the MRRD to the M o F before
submission o f direct payment withdrawal application for the next advance to the Bank.
Details o f operating the account together with the process o f accounting for expenditures
and receiving further advances from the Bank will be documented in the Financial
Management Manual.

A new feature in this phase is the inclusion o f an operations fimd component to be
managed and administeredby the Management Support Consultant. Operating costs means
project related incremental expenses incurred on account o f project implementation
support and management including the rental o f office space, the operation, maintenance,



                                              85

rental and insurance o f vehicles,         fuel, communications supplies and charges,
advertisements, books and periodicals, office administration and maintenance costs, bank
transaction charges, utility charges, domestic travel and per diem, and remuneration of
employees excluding salaries o f staff o f MRRD's civil service.

All NSP implementation and management costs that are below the minimum withdrawal
application limit will be paid out o f the operations fund bank account operated by the
Management Support Consultant. Funds to the operations fund account are transferred by
direct payment by the World Bank. Evidence o f utilization o f previous advance for the
purpose intended should be provided by MSC through the MRRD to the MoF before
submission o f direct payment withdrawal application for the next advance to the Bank.
Details o f operating the account together with the process o f accounting for expenditures
and receiving futher    advances from the Bank will be documented in the Financial
Management Manual.

Inaddition to payments out of the DA, the implementingentities could also request the
SDUto make direct payments to consultants or consulting firms, and specialcommitments
for contracts covered by letters o f credit will follow the World Bank procedures. All
project payments are expected to be made to either international or local firms that have
bank accounts in DAB or a commercial bank in Afghanistan or an overseas bank. All
payments will be made either through bank transfers into the account o f such firms or by
check.

7. Retroactive financing

To provide maximum financing flexibility, it has been agreed that the Government may
claim up to US$ 40,000,000 (33 % o f the IDA grant amount) as retroactive financing for
expenditures financed after October 1, 2006 and prior to the signing date of the Grant
Agreement.




                                              86

                               FUNDSFLOW CHART




                        Project transactions processed through SDU
                                andpaidinUSDor Afghanis


        Payment                                                       Payment
        Requests                                                      Requests




8. Legalrequirementsfor authorizedsignature

Ministry o f Finance has authorization to disburse finds from the Credit/Grant, specimen
signatures o f authorized signatories in M o F will be submitted to the Bank prior to
commencing disbursements.

9. Accounting

The Oversight Consultant has put in place a tailor made computerized accounting system
for the sub-grant component o f the project. The system generates cash book records and
statements o f expenditures (SOEs). The system has been designed to record all grant


                                            87

transactions and to generate periodic summary reports for this component. It i s also linked
to the NSP databasethat contains all the social andtechnical (metric) information collected
from the communities and sub-projects. The Management Support Consultant i s expected
to continue usingthe financial modulehlock grant accounting system.

The Management Support Consultant will put inplace a computerized accounting system
to record all expenditures for the operations component o f the project. The system will
follow the categories inthe government Chart o f Accounts, with sub categories established
to facilitate expenditure monitoring andpreparation o f SOEs.

For overall grant accounting purposes, the government's computerized accounting system
(AFMIS) will be used for reporting, financial statements and audits. The FMManual will
also establish project financial management in accordance with standard Afghan
government policies andprocedures, including use o f the government Chart o f Accounts to
record project expenditures. The use o f these procedures will enable adequate recording
and reporting o fproject expenditures. Overall project accounts will be maintained centrally
inSDU, whichwill be ultimately responsible for recording of all expenditures andreceipts
inthe Government's accountingsystem. The SDUwill beresponsible for accountingof all
expenditures and receipts in AFMIS,including the supporting documentation, which will
be the basis for preparation o f reports to IDA as well as to the government. The
Management Support Consultant will work closely with the MRRD Director General o f
Finance in i)preparation o f supporting documents for expenditures, ii)preparation o f
payment orders (M16s), iii)obtain approval for M16s by the Minister or Deputy Minister
depending on the payment amount and iv) submission to the SDU for verification and
payment.

Reconciliation o f project expenditure with M o F records will be carried out by the MRRD
Finance department, with support from the MSC. Annual project financial statements will
be consolidated centrally at the SDU. The statements would include a summary o f fhds
received (showing funds received from all sources), and a summary o f expenditures shown
under the main Project components/activities and by the main categories o f expenditures.
These statements should also disclose a statement o f financial affairs at the end o f the year
anddescribe allmajor accountingpolicies usedinpreparingthe statement.

Inorder to maintain transparency, accountability and control over the whole funding for
the NSP program, it i s required that M R R D M o F should prepare a consolidated account
annually for NSP, incorporating all Donors andAfghanistan Government funding received
and the expenditures made there from. This consolidated report should indicate amounts
for the current fiscal year and cumulative to date. It will be the responsibility o f MRRD
and MoF to submit this report to all Donors, along with the required individual project's
audited financial statements and management letter for the year, within six months o f the
endo fthe fiscal year.




                                            88

10. InternalControl& InternalAuditing

Project-specific procedures for requests and approval o f funds will be described inthe FM
Manual to be developed before disbursements begin including segregation of duties,
documentation reviews, physical asset control, andcash handlingandmanagement.
Adequate procedures, guidelines and controls on payment o f block grants to benefiting
communities will be included inthe FMManual.

The project financial management systems will be subject to review by the newly
established internal audit directorate o f the MoF, according to programs to be determined
bythe Director o fInternal Audit usinga risk-basedapproach.

11. ExternalAudit

The project accounts will be auditedby the Auditor General, with the support o fthe Audit
Advisor, with terms o f reference satisfactory to the Association. The audit o f the project
accounts will include an assessment o f the: (a) adequacy o f the accounting and internal
control systems; (b) ability to maintain adequate documentation for transactions; and (c)
eligibility o f incurred expenditures for Association financing. The audited annual project
financial statements will be submitted within six months of the close o f fiscal year. All
agencies involved in implementation and holding records of expenditures would need to
retainthese records as per the IDA retentionpolicy.

The following audit reports will be monitored in the Audit Reports Compliance System
(ARCS):

     ResponsibleAgency                      Audit               Auditors          Date
  MoF, supported by Special      SOE, Project Accounts       Auditor General     Sep 22
  Disbursement Unit              and DesignatedAccount


12. FinancialReporting

Financial Statements and Project Reports will be used for project monitoring and
supervision. Based upon the FM arrangements o f this project Financial Statements and
Project Reports will be prepared monthly, quarterly, and annually by the MSC. These
reports will be produced based on records kept on a computerized accounting system and
after due reconciliation to expenditure statements from SDU (as recorded in AFMIS) and
bank statements from DAB.

The quarterly Project Reports will show: (i) and uses of funds by disbursement
                                                 sources
category andproject component and also expenditures consolidated based on governmental
head o f accounts compared with budget; (ii)physical progress; and' (iii)status o f
procurement activities. The MSC will prepare these reports working closely with relevant
NSP staff, MRRD Finance and Procurement departments and thereafter, forward the
relevant details to SDU/DBER with a copy to IDA within 45 days of the end o f each



                                               89

quarter. The government and IDA have agreed on a pro forma format for all Bank
projects, and a final customized format will be agreed prior to project negotiations.

The annual Project accounts to be prepared by SDU from AFMIS and after due
reconciliation to the records maintained at the project, will form part o f the consolidated
Afghanistan Government Accounts for all development projects, which is done centrally in
the Ministryo fFinance; inparticular, the Treasury Department, supported bythe Financial
Management Advisor.

13. DisbursementArrangements

Table 1 shows the allocation o f IDA proceeds and Table 2 the expected co-financing. A
single category for "goods, works, consultancy services, training and operating costs" i s
defined inthe financing agreement to facilitate preparation o f withdrawal applications and
record-keeping. Project funds will be disbursed over 36 months. The closing date o f the
project will be September 30, 2009 with a final disbursement deadline four months after
the closing date.

Duringthis additional 4-month grace period, project-related expenditures incurredprior to
the closing date are eligible for disbursement. Disbursements procedures set out in the
Bank's "Disbursement                 Handbook for World Bank Borrowers" (October 2005) are
applicable to this project.

Table 1: IDA Financing by Category o f Expenditure (US$ million)
                                                                           Amount of the             Financing
Expenditure Categov                                                      Grant Allocations Percentage
(1) Goods, works, consultants' services, training,                                                     100%
Block Grant andIncremental Operating CostsI4
Total                                                                                                    -

Table 2: Estimated Co-financing (US$ million)
IDA                         ARTF                      JSDF             Other                    Total
120                          240                      30                130                     520


Summary Reports. Summary reports in the form o f Statements o f Expenditure will be
used for expenditures on contracts above US$200,000.

DesignatedAccount. A single designated account will be opened at DAB or in a local
commercial bank inU S dollars for a maximum amount o f US$ 1.2 million, representing 3
months o f estimated expenditures. The SDUinM o F will manage payments from and new
advancesheplenishments to this account.

l4Operating Costs means the Project-related incremental expenses incurred on account of Project implementation
support and management including the rental o f office space;  the operation, maintenance, rental and insurance of
vehicles; fuel; communications supplies and charges; advertisements; books and periodicals; office administration and
maintenance costs; bank transaction charges; utility charges; domestic travel and per diem but excluding salaries o f
officials and staff o f the Recipient's civil service.


                                                          90

Cash advances may be taken from the Designated Account, and held and managed by
MRRD. This agency's controls, holding, accounting, and preparation of Statement s of
Expenses (SOEs) have been satisfactorily assessed.

New cash advances will only be made when all other prior cash advances have been
justified through submission o f SOEs to the SDU. The designated account will be
replenishedon a quarterly basis.

Direct Payments. Third-party payments (direct) will be permitted for amounts exceeding
25 percent o f the advance in the Designated Account.          All such payments require
supporting documentation.

Preparationof WithdrawalApplications. The SDUwill review withdrawal applications
for quality and conformity to Treasury procedures, and then obtain signature. Selected
MRRD finance staff will be registered as users of the World Bank Web-based Client
Connection system, andtake an active handinmanaging the flow o f disbursements.

 14. FinancialManagementCovenants

    0   M o F will submit audited financial statements for the project within six months o f
        the end o f each fiscal year. The Project's audit report will cover the financial
        statements, the Designated Account and SOEs, in accordance with terms o f
        reference to be agreed with the Association.

    0   Un-audited interim project financial reports will be submitted by M S C M R R D
        separately on a quarterly basis to the World Bank and a copy to SDU-MoF within
        45 days after the end o f each quarter.

    0   M R R D M o F to submit an audited consolidated account for NSP within six months
        o f the end o f each fiscal year. The consolidated account will be derived from the
        audited accounts o f each NSP project/program, incorporating all Donors and
        Afghanistan Government funding received and the expenditures made there from.
        This consolidated report should indicate amounts for the current fiscal year and
        cumulative to date.

        MRRDwill ensure that the change inthe TOR ofthe Oversight Consultant (OC) to
        include financial management o f all NSP funds is done, ensure that adequate staff
        with relevant qualification and experience are maintained, ensure that same TOR is
        utilized for the Management Support Consultant (MSC) that will assume this
        responsibility at the expiration o f OC's contract, and also ensure that the number
        and quality o f staffing is maintained throughout the duration o f the project inorder
        to ensure smoothproject implementation.




                                               91

15. SupervisionPlan

During project implementation,       the Bank will supervise the project's financial
management arrangements. The team will:

      Review the project's quarterly un-audited interim financial reports as well as the
      project's annual audited financial statements and auditor's management letter.

      Review the project's financial management and disbursement arrangements
      (including a review of a sample of SOEs and movements on the Designated
      Account, Community Block Grant Account and Operations Fund Account) to
      ensure compliance with the Bank's minimumrequirements.

      Review agency performance in managing project funds to ensure that it is timely,
      accurate, and accountable. Particular supervision emphasis will be placed on asset
      management and supplies.


   0  Review of financial management risk rating and compliance with all covenants.


16. Conclusion

The FM arrangements, including the systems, processes, procedures, and staffing are
adequate to support this project - subject to implementation of the items listed inthe action
plan.




                                              92

     APPENDIX 7: MONITORINGAND EVALUATIONARRANGEMENTS



1. MainObjectives

The monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system for the NSP I1 is intended to provide
information to the relevant stakeholders on project implementation performance, process,
outputs, and outcomes.

The project M&E system will be based on the seven key components: (a) implementation
monitoring, (b) post-implementation monitoring, (c) a complaints handling, (d) a baseline
survey, (e) an impact evaluation on some key qualitative indicators, (f) analytical works
and (g) an external evaluation study at the end o fthe project.

MRRDwill fullyintegrateM&Edatabaseinto the MISbyeffectiveness ofthe Grant.Such
integratedM I S will ensure the smooth information flow at all levels as a management tool.

2. InstitutionalArrangement for M&E

The NSP M&E department o f the MRRD will be responsible for coordinating the M&E
tasks, liaising with FPs, provincial M&E staff and OC inthe collection andreporting o f the
required data. The M&E data will be continuously updated and consolidated quarterly for
provision to the Bank task team, and will be made available to coincide with the
supervision missions o f the project. M&E department will be supported by the Provincial
M&Estaff aswell as the FPsat theprovince anddistrict level.

3. MonitoringArrangements

Implementation Monitoring

The primary objective is to monitor the progress o f the projects based on the measurable
outcome/outputs as listed inthe Appendix 1.

At community level, CDCs will be responsible, with the support from the FPs, for
monitoring their own progress based on a few selected key indicators (e.g. on
process/participation, implementation progress/results, and expenditures). At the same
time, a community participatory monitoring system will be piloted during the first six
months and be expanded if successful. Communities will monitor procurement, financial
management, implementation andmaintenance o f the subprojects, and FP's performance.

Facilitating Partners (FPs) will continue to be responsible for the implementation
monitoring, focusing on inputs, process and output level, using the communities as the
basic unit o f monitoring. The FPs will prepare a brief monthly report on the
implementation status.




                                             93

At district level, FPs will prepare quarterly progress reports, which cover the district(s) or
province(s) inwhich the particular FP is responsible for the facilitation o fNSP.

At province level, FP prepares a quarterly report based on the district reports and feed the
M I S with the information collected. Moreover, the Provincial M&E staff o f MRRD will
further assess the quality o fthe subprojects as well as the governance capacity o f CDCs.

At the national level, MRRD M&E department analyzes the data collected and prepares
quarterly progress reports for the project as a whole, which will be shared with key
stakeholders.

Post-implementationmonitoring

The objectives are primarily to assess the sustainability o f the subprojects and the
governance capacity o f CDCs beyond subproject completion. This will be carried out, on
random sample basis, by the NSP M&E department three and six months after the
subprojects are completed.

Complaints Handling

A Complaints Handling Mechanism will be introduced in NSP 11. This serves as an
important channel for the community members to report their complaints especially when
there are problems vis-a-vis the FPs or other aspects o f the program. A Complaints
HandlingSpecialist inthe MRRDwill be hired and a number publicized on posters where
communities can directly call or send an SMS. There will also be a suggestion box at
strategic areas such as mosques, community halls, markets, coffee shops. The complaints
can also come from facilitators. The incoming complaints are categorized, registered into
database, verified and addressed either by FPs or Complaints Handling Specialist.
Appropriate and timely action will be taken to by the MRRD to address those complaints,
and ifnecessary, with assistance from the National Steering Committee.

4. BaselineSurvey

During the facilitation process, FPs will collect some key basic information of the
communities, such as demographic data, availability o f resources and facility and etc,
usinga standardized form called"Community Profile Form". The data will be entered into
the MIS and be analyzed to generate baseline information. DuringNSP 11, GPS code will
be added to the form in order to provide an accurate geographical information o f targeted
communities.

5. ImpactEvaluationthroughRandomization

The absence o f a baseline beyond the community profile made it difficult to accurately
assess the economic, political and social impact o f NSP implementation on targeted
communities. Information on the role o f CDCs in facilitating institutional changes at
village-level has been particularly absent. As a central component o f the NSP has been the



                                              94

development o f new community-level representation, it i s important to understand the
effectiveness o f CDCs in promoting durable changes in the institutional structure o f the
villages, including the introductiono f norms o f representative governance.

NSP I1 will therefore introduce a robust impact evaluation to examine the major
institutional and socio-economic impacts o f the program. In order to obtain unbiased
estimates o f program effects, in a number o f new districts, the implementation schedule o f
the NSP will be randomized in order to ensure that there is no relationship between the
underlying characteristics o f the community and its prioritization in the roll-out schedule.
This will divide the sample between those communities randomly selected to participate in
year 1, the "treatment group", and those communities selected for participation in years 2
and 3, the "control group". At the end o f year 1, a survey will be conducted across both the
treatment and control groups, the results o f which will allow for the clear identification o f
the institutional andsocio-economic impacts o fthe NSP program.

6. Analytical Works

Running analytical work in parallel to the ongoing activities will enable an interactive
process whereby findings from the field can be fed into design modification. Issues
identified as most critical include engineering quality o f electrification project, technical
quality o f sub-projects, social and environmental impact o f sub-projects, and economic rate
o f return analysis o f sub-projects. Those key analytical works will be conducted in the
course o f the project and will form a basis o f the mid-term review and the project end
evaluation. FP will be asked to write up the case studies on certain topics which can be
widely shared as lessons learnt.

7. Mid-termReview

During the second year o f the project, a mid-term review will be conducted in order to
assess whether the NSP I1is achieving the objectives as planned, and to initiate corrective
measures ifdeemed necessary.

8. ExternalEvaluation

At the end o fthe project, an external evaluationwill assess the project impact andprovide
the recommendation for a third phase. The evaluation will specifically assess whether the
target set in Annex I1had been achieved at the end o f the project, based on findings from
the analytical works, the impact evaluation and monitoring records during the project.
IDA will produce an Implementation Completion Report, which will focus on evaluating
whether the project objectives and targets for keyperformance indicators have beenmet.

9. Management Information System

NSP's M I S has been usedless as a project management tool and more as a database, which
is a means o f publishing output metrics. NSP I1M I S will be modified to encompass all
aspects of NSP and not just CDC and sub-project data, including modules on M&E,



                                              95

financial management, FP contract monitoring, Procurement, HR, etc. The M&E/MIS
databasewill continue to be updated andmaintainedby the OC.

Moreover, NSP I1 will provide support for the financing o f consultant(s) for the
institutional strengthening o f the MRRD MIS. This is geared towards designing an
integratedM I S which will encompass information o f all the projects under MRRDinorder
to help the ministry to manage information ina standard andunified form, and also to meet
the nation wide requirement o f information for the Interim Afghanistan National
Development Strategy (I-ANDs).The process will include, gathering information to meet
requirements o f various stakeholders,        Designing o f operational procedures and
organizational structures and designing o f the information system.




                                              96

       APPENDIX 8: ARRANGEMENTS FOR QUALITYASSURANCEOF
                                      SUBPROJECTS


1. Introduction

As o f the appraisal o fthe NSP 11,the ongoing NSP includes about 20,180 subprojects o f
which about which 19,750 are ongoing, and 6,900 have been completed by the
beneficiary communities using the block grants. A large majority o f these subprojects
include, in the descending order o f the community demand, the new construction and
refurbishment o f village level facilities such as: drinking water and sanitation; gravelled
roads and culverts, irrigation works, village electrification; school buildings; public
buildings (mosques, community centers, public baths etc.); andhealth clinics.

There i s an increasing demand for micro-hydro power projects for the communities. In
addition, a small number o f non-engineering,          income generation and livelihood
promotion subprojects too have been financed.             Communities have consistently
prioritized small scale infrastructure projects and on average implement two subprojects
with their block grant allocations.      On average about 55% o f all projects involve
productive infrastructure such as irrigation, roads and village electrification thereby
promoting productivity and stimulating local economies.          A futher 26% o f projects
involve safe water and sanitation which assures better health for the communities. In
addition, the NSP includes the construction o f 67 schools in different districts chosen by
the communities under the District School Rehabilitation and Construction Window.

Drinking water facilities, roads and village electrification projects continue to be o f
urgent importance in NSP I1as many communities lack access to potable water, basic
services and markets and less than 5% o f rural households have access to power. The
unprecedented winter snowfall o f 2005 in certain provinces and the consequent flooding
caused an upsurge inprojects involving earth retaining walls and flood protection works.
The NSP I1anticipates that projects involvingroads, water and electricity will continue to
be fundamental priorities for the communities as the program rolls out to cover the entire
country. There i s a recent trend inwhich a cluster o f adjoining communities pool up o f
their block grant allocations to invest on larger and common infrastructure subprojects
such as long irrigation canals, village roads and electricity supply lines from the main
power gridto serve those cluster o fvillages. This trend i s likely to continue inthe NSP 11.

The planning, design and implementation o f these subprojects require adequate
arrangements to ensure the design and construction quality o f the subprojects inNSP 11.
In the NSP, there have been adequate arrangements to ensure the quality of the
engineering design o f the subprojects through a systematic review o f the subprojects by
the oversight consultant. Even with these arrangements, it has been found necessary to
further improve the quality o f subprojects planningand design particularly inrespect of
micro-hydro power projects and large and common infrastructure projects that would be
implementedby a cluster o f communities usingthe pooled up block grant allocations.



                                              97

While the planning and design o f the subprojects have been satisfactory, the previous
World Bank NSP review missions have expressed concerns over the inadequate
arrangements for construction quality assurance o f subprojects. Inadequate attention and
arrangements for civil works construction quality is a national issue. However,
construction quality o f subprojects cannot be compromised as nearly 88 percent of the
block grants are invested for small scale subprojects. Individual and aggregate effect o f
the poor quality would undermine both the sustainability o f the projects as well as the
expected return on the investments.

Adequate arrangements for the construction quality assurance o f the subprojects will be
established and enforced in NSP I1as per arrangements discussed and agreed with the
MRRDas follows.

2. QualityAssuranceof PlanningandDesignof Subprojects

The subprojects are chosen by the communities through consensus within the CDCs.
Once the subprojects are chosen, the engineering staff o f the FPs will prepare the detailed
engineering design, drawing and bill o f quantities for the subprojects based on walk
through surveys with the communities and engineering surveys. The proposals will be
subsequently reviewed and approved by the engineers o f the regional and provincial
offices under the technical guidance o f the Engineering Department o f the NSP 11. The
NSP I1engineering department in Kabul will be headed by an internationally recruited
full time engineering expert and both the Kabul and regional offices will be adequately
staffed with local engineers, technicians andwork supervisors.

Most o f the engineering staff employed for the NSP will continue to work inthe NSP 11,
and they will carry over the experience and skills to the NSP 11. The Technical Manual
has been revised few times and it provides engineering specifications for the range o f
typical subprojects that are adequate to guide the preparation o f the design, except for
micro hydro projects as well as the large infrastructure projects that would be
implemented by pooling up the block grant allocations by a cluster o f CDCs. These
technical guidelines are beingprepared at present.

In order to mher improve the quality of planning and design of subprojects, the
following action are being carried out at present and supporting cost provisions have been
made inthe NSP I1proposal:

0   A standardized checklist for design would be newly added to the current NSP
    Technical Manual as a guideline for the FP and NSP engineers and technical staff o f
    the regional andprovincialoffices;

0   Intensive technical training will be provided to the engineering staff o f the FPs and
    regional offices on the typical subprojects o f the NSP 11, based on the Technical
    Manual and the Checklist;




                                            98

    An international consultant on micro hydro power will be hired by the Engineering
    Department o f the NSP I1to guide the staff inthe planning and design o f micro hydro
    power schemes andreview and approve the proposals.
    Engineering Department will provide guidance and training to the staff o f the Rural
    Infrastructure Department o f the MRRDwho are responsible for the design and BOQ
    preparation o f the schools financed under the District School Window.
    The design skills required for large projects benefiting a cluster o f villages such as
    power supply from the main grid, micro hydro projects, and link roads etc. are usually
    beyond the capacity o f the engineering staff o f the FPs. Nevertheless, such projects
    require approval and technical review by the qualified engineering staff o f the
    respective ministries.    The Engineering Department under the guidance o f the
    international engineering expert andor micro hydro expert will take the responsibility
    for planning and design o f those large subprojects. However, it i s mandatory that
    those proposals are reviewed and approved by the concerned Ministry. The inter-
    ministerial National Steering Committee will facilitate the participation and assistance
    o f the concerned Ministry required for technical appraisal and approval o f such
    projects.

e   The engineering and technical staff will be provided with training on environmental
    impacts o f the subprojects and incorporation o f environmental safeguards and
    mitigation measures inthe design and (construction) o f the subprojects.
    Staff o f the EngineeringDepartment will carry out spot checks in the field to review
    the appropriateness and accuracy o f subproject designs.
    Construction supervision and training on micro-hydro projects will be carried out
    under the technical guidance o f the international expert.

3. QualityAssurance of Constructionof the Subprojects

Inadequate construction quality o f the subprojects o f the ongoing NSP resulted due to a
number o f factors: (a) limited experience o f the engineers and technicians involved in
subprojects supervision due to inadequate exposure for construction activities inthe past
consequent to the conflict; (b) the limited number o f supervisory engineers deployed on
site, for example each district engineer is responsible for a large number o f subprojects
scattered over a large geographic area with difficult access; c) lack o f supervision
capacity by the communities; (d) the use o f inappropriate constructions techniques or
materials; and (e) inadequate job-specific hands on training provided to the staff o f the
FPs andregionaVprovincia1 offices on construction aspects.
    Basic simple quality testing equipment will be procured and distributed to the
    provincial offices and field engineering staff o f the FPs and provincial offices will be
    encouraged to use those equipment for quality control o f the construction;
    Job specific quality control training will be provided to the field engineering staff by
    the Engineering Department. This training will be provided at regionaVprovincia1
    level dependingon the availability o f facilities inthe respective province;



                                              99

    Job-specific basic quality management training will be provided at regional/provincial
    level to selected community members. Technical training will be included as an
    integral area for capacity building o f the communities together with the training on
    financial management, book keeping, CDC management and NSP related operational
    procedures. Use o f the simple construction quality control equipment will be a part o f
    the intendedtraining.
    The Engineering Department will train a cadre o f trainers who will in turn train the
    community members (as well as the field engineering staff).

0   A simple, condensed, job-specific field construction management manual is being
    prepared by the Engineering Department. The manual, inter-alia, will include the
    guidelines on the selection and use o f local material for construction activities. This
    manual will be translated into local languages, with pictorial presentations o f the
    construction techniques, produced as a small handbook in local languages, and
    distributed among field staff and CDCs as a reference source. The training o f the field
    staff andcommunity members will inpart be built on this manual.
    The World Bank will review the adequacy o f the arrangements for construction
    quality management during all review missions.

4. Specific arrangements for the Energy Sector

After more thantwo decades o fwar inAfghanistan, the civil infrastructures are damaged
beyond repair and only a small percentage o f the population has access to irregular
electricity supply from what remains o f the national grids. Several programs have been
dealing with the rehabilitation o f the national power grid; however have so far focused
mostly on urban supply, rehabilitation o f larger plants and grid trunks, leaving the sparse
rural population completely unattended for.

The energy sources offering better decentralization potential, sustainability,          and
reliability over time are the renewables. Renewable energy resources include hydro
(water), wind, both passive and photo voltaic solar, geothermal, processing and reuse o f
biomass and other wastes. Efficient use o f renewable resources also includes energy-
efficient architecture and demand side analysis: what types o f services do communities
demand andwhat is their willingness to pay for it.

Unlike fossil fuels, renewable energy sources are generally equitably distributed; almost
every community has some renewable resource available. In Afghanistan, renewable
resources are known to be good, but have not yet been systematically quantified. Rural
communities have been traditionally exploiting renewable natural resources, such as
water, to produce energy, both mechanical and electrical. More efficient and durable
technologies to harness renewable energy sources into electric power require relatively
high investments, especially wind and photo voltaic. Therefore, to foster rural
electrification and prevent excessive rural divide, consequent rampant urbanization, and
general discontent, which hamper the stability and security o f the Country, rural
communities inAfghanistan need to access appropriate technologies at reasonable cost.




                                             100

The Power Sector inNSP

The NSP is the rural development program in Afghanistan with the most extensive
outreach; the program aims at achieving total coverage o f the Country upon completion
o f its second phase, in 2009. At the current stage 15% o f the subprojects completed or
under implementation is inthe power sector, so distributed:

                           Sector                   Percentage
             Diesel generators                          71%
            I MHP                             I          18%           I
              Photo voltaic                              7%
              Power line extension                       3%

The power line extension i s implemented from nearby hubs, and i s generally demanded
byperi-urbancommunities.

Diesel generators are very expensive to operate and maintain, the rural communities have
difficulties to provide fuel regularly and undertake maintenance and replacement o f
broken parts. This has lead to a temporary suspension o f approval o f diesel generator
projects until a suitable strategy for implementation, which assures sustainability o f the
project, can be found. However, with the current crises affecting oil producing countries
the cost o f fuels is likely to keep increasing, becoming more and more unaffordable to
poor, rural communities.

As the demand for electricity remains high among remote communities the focus has
been shifted on renewable energy technologies and communities opt principally for micro
hydro power plants. Solar or wind power solutions are chosen as alterative when the
water available is scarce or the topography is unsuitable. Solar power plants remain very
expensive; all equipments are not produced in Afghanistan and have to be imported,
therefore spare parts and technical assistance are not readily available to the communities.
Nevertheless the OC has been providing early training for Facilitating Partners, MRRD
and OC engineers working in areas where the demand for solar power is higher. In the
second phase the NSP management team will continue supporting the development o f the
sector with appropriate technical assistance.

The emphasis however will remain on Micro Hydro Power as flowing water represents
the most available and exploitable energy source o f the mountainous areas o f central and
northern Afghanistan.

Micro Hydro Power inNSP

The demand for MHP currently exceeds the capacity o f the local MHP service providers
in Afghanistan. Since the start of NSP >450 Micro Hydro Power (MHP) projects are
either under construction or have been built throughout 22 provinces. Prior to the launch
o f NSP, most o f the MHP projects built in the country were in 4 0 kW size range and
relied very heavily on self help contributions from the villagers. Subsequently they were
obliged to adopt low level / low cost technology and limit the size o f their installations


                                             101

accordingly. Essentially they were an extension o f the traditional water mill which has
been successfully built in Afghan villages for many years. The sudden availability o f
larger amounts o f cash inthe form o fblock grants provided through NSP, however, mean
that where the water resources suffice, larger projects can be financed compared to earlier
times. The demand for rural electrification infrastructure amongst the rural communities
i s clearly of very highpriority therefore the number o f MHP projects requested is likely
to increase from the current figure.

The quality and performance o f many o f the MHP projects implemented under NSP is
being undermined by fundamental mistakes in the design and implementation o f the
subprojects. This situation i s compounded by the current inability o f NSP to identify
these shortfalls early enough and initiate appropriate preventative action. This condition
highlights a lack of technical know-how prevalent at all levels o f the project
implementation cycle. It also indicates that the current verification mechanisms existing
withinNSP for approval o fMHPproject proposals is inadequate.

Requirements to strengthen MHP projects and develop capacity duringNSP I1

For sustainable implementation o f MHP projects, it i s essential that site surveys, detailed
design,     selection  o f  suitable   contractorshuppliers,     construction   supervision,
commissioning and post operation monitoring & evaluation i s effectively carried out.
Unfortunately these demands currently exceed significantly the local engineering
capacity o f machinery manufacturers, facilitating partner (FP) engineers and Oversight
Consultant (OC) engineers. This has unfortunately lead to many o f the MHP projects not
fulfilling the minimumtechnical standards required to ensure their optimum performance
andlongterm sustainability.

Provision o f the required technical assistance measures to address these shortfalls is
therefore critical to ensuring the future success o f MHP projects implemented under the
second phase o fNSP.

The MHP Unit within the TSD

Currently the OC engineering department possesses only 1 MHP engineer which i s
inadequate for strengthening and expanding the sector. In the foreseen NSP I1
management structure, the Technical Support Department will have to expand these
resources to create Micro Hydro Power unit integrated within the department. This unit
will comprise a full time Micro Hydro Power expert supported by a 2-4 local MHP
engineers.

The MHP unitwill undertake the following tasks:
     Elaborate on the existing standard training modules addressing the following main
     elements o fMHP project development and implementation.
     (i) TrainingandsupervisionofFPandNSPManagementengineersinconducting
             MHP site surveys (field measurements andrelevant site data collection).




                                             102

(ii) Training and supervision of FP andNSP Management engineers inthe
       preparationo f MHP project proposals adopting suitable standardformats
(iii) Training and supervision of FP and NSP Management engineers inthe
       preparation and introduction o f sustainable MHP institutional set-ups
       addressing all aspects o f project operation and management. This will
       encompass issues relevant to additional productive end use o f energy in
       addition to domestic requirements (lighting)

(iv)   Training and supervision o f NSP Management engineers in evaluating and
       verifying MHP project proposals received from FP's.
Provide and facilitate technical backstopping and training o f local turbine/MHP
equipment manufacturers in close cooperation with other development organizations
andNGO's engagedinthis sector.
Carry out periodic monitoring o f MHP project implementation in the respective
provinces.
Develop an appropriate mechanism to channel MHP site data relevant for projects
exceeding the size limitation o f NSP (currently 25 kW) to other potential programs
active in the MHP sector, close liaison with MRRD's Rural Electrification
Department will be developed.
Establish a proper data base management system for MHP projects implemented
under NSP to function as a monitoring and quality control function. This could be
expanded to include non-NSP projects in accordance with the requirements o f MRRD
andthe Ministryo fEnergy andWater Resources.
Establish links and foster cooperation with the Ministry o f Energy & Water
Resources exploiting the potential for synergies with other programs where
appropriate.
Provide policy advice to the MRRD Rural Electrification Department to be
established specifically with the task o f coordinating small community based RE
projects falling outside the jurisdiction o fthe Ministry o f Energy & Water Resources.
Develop and disseminate suitable media illustrating "best practices" relevant to the
sustainable implementation o f MHP projects to all project stakeholders. This would
encompass bothtechnical and institutional aspects o fMHP development
Revise all relevant technical literature and formats applied in the preparation,
implementation andmonitoring o f all MHP projects implementedwithin NSP.




                                          103

I   f


 T   T




a
I         LE

E

T




s


c
?




5
3




2
3




I
I
!
EE
ri
;i



b
i

                  APPENDIX 10: RISKASSESSMENT AND CONTROL



1. Countryand Sector Levelrisks

Afghanistan continue to remain a high risk country, although there have been notable
improvements over the past years in its macro economic framework, sector policies and
institutions, political stability, and governance. Afghanistan's political transformation,
implemented according to BonnAgreement was successfully concluded inlate 2005 As a
result o f this process, Country has developed a Constitution, conducted nation wide
elections for a President and elected a Parliament and Provincial Councils.            . The Bonn
process has resulted inthe transformation from an Interim Administration to the creation
o f a representative Government.

The President and his Cabinet formally approved the Interim Afghanistan National
Development Strategy in January 2006 which was complemented by the Afghanistan
Compact between Afghanistan and its international development partners includingIDA
andwas discussed bydonors at London conference inJanuary2006 and endorsed byUN
Security Council. It sets out detailed outcomes, benchmarks andtimelines inthe areas o f
security, governance, rule of law, humanrights, and economic and social development.

However, notwithstanding these achievements, the normalization o f political culture and
stability still has a log way to go. Four years into Afghanistan's reconstruction process,
many challenges and risks to building institutions, sustaining growth, and reducing
poverty remain.

Despite these challenges and risks, the overall macroeconomic framework appears
reasonably sound and illustrates the Government's                 commitment to establishing
conditions for lasting growth.l5 However, the challenges to macro economic framework
are numerous including: (i)       enhancing national security and stability;         (ii)disarming
illegally armed groups; (iii)    deepening political normalization process; (iv) phasing out
the opium economy; (iv) protecting the vulnerable segments o f the population against
detachment from the government             and shocks stemming from drought and natural
disasters etc. The Government is addressing these challenges through various fronts and
programs with the support o f external assistance o f donors. The ongoing NSP and the
proposed NSP I1 repeater operation should be seen as a complementary government
program to overcome these challenges.

2. GovernmentCommitment

The Government I-ANDs reflects government's strong commitment to rural areas and
endorses investments in rural development. NSP is its main vehicle to achieve most o f
the rural development sector benchmarks o f the I-ANDs. The NSP i s considered the


l5 Joint StaffAdvisory Note onAfghanistan InterimPoverty Reduction Strategy Paper, IDA and IMF, May
15,2006.


                                                108

flagship program o f the Government by major stakeholders supporting the state building
anddevelopment program o fthe country. It is the main instrument o f the government to
reach the rural population and deliver the much needed village level social and physical
infrastructure services. It has helped creating the Government's visibility in the rural
areas, contributed the perception that the government is taking responsibility for its
citizens, particularly in remote rural areas, and has been welcomed and accepted by the
people. The MRRD has made a commitment to bring the NSP to all rural communities
within the next three years and there is a strong demand for the program from those
communities which are yet to be reached. Thus despite the high country level risk, the
implementation o f the NSP isjustifiable. As part o f the national government, MRRD has
the political will andcommitment to roll out all areas o f the country.

3. OperationSpecificRisks

The ongoing NSP commenced in 2003 is a follow on operation o f the IDA financed
Emergency Community Empowerment and Public Works Project (P077533, Grant
number H0090). The proposedproject is an emergency repeater operation o fthe ongoing
NSP.     Both o f the preceding projects were high risk and high reward operations. The
start up o f the NSP three years ago characterized a period where there was political
instability in the country, absence o f a democratically elected government, uncertain
security situation, weak institutional infrastructure, poor staff skills and capacity o f the
MFND, difficult accessibility to rural areas and weak communication infrastructure of
the country.     These factors imposed severe risks and constraints for the ongoing
operation. However, after the three years o f its operation, institutional infrastructure and
staff skills o f the MRRD have reasonably improved, and financial management,
procurement administration and M&E systems and procedures for the oversight o f the
project have established andenforced.

As development objectives o f the NSPII are the same as o f the NSP, implementation
structure and arrangements do not deviate significantly from the existing ones, and that
field tested operation manuals, operational and fiduciary supervision and monitoring
arrangements are already in place, the NSP I1will also continue to be a high-risk and
high-reward operation. It would enable the Government to roll out the program to provide
development benefits to communities that are not coveredunder the ongoing program.

4. ProgramPlanningRisks

The planning o f the NSP I1 implementation will be difficult in the districts and
communities where accessibility i s restricted.     One o f the main shortcomings o f the
country i s complete lack o f a village inventory and the basic socio economic census o f
the communities. In addition, there i s a continuous return and exodus o f war affected
people in and out o f the villages. These factors may pose a number o f risks for program
planning: the absence o fvillage level socio economic data mayresult is skewedtargeting
andselectiono fvillages; dynamic demographic natureo fthe villages maymake the CDC
being not representative and assessment o f number o f potential communities in a village
cumbersome and difficult; as the block grant disbursements are made on the basis ofUS$



                                             109

200/ family, there is a risk that some villages may receive greater and some lesser than
their due block grant fund allocation. Indistricts and villages o f low to moderate security
risks, the program planningand targetingrisk is mitigated through a field verification o f
the number o f communities prior to the allocation o fblock grants. Additionally, the NSP
operation manual stipulates satisfactory measures to account for the returnees and
displaced population inthe block grant allocation and ensure election if a representative
CDC. However, with these deficiencies, it will be difficult to carry out proper planning
o f the NSP I1in security affected areas. If done there would be substantive risks o f
program planning, targeting villages and allocating block grants in a transparent and
accurate manner.

5. Fiscal AffordabilityRisk

The Ministry o f Finance o f the Government i s committed to expand the program to cover
the entire country over the next three years but requested only US$120 million as IDA
contribution to achieve the targets anticipating complementary funds fiom the donors.
However, there is a substantive risk that the full co-financing amount required to achieve
the expected outputs and outcomes may not be fully materialized. The estimated cost o f
the program is US$525 million o f which IDA contribution i s only US$ 120 million
(23%), while the remaining funds are expected from ARTF donors (US$ 244.4 million,
46%), JSDF (US$ 307 million, 6%) and other new donors (US$ 130.7 million, 25%). At
the project negotiations there is a financing gap o f US$ 405 million or 77% o f the
estimated cost o f the project. Although ARTF donors and JSDF are committed for the
NSP I1and will continue to provide co-financing, and a few new donors are showing
interest to join the NSP, the actual amount o f funds that will be available over the three
years i s uncertain at the time o f project appraisal. As a mitigation measure, the NSP I1
management will include an international External Relations Specialist whose primary
task will be raising co-finances for the NSP I1and ensuring the adequate and timely
availability o f funds through close coordination and collaboration with existing and
potential donors, Ministry o f Finance and the ARTF manager and Task Team o f the
World Bank. The Financing Agreement includes legal remedies to mitigate the risks
arising out o fpotential shortfalls o f funds to implement the program.

6. ProcurementRisks

The overall procurement risk o f the NSP i s moderate and remains to be same in the
NSPII. Several safeguards have been incorporated to the design o f the NSP I1to control
this risk At the MRRD level, the procurement administration will be overseen by an
international procurement specialist in the first year. Bank's international procurement
specialist and his team based in Kabul will continue to supervise the procurement
administration closely and carry out post-procurement reviews periodically. However,
the project includes a large number o f community level subprojects that are widely
spread over remote villages and will be procured the communities. Consequently, there
i s a moderate risk that communities may not adhere to the agreed community practices
and Bank would be unable to carry out procurement reviews o f a reasonable sample o f
subprojects as ina normal investment project. But NSP operation manual provides step
by step procedures to be followed by the communities. The project will continue to


                                               110

provide training on community procurement to FP staff and CDCs, particularly to
members o f the procurement subcommittees o f CDCs. To mitigate the risk further, the
NSP I1includes institutional arrangements to carry out social auditing o f procurements at
the CDC level to enforce additional checks and balances and transparency in the
community procurement process. The information related to procurement under block
grants will be disseminated to the public inthe notice boards o f the village mosque, CDC
office and NSP website. In addition the information i s disclosed at large gathering o f
villagers at meetings as per the current practice under NSP.

7. FinancialManagement Risks

Project financial management risk and associated perceived corruption risk are rated
"high". There are several measures incorporated to the project designto control the risks
including: outsourcing o f financial management and Block Grant disbursement
management to an international Management Support Consultant firm; minimized use o f
the designated account; direct payment to Consultants to the extent possible; supervision
o f procurement by an international procurement advisor; creation o f a Controller's unit
within the MRRD to carry out independent internal audits and facilitate external audits;
andtechnical and financial auditing o f the contracts o f Management Support Consultant
and24 FPs.

8. Safeguard Compliance Risks

The environmental and social safeguard compliance o f the ongoing NSP has been rated
unsatisfactory during last review mission and therefore is a highrisk. Although the NSP
operation manual includes clear guidelines and processes to comply with safeguards, the
unsatisfactory safeguard compliance i s consequent to absence o f designated safeguard
staff in the MRRD/OC project management structure. To mitigate the risk, the NSP I1
design includes provisions to hire a designated Safeguards Nodal Officer who will have
overall responsibility for overseeing the implementation o f the Environmental and Social
Safeguards Framework and Management Plan. He/she will be assisted by designated
staff inMRRD's provincial offices. Bank will provide orientation training to these staff
from time to time to improve their capacity to carry out social and safeguard measures.
Inaddition, training on environmental andsocial safeguard compliance will be addedto
the training curricula for FP staff and community members andnecessary training will be
provided to them bythe Safeguard Nodal officer an his staff.

9. Risksof Sustainability of CDCs

The Government believes that CDCs can play three important roles in the bigger picture
o f Afghanistan's longer-term development. First, CDC's for the first time provide the
central government with an effective means and interface to deliver basic services across
the entire country.       Second, CDC's could potentially carry out certain basic
administrative functions provided that they received a core block grant through the
government budget. Third, CDC's could be grouped to provide representative planning
bodies at the district level that would advise local government. These three options to a



                                             111

large extent hinge on the central government's vision for sub-national government and
administration. A more sustained role for CDC's would be equally compatible with
continued centralization or in a more deconcentrated system. With these fbture goals in
view, the Government has drafted a CDC by-law as an initial step to lay foundation
toward to nurture and formalize the CDCs.        The draft-by law needs to be approved by
the President and it i s expected the National Steering Committee chaired by the Vice
President would take the lead in processing the draft by-laws and follow up actions. In
the long runs, the MRRD expects to draft CDC constitution to be approved by the
Parliament to provide legal status to CDCs. Before Credit Effectiveness, the donors and
IDA would agree with the Government for a time bound action planto complete these
short-term and long-term tasks. External Donor Review Committee will closely monitor
the progress duringthe implementationphase.

IT should benoted the design o fNSP I1itselfincludes several measures to mitigate these
sustainability risks. The CDD nature o f the project makes the decision making, planning
and implementation o f the subprojects using the block grant investments more
transparent, accountable and equitable. Democratic election o f the CDCs supported with
coaching, mentoring and trainingof the CDC members are key measures that help lay the
foundation for sustainable decision making and participation o f the rural communities in
village level matters. The leadership andparticipation o f the CDCs inthe implementation
o f the subprojects improve the village level ownership o f the physical assets created and
rehabilitated by the project and enhance the chance o f sustainable post project O&M
arrangements.

10. Risks of Sustainability of Subprojects

The NSP implementation revealed several risks on the sustainability o f the subprojects
mainly due to deficiencies in construction quality o f the subprojects and shortcomings in
the design o f rural electrification subprojects. Deficiencies in construction quality arose
consequent to lack o f capacity o f technical staff and quality testing facilities, and wide
geographic spread and remoteness o f villages that demanded heavy technical supervision
inputs. Adequate measures have been incorporated in the NSP I1to mitigate this risk
including: providing an international micro-hydro power expert within the Technical
Department to guide and review designs o f rural electrification subprojects; preparing a
hands-on basic construction management manual in local languages to be used by the
field staff and communities; training o f community members and field staff on O&M and
construction using the manual as the primary reference source; procuring simple
construction quality control equipment and deploying those in provinces; exposure and
on-the job overseas and in-country training to MRRD and FP supervisory staff. Details
are inAppendix 8.

11. Security Risks

The NSP has been implemented under severe security risks in some areas. Despite the
security risks, the implementation o f the NSP proved that a community driven
development operation such as NSP could be effectively implemented. However, over



                                             112

the past months, the security situation has seriously deteriorated in some parts o f the
country, particularly inthe South, to the extent that the project operation inthose districts
will not only be difficult but also highly risky in many respects. Also the NSP has
remained a high-risk, but high visibility and high reward project achieving its
development objectives.

Marked presence o f the organized anti-government elements and have resulted in
increased violence in some districts/provinces. Consequently, the accessibility o f the
project facilitating partners and the government staff to some provinces/disticts to plan,
implement and monitor the project is severely restricted.         As o f Sep 18, 2006, the
ongoing NSP has been suspended fully in 26 districts and partially in 4 districts in 13
provinces out o f the 34 provinces o f the country. This has caused the suspension o f
community mobilization and subproject implementation in nearly 1,536 communities,
which i s about 9 percent o f the 17,000 communities reached by the project to date.      In
those districts the security situation remains volatile andunpredictable and the number o f
districts affected by the security threats appears to be on the increasing side.        It is
impossible to roll out the program inthose districts unless the security situation becomes
easedoff.

The restricted accessibility to the communities in the insecure villages and
districts/provinces would pose a number o f operational, fiduciary andreputation risks and
has direct negative consequences for achieving the development effectiveness and
outcomes.

Any compromise on the quality o f facilitation will jeopardize the development
effectiveness o f the project in high risk areas. The escalating security situation would
seriously erode the sustainability o f CDCs and subprojects in some communities unless
adequate community facilitation, engineering and fiduciary supervision and monitoring
can be carried out. In the absence o f adequate planning, supervision and monitoring,
there i s also a reputational risk to government and donors that that the project would
create avenues or corruption and funds can be leaked to anti-government elements who
are inconflict with democratically elected government financing the project.   .

Therefore, it has been agreed that the project, through the National Steering Committee,
will obtain guidance for program planning and implementation in the high risk areas,
particularly for the roll out to new communities and new districts. If the accessibility o f
these villages and districts are restricted, the program roll out to new communities and
new districts will not take place until the Steering Committee recommends that the
security situation has eased off, the concerned Communities are willing to receive the
services o f FPs, the concerned FP and the staff o f the Regional staff are willing to travel
to those areas.

However, in the case o f communities in high risk areas who have been partially
mobilized and already included in the ongoing FP contracts, a different distance based
approach will be utilized. Ifin any village, ifthe CDC is already inplace, CDP has been
developed and subprojects have been approved by the OC, then the CDC will allow to



                                             113

proceed with the implementation. In those instances, the sub-project implementation
would rely on trusted and respected independent community members, who could verify
the use of block grant funds and the status of implementation. In addition, the project
implementation will rely upon the monitoring by community level procurement and
financial management sub-committees. However, technically complex sub-proj ects, such
as micro-hydro power, would not be implemented in the absence o f proper technical
support.

Based on the initial implementation experience with this proxy oversight are monitoring
arrangements, other possible alternative implementation approaches would be explored
later duringthe implementationphase.




                                          114

                ANNEX 11: THE OPIUM PROBLEMAND THE NSPI1


1. The OpiumProblem

Reducing opium production is one o f the greatest challenges facing Afghanistan. Opium
i s central to the macroeconomy, contributing one third o f GDP and significant support for
aggregate demand and the balance o f payments. Inthe rural economy, opium is a key
livelihoods coping strategy for as many as 350,000 farm families, most o f them poor. In
the area o f security, opium is helling warlordism and terrorism, and ingovernance the
illegal economy is capturing or undermining state buildingefforts at all levels.

2. Governmentstrategy

Government's strategy to reduce and ultimately eliminate opium from the Afghan
economy comprises essentially three elements. The first i s to improve governance and
the rule o f law, strengthening public institutions and mechanisms to control drugs,
together with the development o f responsible governance structures and the "social
contract" at all levels from the community up. The second is to raise the general level o f
economic activity and services, improving living standards and providing social
protection. The third i s to emphasize indevelopment programs specific components that
can have a significant impact on farmer behavior, with a focus on poorer farmers,
laborers, andmore vulnerable areas.

3. World Bankapproach

Withthis background, the World Bank's working approach to the opium problem is:

         to factor considerations o f the opium problem into analysis and dialogue at all
         levels, including the macroeconomic dimension
     0   to support and engage in analytical work on the development dimensions o f the
         drugprobleminAfghanistanandassociated options for addressing it
         to help support the development elements o f the Government's strategy through
         Bank-financed programs as appropriate
     0   to ensure that the activities supported by the Bank do not inadvertently contribute
         inanyway to the opium economy

The Bank screens all its activities in Afghanistan, both operations and analytical and
advisory work, to ensure that counter-narcotics aspects are treated consistently and in a
way that can make the maximum contribution to the national effort against drugs.

4. NSPcontributionto the counter-narcoticsstrategy

Given the scale and nature o f the opium problem inAfghanistan it i s recognized that the
illicit drugs issue cannot be dealt with in isolation from the wider state building and



                                              115

development process. While no single project or program can address the myriad
motivations and factors that influence opium poppy cultivation, the elimination o f opium
production will be dependent on the achievement o f broader development goals,
including establishing the institutions required for formal governance andpromoting civil
society, strengthening social protection mechanisms, as well as encouraging licit on-farm,
o f f - f m and non-fam income opportunities. The NSP is expected to contribute
significantly to manyo f those broader goals, ifnot all.

At the same time, however, the there is the potential risk o f promoting conditions that
could benefit the illicit economy. The implementation arrangements and the design o f the
program for the phase I1have tried to keep these aspects in consideration, and a series o f
mitigation measures have been discussed and agreed with the government to avoid
potential negative effects.

Potential benefits

The NSP aims to lay the'foundations for a strengthening o f community level governance,
and to support community-managed subprojects comprising reconstruction and
development that improve access o f rural communities to social and productive
infrastructure and services. Reaching out to virtually all villages, the NSP will positively
contribute to the counter-narcotics strategy:


     0    By contributing to the governance agenda, establishing democratically elected
          councils, promoting a culture o f conflict resolutions, and mitigating the power
          structures at the local level;


      0   Through the community planning and the rehabilitation and building o f essential
          rural infrastructure, the NSP maximizes synergies with other income oriented
          projects to deliver broad livelihoods impacts at the community and household
          level;

          By aiming to reach out to virtually every village in the country, the NSP is the
          most effective instrument currently available to promote the support o f the
          government in the rural areas, where most o f the poor live, and particularly in
          remote areas where opium poppy cultivation is becoming increasingly
          concentrated. The program positively develop responsible reciprocity between
          rural communities and the state. The spread o f efficient andresponsive delivery o f
          infrastructure and services, and the development of counterpart community
          structures like the CDCs, increase respect for the Government's development
          capability, build responsible local community social capital, and open paths for
          dialogue on the drugs issue.


      0   The wealth o f data collected through the NSP allows to effectively contribute in
          the understanding o f the dynamics in rural areas, and to potentially elaborate
          information that is not available through regular statistics, including the trends o f
          the opium economy.



                                              116

       The poorest will benefit duringthe construction period from increased wage labor
       opportunities, and also from labor opportunities o f more intensified production
       after rehabilitation (although most employment will probably be for family labor)

       Improved rural roads, culverts, bridges and other infrastructure will help reduce
       the isolation o f the most remote villages, which inturn will make more apparent
       illicit cultivations.

Potentialrisks

At the same time, the very samebenefits promotedbythe program canposeindirect risks
to a successful implementation o f a counter-narcotics agenda:

       There is some risk that a move out o f opium on NSP areas could reduce share
       cropping opportunities, labor requirements and wage rates, reducing economic
       opportunities for poorer and landless farmers. This however should be offset by
       other    economic     opportunities   promoted   through    community     planning,
       infrastructure investments, and synergies with other local projects.

    0  Opiumproducing areas are also the most insecure, and where the NSP will have
       to consider alternative implementation strategies. There is a risk that ifmonitoring
       inthese areas due to the security conditions is not sufficiently close, block grants
       could be appropriatedor their use controlled by druglords.
Agreed measures:

A number o f measures have been agreed to maximize positive impact or mitigate risks
from a counter-narcotics perspective. These are expected to become part o f the day-to
day operations, to be reflected in the operational manual, and to be monitored during
regular supervision.


    0  Link CDCs mobilization to support agriculture services (extension, inputs,
       markets) that will allow farmers to adopt a non-opium cropping pattern. While
       subprojects financed under the NSP are public-good oriented, the mobilization
       process can easily incorporate elements o f additional support services wherever
       they are possible inthe community plan.

    0  Linkirrigation communityprojectswithother operations. Farmers' incomes could
       be much more rapidly improved if more reliable water supplies formed part o f a
       "package" of measures to improve productivity and profitability through other
       projects, including the Bank financed HLP (Horticulture and Livestock Project,
       P098256). Particularly important are the advice, planting materials and market
       outlets to allow farmers to switch to higher value crops.

    0  Promote access to credit for licit cropping. NSP should: (i) partnerships in
                                                                      form
       each area with the MAAH extension services and with any NGO or other donor



                                             117

projects that can provide support services; (ii) with MAAHwhether there
                                                discuss
would be value added in a national framework agreement to cooperate on the
provision o f farmer support services; and (ii) form an alliance with MISFA and
the M F I s at provincial and local level to broaden access to production and
equipment credit andto promote development o f agro-processing.

Maximize the use o f direct contracting and o f communitv labor, and timingworks
inpoppy producing or poppy vulnerable areas at times ofpeak labor demand for
poppy. For example, works inNangarhar and Helmand might be concentrated in
the period February to May, and those in Badakhshan in M a y to July
(corresponding with harvest time).

Any activity that supports drugcultivation andprocessing is on the NSP Negative
List (NSP OM section 1). The activity, most likely to support poppy cultivation, i s
irrigation rehabilitation and development inpoppy-producing regions. Ifa CDC in
a poppy-producing area proposes an irrigation subproject, the optiodrisk that the
water is used for poppy cultivation must be discussed; andthe CDC must confirm
that drug crop cultivation will not take place in the area benefiting from the
project. This agreement must be documented in the Tripartite Agreement
(Disbursement Form 8) and Subproject Proposal (Disbursement Form 7).

Use the NSP communication unit (PCU) to deliver messages aligned with the
counter-narcotics strategv. The NSP communication unit reaches out to all rural
Afghanistan through radio programs and other means. The NSP/PCU should
coordinate with the Ministry o f Counter-Narcotics to identify the key messages to
be incorporated intheir communications to the rural communities.

Propose components o f the NSP program for Counter-narcotics Trust Fund
financing: at the 2006 London Conference, a total o f $80 million was pledged to
the Counter-narcotics Trust Fund (CNTF) by a range o f donors. The CNTF
criteria give priority to projects in opium producing or vulnerable areas, and to
projects which support the "mainstreaming" o f counter narcotics objectives within
institutions and programs. CNTF financing can provide extra resources and set a
positive the example. Financing a major national program like the NSP would
help CNTF to focus on mainstreamprograms with broad impact rather than on the
kindo fmyriadmicro-projects considered up to now.




                                    118

                 APPENDIX 12: COMMUNICATIONS STRATEGY


1. Introduction

Since September 2003,         the Oversight Consultant (OC)         established a Public
Communication Unit (PCU) to raise awareness about the program's objectives and to
communicate the program's success, primarilyto Afghans. The execution o f this strategy
will fiather assist the NSP and MRRDinachieving their objectives and inensuring that
the communication and information function properly adapts to the evolving needs o f the
program.

This strategy is consistent with, and aims to achieve objectives o f the government and its
commitments as expressed in the Interim Afghan National Development Strategy (I-
ANDs). This strategy was developed in consultation with representatives o f MRRD,
FacilitatingPartners (FPs), the CDCs andthe UN,andthe World Bank.

2. Rationale

At the heart o f the National Solidarity Program is a human growth, empowerment and
local governance process, based to a great extent on social, economic and political
change. This change is dependent on several factors including the systematic access to
knowledge and information by all stakeholders. Hence, strategic communication provides
NSP I1 management with supporting tools for the achievement o f the program
development objectives;     it helps facilitate a common understanding among all
participants, therefore creating a base for concerted action.

Undertaking a carefully considered communication program, to build public consensus
and ownership o f the program remains an important element for the success o f the NSP
11.To the government's credit, significant communication activities are already ongoing
at national level. The government capacity to engage in communication during the first
three years o f NSP implementation has been admirable. As the program moves into its
second phase it's important to ensure that communication activities carried out by PCU
are sustained as a two -way communication mechanism that includes adequate feedback
from key constituencies.

3. Background

As o f December 2005, PCU produced about 4 hours o f broadcast TV news, 15 hours of
documentaries, 100 hours o f radio broadcast divided in features stories, news and soap
opera episodes. It produced about 75,000 print media products (posters, brochures
leaflets, poem books and news articles), eight exposure trips, and one national CDC
congress. The total cost estimated o f the PCU i s about US$1.2 million a year. P C U
current activities include daily five-minute radio and television news bulletins, a daily
radio drama "Let's BuildOur Village," occasional TV documentaries and features, and a




                                             119

variety o f print products promoting NSP and the radio drama.            Most products are
publishedinDari, Pashto and English.

4. Environmentanalysis

The NSP public environment i s varied and complex. Each audience receives information
indifferent ways andviewsthe activities ofNSP through different lenses:

Afghan population. The Afghan population is widely dispersed and predominantly
rural, with a rich and varied culture.      Communication activities must consider local
language, cultural, religious, tribal, and gender norms. Inbroad terms, 50% speak Dari
and35% speak Pashto. Ethnic groups include Pashtun (42%), Tajik (27%), Hazara (9%),
Uzbec (9%), Aimak (4%), Turkmen (3%) and Baloch (2%). The predominant religions
are Sunni Muslim (84%) and Shi'a Muslim (15%). News travels most often by word o f
mouth inperson and often at the mosques, or by cell phone, significantly aided by radio
news programming. Radio ownership is estimated at 83% and television ownership at
37%. Television access i s increasing as electrification branches out from the major cities
and i s quite popular, but power i s usually limited to a few hours a day.            Internet
availability i s estimated at 6%. Newspapers are rarely available outside o f provincial and
district capitals andmost are perceived to have political bias. The national literacy rate i s
estimated at 37% for men and 10% for women, lower in rural Afghanistan. Afghans
prefer to listen to dramas ahead o f other programming options. Afghanwomen have less
access to radio than men, even if the radio is within their own homes, thus half o f the
population have little to no access to government communication. More detailed media
analysis i s available in the publication Afghan Media - Three Years After produced in
May 2005 by USAID with research by Altai consulting. Surveys indicate a high level o f
awareness and interest in the radio programs. Media reports and personal commentary
indicate that those in locations o f renewed violence have little trust inthe GIRA's ability
to serve their needs, due not only to the violence but also the low rate o f reconstruction.

Community Development Councils.Members of the CDCs receive the bulk o f NSP
information from the contracted FPs. Like other Afghans they may listen to NSP news
anddrama broadcasts. Some CDC members have conducted exchanges with other CDCs
to share experiences. FPs report that CDCs view the NSP as a government-led program,
and are appreciative o f the structure, organization and focus it has given to their
communities, and believe funding delays are a government problem to solve. Several
communities use the council to focus volunteer work and to solve local issues. The NSP
projects are a tool through which they can learn the value o f elections, consultations, and
project and money management. CDCs offer a mechanism o f consultation and program
delivery at the village level. CDCs have engaged district and provincial government
representatives to address village issues, but are hampered by the belief that those higher
levels CDCs are just part o f a program, and not a form o f governance. Some CDCs are
losing trust ingovernment to satisfy their needs particularly inthe less secure areas o f the
country, due inpart to the disbursement delays andthe low rate o f reconstruction.




                                             120

Facilitating Partners (FPs). The MRRD has contracted twenty-four national and
international Non-Governmental Organizations and 1UNAgency (UN-Habitat) to work
with communities to implement NSP. FP agencies employ Afghans to work directly with
the community, and typically they are from the geographical area they support. FPs
communicate strongly within their organizations, primarily over the phone.                FPs
communicate with their CDCs primarily in person, and have often started the
communication process through existing local leaders.           FPs at the national level
participate in a monthly NSP-led meeting, yet saw the need to elect a representative
group to bringtheir concerns to the NSP. FPs also participate in a weekly meeting at the
provincial level with the OC andMRRD. An NSP PCU survey indicates that FPs believe
the current NSP PCUproducts are valuable tools to communicate NSP principles to rural
communities, particularly when FPs are not able to be in location for security reasons.
They encourage the development o f TV programs, and strongly recommend the
continued use o f radio programming to reach all audiences. FPs stress the need for all
messaging to be inline with the principles o f NSP, MRRD and the ANDs, and to ensure
the drama is in tune with the culture; otherwise, the people will tune out.            FPs are
concerned that the governance value o f the NSP is lost inthe focus on project targets, and
that project quality standards demanded by the international community are not realistic,
and impose unnecessary delays that affect community governance development.

International community. The international community receives the bulk o f its
information from English-language media via the internet, TV and print coverage in
Afghanistan, and through briefings at international conferences.          The international
community sees the NSP as a success yet remain concerned about funding and
disbursement transparency and accountability. The website front pages o f most
international aid agencies indicate that Afghanistan aid is not at the top o f their global aid
agenda. Specific audiences the NSP must consider include Afghan embassies o f donor
countries, the World Bank,the UNDP andNATO.

Media. National media are concentrated in Kabul, with radio and print agencies in all
provinces. Television has a strong broadcast presence inmost urbancenters and there are
many print agencies in Kabul. Many national private radio and television agencies air
NSP products for free as they are professionally produced and are provided consistently.
NSP pays the government-owned Radio and Television Afghanistan (RTA) to air its
products. NSP should also consider relationshipswith BBC (local language) andborder-
country media who broadcasts reach into Afghanistan. Media generally have few
resources and little training; however, they are steadily buildingtheir industry. They are
skeptical o f government communication, having been saturated with propaganda in the
past. Reporters receive information best in person from local authority figures and by
cell phone. Foreign media representatives inAfghanistan are generally aware o fNSP and
its successes but do not track its efforts. Media mainly cover security and corruption
issues, and have reported on the decline in international funding for reconstruction in
Afghanistan. The presence o f foreign media in Kabul i s steadily declining; however,
they are increasinglyhiringlocalAfghansjournalists to feed news to their agencies.




                                            121

Government Ministries. The Second Vice-president chairs an inter-ministerial steering
committee on NSP, established for policy advice and coordination comprising several
ministries. Public communication on NSP are not coordinated through this committee.
Ministries compete for resources allocated to MRRD and NSP, and view NSP as a
project-focused entity. Valuable collaborative work is taking place with the ministries o f
Health and Education.     Other key ministries should include Agriculture, Energy and
Water andthe Ministryo fthe Interior.

MRRD. The MRRD has contracted the German Technical Cooperation Corporation
(GTZ) to provide NSP programmed oversight, which established the NSP PCU. MRRD
also has a communication unit at the MRRD level that works inthe same facility as NSP
PCU, but does not coordinate activities, messaging or resources. There is no formalized
internal information program at MRRD.Regular meetings have been established to foster
two-way communication and conferences are every three months to bring provincial
representatives to Kabul for discussions. Policies are also communicated by e-mail and
by post. Provincial RRDs conduct weekly meetings with the OC and the facilitating
partners. MRRD and OC offices are not always co-located.

5. Aim

The NSP I1communication strategy aims at improving the cost-efficiency and impact o f
the PCU activities. It i s based on the findings and recommendations provided by the
baseline assessment according to the following framework: (i)Communication to
enhance projects effectiveness and achieve the intended operational results, (ii)
Communication for education, learning and dissemination o f information to large
audiences, (iii)Communication for relationship and coalition building, social and
political mobilization, donors relations andinstitutional strengthening.

6. Objectives

The NSP I1communication objectives stem from the program operational needs as well
as the ANDs, the GIRA and MRRD:
(i)TobuildtrustandconfidenceintheGIRAandincreaseGIRAvisibilitythrough
      sustained support to Community Development Councils.
(ii)TouniteministriesbehindsharedsuccessesofCommunityDevelopmentCouncils.
(iii)To encourage continuedfinancial, human,andtechnical support for Community
      Development Councils.
(iv) To communicate the potential o f Community Development Councils as the first
      level o f governance.
(v) To create the conditions for awareness, interest, comprehension and acceptance of
      the instrumental role that women play incommunity growth anddevelopment.
(vi) To enhance projects effectiveness and achieve the intended operational results
      through the strategic use o f communication tools.



                                            122

7. Criticalassumptions

The role o f communication planning in NSP I1 has significantly broadened. While
ensuring that key messages about the program design and impacts are widely
disseminated and clearly understood remains an important aim, other factors such as
building trust, facilitating dialog among all stakeholders, donors and other key actors
have come to the forefront o f the NSP I1communication needs. This implies that the
objectives above will be achieved by setting up a two-way communication mechanism
that goes beyond informationdissemination.

During NSP I,PCU's communication focused primarily on information campaigns
following the Information, Education and Communication (IEC) 16 approach. NSP I1
communication strategy adds a Development Communication (Devcom) 17 , an
institutional strengthening18 and an advocacy19 approach to the existing IEC model.
This array of communication approaches, supported by a solid M&E component will
ensure that PCU communication function is strategic, geared to operational goals,
coherent andinline with the broader ANDs andMRRDobjectives.

8. Key Messages

Messages should be regularly reviewed to ensure consistency with the MRRD strategic
plan and supporting programs. These messages will be interpreted into Dari andPashto to
reflect cultural nuances and sensitivities yet remain consistent in meaning. These
messages will only be effective as long as they are true and supportedby action.

     0    Through the Community Development Councils, the people of Afghanistan
          are cultivating a healthy Afghanistan throughout Afghanistan according to
          their sharedvision, values, anddemocratically-deteninedpriorities.

          Community Development Councils are our first level of governance. By
          supporting the Community Development Council your voice rebuilds your
          village, reconstructs your province andunifies your nation.




16 This approach refers to a set activities aimed to disseminate information to large audiences. It is based
on the linear model o f transmission where the information is disseminated through a number o f media,
often identifiable with mass-media.
17Development Communication (Devcom) approach which looks at how to use communication tools to
enhance projects effectiveness and achieve the intended operational results (grassroots activities and
coordination withFPs)
18 The institutional strengthening component aims at supporting the information flow among key
institutional actors involved in the program, (inter ministerial committee, donors, MRRD central and
regional offices, implementing agencies, FPs) coordinating the management o f information system, while
supporting transparency and accountability.
19Advocacy i s intended as those activities aimed at promoting awareness of certain issues (CDCs as a
successful development model to be exploited) to support policy-malung either addressing themdirectly or
addressing the broader public opinion.


                                                    123

        The Governmentis reducingpovertyin Afghanistanthrough direct fundingto
       the Community Development Councils, in support o f the Afghanistan National
       Development Strategy.

    0  The success of the Community Development Councils is a success for the
       whole government.


    0  Ministry of Rural Rehabilitation and Development champions the
        participation and leadership of women. As women have nurtured our children
       to adulthood, so are women nurturingour villages to nationhood.

        The financialbooks of the CommunityDevelopmentCouncilsare open to the
       people o fAfghanistan, to government andto the international community.

9. Primaryaudiences

Audience A: InstitutionsDirectlyInvolvedin the Projectas Partners.All institutions
participating inNSP I1will be involved inthe communication program andprovided with
adequate and timely information to ensure good coordination and the sharing o f a clear
and comprehensive understanding. In addition to the MRRD, these institutions include:
the inter ministerial committee, the FPs and all other implementing agencies.

Audience B: General Public in Afghanistan. The majority of the citizens of
Afghanistan have heard about NSP and /or about the ongoing rural reconstruction and
rehabilitation process. On the one handthey pinmany hopes on it, but on the other hand
they are loosing confidence inthe government capacity to satisfy their needs, particularly
inthe less secure areas ofthe country.

Audience C: CDC members and project area residents. CDC members and project
area residents are those people who are resident in the villages that are directly or
indirectly involvedwith NSP I1projects.

Audience D:InternationalCommunity.The NSPI1is closely monitored and supported
by many bilateral and multilateral agencies. It is important to ensure transparency and
accountability, and to provide these institutions with timely and accurate information.

10. IntermediateAudiences

  0 Local authorities and localpower elite

     Development agencies, civil society associations and NGOs
They include: the development agencies working in Afghanistan, opinion leaders,
religious groups and community leaders. These institutions can provide valuable
information and feedback on project activities, and can be partners in the information
dissemination process.




                                             124

    Themass media.
Interaction with the mass media, (printed press, radio and TV) will be essential to reach
the general public and gain public support.

The NSP I1will establish a system ensuring that all the stakeholders share the same
information and knowledge, exchange their views, discuss the different aspects o f the
project and share a common understanding o f the project's objectives, and follow a
unifiedapproach to communication that allows them to disseminate uniformandcoherent
information;

Under NSP I1the PCU will regularly provide correct information to the general public
about the progress o f the NSP 11, its benefits and potential impacts, and the role o f the
different involved organizations (government, donors, contractors etc.). It will also
regularly gather concerns and suggestions from the general public for consideration by
decision-makers, and identify and address specific misinformation and misperceptions
concerning the NSP 11.

11. Key activities

The activities that follow will reach specific audiences to accomplish the objectives (see
also Annex A for details):

Internalcommunication. Strong internal communication will support operations, build
teamwork and a sense o f shared mission, and lead to consistent external communication.
Communication can include E-mail, Ministerial visits to national and field offices,
conferences and staff meetings. Most meetings should facilitate two-way communication,
and minutes should be taken so that timely action can follow. Meetings should facilitate
the input o f participants o f different languages, culture, gender and areas o f
responsibility.

Strategic government communication. As the                  GIRA develops      a strategic
communication capability, MRRDmust participate to ensure consistent government-wide
communication on NSP and other government activities and issues.                   Strategic
communication can include planning, presidential speeches, and ministerial visits to
foreign countries to educate them on the current success and hture potential o f the
community development councils.

News bulletins. PCU produces radio and TV news bulletins on NSP activities for
broadcasting by RTA and almost all private Afghan agencies. The PCU should also
negotiate broadcasting by border-country media agencies to better reach border rural
villages. Coverage should include the start or completion o f projects, election processes,
and wherever CDCs have demonstrated proactively and creativity in resolving local
issues. News bulletins should also explain funding delays and changes to project policy.
PCU should consider a weekly rather than a daily news bulletin and include other MRRD
program information-this would necessitate the migration o f news production capability
from the NSP to the MRRDlevel.


                                             125

Donor coordination and Public Relations: a selected candidate with excellent
interpersonal communication skills, sensitivity and good diplomatic manner in dealing
with international clients at all levels, good planning and organizational skills, should
lead all public relations activities, incoordination with the Executive Director's office for
fundraising.

MediaLiaison. MRRDrepresentatives with strong communication skills inDari,Pashto
and English should be identified, trained for media interviews on NSP, provide
interviews to national and foreign radio, television andprint agencies, andbe prepared to
respond to media queries.        Conversely, media agencies must know how to receive
information and conduct interviews about NSP andother MRRDprograms, activities and
issues.

Collaborative announcements.The MRRD and other ministries should be represented
at NSP events where there i s a shared interest.         Local events must include local
representatives.    When significant milestones are reached through NSP activities,
announcements should include comments from MRRD, ANDs and its partners with a
shared responsibility or involvement. Independent national and foreign media should be
invited to these events inaddition to coverage by the PCU.

Media analysis. MRRDrequires daily access to media monitoring o f Dari, Pashto, and
Englishradio, television and print news coverage about NSP and MRRD. Analysis o f
this coverage will assist in planning future communication activities, and in correcting
errors and inconsistencies.

Drama production. In response to Afghans' appreciation o f drama, the PCU has
developed a popular daily series Let's Build Our Village that has aired more than 200
radio episodes on government and private radio stations.         This drama i s a valuable
representation o f how CDCs should function. The drama must be guided by set themes
and messages consistent with the ANDs, the MRRD strategic plan and the NSP
Operating Manual, to be immediately confirmed in consultation with Facilitating
Partners, andreviewed annually to keep pace with progress inthe field.

Gender-focused communication. NSP communication products should have the
potential to reach all Afghans. PCUnews anddrama programs must be timed to air when
women will hear them. MRRDcommunication should work inconcert with the Ministry
o f Women's Affairs to find other effective mechanisms. O f note FPs do employ women
facilitators to support their work.

Web-based communication. Web-based communication will become under NSP I1the
centerpiece for disclosure and transparency o f the program at the central level. The
website www.nspafcshanistan.org with a link to www.mrrd.gov.af will include e-mails to
facilitating partners, blogs and discussion forums. The website will be used more
strategically as a communication tool between government and the donor community at
large, nationally and internationally. The website should be an interactive tool that allows



                                              126

seeing NSP I1achievements visually interms o f roll-out, CDC formed, and infrastructure
being built. It should also provide input/output and outcomes statistics and information
generated by NSP I1M I S department. Other information to be included in the website
includes the financial status (commitments, expenditures, and projections), sources of
finding, procurement contracts and status, implementation plan, operational manual,
technical manual, financial manual, Environmental and Social Management Framework,
contact information o f the NSP staff, FPs, donors, etc. A library section will include
technical and financial audit reports, post-reviews, impact evaluations, studies, maps and
in general any document relevant to the NSP. It will also make available the
communication material produced by the PCU such as pamphlets, newsletters,
photographs, movie clips, etc.

Newsletter. RatherthanpublishanNSP 11newsletter, NSP should continue to contribute
to the existing bi-monthly MRRDnewsletter. Newsletter should be primarily web-based
but in a format easily printed as required for meetings, inclusion inmedia kits, and for
distribution to field operators. Additional print products specific to the NSP I1should be
produced only as required for a specific event and audiences. MRRD should review what
other government, facilitating partners and international community publications have a
linkwithNSPI1programs, andprovide information onNSP I1activities to be includedin
those publications.

Exchange visits. Facilitating Partners in coordination with NSP staff should identify
husband and wife teams from effective gender-representative CDCs to travel to other
villages to communicate their successesandchallenges.

Mobile theatre: establish a mobile theatre team that cantravel to CDCs andremote rural
communities. Performing live dramas and performances, followed by a discussion with
development communication experts i s an efficient tool which is very well received by
the people. Community theatre creates a "whole community" event gathering for people
o f all ages andboth genders. These activities should be coordinatedwith the FPs.

Mobile cinema: an equally effective communication tool to reach the rural communities,
build trust and support for the program while conveying important information and
educational messages. Mobile cinemas will enable the rebroadcast o f already produced
NSP PCUTV programs, documentaries or the dissemination o f localinformation

Communicationsupport to FPs: the development communication team o fPCUshould
strengthen its coordination with the FPs inorder to tailor specific communication tool to
their needs. This could include leaflets, posters, audio visual support. Most importantly,
PCU should help the FPs to simplify the OM so that it can become an accessible and easy
to readworking tool for the communities as they prepare their proposals.

Anti narcotics communication: PCU should consider delivering messages through its
various communication channels aligned with the counter-narcotics strategy. PCU should
 coordinate with the Ministry o f Counter -Narcotics to identify the key messages to be
incorporated intheir communication to the rural communities.



                                             127

12. Institutionalarrangements

This PCU team should organize its technical and human resources in order to fulfill its
four pronged strategy: international and external communication, development
communication, advocacy and institutional strengthening. Each one o f these four
subcomponents should be led by a communication specialist for the sector. The quality
and composition o f the PCU staff should be at all times satisfactory to the World Bank.
The PCU should also extend its services to coordinate information sharingand disclosure
with the MIS department, the Complaint Handling Department, and most importantly
with the office o f the executive director to support his donor relations and fund raising
functions.

13. Coordination

Communication activities should not take place inisolation andmust be coordinated with
other MRRD programs, government communication priorities, and with the international
community. Communication about one government program should not seem to be in
competition with other government programs. The NSP has a well-developed production
capability that can be used to the benefit o f MRRD as a whole, as long as responsibility
and management is raised to the MRRD level, and is sufficiently and staffed and
resourced.    Public and internal communication to diverse audiences with different
languages is complex and staff should be chosen with care. FPs have developed capacity
by training their Afghan team members and could be asked to play a more proactive
development communication role.

Trust ingovernance is only possible ifgovernment communication are and are perceived
to be honest, open and consistent. They should not increase expectations over what i s
reasonably achievable. To ensure that the public receives accurate, current information,
communicators must have up-to-date information about programs, activities and issues.
Thus the senior communication representative should have a seat and a voice at the
operations table.

14. Evaluation

Itis the responsibility o fthe PCUandultimately o fthe Executive Director to ensure that:
(i) communicationstrategystaysontarget,basedonresearch,and(ii)
   the                                                                    communication
efforts are two-way and horizontal, and include adequate feedback mechanisms to assess
their effectiveness over time. The degree o f success of communication will be measured
by media monitoring and analysis, phone inprograms, by formal and informal surveys,
website activity, number o f community reached by development communication
activities, overall level o f perceptions o f the communication effectiveness.  Websites,
radio programs and newsletters should invite feedback, and any meeting or conference
can be a venue to ask the participants what they know o f the communication activities
andwhat they think about their impact. The communication baseline assessment should
be replicated and other monitoring activities should be carried out in concert with other
surveys and consultations to reduce cost and maximize the sample surveyed.


                                             128

.e0
Y
s0
0
0


8
.I
Y


.I
e

B
8
.I
0

;
F
Y

m

a
h
.*c*
.I


.a
Y
V
B4
Q




B
Y



f3

     0
     m
     3




a
w

           m
           d




         E
 2     .3
       c 0

1   3

Yo    40
3

e3
         cd
         &
2$    nEj

      9
      e,




Y
m
.3
.3
m




3W
8>

m
m
3

         APPENDIX 13: ENVIRONMENTAL & SOCIALMANAGEMENT
                                    FRAMEWORK



ProjectObjective

Buildingon the current IDA operation, the proposedproject will expand to new areas to
lay the foundations for a strengthening of community level governance, and to support
community-managed subprojects comprising reconstruction and development that
improve access o frural communities to social andproductive infrastructure and services.

Reaching out to additional 4,3 16 new villages, the outcomes will be (i) the establishment
o f a framework for village level consultative decision making and representative local
leadership as a basis for interaction within and between communities on the one hand,
and with the administration and aid agencies on the other, (ii)social and economic
productive activities implemented and maintained by the communities, addressing the
basic village needs, and (iii) development of human capital and livelihood which will
                             the
improve householdwelfare.

ProjectComponents

The proposed IDA Grant will finance about 23 percent o f the total projected cost o f the
National Solidarity Program inthe next three years and for the following components:

   i. Block Grants for communities (US$94.3 million) to carry out Subprojects
        involving reconstruction and development activities through a facilitated
        participatory planning process. This will cover about a third o f the amount
        estimated to complete block grant disbursement to existing and new communities
        (US$288 million) for the whole program. While the use o f block grants is
        demand-driven following the Community Development Plan priorities, based on
        the experience gained in the program to date it is expected that block grants will
        be investedmainly on community-basedproductive and social infrastructure.

  ii. Community Facilitation and Subproject Preparation (US$9.7 million) to
        support local communities through: (i) facilitation exercises to establish inclusive
        community institutions, and identify local development needs and priorities; and
        (ii)assistance for preparing subproject proposals. The FP cycle o f support to
        CDCs has been reduced from three years inthe first phase o f the program to two
        years. The two year timeframe will allow the FPs to support communities with
        mobilization and the establishing and functioning o f CDCs as inclusive
        community institutions; the formulation, through a consultative process, o f
        community development plans, identifying local needs and priorities; and
        assistance and capacity building for the implementation of priority subprojects,
        based on the community development plans utilizing the block grant.




                                           134

 ...
 111.   CDC Capacity Development (US$14.4 million) to assist CDCs in carrying out
        subprojects for which block grants have been made available, and capacity
        buildingfor members o f local communities. These services will strengthen local
        communities' capacity in financial management, procurement, and technical
        skills.

 iv.    Implementation and Management Support (US$1.5 million) comprising
        provision o f consultants' services for capacity building in, implementation
        support to, and incremental operating costs for the MRRD. The project will also
        augment the MFND's human and physical capacity to supervise and implement
        the project.

At the end o fthe three years, it is expectedthat: (i) NSP will have coveredall districts
                                                    the
across the country making available basic social and productive infrastructure and other
services resulting from receipt o f block grants, and (ii)that 21,600 CDCs (90 percent o f
an estimated total o f 24,000 villages) will be performing as representative bodies to lead
community development planning and financing intheir areas per the CDC by-laws.

Potentialimpactsof various components

Activities envisaged under the project should not entail significant and negative
environmental and social impacts, provided they are designed and implemented with due
consideration o f environmental and social issues. Rather, most subprojects envisaged
under the project should contribute to improving environmental and social conditions in
rural Afghanistan. Adverse impacts may arise due to depletion or degradation o f natural
resources such as stone, earth, water etc. used for construction o f small-scale
infrastructure.   Construction activities may cause limited, temporary, and localized
negative impacts that can be mitigated through the implementation o f an appropriate
social and environmental management plan. Certain types o f investments with negative
environmental or social impacts cannot be undertaken and are included in a negative list
o f prohibited investments. Interms of social impacts, the proposedproject falls inthe S-
3 category o f the Guidelines for Land and Asset Acquisition, Entitlements, and
Compensation (Attachment 3).

No landacquisition is anticipated. Inthe current socio-political context inthe rural areas,
involuntary land acquisition i s unlikely for the kind o f small-scale activities that will be
undertaken under the proposedproject for two reasons. The first is, that local authorities
do not have access to funds to purchase landor other assets if land acquisition were to be
undertaken. The second is, that the political costs (interms o f opposition from affected
landownershsers) would in all likelihood deter the government apparatus from
attempting to acquire any land against the will o f those affected. If any minor areas o f
landwould be needed for a project (e.g. realignment o f an irrigation canal, or land for a
school), such land could only be obtained through either private voluntary donations,
compensation paid by the community (i.e. transaction between willing buyer-willing
seller), or from available government land. Private voluntary donations and community
purchases would be documented as requiredby the Framework, and for government land,



                                             135

documentation would be needed that the land i s free o f encroachments, squatters or other
encumbrances, andhas been transferred to the project bythe authorities.

The design for the proposed project defines a strategy, which will ensure that ethnic
minority groups are included as beneficiaries, and that their concerns are addressed in
compliance with the requirements o f OD 4.20. The key elements o f this strategy are (i)
the project i s national in scale and coverage, and consequently reaches all the country's
different ethnic groups, (ii)the facilitated participatory planning process at the
community level includes an approach for election o f Community Development
Councils, which will provide for representation o f all sub-groups inthe community, (iii)
both internal monitoring and external independent evaluation will assess the
inclusiveness o f Community Development Councils and thus provide information that
would constitute the basis for corrective actions, if necessary, and (iv) independent
monitoring by civil society (NGOs and the press) will provide another mechanism to
identify cases where ethnic minoritywould have beenbypassed or marginalized.

Chance finds o f cultural property (archaeological artifacts) during implementation o f
subprojects involving civil works will be reported to the provincial or district governors,
who thenwill inform the Archaeological Committee.

Compliance with the safeguard provisions and the negative list will be ensured through
an environmental, social and mine risk screening procedure (check lists) required for
subproject proposals, and by internal input, process, and output monitoring, independent
external monitoring by consultants, andby Bank supervisionmissions.

Purpose of the Environmental and Social Management Framework

Currently social and environmental management inAfghanistan is suffering from critical
capacity constraints. Since there i s potential for adverse environmental impacts, albeit
limited, from the proposed activities under the NSP, their mitigation and management is
key to the wholesome development o f rural communities throughout Afghanistan.
Hence, keeping in view the existing management capacity, as well as the flexibility
required due to the demand-driven nature o f the project, a framework approach is
adopted. It provides for early identification o f potential adverse impacts, without the
requirement o f rigorous analysis through quantification, and also provides broad
guidance for their effective mitigation. Consistent with existing national legislation, the
objective o fthe Framework i s to help ensure that activities under the project will:
        Protect humanhealth;
        Prevent or compensate any loss o f livelihood;
        Prevent environmental degradation as a result o f either individual subprojects or
        their cumulative effects;

    0   Enhance positive environmental and social outcomes; and,

    0   Ensure compliance with World Bank safeguard policies.



                                            136

General Principles

Recognizing the emergency nature o f the proposed reconstruction operation, and the
related need for providing assistance, while at the same time ensuring due diligence in
managing potential environmental and social risks, this Framework i s based on the
followingprinciples:

    1. The proposed project will support multiple subprojects, the detailed designs o f
       which is known at appraisal. To ensure the effective application o f the World
       Bank's safeguard policies, the Framework provides guidance on the approach to
       be taken during implementation for the selection and design o f subprojects, and
       the planningo fmitigation measures;
    2. All proposed subprojects will be screened (using Matrix 1) to ensure that the
        environmental and social risks can be adequately addressed through the
        applicationo f standardized guidelines (usingMatrix 2);
    3. The design o f the NSP aims at ensuring regional balance in terms o f coverage o f
        ethnic and religious groups, as well as gender equity with regard to decision
        making on subproject selection and project benefits. Employment opportunities
        within the projects will be available on an equal basis to all, on the basis o f
       professional competence, irrespective ethnic or religious group affiliation. In all
        projects which require consultations with local communities or beneficiaries,
        gender-separated consultations will be conducted to elicit the views o f the female
        population, along with that o fthe male population; and,
    4. Consultation and disclosure requirements will be simplified to meet the special
        needs o f these operations.   Prior to approval by the World Bank Board, this
        Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework will be disclosed in
        Afghanistan inDari and Pashto, and inthe World Bank Infoshop.


Safeguard Screening

Additionally, the selection, design, contracting, monitoring and evaluation o f subprojects
will be consistent withthe following guidelines:

        A negativelist o fcharacteristics that would make aproposedsubproject ineligible
        for support (Attachment 1);
        Guidelines for land and asset acquisition, entitlements and compensation
        (Attachment 2);
        Procedures for the protection o f cultural property, including the chance discovery
        o f archaeological artifacts,   and unrecorded graveyards and burial sites
        (Attachment 3).




                                            137

Mitigationmeasures

   Sound design will ifnot eliminate, then at least diminish to the extent possible, most
   o f the potential adverse impacts o f project activities. Good Engineering design will,
   inmost cases, have a positive impact on the environmental conditions inthe project
   area.      Construction and operation stage impacts will be addressed through a
   simplified Environmental Management Plan. The EMP is provided in measures
   identified in this ESMF such as the Attachments, Matrices and other provisions o f
   this ESMF. Social and environmental guidelines and codes o fpractice satisfactory to
   the Bank will needto be included inthe Project's Operational Manual at all time.

EnvironmentalGuidelinesfor Communities, FPs and Contractors

The following guidelines should be added to the ESMF and included in the contractual
agreements:
   e    Installation o f the work site on areas far enough from water points, houses and
        sensitive areas.
   e    Sanitary equipments and installations ifneeded appropriate
   e    Site regulation(what is allowed andnot allowed on work sites)
   e    Compliance with laws, rules and other permits invigor.
   e    Hygiene and security on work sites
   e    Protectneighboring properties
   e    Ensure the permanence o f the traffic and access o f neighboring populations
        duringthe works to avoidhindranceto traffic
   e    Protect staffworking on work sites
   e    Soil, surface and groundwater protection: avoid any wastewater discharge, oil
        s p i l l and discharge o f any type o fpollutants on soils, insurface or ground waters,
        insewers, drainage ditches.
   e    Protect the environment against exhaust fuels and oils
   e    Protect the environment against dust and other solid residues
   e    Waste management: install containers to collect the wastes generated next to the
        areas o f activity.
   e    Degradatioddemolition o f private properties: inform and raise the awareness o f
        the populations before any activity causing degradation o f natural vegetation and
        resources. Compensate beneficiariesbefore any work.
   e    Use a quarry o f materials accordingto the miningcode requirements
   e    Compensationplantingincase o f deforestationor tree felling
   e    No waste slash andbumon site
   e    Speed limitation o fwork site engines and cars
   e    Allow the access o fPublic and emergency services
   a    Organize the storage o f materials on the public highway
   e    Parkinganddisplacements o fmachines
   e    Footbridges and access o f neighbors
   e    Signaling o fworks
   e    Respect o f cultural sites



                                                138

       Dispose safely o f asbestos
       Consider impacts such as noise, dust, and safety concerns on the surrounding
       population and schedule construction activities accordingly;
       Protect soil surfaces during construction and revegetate or physically stabilize
       eligible surfaces;
       Ensureproper drainage;
       Prevent standing water in open construction pits, quarries or fill areas t avoid
       potential
       contamination o f the water table and the development o f a habitat for disease-
       carrying vectors andinsects;
       Select sustainable construction materials, particularly wood;
       Control and clean the construction site daily;
       Duringconstruction, control dustbyusingwater or through other means;
       Provide adequate waste disposal and sanitation services at the construction site;
       Dispose o f oil and solid waste materials appropriately.
       Preserve natural habitats along streams, steep slopes, and ecologically sensitive
       areas;
       Develop maintenance andreclamationplans and restore veg

Responsibilitiesfor SafeguardScreeningandMitigation

The overall responsibility o f project implementation rests with the Ministry o f
Rehabilitation andRural Development (MRRD). A designated Safeguards Nodal Officer
will be identified with responsibility for overseeing the implementation o f the
Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework and Management Plan within the
Project Management Team (PMT) at the MRRD. The Ministry's Focal Point will be
supported by the Oversight Consultant firm managing the implementation o f the project,
which will be responsible for (i)  appraising subproject proposals, and (ii)
                                                                          monitoring that
subproject implementation i s in accordance with the provisions o f the social and
environmental management framework


CapacityBuilding

As part o f the social and environmental capacity building that will be provided for
implementation o f IDA-financed operations in Afghanistan, the Safeguards Focal Points
and relevant staff o f the MRRD and implementing agencies/Consultants will receive
training inthe application o f the Safeguard Framework. It is proposedto prepare specific
materials, hold a workshop, and arrange site visits to other countries in the region on
similar projects in progress to provide hands-on training to the Ministry and
implementing agency staff.      Specialist training modules may be considered after an
acceptable level o f base knowledge has been established. This capacity building activity
will be implemented under a separate Technical Assistance program for Environmental
and Social management.




                                            139

During supervision o f the proposed project, IDA will assess the implementation o f the
Framework, andifrequiredwill recommend additional strengthening.

Environmental expertise within the implementing and executing bodies will be
strengthened. Training programs will designed and implemented with the assistance o f a
local or international expert andwill target two levels:

MRRD/NSP OC and FPs: At the initiation of the PFO, a one day workshop will be
provided to the Staff o f the MRRD/NSP OC and FPs to raise environmental awareness
and to clarify the specific Environmental requirements related to design and
implementationo fthe CDP.

A three days workshop will then be provided to the MRRD/NSP OC environmental
specialist and to the environmental specialist/consultants o f the FPs and will cover the
following topics:
            EL4techniques
            Screening projects for environmental review
            Use o fpractical checklists
            Best environmental practices indesign and implementation o fprojects
            Effective implementation o f mitigation measures
        0   Project supervision
            Monitoringandevaluation

Local NGOs and Contractors: Training would be provided through 1or 2 days workshop
for local NGOs and contractors, focusing on public awareness, case studies o f
environmental issues experienced insimilar projects, use o f environmental guidelines and
implementationo fmitigation measures.

ConsultationandDisclosure

This Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework will be disclosed by Islamic
Republic o f Afghanistan inboth Dari and Pashto, as well as English, and it will also be
made available at the World Bank's Infoshop. It is worth noting that Islamic Republic o f
Afghanistan intends to make all project documentation publicly available through the
AfghanInformationManagement System (AIMS).

Extensive consultations have been held with the Facilitating Partner NGOs regarding the
NSP approach andimplementation arrangements. Subprojects will involve consultations
within the communities regarding (i)the holding o f secret ballot elections for
representative community development Councils, (ii)      prioritization o f community needs,
(iii)identification o f projects corresponding to these needs, (iv) development and costing
o f subproject plans, and (v) arrangements to ensure disclosure o f budget and
expenditures. The following information on the project would be posted on IRA'Sweb-
site: summaries o f quarterly NSP implementation progress reports, summaries o f annual
project financial statements and audit reports, and summaries o f findings from monitoring
and supervisionteams (after a reasonable period for internalreview).


                                             140

Environmental and Social Monitoring

Environmental and Social Monitoring will be the responsibility o f the FPs and will
include: (i)Compliance monitoring during construction, and (ii)Monitoring of
significant impacts duringthe operation ofthe subproject.

The Environmental and Social specialist of the MRRD/ NSP OC will also conduct
periodic monitoringby visiting the sites ofthe various programs at least twice a year.

Monitoringindicators will be developed for boththe construction andthe operation phase
of the subprojects. Monitor of construction activities will have to ensure that mitigation
measures of construction impacts are being implementedproperly, while the monitoring
of operation is to ensure that no unforeseen negative impacts are arising. Typical
examples ofmonitoringplansare giveninthe table below.

Table 1: Typic I Examples o f Monitoring 'lanfor the Operationo f Diffe :nt subprojects
  Sub-project    MonitoringIndicators              Responsibility             Frequency

Roads           0 Operating drainage        0NGOsinclose coordination    Semi-annual
rehabilitation    Channels                   with local community        assessment
                 Novisible negative
                  impacts on surrounding
                  habitat

Improvement to  0 Distributionnetwork       0NGOsinclose coordination    Semi-annual
Water Supply      without leaks              with local community        assessment
and Sanitation  0 No leakage or overflows    MinistryofHealthand         Semi-annual
Facilities        o fManholes or drains      MinistryofEnergy and        assessment

                0 Water Quality              Water
                  Monitoring

Irrigation and  0 Irrigationnetwork          NGOsin close coordination   Semi annual
drainage          without leaks              with local community        assessment
                0 Drainage channels clean   0Testingbyministry o f       Semi-annual
                  Andproperlymaintained      health & Ministryo f energy assessment
                0 Water quality              and water
                  parameters (pH, COD,
                  BOD, SS)
Rehabilitation  0 Toilet facilities clean   0NGOsclose incoordination    Semi-annual
o f schools       and Functioning            with local community and    assessment
                  properly                   appropriator municipality
                0 Drinkingwater faucets
                  clean and safe from
                  contamination
Rehabilitation  0   Medical waster            MinistryofHealthin         Semi-annual
o f Health          separated inproper        close coordination with    assessment
centers             containers                local community
                    Availability of
                    guidelines for proper
                    disposal of medical
                    wasters


                                             141

                                            Attachment 1

                                 NegativeListof SubwoiectAttributes

Subprojects with any of the attributes listedbelow will be ineligible for Block Grant Funding
under the proposed Emergency National Solidarity Project:.

                                AttributesofIneligibleSubprojects
Involves the significant conversion or degradation of critical natural habitats. Including, but
not limitedto, any activity within:


0        Ab-i-Estada Waterfowl Sanctuary;
0        Ajar Valley (Proposed) Wildlife Reserve;
0        Dashte-Nawar Waterfowl Sanctuary;
0        Pamir-Buzurg (Proposed) Wildlife Sanctuary;
0        Bande Amir National Park;
0        KoleHashmat Khan (Proposed) Waterfowl Sanctuary.

Will significantly damagenon-replicable cultural property, includingbutnot limitedto any
activities that affect the following sites:

0        monuments of Herat (includingthe Friday Mosque, ceramic tile workshop, Musallah
         complex, FifthMinaret, Gawhar Shahmausoleum, mausoleum o f Ali Sher Navaii,
         and the ShahZadehah mausoleum complex);
0        monuments of Bamiyan Valley (includingFuladi, Kakrak, Shar-I Ghulghular and
         Shahr-i Zuhak);
0        archaeological site of Ai Khanum;
0        site andmonuments o f Ghami;
0        minaret of Jam;
0        mosque o f HajiP i y a d a uGunbad, Balkhprovince;
0        stupa and monastry of Guldarra;
0        site and monuments o f Lashkar-i Bazar, Bost;
0        archaeological site of Surkh Kotal.
0
Requires involuntary acquisition of land, or any resettlement ofpeople.

Requires:
    equipment or materials that are includedinthe annual implementation plans by other
     agencies(e.g. by other government or NGO projects that are operating inthe area);
    political campaign materials or donations inany form;
    weapons including (butnot limitedto), mines, guns and ammunition;
    chainsaws;
    pesticides, herbicides and other chemicals;"


2o       Exceptions may be considered based on an assessment by the NSP (with specialized consultant
assistance, if required, and after no objection from IDA) in special situations such as eradication o f
infestations o f locusts or senpest.


                                                  142

                               Attributesof IneligibleSubprojects
    investments detrimental to the environment;

    motorizedextraction of groundwater;21

    involuntary land acquisition under any conditions;

    construction, rehabilitation, or maintenance o f any government office buildings;

     constructionofnew health clinics;

    payments o f salariesto government servants or the salaries of the staff o f government
     subsidized organizations;

     any activity on land that i s considered dangerous due to security hazards or the presence
     of unexplodedmines or bombs;
     any activity on land or affecting land that has disputedownership, tenure or user rights."

     any activity that will support drug crop production or processing o f such crops.




         Indiscriminate installation o f irrigation wells using motorized extraction o f ground water have in
some areas contributed to lower the ground water table, and constitute a threat to the traditional sustainable
''
irrigation by karez. Until water resource assessments of a particular catchment area or basin has been
undertaken and has established that irrigation i s feasible, investments inmotorized irrigation wells is not
 ermitted.
         Thus, investments involving an expansion of the command area o f an irrigation system can only
take place with agreement from the owners (or users in case o f tribal common land) o f the land brought
undernew irrigation.


                                                     143

                                           Attachment 2

        Guidelinesfor LandandAsset Acauisition, Entitlements andComDensation

I.Objectives

Land acquisition will be kept to a minimum and no person will be involuntarily displaced under
subprojects financed by the proposed emergency reconstruction operation. Subproject proposals
that would require demolishing houses or acquiring productive land should be carefully reviewed
to minimize or avoid their impacts through alternative alignments. Proposals that require more
than minor expansion along rights of way should be reviewed carefully. No land or asset
acquisition may take place outside o f these guidelines.          A format for Land Acquisition
Assessment i s attached as Attachment 2(i).

These guidelines provide principles and instructions to compensateaffectedpersons to ensure that
all such persons negatively affected, regardless of their land tenure status, will be assisted to
improve, or at least to restore, their living standards, income earning or production capacity to
pre-project levels.

Categorization

Based on the number of persons that may be affected by the project (Project Affected People,
PAPs) and the magnitude of impacts, projects may be categorized as S-1, S-2, or S-3 projects:

    a.       S-1 projects are those that will involve the resettlement o f more than 200 PAPs and
             where a full Resettlement Action Plan (RAP) must be produced. Such interventions
             will be ineligible for support under the proposed emergency reconstruction
             operations.
    b.       S-2 projects are those which will involve the rese-ttlementof less than 200 persons. In
             such cases, the following documentation i s required: (1) a land acquisition
             assessment, (2) the Minutes or recordo f consultations which assess the compensation
             claimed and agreement reached, and (3) a record of the receipt o f the compensation,
             or voluntary donation, by those affected (see below).
    C.       S-3 projects are not expected to have any land acquisition or any other significant
             adverse social impacts; on the contrary, significant positive social impact and
             improved livelihoods are expected from such interventions.

11.Eligibility

PAPs are identified as persons whose livelihood i s directly or indirectly affected by the project.
PAPs deemedeligible for compensation are:

    (1)      those who have formal legal rights to land, water resources or structureshuildings,
             includingrecognizedcustomary and traditionalrights;
    (2)      those who do not have such formal legal rights but have a claim to usufiuct right
             rootedincustomary law;
    (3)      those whose claim to land and water resources or building/structures do not fall
             within (1) and (2) above, are eligible to assistanceto restore their livelihood.




                                                 144

AcquisitionofProductiveAssets and Compensation

PAPSare eligible for replacement costs for lost assets as described below:

       a.       Voluntary contributions. In accordance with traditional practices, individuals
              may elect to voluntarily contribute land or assets and/or relocate temporarily or
              permanently from their land without compensation.
       b.       Contributions against compensation.         A contributor/asset loser considered
              "affected" will be eligible for compensation from the local community or
              alternatively from the Government.         A PAP will lodge his/her claim for
              compensation to the local community representatives/shura head and it will be
              verifiedby the implementingagency. The claim will be lodged within 2 weeks o f
              completion o f the consultations with the concerned community, and before project
              implementation begins. .

Voluntary contribution, or contribution against compensation, should be documented.            The
documentation should specify that the land i s free of any squatters, encroachers or other claims.
A format is attached inAttachment 2(i), which includesa Schedule to be followed to assess any
compensation claimed and the agreementreached.

111.CompensationPrinciples

The project implementing agencies will ensure that any of the following means of compensation
are provided ina timely manner to affected persons:

(1)     Project affectedpersons losing access to a portion o f their land or other productive assets
        with the remaining assets being economically viable are entitled to compensation at
        replacement cost for that portion o f land or assets lost to them. Compensation for the lost
        assets will be according to following principles:
        a.      replacement land with an equally productive plot, cash or other equivalent
                productive assets;
        b.      materials and assistanceto fully replace solid structures that will be demolished;
        C.      replacement of damagedor lost crops andtrees, at market value;
        d.      other acceptable in-kindcompensation;
        e.      incaseofcashcompensation, the delivery ofcompensationshouldbemadein
                public, i.e. at the Community Meeting.

(2)     Project affected persons losing access to a portion o f their land or other economic assets
        rendering the remainder economically non-viable, will have the options of compensation
        for the entire asset by provision of alternative land, cash or equivalent productive asset,
        accordingto the principles in(1) a-d above.

ConsultationProcess

The implementingagencies will ensure that all occupants of landand owners of assets located in
a proposedsubproject area are consulted. There will be gender-separate community meetings for
each affected mantaqa/gozar (urban infrastructure) or village (other projects) to inform the local
population about their rights to compensation and options available in accordance with these
Guidelines. The minutes of the community meetings will reflect the discussions held, agreements
reached, and include details of the agreement, basedon the format provided inAttachment 2(ii).



                                                145

The implementing agency will provide a copy o f the Minutesto affectedpersons and confirm in
discussions with each of them their requests and preferences for compensation, agreements
reached, and any eventual complaint.          Copies will be recorded in the posted project
documentation and be available for inspectionduringsupervision.

SubprojectApproval

In the event that a subproject involves acquisition against compensation, the implementing
agency will:

        a. not approve the subproject unless a satisfactory compensation has been agreed
            between the affected person and the local community;
        b. not allow works to start until the compensation has been deliveredin a satisfactory
            manner to the affected persons;
        c.  ifmore than 200 persons are affectedand require compensation, the subproject will
            be deemedineligible for support under the emergency reconstructionoperations.

Complaints and Grievances

All complaints should first be negotiated to reach an agreement at the local community/village
level. If this falls, complaints and grievances about these Guidelines, implementation o f the
agreements recorded in the Community Meeting Minutes or any alleged irregularity in carrying
out the project can also be addressed by the affected persons or their representative at the
municipal or district level. If this also fails, the complaint may be submitted to the relevant
implementingagency for a decision.

Verification

The Community Meeting Minutes, including agreements of compensation and evidence of
compensation having been made will be provided to the Municipality/district, to the supervising
engineers, who will maintain a record hereof, and to auditors and socio-economic monitors when
they undertake reviews and post-project assessment. This process will be specified inall relevant
project documents, including details of the relevant authority for complaints at municipaVdistrict
or implementingagency level.




                                                146

Attachment 2(i)

Land Acquisition Assessment Data Sheet

                 (To beusedto recordinformationon all landto be acquired)

1. Quantities of land/structures/other assetsrequired:

2. Dateto be acquired:

3. Locations:

4. Owners:

5. Current uses:

6. Users:

e      Number of Customary claimants:
0      Number of Squatters:
0      Number ofEncroacher:
e      Number ofOwners:
0      Number ofTenants:
0      Others (specify):             Number:

7. How land/structures/other assets will be acquired (identify one):

0      Donation
e      Purchase

8. Transfer o f title:

e      Ensurethese lands/structures/other assets free ofclaims or encumbrances.
0      Written proof must be obtained (notarized or witnessed statements) of the voluntary
       donation, or acceptance o f the prices paid, from those affected, together with proof o f
       title being vested inthe community, or guarantee ofpublic access, by the title-holder.

9. Describe grievance mechanisms available:




                                                147

                                                               Attachment2(ii)

                                        Formatto DocumentContributionofAssets

The following agreement has been made on
between      ...............................................       ............................
                                                             resident o f    ............................................
                                                                                                    day o f.............................
                                                                                                                          (the Owner)
and  ......................................................                  .(the Recipient).

1. That the Owner holds the transferable right o f ............................................                                          .jerib of
landstructure/asset in..               ..................................................................................

2. That the Owner testifies that the landstructure is free o f squatters or encroachers and not
subject to other claims.

3. That the Owner hereby grants to the Recipient this asset for the construction and development
o f................................   for the benefit o f the villagers and the public at large.

(Either, in case of donation:)

4. That the Owner will not claim any compensation against the grant o f this asset.

(Or, in case of compensation:)

4. That the Owner will receive compensation against the grant o f this asset as per the attached
Schedule.

5. That the Recipient agrees to accept this grant of asset for the purposes mentioned.

6. That the Recipient will construct and develop the........................                                              and take all possible
precautions to avoid damage to adjacent landstructure/other assets.

7. That both the parties agree that the...........................                                      so constructeddeveloped will be
public premises.

8. That the provisions o f this agreement will come into force from the date o f signingo f this deed.



Signature of the Owner:                                                      Signature o f the Recipient:

Witnesses:


2.
(Signature, name and address)




                                                                         148

                                          Scheduleof
Compensation of Asset Requisition


Summary of                      Unitsto be Compensated          Agreed Compensation
affectedunithtem

a. Urbadagricultural
   land (m'):

b.Houses/structures to be
   demolished(units/m'):

c. Type of structure to be
    demolished(e.g. mud,
    brick, etc.)                                                 NotApplicable.

d. Trees or crops affected:

e. Water sources affected:


Signatures o f local community representatives, shura head:


Include record o f any complaintsraisedby affectedpersons:


M a p attached (showing affected areas andreplacement areas):




                                                149

                                           Attachment 3

                                   Protectionof CulturalPropertv

Physical culture includes monuments, structures, works of art, or sites o f "outstanding universal
value" from the historical, aesthetic, scientific, ethnological, or anthropological point of view,
including unrecorded graveyards and burial sites.           Within this broader definition, cultural
property i s defined as sites and structures having archaeological, paleontological, historical,
architectural, or religious significance, and natural sites with cultural values.

The proposed emergency reconstruction operations are unlikely to pose a risk of damaging
cultural property, as the subprojects will largely consist of small investments in community
infrastructure and income generating activities, reconstruction of existing structures, and minor
urban public works. Further, the negative list of attributes, which would make a subproject
ineligible for support (Attachment l), any activity that would significantly damage non-
                                         includes
replicable cultural property. Nevertheless, the following procedures for identification, protection
from theft, and treatment o f chance finds should be followed and included in standard bid
documents.

ChanceFindProcedures

Chance find procedures are defined in the law on Maintenance of Historical and Cultural
Monuments (Official Gazette, December 21, 1980), specifying the authorities and responsibilities
of cultural heritage agencies if sites or materials are discovered in the course of project
implementation. This law establishes that all moveable and immovable historical and cultural
artifacts are state property, and further:

     1. The responsibility for preservation, maintenance and assessment of historical and cultural
         monuments rests with the Archaeological Committee under the Ministry o f Information
         and Culture, which has representation at provincial level.

     2. Whenever chance finds of cultural or historical artifacts (moveable and immovable) are
         made the Archaeological Committee should be informed. Should the continuation of
         work endanger the historical and cultural artifacts, the project work should be suspended
         untila solution is found for the preservation ofthese artifacts.

     3. If a moveable or immovable historical or cultural artifact i s found inthe countryside o f a
         province, the provincial governor (wali) or district-in-charge (woluswal) should be
         informed within two weeks, and they should inform the Archaeological Committee. In
         case the immovable historical or cultural artifact i s found ina city, the provincial branch
         of the Department of Maintenance of Historical Values of the Ministry o f Information
         and Culture shouldbe informedwithin two weeks (art. 18). Ifthe find i s made withinthe
         center, the Archaeological Committee must be informed directly within one week (art.
         25).

     4. Failure to report a chance find within the stipulated time limit will be punished with a
         fine or imprisonment for aperiod of one week or upto one month (art. 72).

     5. If someone intentionally damages a historical or cultural artifact, the culprit will pay
         compensation inaccordancewith the value of the artifact plus be imprisoned for a period
         o f one monthto ten years depending on the gravity o f the crime (art. 71).


                                                 150

In case of a chance find of moveable or immovable historical or cultural artifact, the
implementing agency i s responsible for securing the artifact from theft, pilferage and damage
untilthe responsibilityhasbeentaken over bythe relevantauthorities as specified above.

These procedures must be referred to as standard provisions in construction contracts, when
applicable. Duringproject supervision, the Site Engineer will monitor that the above regulations
relating to the treatment of any chance find encountered are observed.

Relevant findings will be recorded in World Bank Project Supervision Reports (PSRs), and
Implementation Completion Reports (ICRs) will assess the overall effectiveness o f the project's
cultural resources mitigation, management, and capacity buildingactivities, as appropriate.




                                                151

                                                  Matrix I



        ImpactIdentificationandAssessment for AfphanistanNationalSolidaritvProiect

        Name of the subproject:
        Location:
        Code: -

           l(1mportant: Ensure that section F, & onlv 1of sections A, B, C .D or Ehave been filled up)\

      PartA: Subprojects relatedto Irrigation andWatershed Management structures
                (Rehabilitation / construction ofwater retaining structures, rehabilitation /
                construction ofnew drains, erosionprotection, etc.)


                                                                   Assessment {Put only one   I
                                                                     tick (4ineach row}                        I
                                                                   NO Impact     Significant       Scheme
                        Potential Impacts                              or         Impact        observations,
                                                                                                   specific
                                                                      NOT         requires
                                                                   significant    mitigation        ifany
                                                                                  measures
  Reduced downstream water availability
I Floodregime change
  Waterlogging
  Less dilution of discharges from settlements
  Pesticide/Toxic compoundpresence
  Excess nutrient concentratiodEutroDhication
  Increased Salinity
  Changes inStructure of soil
I Saline drainage
  Increase inLocal erosion close to construction site
  Stream morphology and regime change
 Pollution fi-om disposal of sediment accumulated inchannels/
  structures
I Sedimentation
  Damage to culturaVarchaeologica1sites/properties
  Weed Removal causing loss of Important species surviving




                                                      152

                                                                  1Assessment {Put only one  I
                                                                                                 Scheme
                         PotentialImpacts                                         Impact
                                                                                                 ifany
                                                                                  measures
 Emergence o f PestsNeeds
 Increased Animal diseases
 Land acquired through (i)     donation, (ii)
                                            purchase, (iii)
                                                         govt.
 Presence of landmines or unexplodedordinance


        PartB:             Subprojects relatedto community infrastructure construction (School,
                           market sheds, etc.)


                                                                   Assessment {Put only one-

                                                                   N O Impact    Significant     Scheme
                         PotentialImpacts                              or          Impact        specific
                                                                     Impact       requires     observations,
                                                                      NOT        mitigation      if any
                                                                   significant    measures
 Removal of vegetation
 Damage to cultural / archaeological sitedproperties                           I

 Dustgeneration duringconstructionactivities
 IncreasedNoise due to constructionactivities
 Potential for spread of water-borne diseases due to improper
 sitting o f ancillary facilities
 Land acquired through (i)      donation, (ii)
                                            purchase, (iii)
                                                         govt.
 Presence of landmines or unexplodedordinance

        PART C:            Subprojects relatedto transport infrastructure (roads, culverts, small
                           bridges, etc.)


                                                                   Assessment {Put only one
                                                                     tick (4ineachrow}
                                                                   NO Impact   I Significant     Scheme
                         PotentialImpacts                                          Impact        specific
                                                                     Impact       requires     observations,
                                                                                                  ifany

ILandacquired through (i)       donation, (ii)
                                            purchase, (iii)
                                                         govt.
 Severance o fproperties or land
 Damage to cultural / archaeological sitedproperties
 Increasedlandslides duringand after construction
 Pollution duringconstructionactivities



                                                         153

                                                                  Assessment {Put only one
                                                                    tick (4in ach row}
                                                                  NO Impact   Significant    Scheme
                      PotentialImpacts                                or        Impact       specific
                                                                    Impact      requires   observations,
                                                                     NOT       mitigation     if any
                                                                  significant  measures
Riskof accidents involvinghot material, pollution ofwater
courses and agricultural lands
Pollution from ancillary activities likepreparation o f asphalt,
crushing of aggregate, concrete mixing, etc.
Increased erosion downstream of channels being crossed
Disruption of aquatic ecosystemduringconstruction due to
excessive sediment, discharge o f waste concrete or accidental
spillage of oil & grease
Noise due to increased traffic
Increasedrisk of accidents due to increased and faster traffic
Severance of wildlife habitat which may have established
during years ofneglect
Presenceof landmines or unexploded ordinance


       PART D:         Subprojects relatedto water supply (community ponds, open wells, piped
                       supply or gravity schemes, etc.)

                                                                 IAssessment {Put only one
                                                                    tick (4in ach row}
                                                                  NO Impact    Significant   Scheme
                      Potential Impacts                               or        Impact       specific
                                                                    Impact      requires   observations,
                                                                     NOT       mitigation     ifany
                                                                  significant  measures
Landacquired through (i)   donation, (ii)purchase, (iii) govt.
Submergence o fnew areas
Damage to culturaVarchaeologica1 sitedproperties
Safety hazards duringconstruction
Visual blightand dirt due to improper disposal o f material
Increasedbreedingo f mosquito incase of inadequate drainage
near water abstraction pointllocations
Pollution of water from leaves, dust and other nuisance due to
onen surface
Unnoticed contaminationby wastes incase of faulty layout
Presenceof landmines or unexplodedordinance




                                                        154

PART F:          Summary of Environmental impacts ofthe proposed activity (from only
                 one Part A, B, C,or D)


KEYIMPACTSIDENTIFIED
1.
2.
3.
4.

MITIGATION  MEASURESTO BEIMPLEMENTED(REFER TO MATRIX & ATTACHMENTS &4)
                                                                2                  1,3
1.
2.
3.
4.

AGENCY   RESPONSIBLEFORIMPLEMENTATION/ SUPERVISION(REFER TO MATRIX             2)
1.
2.
3.
4.

TIMING OF IMPLEMENTATIONWITHREFERENCETO STAGEOF CIVIL WORKS CYCLE(DESIGN,
CONSTRUCTIONOR OPERATION)
1.
2.
3.
4.


Stamp(s) and             Stamp(s) and           Stamp(s) and           Stamp and Signature
Signature(s) o f the     Signature(s) of the    Signature(s) of the    o f Authorized Officer
Authorized Official(s)  Authorized Official(s)  Authorized Official(s) o f the Facilitating
ofHeadof the CDC)        of Head ofthe CDC      of Heado f the CDC     Partnerretainedby
                                                                    ,  MRRD



Date:                    Date:                  Date:                  Date:
Place:                   Place:                 Place:                 Place:




                                              155

                                                   Matrix 2



            Menu of mitigation measures for Afghanistan National Solidaritv Proiect


     PartA:       Subprojects related to Irrigationand Watershed Management structures
                  (Rehabilitatiodconstruction ofwater retaining structures, rehabilitation/
                  construction ofnew drains, erosion protection, etc.)


                  Sub-part (i)Construction Phase

     Potential Impacts               Mitigation Measure@) Identified        Implementation Arrangements

                                                                             Execution      Supervision
Downstreamwater availability Maintainflow requiredfor downstream           ~ontracto2~    MRRD/Oversight
                                 uses (drinking, other domestic, industry,                Consultant
                                 hydropower, etc.)
Waterlogging                     Constructimproved liningof canals         Contractor     MRRD/Oversight
                                                                                          Consultant
IncreasedSalinity                Meticulous provisionof drainageas per     Contractor     MRRD/Oversight
                                 design or directions of MRRD/Oversight                   Consultant
                                 Consultant
Localerosion, dust               Ensuresufficient channelsectionis         Contractor     MRRD/Oversight
                                 available for flow during construction                   Consultant

                                 Spraywater on exposed surfaces (material  Contractor     MRRD/Oversight
                                 piles, freshly cut slopes, etc.)                         Consultant

                                 Cover the material during transportation  Contractor     MRRD/Oversight
                                                                                          Consultant


Stream morphology and            Careful constructionwith a view to limit  Contractor     MRRD/Oversight
regime change                    change to streammorphology andregime                     Consultant
                                 change to the minimum
Disposalof sediment           II No  disposal of spoils on fertile lands   Contractor     MRRD/Oversight
accumulatedin                                                                             Consultant
channels/structures              Secure written permissionof the owner     Contractor
                                 before disposal canbegin                                 MRRD/Oversight
                                                                                          Consultant
                                 Use of some material from dredging for    Contractor
                                 limingofnearbyacidic soils                               MRRD/Oversight
                                 Alternatively, consider use of sedimentas                Consultant
                                 part ofrehabilitated embankment


     23This canbe individual, group ofindividualsor fmpreferablylocalbut not necessarily


                                                         156

     PotentialImpacts              MitigationMeasure(s) Identified           ImplementationArrangements

                                                                              Execution     Supervision
Drainage of water bodies       Minimisedrainage ofwater bodies acting      Contractor     MRRDIOversight
                               as habitat                                                 Consultant
Incidence o f diseases such as Proper drainage of the area                 Contractor     MRRD/Oversight
Dengue, Malaria, etc.                                                                     Consultant


                                     Sub part (ii) Operation Stage


 PotentialImpacts

 Downstreamwater
 availability
 Floodregime

 Waterlogging




 Less dilution of discharges
 from settlements
 Pesticide I Toxic compounds


 Excess nutrient
 concentrationI
 Eutrophication
 Increased Salinity




 Changes inStructure o f soil

 Saline drainage               Avoid salt concentration increase by          WUA, Mirab   Locally elected
                               providing 10-20% extra water, if available                 council (CDC)
 Stream morphology and         Systematic operation o f sediment exclusion   WUA, Mirab   Locally elected
 regime change                 structures, ifany.                                         council (CDC)
 Drainage o f water bodies     Protect water bodies acting as habitat        WUA, Mirab   Locally elected
                                                                                          council (CDC)
 Use of water canals as        Allow partial use, ifrisks are not very high  WUA, Mirab   Locally elected
 wastewater drains                                                                        council (CDC)




      24WUA =Water Users' Association (to beconfirmed/strengthened/established)


                                                      157

PotentialImpacts              MitigationMeasure@)Identified              Implementat n Arrangements
                                                                       Execution      Supervision
Incidenceo f diseases such as Maintainproper drainage o fthe area      WUA, Mrab      Locally elected
Dengue, Malaria, etc.                                                                 council

                              Periodic flushing o f the canals         WUA, Mirab     Locally elected
                                                                                      council
                              Liaisonwith health authorities on early
                              warning sign communication                CDC           MRRD/Oversight
                                                                                      Consultant
Resettlement                  Compensate as per the Entitlement         Facilitating  MRRD/Oversight
                              framework for the project                 Partner,      Consultant
                                                                        Locally
                                                                        elected
                                                                        council
                                                                        Facilitating  MRRD/Oversight
                                                                        Partner,      Consultant
                                                                        Contractor,
                                                                        Locally
                                                                        elected
                                                                        council
Pests /Weeds                  Use integratedpest management techniques  Facilitating  MRRD/Oversight
                              to prevent harmbypestdweeds               Partner,      Consultant
                                                                        Locally
                                                                        elected
                                                                        council




                                                      158

       PartB:       Subprojects relatedto community infrastructure construction (School,
                    community hall, market sheds, etc.)


                                   Sub-part(i) Constructionstage



 PotentialImpacts                   MitigationMeasures                    Implementatia Arrangements
                                                                           Execution      Supervision
Land and/or property Voluntary donation, willing buyer-willing seller,   Locally Elected MRRD/Oversight
acquisition          or government landwithout encumbrances only or      Council         Consultant
                     procedureto be followed as per Attachment 1to
                     Environmental and Social Management
                     Framework (ESMF)
Removal o f          o Plantingsaplings as compensation @2               Locally Elected MRRD/Oversight
vegetation             saplings for each tree felled. This mustbe done   Council         Consultant
                       after the construction activities havebeen
                       completed on site.
                     Alternatively, plantingmustbe done well in
                     advance o fbeginningo f constructionso that the
                     trees have grown strong enough to resist accidental
                     hits duringmovement o f construction equipment
Damage to cultural / Avoid sites where such properties are located. If   Contractor      Locally Elected
archaeological       by chance, any such locationis found, adopt                         Council
sitedproperties      procedure as per Attachment 3 to the ESMF
Dust generation      0        Provide temporary enclosures to the site   Contractor      Locally Elected
duringconstruction     usingGIsheets andpoles                                            Council
activities           0        Provide cover on trucks carrying
                        constructionmaterial.
                     0        Provide protective masks for workers
                     0        Sprinkle water within site, especially on
                       windy days
Increased Noise due  0 Avoid noise generatingactivities during           Contractor      Locally Elected
to construction        particular periods-times o fprayers, school                       Council
activities              hours, etc.
                     0 Discontinue all operations duringnight except
                        ifconcretingrequires work to continueduring
                        the night.
                     0 Provide ear plugsto constructionworkers
                        manning noisy equipment.
                     0 Consider provision ofnoisebarriersby
                        landscaping, tree plantation or even double-
                        dazing.




                                                      159

       PART C:           Subprojects related to transport infrastructure (roads, culverts, small
                         bridges, etc.)


                                        Sub-part(i) ConstructionPhase



  PotentialImpacts                       MitigationMeasures                    Implementatic Arrangements
                                                                                Execution       Supervision
Landacquisition          Voluntary donation ,willing buyer-willingseller,     Locally Elected MRRD/Oversight
                          or government landwithout encumbrances only or      Council (CDC)   Consultant
                         procedure to be followed as per Attachment 1to
                          Environmental and Social Management
                          Framework (ESMF)
Severance o f             Voluntary donation, willing buyer-willing seller,   Locally Elected MRRD/Oversight
properties or land        or government landwithout encumbrances only or      Council (CDC)   Consultant
                         procedure to be followed as per Attachment 1to
                          Environmental and Social Management
                          Framework (ESMF)
Damage to cultural /      Avoid sites where such properties are located. If   Contractor/     MRRD/Oversight
archaeological           bychance, any such location is found, adopt          Community       Consultant
sites/properties         procedure as per Attachment 3 to the ESMF
Increased landslides      Provide vegetative protection as far as possible on Contractor/     MRFWOversight
duringand after           the uphillsides. Use `hard' engineeringstructural   Community       Consultant
construction              solutions as last resort
Pollutiondue to dust      0        Provide temporary enclosures to the site   Contractor/     MRRD/Oversight
andasphalt during           usingGIsheets andpoles                            Community       Consultant
construction activities   0        Provide cover on trucks canying
                            constructionmaterial.
                          0        Provide protective masks for workers
                          0 Sprinkle water withinsite, especially on
                            windy days
Risk ofaccidents          o Provide adequatesignages andfencing around Contractor/            MRRD/Oversight
involvinghot                the site.                                         Community       Consultant
material, pollutionof     0 Trainworkers to follow safety instructions.
water courses and         0 Prepare contingency plansfor spillages, and
agricultural lands          carry out mock drills.
                          0 Provide adequatenotice ofsitehoad closures
                            to locals.
                          0 Provide adequatedetours around construction
                            areas.
Pollutionfrom             0 Locatethe hotmixplantat least 500maway            Contractor/     MRRD/Oversight
ancillary activities like   from habitation                                   Community       Consultant
preparation o f asphalt,  0 Locate crushersand concrete batchingplants
crushing o f aggregate,     at least lOOmfrom habitation
concrete mixing, etc.     0 Provide andoperate emission controldevices
                            like ESP or wet venturi scrubber
                              Provide dust control devices on crushers and
                            concrete batchinp:Dlants




                                                        160

   PotentialImpacts                     MitigationMeasures                     ImplementationArrangements
                                                                                Execution       Supervision
 Increasederosion      a Prevent direct discharge from site with a fall       Contractor/     MRRD/Oversight
 downstream o f           o f more than0.6m.                                  Community       Consultant
 channels being        0 Avoid spillingconstructionmaterial and
 crossed                  waste into the channel. This will prevent
                          reduction insection o fthe channel andhence
                          erosion.
 Disruptionof aquatic  0 Prepareandimplement spillpreventionplan              Contractor/     MRRD/Oversight
                           for the site.                                      Community       Consultant
                       a Trainstaffto handle spillage ofmaterialand
                           affected sections o f stream.




                                        Sub-part(ii) OperationStage



  PotentialImpacts                       MitigationMeasures                       Implementatio Arrangements
                                                                                    Execution     Supervision
Noise due to increased  Provide for silence zones near sensitive receptors - NGO, Locally        MRRD/
traffic                 clinics, schools, mosques                               Elected Council  Oversight
                                                                                                 Consultant
Increasedrisk o f            Provide adequate signages and speedcontrol         NGO,Locally      MRRD/
accidents due to           withinsettlements                                     ElectedCouncil  Oversight
increased andfaster          Provide adequate ROWfrom planningstage itself.                      Consultant
traffic                 0 Protectthis ROWusingappropriate devices -
                           notification, plantinginarea currently not used for
                           the road, fencing, etc.
Severance o f wildlife  Provide additional pathways for movement o f fauna,     NGO, Locally     MRRD/
habitat which may have  including some o f the bridges or culverts               Elected Council Oversight
established during                                                                               Consultant
years o f neglect




                                                        161

      PART D:           Subprojectsrelatedto water supply (communityponds, openwells, dug
                        wellswithhandpumps,pipedsupply or gravity schemes, etc.)

                                       Sub-part (i) ConstructionPhase



 PotentialImpacts                         MitigationMeasures                     Implementation irrangements
                                                                                   Execution       Supervision
Land andproperty          Voluntary donation, willing buyer-willingseller, or    Locally Elected  MRRD
acquisition               government landwithout encumbrances only as per        Council
                          procedure to be followed as described inAttachment 1
                          to Environmental and Social Management Framework
                          (ESMF)
Submergenceo f new        Identify areas which are currently not inproductive    Locally Elected  MRRD
areas                     use. Procedure to be followed as described in          Council
                          Attachment 1to Environmental and Social
                          Management Framework (ESMF)
Damage to cultural /      Avoid sites where such properties are located. Ifby    Contractor       Oversight
archaeological            chance, any such location is found, adopt procedure as                  Consultant
sites/properties          perAttachment 3 to the ESMF
Safety hazards during 0 Provide where feasible personal protective               Contractor       Oversight
construction                equipment such as masks; hardhats and ear plugsto                     Consultant
                            all workers.
                          u Prepareandimplementasafety planfor theentire

                                                                                 Contractor       Oversight
                                                                                                  Consultant




                                         Sub-part (ii) OperationStage



         PotentialImpacts                       MitigationMeasures               ImplementationArrangements
                                                                                  Execution        Supervision
Increasedbreeding o f mosquito in          Designfor proper drainage andraise   NGO, Locally    IIMRRD/
case o f inadequate drainage near        awareness among users andCDC.          Elected Council   Oversight
water abstraction point / locations    0 .                                      (CDC)             Consultant
Pollution o fwater fiom leaves,            Cover the well whenever possible.    NGO, Locally      MRRD/
dust and other nuisance due to           Preferablyuse handpumps    bndug       Elected Council   Oversight
open surface                             wells                                                    Consultant
                                       0 Usealum or other appropriate
                                         coagulant before supplyingwater.
Unnoticedcontaminationby              Periodically inspecthest the quality o f  NGO, Locally      MRRDI
wastes incase o f faulty layout       water supply and wastewater collection    Elected Council   Oversight
                                      networks.                                                   Consultant




                                                         162

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        IBRD 34818


         60 E                                                           65 E                                                                                                  70 E                                                                       75 E

                                                                                                   UZBEKISTAN
                                                                                                                                               TAJIKISTAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   TAJIKISTAN


             AFGHANISTAN               TURKMENISTAN

                                                                                                                                                                                                Faisabad

                                                                                   JAWZJAN                                              KUNDUZ
                                                                                                        BALKH
                                                                                                                                                                                         BADAKHSHAN
                                                                                        Sheberghan                                                                              
                                                                                                           Mazar-e
                                                                                                                                        Kunduz                         Taloqan
                                                                                                            Sharif
                                                                                                                                                                 TAKHAR

                                                                                            Saripul               Samangan
                                                                                                                                                 Baghlan 

                                                              Meymaneh                                      SAMANGAN
                                                                                                                                             BAGHLAN
                                                                  FARYAB

                                                                                       SARI PUL                                                                               Bazarak
                                                                                                                                                                                          NURISTAN
35N                                           BADGHIS                                                                                                             PANJSHER
                                                                                                           BAMYAN                                                    Mahmud-e Raqi
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       35 N

                                          Qal`eh-ye Now                                                                              PARWAN        Charikar
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Asadabad
                                                                                                                                                                    KAPISA                Nuristan
                                                                                                                                                                                                        

                                                                                                               Bamyan
                                                                                                                                                                                  LAGHMAN        KUNAR
                                                                                                                                                                                          Mehtarlam
                                                                                                                                                                                                 
                                                                             Chaghcharan
                                                                                                                                                              KABUL
                                                                                                                                                                 
                                Herat
                                                                                                                          WARDAK                         KABUL                               Jalalabad
                                                                                                                                                                                                   
                                                                                                                                       Meydan  
                           HERAT                                                                                                           Shahr                                     NANGARHAR
                                                                  GHOR                                                                                LOGAR
                                                                                                                                                         Pol-e `Alam
                                                                                      Khadir
                                                                                        DAYKUNDI                                                                PAKTYA

                                                                                                                                    Ghazni                 Gardiz           KHOST
                                                                                                                  GHAZNI                                                                                      PAKISTAN
                                                                                                                                                                                Kowst

                                                                                                                                                  Sharan

                                                                                  URUZGAN
                                  FARAH                                               Tarin Kowt
                                                                                        

                                                                                                                                         PAKTIKA
                              Farah
                                
 ISLAMIC                                                                                             ZABUL
REPUBLIC                                                                                               Qalat
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AFGHANISTAN
 OF IRAN                                                                                                                                                                                                   NATIONAL SOLIDARITY PROJECT*

                                                   Lashkar Gah
                                                                                    Kandahar                                                                                                                       PROJECT DISTRICTS:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                      COVERED UNDER YEAR 1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                      COVERED UNDER YEAR 2
                        Zaranj              HILMAND                         KANDAHAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      COVERED UNDER YEAR 3

                        NIMROZ                                                                                                                                                                                        NO DATA

                                                                                                                                                                                                                     *Rollout as of September, 2006.


30N                                                                                                                   0             50            100             150 Kilometers

                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PROVINCE CAPITALS
                                                                                                                                                                                              30 N
                                                                                                                       0                       50                      100 Miles                                     NATIONAL CAPITAL

                                                                                                                    This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                                  DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                    The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                    shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank                                    PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                    Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
60 E                                                               65 E                                           endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.                    70 E                           INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                    PAKISTAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        OCTOBER 2006

