Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
GRANT NUMBER H476-AF 
 
AMENDMENT 
GRANT NUMBER H261-AF 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for the Second Emergency National Solidarity Project  
and Amendment to the Original Financing Agreement) 
 
between 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated May 31, 2009  
 
Page  2
-
2
-
Page  3
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT dated May 31, 2009, entered into between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC 
OF AFGHANISTAN (the 
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the “Association”) for the purpose of providing additional financing for 
activities related to the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).   
This Agreement: (i) sets out the terms and conditions related to the Additional 
Financing for the Second Emergency National Solidarity Project; and (ii) amends specific 
provisions of the Original Financing Agreement (as such term is defined in the Appendix 
to this Agreement). 
The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions, the 
Original Financing Agreement or in the Appendix to this Agreement.  
ARTICLE II — FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to fifty 
million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
 
(SDR 50,900,000) (the 
“Grant” or the “Financing”) to assist in financing the 
project described in Schedule 1 to this Agreement (the “Project”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.   
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Grant Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is United States Dollars. 
Page  4
-
2
-
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project through MRRD in accordance with 
the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
4.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement.  
4.02. 
For purposes of Section 8.05(b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
obligations of the Recipient under this Agreement (other than those providing for 
payment obligations) shall terminate is twenty (20) years after the date of this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE V — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
5.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Minister of Finance. 
5.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
 Pashtunistan 
Watt 
 Kabul 
 
Islamic Republic of Afghanistan 
 
Facsimile: 
 93-20-210-3258 
5.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
 
Page  5
-
3
-
AGREED at Kabul, Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN 
 
By 
/s/ Mohammed Omar Zakhilwal 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
/s/ Mariam J. Sherman 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  6
-
4
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to strengthen community level governance in 
Afghanistan and to improve the access of rural communities to social and productive 
infrastructure and services by supporting certain co
mponents of the Recipient’s National 
Solidarity Program. 
The Project consists of the Original Project but reflects the merging of what was 
previously referred to as Parts 2 and 3 as described in Schedule 1 to the Original 
Financing Agreement, and renumbering of what was Part 4 as Part 3 of the Project. The 
amended Project Description is below. 
 
Part 1
:
Grants for Community Sub-Projects
Provision of Block Grants to local communities to carry out Sub-Projects 
involving reconstruction and development activities through a facilitated 
participatory planning process. These activities shall focus on, 
inter alia
,
community-based productive and social infrastructure such as irrigation works, 
roads, water supply facilities, micro-hydropower and school buildings. 
 
Part 2
:
Community Mobilization, Empowerment and Capacity Building 
(a) 
Supporting local communities through, 
inter alia
:
(i) facilitation 
exercises to establish, through elections, inclusive Community 
Development Councils and identify local development needs and 
priorities; and (ii) assistance for preparing Community Development 
Plans and Sub-Project proposals. 
 
(b) 
Strengthening the capacity of Community Development Councils to 
carry out Sub-Projects and carrying out capacity building for members of 
local communities and their Community Development Councils, 
through, 
inter alia
,
provision of training and technical advisory services 
in procurement financial management and technical skills. 
 
Part 3
:
Implementation and Management Support
Capacity building and provision of implementation support to MRRD, through 
the provision of consultants’ services, equipment, operating costs and furniture to 
strengthen local communities’ capacity in financial management, procurement, 
and technical skills.  
 
Page  7
-
5
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. 
The implementation arrangements contained in Schedule 2 Section I to the 
Original Financing Agreement constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
 
B. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation 
A.
 
Project Reports 
 
1. 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Association.  Each 
Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than one (1) month after the end of the 
period covered by such report.  
2. 
For purposes of Section 4.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association not later than forty-five (45) days after the 
end of each calendar quarter, interim un-audited financial reports for the Project 
covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Recipient.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
 
Page  8
-
6
-
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1.
 
Goods and Works
.
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services
.
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3.
 Definitions
.
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works  
 
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding
.
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
.
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used: 
 
Procurement Method 
(a)   
National Competitive Bidding* 
(b)   
Shopping 
(c)   
Direct Contracting 
(d)   
Community Participation** 
Page  9
-
7
-
*
National Competitive Bidding
 shall be subject to the following additional  
procedures: 
 
(i) 
Standard bidding documents approved by the Association will be used. 
(ii) 
Invitations to bid will be advertised in at least one (1) widely circulated 
national daily newspaper and bidding documents will be made available 
to prospective bidders, at least twenty-eight (28) days prior to the 
deadline for the submission of bids. 
(iii) 
Bids will not be invited on the basis of percentage premium or discount 
over the estimated cost. 
(iv) 
Bidding documents will be made available, by mail or in person, to all 
who are willing to pay the required fee. 
(v) 
Foreign bidders will not be precluded from bidding. 
(vi) 
Qualification criteria (in case pre-qualifications were not carried out) will 
be stated on the bidding documents, and if a registration process is 
required, a foreign firm determined to be the lowest evaluated bidder will 
be given reasonable opportunity of registering, without any hindrance. 
(vii) 
Bidders may deliver bids, at their option, either in person or by courier 
service or by mail. 
(viii) 
All bidders will provide bid security or a bid security declaration form as 
indicated in the bidding documents. A bidder’s bid security or a bid 
security declaration form will apply only to a specific bid. 
(ix) 
Bids will be opened in public in one place preferably immediately, but 
no later than one hour, after the deadline for submission of bids. 
(x) 
Evaluation of bids will be made in strict adherence to the criteria 
disclosed in the bidding documents, in a format, and within the specified 
period, agreed with the Association. 
(xi) 
Bids will not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with an 
official estimate without the prior concurrence of the Association. 
(xii) 
Split award or lottery in award of contracts will not be carried out. When 
two (2) or more bidders quote the same price, an investigation will be 
made to determine any evidence of collusion, following which: (A) if 
collusion is determined, the parties involved will be disqualified and the 
award will then be made to the next lowest evaluated and qualified 
Page  10
-
8
-
bidder; and (B) if no evidence of collusion can be confirmed, then fresh 
bids will be invited after receiving the concurrence of the Association. 
(xiii) 
Contracts will be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidders within the 
initial period of bid validity so that extensions are not necessary. 
Extension of bid validity may be sought only under exceptional 
circumstances. 
(xiv) 
Extension of bid validity will not be allowed without the prior 
concurrence of the Association: (A) for the first request for extension if it 
is longer than four (4) weeks; and (B) for all subsequent requests for 
extensions irrespective of the period. 
(xv) 
Negotiations will not be allowed with the lowest evaluated or any other 
bidders. 
(xvi) Re-
bidding will not be carried out without the Association’s prior 
concurrence. 
(xvii)  All contractors or suppliers will provide performance security as 
indicated in the contract documents. A contractor’s or a supplier’s 
performance security will apply to a specific contract under which it was 
furnished. 
** Community Participation
:
Goods and works for Sub-Projects under Part 1 of the 
Project estimated to cost the equivalent of $200 for each family up to an aggregate 
amount not exceeding $60,000 equivalent for each community may be carried out in 
accordance with paragraph 3.17 of the Procurement Guidelines and the procedures set out 
in the Operational Manual.  
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
 
1.
 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Page  11
-
9
-
Procurement Method 
 
(a)   
Quality-Based Selection 
(b)   
Single-Source Selection 
(c)   
Least-Cost Selection 
(d)   
Selection Based on the Consultants’ Qualifications 
(e)   
Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(f)   
Selection of Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, 
the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association:   
(a) all contracts for goods or works procured on the basis of International 
Competitive Bidding; (b) each contract for works
 
estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $500,000 or more and each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $200,000 or more, procured on the basis of National Competitive Bidding;  
(c) each contract for goods or works procured on the basis of Direct Contracting 
regardless of value; (d) each contract for consultants’ services estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $100,000 or more; (e) each contract for consultants’ services 
procured on the basis of Single-Source Selection; (f) each contract for 
consultants’ services by an individual estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 
or more; (g) the first contract submitted by each district for a Block Grant 
irrespective of value; and (h) all Block Grant contracts procured competitively 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more when more than one CDC 
combines together to carry out a Sub-Project of common interest and benefit by 
pooling together their Block Grant resources.  All other contracts shall be subject 
to Post Review by the Association. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated  
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made 
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible 
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
Page  12
-
10 -
 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Grant to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
 
Category 
Amount of the 
Grant Allocated 
(Expressed in SDR) 
Percentage of Expenditures 
to be Financed  
(inclusive of Taxes) 
(1) Goods, works, 
consultants’ services, 
training, Block Grants 
and Incremental 
Operating Costs* for 
the Project 
50,900,000 
100% of amounts disbursed by 
MRRD for Block Grants, and 
100% of amounts disbursed 
for all other Eligible 
Expenditures 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
50,900,000 
 
*
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term “Incremental Operating Costs” means the 
incremental expenses incurred on account of Project implementation and management, 
including the operation and maintenance of vehicles, office supplies, communication 
charges, insurance costs, office administration costs, banking charges, utility charges, 
domestic travel and per diem allowances, but excluding salaries of the officials of the 
Recipient’s civil service. 
 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement. 
2. 
The Closing Date is September 30, 2011.  
Page  13
-
11 -
 
APPENDIX 
Section I. 
Definitions
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004, and 
revised in October 2006. 
3. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005, (as amended 
through October 15, 2006).  
4. 
“MRRD” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Rural Rehabilitation and 
Development or any successor entity thereto. 
5. 
“Original Financing Agreement” means the Financing Agreement for the Second 
Emergency National Solidarity Project between the Recipient and the 
Association, dated February 3, 2007, (Grant No. H261). 
6. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in Schedule 1 to the Original 
Financing Agreement as amended to date. 
7. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004, and revised in 
October, 2006. 
8. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated March 25, 2009, and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
Section II.   
Amendments to the Original Financing Agreement
The Original Financing Agreement is amended as follows: 
 
1. 
The Closing Date as set out in Section IV. B(2) of Schedule 2 to the Original 
Financing Agreement is hereby extended to September 30, 2011. 
2. 
The Project description in Schedule 1 to the Original Financing Agreement is 
amended to read as set out in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Page  14
-
12 -
 
