Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATA SHEET 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AC2499 
 
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 09/24/2006 
 
I.  BASIC INFORMATION 
 
A.  Basic Project Data 
 
Country: Afghanistan 
Project ID: P102288 
Project Name: Afghanistan: Emergency National Solidarity Project II 
Task Team Leader: Norman Bentley Piccioni 
Estimated Appraisal Date:  
Estimated Board Date: December 7, 2006 
Managing Unit: SASAR 
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector: Other social services (25%);Roads and highways (25%);Water supply 
(25%);Irrigation and drainage (15%);Sub-national government administration (10%) 
Theme: Participation and civic engagement (P);Rural services and infrastructure 
(P);Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction (S);Gender (S);Social risk 
mitigation (S) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
100.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER/RECIPIENT 
0.00 
 
JAPAN: JAPAN SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT FUND 
30.00 
 Financing 
Gap 
340.00
370.00 
B.  Project Objectives [from section 2 of PCN] 
Building on the current IDA operation, the proposed project will lay the foundations for a 
strengthening of community level governance, and to support community-managed sub-projects 
comprising reconstruction and development that improve access of rural communities to social 
and productive infrastructure and services.   
 
C.  Project Description [from section 3 of PCN] 
For a total estimated cost of US$470 million in three years, which include a back-log from the 
current IDA operation, the project will finance:  
 
(i) 
Block Grants for communities (US$347 million) to carry out Sub-Projects involving 
reconstruction and development activities through a facilitated participatory planning process.  
 
Page  2
(ii) 
Community Facilitation and Sub-Project Preparation (US$38 million) to support local 
communities through: (i) facilitation exercises to establish inclusive community institutions, and 
identify local development needs and priorities; and (ii) assistance for preparing sub-project 
proposals.  
 
(iii) 
CDC Capacity Development (US$51 million) to assist CDCs in carrying out sub-projects 
for which block grants have been made available, and capacity building for members of local 
communities. These services will strengthen local communities? capacity in financial 
management, procurement, and technical skills.  
 
(iv) 
Implementation and Management Support (US$34 million) comprising provision of 
consultants? services for capacity building in, implementation support to, and incremental 
operating costs for the MRRD.  The project will also augment the MRRD?s human and physical 
capacity to supervise and implement the project.  
 
At the end of the project, it is expected (i) that: the NSP will have covered about 24,000 villages 
(which cluster an estimated 38,000 rural settlements) across the country making available basic 
social and productive infrastructure and other services resulting from receipt of block grants, and 
(ii) that 24,000 Community Development Councils (CDCs) will be performing as representative 
bodies to lead community development planning and financing in their areas per the CDC by-
laws.   
 
D.  Project location (if known) 
For the next three years the Program will be expanding to reach as many communities as the 
security situation will allow. Expansion of the program to reach full national coverage is a 
priority of the government based on equity considerations. It is felt that not reaching the whole 
nation in a relatively short period of time will challenge the role of the CDCs, send messages of 
preferential treatment for some ethnic groups, and undermine government visibility in the 
country as a whole. However, a quick roll out will demand a coordinated, organized planning 
effort and a regular flow of funds, challenging the delivery capacity of government, and the 
ability of the donors, including the World Bank, to commit funds in a predictable way.   
 
E.  Borrower’s Institutional Capacity for Safeguard Policies [from PCN] 
As a result of more than two decades of conflict, exodus of trained professional, low salary, and 
lack of incentives to new approaches, the Borrower?s institutional capacity is generally weak. 
However, the proposed NSP II has advantage of being able to benefit from the institutional 
capacity developed under NSP-I which stressed awareness of safeguard policies.  
 
During the NSP I, the Program has been executed by the MRRD while the direct oversight of 
the implementation was outsourced to an international firm (GTZ), who was then called 
?Oversight Consultant (OC)?. The OC will be recruiting a national senior M&E office who is 
expected to monitor any social/environmental safeguard issues triggered through the FP reports.  
 
For the next three years of the NSP II, it is proposed to have NSP as a rather autonomous 
structure within the MRRD. The functions of consolidated financial management and MIS would 
be outsourced to the Oversight Consultant while all remaining functions (including M&E, HRD, 
Page  3
Procurement, General Administration, Public Communications, FP Management and Technical 
Support) will be handled directly by MRRD NSP staff. These staff, however, will be contracted 
staff and not MRRD civil servants. The efforts will continue to be made to train the NSP staff in 
the application of the Safeguards through the on-going training of the Operation Manual.  
 
Considering the fact that NSP II may observe increase in the number of joint sub projects, 
environmental issues should be taken seriously and handled carefully. Environmental 
Management Plan for such type of joint projects should be in place and should be developed with 
the technical support from the World Bank. It is advised that more emphasis should be placed on 
raising awareness of environmental issues among all the stakeholders in line with the Operation 
Manual as well as Social and Environmental Safeguard Framework developed during NSP I that 
being updated for NSP-II as well as development of proper monitoring and reporting mechanism 
for compliance with the Framework. It is advised that a check list for screening the NSP 
subprojects for any negative Social and Environmental impacts should be developed and 
included in the Safeguards Framework.  
 
During the NSP I, the monitoring of the safeguards was observed as unsatisfactory. Attention 
needs to be raised to the way voluntary land acquisition is handled at sub-project level. MRRD 
will have to ensure that the proper procedures be followed by the NSP and relevant staff. 
MRRD/NSP Management will aim at ensuring, through on-going training of FPs on the 
operation manual, that proper procedures be followed, including the requirements for full 
documentation of the voluntary nature of land donation and the subsequent community 
ownership status of the land in question.  
 
In general, it was agreed that MRRD shall appoint a Focal Point for strengthening and 
mainstreaming Environmental and Social Safeguards in project design/preparation and 
monitoring, and allocate appropriate amount of funding to ensure capacity building and 
monitoring  on the safeguards issues.   
 
F.  Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Mr Mohammad Arif Rasuli (SASES) 
Ms Asta Olesen (SASES) 
 
II.  SAFEGUARD POLICIES THAT MIGHT APPLY 
Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No TBD 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Environmetal Management Plan should be in place for joint-sub-projects which are expected 
to be in a larger size than the normal sub-projects.   
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X  
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X  
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X  
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X  
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X  
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 
X
Operational Policy 4.12 may be triggered. No resettlement will take place, but in connection 
with certain sub
-
projects, there may be a need 
for limited land acquisition, which will only take 
Page  4
Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No TBD 
place through voluntary donations, the guidelines for which is included in the Safeguards 
Framework. The ESSF furthermore contains procedures for recording land acquisition and 
restoring of housing, compensation for loss of land and livelihood of project affected families in 
a
consultative and mutually agreeable manner, compliant with OP 4.12.   A satisfactory 
settlement of the land issues is a precondition for sub-project implementation ? and any form of 
land acquisition shall be fully documented.   
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X  
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X  
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X  
Environmental Category:
 
B
-
Partial Assessment 
 
III.  SAFEGUARD PREPARATION PLAN 
 
A.  Target date for the Quality Enhancement Review (QER), at which time the PAD-stage ISDS 
would be prepared:  N/A 
 
B.  For simple projects that will not require a QER, the target date for preparing the PAD-stage 
ISDS:  09/18/2006 
 
C.  Time frame for launching and completing the safeguard-related studies that may be needed.  
The specific studies and their timing
1
should be specified in the PAD-stage ISDS. 
NA   
 
IV.  APPROVALS 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Norman Bentley Piccioni 
09/13/2006 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Frederick Edmund Brusberg 
09/22/2006 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Mr Gajanand Pathmanathan 
 
Comments:   
1
Reminder: The Bank's Disclosure Policy requires that safeguard-related documents be disclosed before appraisal (i) at the 
InfoShop and (ii) in-country, at publicly accessible locations and in a form and language that are accessible to potentially affected 
persons.
 
Page  5
