Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB2549 
Project Name 
Afghanistan: Emergency National Solidarity Project II 
Region 
SOUTH ASIA 
Sector 
Other social services (25%);Roads and highways (25%);Water 
supply (25%);Irrigation and drainage (15%);Sub-national 
government administration (10%) 
Project ID 
P102288 
Borrower(s) 
THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN 
Implementing Agency 
 
Islamic Republic of Afghanistan 
Afghanistan 
 
Ministry of Rural Rehabilitation and Development 
Afghanistan 
 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[X] B   [ ] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
October 23, 2006 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
October 12, 2006 
Date of Board Approval 
December 7, 2006 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
Late 2005 saw the culmination of the political transformation established for Afghanistan by the 
Bonn agreement in 2001, forming the basis for the state-building and development in a country 
emerging from nearly three decades of conflict and political turmoil. 
Despit
e
unmet expectations for some of the population, it is clear that Afghanistan’s progress in 
some sectors has been impressive – development of road networks had reduced travel times and 
improved rural access; school enrolments have reached historic highs; health facilities are 
gaining outreach; thousands of rural communities have been mobilized for development; 
commercial banks have opened up for business and microfinance programs have extended 
services to thousands, predominantly women. Real GDP, excluding opium production, is 
projected to grow by 14 percent in 2005/06 (SY 1384), following increases of 29 percent in 
2002/03, 16 percent in 2003/04 and 8 percent in 2004/05. However, the situation is far from 
normalized and the country has not emerged from its state of conflict. For every success, there 
remain formidable, numerous challenges. 
These are particularly demanding in rural Afghanistan, which is home to nearly 80 percent of the 
population, and where incidence of rural poverty is high, penetration of insurgency growing, and 
opium production booming as the country recovers from the long-term effects of the recently 
ended six-year drought.  
Page  2
To address state building, local governance, warlordism, and to urgently provide basic rural 
infrastructure for irrigation, drinking water, electrification, rural roads and school, the 
government has promoted since 2003 a massive effort for outreach to rural communities through 
the National Solidarity Program (NSP). The NSP, supported by the International Development 
Association (IDA) and several donors under the leadership of the World Bank, has been 
implementing successfully in the last three years quickly positioning itself as the government 
most visible intervention in rural areas, significantly contributing to the process of pacification, 
democratization and reconstruction. 
The NSP is making a significant contribution towards achieving the vision and goals of the 
Government of Afghanistan set out in the interim-Afghanistan National Development Strategy 
(I-ANDS) which will lay out the basis for an Afghanistan PRSP. The NSP is directly in line with 
the overall vision for the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, ‘to consolidate peace and stability 
through just, democratic processes and institutions, and to reduce poverty and achieve prosperity 
through broad based and equitable economic growth’.  The NSP promotes CDCs at the 
community level through a democratic process, thereby working towards the good governance 
goal of establishing basic institutions and practicing democratic governance at the village level.  
The implementation of the subprojects, prioritized by the communities, contributes to poverty 
reduction and enhanced livelihoods. 
 
The NSP will also be a key vehicle in the delivery of the benchmarks for the I-ANDS 
Agriculture and Rural Development pillar, particularly in the areas of rural infrastructure and 
community development.  NSP subprojects cover nearly all the areas of priority investments for 
rural infrastructure: drinking water, sanitation, small-scale irrigation, roads and structures, 
schools and village electrification.  The program has the sole responsibility for the delivery of the 
Community Development Program benchmark of the I-ANDS.   
 
2. Objectives 
Building on the current NSP, the proposed Grant will finance expansion to new areas to lay the 
foundations for strengthening of community level governance, and to support community-
managed subprojects comprising reconstruction and development that improve access of rural 
communities to social and productive infrastructure and services.  
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
In May 2006, the World Bank Board of Executive Directors discussed a new Interim Strategy 
Note (ISN) for Afghanistan, which guides the Bank's engagement for the next two years, and is 
aligned with the government’s Interim National Development Strategy (I-ANDS).  The ISN 
envisages a grant program of up to US$540 million over those two years, which is in line with 
the World Bank’s five-year pledge of US$1.2 billion made at the January 2006 London 
Conference. Under the ISN, the World Bank priorities are: (i) building the capacity and 
accountability of the state, (ii) improving rural livelihoods and promoting rural economy, and 
(iii) supporting the growth of a formal, modern, and competitive private sector. Because of its 
design and outreach, the NSP is considered one of the key instruments to achieve these 
objectives. 
 
Page  3
4. Description 
 
The proposed IDA Grant will finance about 23 percent of the total projected cost of the National 
Solidarity Program in the next three years and for the following components: 
 
(i) 
Block Grants for communities
 (US$94.3 million) to carry out Subprojects involving 
reconstruction and development activities through a facilitated participatory planning 
process. This will cover about a third of the amount estimated to complete block grant 
disbursement to existing and new communities (US$288 million) for the whole program. 
While the use of block grants is demand-driven following the Community Development 
Plan priorities, based on the experience gained in the program to date it is expected that 
block grants will be invested mainly on community-based productive and social 
infrastructure.     
 
(ii) 
Community Facilitation and Subproject Preparation
 (US$9.7 million) to support 
local communities through: (i) facilitation exercises to establish inclusive community 
institutions, and identify local development needs and priorities; and (ii) assistance for 
preparing subproject proposals.  The FP cycle of support to CDCs has been reduced from 
three years in the first phase of the program to two years.  The two year timeframe will 
allow the FPs to support communities with mobilization and the establishing and 
functioning of CDCs as inclusive community institutions; the formulation, through a 
consultative process, of community development plans, identifying local needs and 
priorities; and assistance and capacity building for the implementation of priority 
subprojects, based on the community development plans utilizing the block grant. 
 
(iii) 
CDC Capacity Development
 (US$14.4 million) to assist CDCs in carrying out 
subprojects for which block grants have been made available, and capacity building for 
members of local communities. These services will strengthen local communities’ 
capacity in financial management, procurement, and technical skills. 
 
(iv) 
Implementation and Management Support
 (US$1.5 million) comprising provision of 
consultants’ services for capacity building in, implementation support to, and incremental 
operating costs for the MRRD.  The project will also augment the MRRD’s human and 
physical capacity to supervise and implement the project.   
 
At the end of the three years, it is expected that: (i) the NSP will have covered all districts across 
the country making available basic social and productive infrastructure and other services 
resulting from receipt of block grants, and (ii) that 21,600 CDCs (90 percent of an estimated total 
of 24,000 villages) will be performing as representative bodies to lead community development 
planning and financing in their areas per the CDC by-laws. 
 
5. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER/RECIPIENT 0 
IDA Grant 
120 
 Total 
120 
Page  4
6. Implementation 
The implementing arrangement over the next three years will rely upon the regional and 
provincial office structure as was in the ongoing program, but it is proposed to have a rather 
autonomous structure within the MRRD as opposed to the OC led implementation structure of 
the ongoing program.   
 
The NSP II management will continue to be supported by a reduced level of international 
technical assistance, while the MRRD will lead and provide the oversight for the program. 
MRRD will carry out core functions such as policy and strategy development and application, 
coordination with other ministries, external relations with donors, resource mobilization, 
management of relations with FPs, appraisal, approval and processing of subprojects, 
engineering, monitoring and quality assurance 
–
focusing on achievements, outcomes and 
program impact, and training and capacity development at central and regional levels.    
 
Other functions, such as consolidated financial management, Block Grant Management and 
Management Information System (MIS) operations will be outsourced to an external consultant. 
All remaining operational functions (including M&E, Human Resource Development, 
Procurement, General Administration, Public Communications, FP Management, and Technical 
Support) will be handled directly by MRRD NSP staff with limited technical assistance from 
international consultants.  These MRRD staff, however, will be contracted staff and not MRRD 
civil servants as there is still an acute shortage of civil servants within the MRRD.   
 
An inter-ministerial steering committee will guide the NSP for the overall policy, strategic 
planning and management of the project and for integration with other rural development 
programs. Chaired by the Second Vice President of the Government, the Committee is 
represented by the Ministers of Finance, Agriculture and Irrigation, Energy and Water, 
Education, Public Health, Women’s Affairs, Public Works, Rural Rehabilitation and 
Development, and Justice and Interior. . 
 
An external donor committee composed of the donors financing the NSP II will monitor the 
program planning, implementation and development outcomes.  
 
At field level, the program will be managed by Management Units established at the central and 
provincial levels. At the center, the Minister will be assisted by an Executive Director  
responsible for policy formulation, program planning, external and donor relations, budget and 
fund management and overall oversight.  The Executive Director will be assisted by a Director of 
Operations.  
At present 24 facilitating partners are engaged in the ongoing program.    The contracts of the 
FPs will expire on March 31, 2007.  However, almost all these FPs will require completing the 
ongoing community mobilization cycle leading to the satisfactory completion of subprojects, 
some beyond March 31, 2007.  In addition, FP services will be required to ensure the continuity 
of the program in the NSP II as the program rolls out to new communities covering the districts 
where FPs are already present and new districts where no FPs are presently working.     
 
Implementation in High Risk Areas
Page  5
The security environment in which the NSP operates has deteriorated over the course of the program 
and is currently at its worst level.  The number of communities and districts where NSP activities are 
suspended has steadily increased.  The security situation remains highly volatile and is the single 
most important risk the NSP II faces to achieve full national coverage.  
 
The planning of the implementation of the NSP II in the high risk areas therefore requires to strike a 
pragmatic balance between the state building objectives of the Government and need to comply with 
the development effectiveness and outcomes as well as the diligent fiduciary management of the 
project. It  has been agreed that the project, through the National Steering Committee, will obtain 
guidance for program planning and implementation in the high risk areas, particularly for the roll out 
to new communities and new districts. If the accessibility of these villages and districts are restricted, 
the program roll out to new communities and new districts will not take place until the Steering 
Committee recommends that the security situation has eased off, the concerned Communities are 
willing to receive the services of FPs, the concerned FP and the staff of the Regional staff are willing 
to travel to those areas, and the Bank task team is confident that satisfactory arrangements for 
implementation supervision, monitoring and fiduciary compliance are in place.     
 
7. Sustainability 
 
Expected to start in October 2006, the project will cover the first three years of a seven-year 
government proposal for the expansion and consolidation of the program. There is no plan to 
extend NSP beyond the proposed 7 years. Any further activity beyond that period applies to the 
community councils established through NSP, not to NSP itself. CDC’s can play three important 
roles in the bigger picture of Afghanistan’s longer-term development. First, CDC’s for the first 
time provide the central government with an effective means to deliver basic services across the 
entire country. Second, CDC’s could carry out certain basic administrative functions provided 
that they received a core block grant through the budget. Third, CDC’s could be grouped to 
provide representative planning bodies at the district level that would advise local government. 
These three options to a large extent hinge on the central government’s vision for sub-national 
government and administration.  
 
8.  Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
The lessons from the past three years of operations, albeit still at an early stage, demonstrate that 
it is possible to implement a large scale CDD program involving substantial facilitation at the 
community level in the volatile and uncertain socio-political environment of present day 
Afghanistan.  
 
·
Program targets
:
Program targets (block grant disbursement, number of CDCs registered, 
etc.) are not realistic with relation to the amount of time required for community 
mobilization and subproject implementation. NSP II takes into consideration a feasible and 
more realistic implementation period and adopts target ranges rather than absolute numbers.   
·
Coordination with other Afghan Government Ministries
.
As NSP is a program whose 
governance and infrastructure outputs are cross-cutting among the portfolios of various other 
Page  6
ministries, it was important to have a high-level cooperation between these ministries and 
MRRD for the NSP. However, the inter-ministerial Steering Committee adopted during the 
first phase has not been effective. This has resulted in petty jealousies and often a lack of 
support from line ministries for NSP projects and/or funding.  It was also poorly attended by 
the ministries. NSP II introduces an inter-ministerial Steering Committee chaired by the 
Second Vice President, thereby ensuring higher level representation and an equal balance 
between all ministries. 
·
Financial management
:
The financial and block grant management of NSP was divided 
between the MRRD Finance Department, and the NSP OC Finance Department. 
Occasionally the different departments had discrepancies with their financial reports and 
there were issues with communications flow. Also the responsibilities of budget planning, 
forecasting, preparation, implementation and monitoring became divided and complex, and 
ultimately ineffective. NSP II introduces a streamlined financial management under an 
outsourced department. This will include all aspects of NSP funding, including bi-lateral 
donors and ARTF and IDA grants.  
·
National Management
:
During NSP I, the program has been criticized for being managed 
and implemented to a large extent by outsourced international consultants and NGOs. 
During NSP II, the increased role of MRRD in the management of NSP and increased 
national ownership is important. The recruitment of senior national management staff will 
be undertaken ensuring maximum competition and transparency, using international 
recruitment principles. 
·
Income Generation, Micro Credit, Public Goods, Human Capital Development
:
While 
several stake holders have encouraged income generation activities and micro-credit within 
NSP, most OC and FP staff were not adequately skilled in income generation and micro-
credit schemes and methodologies and the projects selected in these categories were done 
with little or no market analysis, cost recovery plans etc. Experience showed that it was 
counterproductive to task local governance institutions with loan-management 
responsibilities. NSP II promotes human capital development activities as a means to lay the 
ground 
 
9. 
Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project
 
Yes
 
No
 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
4.01) 
[X ] 
[ ] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04)
 
[
]
[X] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[
X] 
Physical Cultural Resources (
OP/BP 4.11
)
[
]
[
X] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12)
 
[
X] [ 
] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OP
/
BP
4.10)
 
[
]
[X ] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36)
 
[
]
[X ] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37)
 
[
]
[X ] 
Page  7
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
7.60)
*
[
]
[X ] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
7.50)
 
[
]
[X ] 
10. List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
11. Contact point 
Contact: Norman Piccioni/ Nihal Fernando 
Title: Lead Rural Development Specialist/ Senior Rural Development Specialist 
Tel: 
+1 202 378 8506 +93 (0)700 79312, +93 (0)799 682592
 
Email:npiccioni@worldbank.org/nfernando@worldbank.org 
Location: Kabul, Afghanistan 
 
12. For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Fax:  (202) 522-1500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  8
