Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  10/03/2006 
Report No.:  AC2502
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Afghanistan 
Project ID:  P102288 
Project Name:  Afghanistan: Emergency National Solidarity Project II 
Task Team Leader:  Norman Bentley Piccioni 
Estimated Appraisal Date: October 12, 
2006 
Estimated Board Date: December 7, 2006 
Managing Unit:  SASAR 
Lending Instrument:  Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector:  Other social services (25%);Roads and highways (25%);Water supply 
(25%);Irrigation and drainage (15%);Sub-national government administration (10%) 
Theme:  Participation and civic engagement (P);Rural services and infrastructure 
(P);Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction (S);Gender (S);Social risk 
mitigation (S) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
120.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER/RECIPIENT 
0.00
0.00 
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [] 
Repeater [X] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
Yes [ ] 
No [X] 
2. Project Objectives 
Building on the current IDA operation, the proposed project will expand to new areas to 
lay the foundations for a strengthening of community level governance, and to support 
community-managed sub-projects comprising reconstruction and development that 
improve access of rural communities to social and productive infrastructure and services.   
 
3. Project Description 
For a total estimated cost of US$ 525 million in three years, which include a back-log of 
US$ 90 from the current IDA operation. This amount is expected to be financed through 
IDA, ARTF, JSDF and bilateral resources.  
 
The Grant will finance US$120 million or 23 percent of the projected total cost of the 
NSP II as follows:  
 
Page  2
(i) 
Block Grants for communities (US$94.3 million) to carry out Sub-Projects 
involving reconstruction and development activities through a facilitated participatory 
planning process. Block Grants will be disbursed to at least 75% of the 9,880 new 
communities to plan and implement sub-projects involving reconstruction and 
development activities, identified through a facilitated participatory process at the 
community level.  In addition to the new communities, block grant installments will be 
required for existing communities yet to disburse their full block grant entitlement.  
Based on the experience gained in the program to date, it is expected that these activities 
will focus mainly on community-based productive and social infrastructure.  
 
(ii) 
Community Facilitation and Sub-Project Preparation (US$9.7 million) to support 
local communities through: (i) facilitation exercises to establish inclusive community 
institutions, and identify local development needs and priorities; and (ii) assistance for 
preparing sub-project proposals.  The FP cycle of support to CDCs has been reduced 
from three years in the first phase of the program to two years.  The two year timeframe 
will allow the FPs to support communities with mobilization and the establishing and 
functioning of CDCs as inclusive community institutions; the formulation, through a 
consultative process, of community development plans, identifying local needs and 
priorities; and assistance and capacity building for the implementation of priority sub-
projects, based on the community development plans utilizing the block grant. The past 
experience of the NSP will enable FPs to broaden the emphasis of the Community 
Development Plan to overall development needs, rather than focusing only on the 
development facilitated through the receipt of a block grant and the emphasis on 
infrastructure.  
 
(iii) 
CDC Capacity Development (US$14.4 million) to assist CDCs in carrying out 
sub-projects for which block grants have been made available, and capacity building for 
members of local communities. These services will strengthen local communities? 
capacity in financial management, procurement, and technical skills.  
 
(iv) 
Implementation and Management Support (US$1.5 million) comprising provision 
of consultants services for capacity building in, implementation support to, and 
incremental operating costs for the MRRD.  The project will also augment the MRRD?s 
human and physical capacity to supervise and implement the project.  
 
At the end of the three years, it is expected that: (i) the NSP will have covered all 
districts across the country making available basic social and productive infrastructure 
and other services resulting from receipt of block grants, and (ii) that 21,600 CDCs (90 
percent of an estimated total of 24,000 villages) will be performing as representative 
bodies to lead community development planning and financing in their areas per the CDC 
by-laws.   
 
Page  3
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
For the next three years the Program will be expanding to reach as many communities as 
the security situation will allow. Expansion of the program to reach full national coverage 
is a priority of the government based on equity considerations.  
 
The security environment in which the NSP operates, however, has deteriorated over the 
course of the program and is currently at its worst level.  The number of communities and 
districts where NSP activities are suspended has steadily increased.  The security 
situation is the single biggest risk facing the achievement of the second phase objective of 
full national coverage.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Ms Asta Olesen (SASES) 
Mr Mohammad Arif Rasuli (SASES) 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
Considering the fact that NSP II may observe increase in the number of joint sub projects, 
environmental issues should be taken seriously and handled carefully.  
 
Operational Policy 4.12 will not be triggered. No resettlement will take place, but in 
connection with certain sub-projects, there may be a need for limited land acquisition, 
which will only take place through voluntary donations, the guidelines for which is 
included in the Social and Environmental Safeguard Framework (SESF). The SESF 
furthermore contains procedures for recording land acquisition and restoring of housing, 
compensation for loss of land and livelihood of project affected families in a consultative 
and mutually agreeable manner, compliant with OP 4.12.   A satisfactory settlement of 
the land issues is a precondition for sub-project implementation ? and any form of land 
acquisition shall be fully documented.  
 
Page  4
In general, the weak capacity of the MRRD in monitoring and ensuring safeguard issues 
was observed. MRRD has not appointed any focal point for safeguards after the 
resignation of the first Focal Officer for the Social and Environmental issue.   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
Not applicable   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
Not applicable   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
-
Environmental Management Plan which is included in the ESMF for screening 
sub-projects has been developed with the technical support from the World Bank.  
 
-
It is advised that more emphasis should be placed on raising awareness about 
social and environmental issues among all the stakeholders in line with the Operation 
Manual as well as Social and Environmental Safeguard Framework developed during 
NSP I and updated for NSP-II as well as development of proper monitoring and reporting 
mechanism for compliance with the Framework.  
 
-
A
check list for screening the NSP subprojects has been developed for identifying 
any potential negative Social and Environmental impact and is included in the Safeguards 
Framework.  
 
-
MRRD will have to ensure that the proper procedures be followed by the NSP and 
relevant staff as regards to the voluntary land acquisition. MRRD/NSP Management will 
aim at ensuring, through on-going training of FPs on the operation manual, that proper 
procedures be followed, including the requirements for full documentation of the 
voluntary nature of land donation and the subsequent community ownership status of the 
land in question.  
 
-
MRRD shall appoint a Focal Point for Environmental and Social Safeguards 
monitoring, and a draft TOR was developed by the Bank team.  
 
-
It is advised to allocate appropriate amount of funding to ensure capacity building 
and monitoring  on the safeguards issues.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
Key stakeholders include rural communities who participate in the project, MRRD staff, 
Facilitating Partners as well as Oversight Consultant.  The NSP Unit at MRRD has been 
holding regular meetings with stakeholders to discuss the organization and content of the 
Enviromnetal Management Framework and Operations Manual, which will be revised 
accordingly.  
 
Environment Management Plan will be disclosed on the Infoshop and on the website of 
MRRD NSP department prior to the appraisal.   
 
Page  5
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
09/27/2006 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
10/05/2006 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
09/29/2006 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources, 
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
No 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM) 
review and approve the EA report? 
N/A 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
Yes 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
Yes 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
No 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
No 
Page  6
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Mr Norman Bentley Piccioni 
09/18/2006 
Environmental Specialist: 
Mr Mohammad Arif Rasuli 
09/26/2006 
Social Development Specialist 
Ms Asta Olesen 
09/26/2006 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Frederick Edmund Brusberg 
10/03/2006 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Mr Gajanand Pathmanathan 
 
Comments:   
