                                               Documentof
                                             The World Bank
                                      FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                 Report No. 48224-AF




                                   EMERGENCYPROJECTPAPER

                                                    ONA

                                 PROPOSEDADDITIONAL GRANT

                              INTHE AMOUNT OFSDR 50.9 MILLION
                                  (US$75.0 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                                     TO

                          THE ISLAMICREPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN

                                                     FOR

                 SECONDEMERGENCYNATIONALSOLIDARITY PROJECT

                                               April 14,2009




SustainableDevelopmentDepartment
Agriculture and Rural DevelopmentSector
AfghanistanCountry ManagementUnit
SouthAsia Region


This document has a restricted distribution andmay be usedby recipients only inthe performance oftheir
official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                          CURRENCYEQUIVALENTS

     (Exchange rate is Kabul basedopen market buyingrate effective April 9,2009)

                          Currency Unit = Afghani
                           Afghani 1.00 = US$0.019
                                US$1.OO   = Afghani 51.O




                         GOVERNMENT FISCALYEAR
                                    March21 -- March 20



                       ABBREVIATIONSAND ACRONYMS

Afn   Afghanis                                 GOA      Government of Afghanistan
ANDs  Afghanistan NationalDevelopment         HCD      Human Capital Development
      Strategy
ARTF  Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund   IDA      InternationalDevelopment
                                                       Association
BG    Block Grant                             I S N    InterimStrategy Note
CAO   Control and Audit Office                NSP      National Solidarity Program
CDC   Community Development Council           M&E      Monitoringand Evaluation
CDP   Community DevelopmentPlan               M I S    Management Information System
DAB   DaAfghanistan Bank                      MRRD MinistryofRuralRehabilitation
                                                       and Development
ERR   Economic Rate o f Return
ESSMF Environmental and Social Safeguard      MSC      Management Support Consultant
      Management Framework
FM    Financial Management                    MTR      Mid- Term Review
FP    FacilitatingPartner                     PDO      Project Development Objective




                             Vice President IsabelM.Guerrero
                          Country Director Nicholas J. Krafft
                             Sector Director John H.Stein
                            Sector Manager Adolfo Brizzi
                         Task Team Leader Qazi Azmat IsdSusanneHolste

                                          ..
                                          11

                                                                                                              FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                            TABLEOF CONTENTS



        PROJECTPAPERDATA SHEET1

        I. INTRODUCTION                      ............................................................................................................        1

        11.     BACKGROUNDAND RATIONALE FORADDITIONAL FINANCING                                                                                   ................1

        111.    PROPOSEDCHANGES                        ..................................................................................................        5

        N. IMPLEMENTATIONARRANGEMENTS                                                   ...................................................................      5

        V.      CONSISTENCYWITH THE INTERIM STRATEGY NOTE                                                                ....................................    7

        VI.     UPDATEOF THE ECONOMIC ANALYSIS                                              ...............................................................      7

        VII.    FINANCIAL TERMSAND CONDITIONSFOR THE ADDITIONAL
        FINANCING      ..................................................................................................................................        8

        ANNEXES     ......................................................................................................9




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.


                                                                             111
                                                                             ...


                                   ProjectPaperData Sheet

Date: April 14,2009                     Team Leader:Qazi Azmat Isa/Susanne Holste
Country:Afghanistan                     Sector Managermirector:Adolfo Brizzi/John H.Stein
ProjectName: SecondEmergency            CountryDirector:NicholasJ. Krafft
National Solidarity Project
Additional Financing                    EnvironmentalCategory: B
ProjectID:P112869

Recipient:           Islamic Republic of Afghanistan
Responsible agency: Ministry of Rural RehabilitationandDevelopment




Current closing date: September 30, 2009
Revisedclosing date: SeDtember 30.201 1
                                                   s from Bank policies? ,




Revisedproject development objective/outcome
       The project development objective remains the same: to strengthen community level
governance in Afghanistan and to improve the access of rural communities to social and
productive infrastructure and services by supporting certain components of the Recipient's
NationalSolidarity Program.

Does the scaled-up or restructured project trigger any new safeguardpolicies? N/A
                      P

                                   ForAdditionalFinancing
[ ] Loan   [ICredit [X]Grant
For Loans/Credits/Grants:
      Total Bank financing SDR 50.9 million (US$75 million)
      Proposedterms: StandardIDA Grant terms.

                                 FinancingPlan(US$ million)
               Source                  ILocal           1Foreign            I
                                                              -               Total
Recipient                                 0.0            0.0                   0.0
IDA                                     70.0             5.O                  75.0
Others                                    0.0            0.0                  0.0
Total                                   70.0             5.0                  75.0


I. Introduction

1.      This Project Paper seeks approval of the Executive Directors to provide an additional grant in an
amount of SDR 50.9 million' (US$ 75.0 million equivalent) for the Afghanistan Second Emergency
National Solidarity Project (NSP 11) (P102288), which is currently supported by IDA Grant H261-AF
(US$ 120 million equivalent). Upon the Board's approval of the additional grant, the closing date of
Grant H261-AF would be extended by two years.

2.      The proposed additional financing would help finance a funding gap and enable completion o f
original project activities. There would be no changes to the project's development objectives, results
framework and key outcome indicators, and implementation arrangements. As the project i s to reach
more rural communities than originally envisaged, the project's impact will be enhanced. This project is
co-financed by the Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund (TF90205) and bi-lateral funding from ten
donor countries.

11.     BackgroundandRationalefor AdditionalFinancing

Background

3.      The National Solidarity Program (NSP), one of the most successful priority programs, was
launched by the Government of Afghanistan (GOA) to support governance building and rural
infrastructure rehabilitation. The project development objective is to strengthen community level
governance in Afghanistan and to improve the access of rural communities to social and productive
infrastructure and services by supporting certain components o f the Recipient's National Solidarity
Program. The program finances: (i)community mobilization, empowerment and capacity building; (ii)
block grants to communities to implement sub-projects for reconstruction and development; and (iii)
program implementation management support, including programmonitoring and evaluation.

4.      The program was first piloted as a component under the Emergency Community Empowerment
and Public Works Project funded by IDA grant H009 (closed on December 31,2004) and subsequently
received funding support of three IDA grants (H072, H174, H209), an ARTF grant (TF 53939) and a
JSDF grant (TF 54367); the five grants closed on March 31, 2007, with total disbursement o f US$388
million.

5.      On account o f the satisfactory performance of the program in achieving its development
objectives and the critical need to roll out the program to all rural communities, a second phase of the
program for a three-year implementation period, i.e., NSP 11, was prepared in 2006 with support o f the
GOA and the donor community. The development objectives and program content of NSP I1remain the
same as those for the first phase. NSP I1i s to reach an estimated additional 4,318 villages and provide
continued support to the 17,222 communities mobilized inthe first phase, with an estimated program cost
of US$ 526 million. To support the NSP 11, an IDA Grant o f SDR 81.2 million (US$120 million
equivalent) was approved on December 7, 2006 and became effective May 15, 2007. Donor support for
NSP I1has been largely channeled through the ARTF with some additional bi-lateral funding. On May
27, 2007, ARTF grant TF 90205 for NSP I1was approved, signed and became effective; since then,
cumulative funding allocations to TF 90205 totaled US$311.5 million as o f December 31,2008. Both
IDA grant H261 andTF 90205 have a current closing date of September30,2009.




 To be calculatedusingthe SDR rate as ofthe last day ofthe monthprecedingnegotiations

                                                       1

Program Performance

6.       Since the start o f the NSP 11, it's Project Development Objective (PDO) and Implementation
Progress(IP) ratings have consistently been Satisfactory.

7.       The second phase of the program has brought the following achievements: 4,864 additional
communities mobilized and 4, 448 additional Community Development Councils (CDCs) have been
democratically elected and 4,242 Community Development Plans (CDPs) have been prepared; 22,84 1
sub-projects have been approved and 15,761 sub-projects have been completed. The majority o f the sub-
projects are for drinking water supplies, village roads, and irrigation infrastructure. US$ 272.7 million
has been disbursed as block grants directly to the communities. About 11,738 CDCs mobilized in the
first phase of the program continue to receive support in the current phase while 6,715 CDCs have
completely utilized their block grant allocations. The program i s now running in 359 districts out o f a
total 398 inall 34 provinces inthe country and has reachedover 17 million rural people.

8.       To date, the program has seen the formation of 22,618 CDCs, exceeding the target of 21,600.
The reason is the strong demand from remaining communities in districts which were already mobilized
duringthe first phase o fthe program and a more active engagement inthe less secure areas ofthe country.

9.       NSP I1has made important contributionsto the formation o f social capital and governance in the
communities. The CDCs are elected through secret ballots and are generally made up of a broader
representation of the village constituencies than the traditional shuras. 35% o f all CDC representatives
are women and 47% o f women confirm their participation indecision making. Moreover, 21%of women
are active in development activities outside the NSP. The participation o f women in village life
represents an important transformation in a society where women are largely absent from public fora.
89% of men and 77% of women rated CDCs as being the main decision making bodies that address
critical development needs. CDC representatives receive training in office bearer duties, book keeping,
and accounting. Most Facilitating Partners (FPs) focus on conflict resolution and prevention skills during
the early phase of community mobilization and many villagers have attested to the importance of such
activities in the war torn communities. Facilitating partners are national and international NGOs which
are very important for the successful implementation of the NSP. The partners have often worked under
difficult conditions, including operational bottlenecks, which will have to be overcome as the program
moves forward.

10.      Legal compliance.The project is in substantial compliance with legal covenants. As o f the last
Implementation Status and Results Report in September 2008, the project was in partial compliance with
several legal covenants but significant progress has been made towards full compliance since then. The
contract performance assessments o f the Facilitating Partners and the Management Support Consultant
are near completion and the draft reports were received in March 2009. An action plan to ensure full
compliance of legal covenants has been developed and is attached in Annex 1. The evaluation of the
FacilitatingPartners assessed the relevance, effectiveness, and efficiency o f the FPs in implementingthe
NSP program. The evaluation found that the majority of FPs have a satisfactory financial management
system in place to ensure that the funds are used for the purposes intended. The NSP has been important
in social transformation in the communities but increased participation by women was seen as the most
difficult issue. The FPs can help achieve this but would require further resources. The assessment
recommended amongst other points a better documentation and knowledge sharing o f the wide ranging
innovations the FPs have introduced.

11.      Fiduciary compliance. The November 2008 supervision mission noted improvements in the
project's fiduciary compliance. The project has an overdue audit report for Afghan solar year 1386
(ending on March 20 2008) due for submission to IDA by September 22 2008. The annual external audits


                                                     2

for all IDA and ARTF funded operations in Afghanistan are carried out by the Auditor General (Control
and Audit office) with the support of a firm o f public accountants selected through international
competitive bidding for a period of 3 years at a time. Selection o f the audit firm for the period of SY
1386-1388 encountered considerable delays, causing a shift of the timetable for completing all project
audits for SY1386 by June 30, 2009. On account of the concrete arrangement and timetable in place for
completingthe audits for SY 1386, IDA granted on December 19, 2008 a waiver of BP 10.02remedies in
regard to delaying the presentation of new operations and extendingclosing dates for ongoing operations.
There areno other unresolved major financial managementissues.

12.      The recent Financial Management (FM) review concluded that the project's current FM
arrangements are considered adequate. Procurement and safeguards management have improved and the
current arrangements are also considered adequate. Steps have been taken recently to strengthen FM
including budgeting, reconciliation of block grant disbursement to CDCs, and the recruitment o f a
professionally qualified accountant inthe NSP Finance team, creation o f an Audit unit within the MRRD
to carry out independent internal audits and facilitate external audits. MRRD is implementingan action
plan to bringfinancial and procurement management performance to fully satisfactory level. This action
planis attachedinAnnex 2.


Rationalefor AdditionalFinancing

13.      The November 2008 IDA supervision mission reviewed the overall implementation progress of
the program and the pendingprogram activities and commitments, and re-assessed the NSP I1financing
requirements v i s - h i s the amounts of funding support secured to date. Compared to the original NSP I1
program costs estimate o f US$526 millionwhen the IDA grant H261 was approved, the revised program
costs are estimated to be about US$ 704 million. The difference comprises (a) an increase of US$ 110
million under the block grants component; (b) an increaseof

                                     ProjectCost Table by Component

A. Blockgrants                 Original cost    NSP I1revised            Difference             In%oforiginal
                                estimates




B. FPcommunity
facilitation& CDC
capacity development




*The schoolwindow sub-componentfinanced the constructionof schools at thedistrict level. These activitiesare beinghanded
    over to the MinistryofEducation.



                                                        3

**Itisproposedto combineoriginal componentB "FP CommunityFacilitation" andComponentC"CDCs Capacity
     Development" becausethe activitiesare interwovenand supportedby the sameFPs.
***The institutehasbeenestablishedinMRRDbut it was decidedto seek financingoutsidethe NSP.



US$ 61 million under the community facilitation and capacity building component; (c) an increase of
US$ 10 million under the program management component; and (d) a decrease of US$ 3 million under
the Afghanistan Institute for Rural Development component. The table below shows the revisedcosts by
component and the original costs estimates (inUS$million).

14.       The original funding requirementsfor block grants to communities turned out to be considerably
underestimated due to (i)   the equity considerations (outreach to the entire country) as well as demand o f
rural communities for a rapid roll-out o f the program; and (ii)      an increase inthe average amount o f block
grant per community from US$26,000 to US$32,800 due to increasednumber o f households as displaced
people returned to their villages and number of families were better established. The cost increasefor the
community facilitation and capacity building component are attributable to: (i)greater community
facilitatiodcapacity building efforts required than originally budgeted for, and (ii)unpredictable and
delayed releasesof funds from ARTF precipitated by the actual flow of donor contributions paid into the
ARTF and bilateral donors for NSP I1slowed the pace o f facilitation and subproject implementation and
increased the costs of contracts for Facilitating Partners (FPs) as they are unable to adjust their staffing
strengths in the field.      Finally, the deteriorating security situation has resulted in more frequent
suspensions o f program activities in certain areas where the program is operating, thereby increasing the
programdelivery costs.

15.      Based on the revised program costs and the actual funding support secured to date, there i s a
funding gap of approximately US$ 264 million, of which US$ 138 million is being sought from ARTF.
The proposed additional IDA financing of US$75 million will help close the funding gap while funding
from bilateral donors will be sought to meet the remaining balance. This, together with the proposed two
year extension of the grant closing date for H 261 and TF 90205 will enable the completion of NSP I1
activities.

16.      The proposed additional financing is crucial to enable a well-performing national priority
program to continue its implementation and achieve its development objectives and outcomes. Presently,
24 percent of the total number of communities contracted have fully utilized their block grant allocations.
While this achievement is lower than could have been anticipated at this point, this i s not due to lack of
interest by the communities but rather due to delays in payment of block grants. The reasons for this
include unavailability o f donor funding and operational delays. Preparation for the third phase o f the
program (NSP 111) i s expected to begin soon and would focus i.a. on completing the roll-out o f the
program to all accessible communities and on recurrent block grants to and consolidation o f existing
Community Development Councils. Preparation o f the third phase will also include a review on the
sustainability o f the CDCs and their role inthe sub-national governance agendao f Afghanistan. The task
team, in consultation with the Client felt that it would make more sense to develop a new operation for
this next stage rather than for completing current commitments. The proposed additional financing will
enable the GOAto fulfill commitments made to the communities. In many villages, NSP i s the only
government program delivering results on the ground.

17.      Additional financing i s considered to be the most suitable instrumentto help close the identified
funding gap basedonthe projections of further ARTF fundingsupport for NSP I1inthe comingyears and
difficulties in securing sizable bi-lateral donor support outside the ARTF for NSP 11. As part o f the
review o f the NSP I1implementation, discussions with MRRD and donors are ongoing to examine how
community level governance structure as developed under the NSP can be sustained and strengthened to
enable CDCs to play a central role in demand-driven rural development and poverty reduction in

                                                          4

Afghanistan.     Moving forward in that direction would likely call for a re-calibration of program's
development objectives, program contents, results framework and implementation arrangements. For this
reason, there i s a sharedview with MRRDthat future support would be most suitably deliveredthrough a
new lendingoperation.

18.     The Project's development objective, programdesign, results framework and outcome indicators,
as well as implementation arrangementsremainthe same.



111.    ProposedChanges

19.     This project paper seeks approval for an additional financing of US$ 75 million. Upon the
Board's approval of the additional grant, the closing date of Grant H261-AF would be extended by two
years. The project's development objectives, program design, results framework and outcome indicators,
and implementation arrangements remain the same. Project activities pertaining to Community
Facilitation(Component B) and Capacity Buildingof CDCs (Component C) will be merged becausetheir
implementation is interwoven and supported by the same FPs. As the program is rolled out to more rural
communities than originally envisaged, the program's impact will be enhanced and the target o f
formation of CDCs at the end ofNSP I1implementationis revised from 21,600 to 22, 618.

20.     Allocation of the proceedso f the proposed additional funding is as follows:

 Component                                        Amount of the Grant                % of Grant
                                                 Allocated (US$ million)
  I.Grantsforcommunitvsub-moiects               52.1                            69.5%
 2. Community facilitation & sub-project        17.6                            23.5%
 preparation and capacity buildingo f
 community development councils
 3. Implementationand management support                                        7%
 Total                                          75                              100%



21.     Disbursement from the proposed additional grant would be from a single disbursement category
covering goods, works, consultants' services, training, Block Grants and Incremental Operating Costs*
for the Project. "Incremental Operating Costs" means the incremental expenses incurred on account of
Project implementation and management, including the operation and maintenance o f vehicles, office
supplies, communication charges, insurance costs, office administration costs, banking charges, utility
charges, domestic travel and per diem allowances, but excluding salariesof the officials of the Recipient's
civil service.

IV.     ImplementationArrangements

22.     Activities under the proposed additional financing would be carried out using the existing
implementation arrangements. MRRD would continue to have the overall responsibility for program
implementation. The NSP management under MRRD guidance would continue to carry out core
functions for policy and strategy development and application, coordination with other ministries,
resource mobilization, management of relations with FPs, appraisal, approval and processing of



                                                    5

subprojects, engineering support for sub-projects, monitoring and quality assurance, and training and
capacity development at central, regional and provincial levels.

23.     The Management Support Consultant employed by MRRD for the NSP I1 is responsible for
consolidated financial management, Block Grant Management and Management Information System
(MIS)operations. Most ofthe remainingoperational functions arenow handled directly byNSP national
staff except M&E, FP Management, procurement, and technical support where limited technical
assistance is still provided by the Management Support Consultant. The NSP national staff has greatly
improved their technical skills and capacity to carry out the program activities through their engagement
inthe program andtraining overthe pastyears. The current implementationarrangementsare satisfactory.

24.     Procurement: Procurement under the proposed additional financing would be done in accordance
with the World Bank's "Guidelines: Procurement under IBRDLoans and IDA Credits" (dated May 2004;
revised October 2006); "Guidelines: Selection and Employment o f Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers" (dated May 2004; revised October 2006); and the provisions stipulated in the Financing
Agreement. The World Bank's Standard Bidding Documents, Requests for Proposals, and Forms of
Consultant Contract will be used. In case of conflictlcontradiction between the World Bank's
procurement procedures and any national rules and regulations, the World Bank's procurement
procedureswill take precedence.

V.      Consistencywith the Interim Strategy Note

25.     Because o f the post-conflict nature o f the country, IDA has not prepared a CAS for Afghanistan.
An InterimStrategyNote (ISN)was approved by the Board inMay 2006 and a new ISN is scheduled for
Board presentation in June 2009. The NSP I1and the proposed additional financing are fully consistent
with the current and the new ISN, in particular with the pillar of promoting growth o f the rural economy
and improving rural livelihoods, which include activities that deliver community infrastructure and
improved services. The proposed additional financing would help the Government toward achieving its
rural development benchmarks o f the Afghanistan National Development Strategy (ANDs). It would
also provide a clear signal of IDA'Scontinued support for the Government's broad development efforts,
especially for the needto better target benefits towards poor rural communities.

VI.     Updateof the EconomicAnalysis

26.     At project appraisal the economic analysis showed that NSP sub-projects would have an overall
economic rate of return (ERR) of about 38.2 percent NSP would also have significant but non-
quantifiable impact in its contribution for buildingcommunity level governance throughout Afghanistan.
Delivery costs were considered in line with international experiences o f CDD projects.

27.     The most recent economic analysis o fNSP done inJuly 2008 found that economic rate of returns
of the sub-projects are high. The overall ERR is 18.9% for all sub-projects across four sectors: irrigation
24%, power 19%, water supply 20%, and roads 16.5%. The sub-projects provided 1.9 million labor days
during construction and generated an additional employment potential of 470,000 labor days annually.
Investments in irrigation are shown to have an important equity impact with smaller irrigation projects
(Afn 0.5 to 1 million) having ERRSof over 30% and benefitingmore families. Although the ERR from
the recent analysis is less than the project appraisal estimates, it is evident that the project is still
economically justified.




                                                      6

VII.      Benefitsand Risks


28.       Benefits:The NSP block grants are used to build economically productive infrastructure and to
form social capital and accountability mechanisms in the communities. Returns on NSP outputs are
immediate and the evidence suggests that their benefits to villagers are highas stated above.

29.       Risks: At appraisal for the NSP 11, the project had been characterized as a high risk-high reward
operation.     The overall inherent risk and the control risk were both rated as high. Based on the
implementation experience, the risk mitigation measures in place are generally effective.            The security
situation, however, continues to worsen. Approximately 37 people working on NSP (NSP staff, FP staff,
and CDC members) have been killed since the beginning ofthe project. An additional 16 staff have been
kidnapped and five people were attacked or injured. A strategy for implementation in high risk areas has
been developed and is currently being piloted in Kandahar province.              If this proves successful, this
strategy will be used in other parts of the country where the security situation may deteriorate in the
coming months prior to the Presidential elections inAugust 2009.

30.       There is room for further mitigating the financial and procurement risks. Annex 2 outlines the
actions agreed that will further strengthen the N S P financial and procurement management, thereby
reducing the risks. The overall program risks and their mitigation measures are summarized in the table
below.

Risk                                  MitigationPlan

Lack o f proper operations and       Emphasis on developing Operations and Maintenance Plans by the
maintenance plansfor sub projects     community which identifykey people within the community responsible
by rural communities.                for maintenance o fthe sub project. The O&M planmust also provide for
                                     community savings that canbe used to cover costs o f maintenance.

Insufficient technical support to    NSPMRRD to closely monitor FPsto ensure proper technical support is
communities during sub project       provided to communities duringproject implementation and that technical
implementation by Facilitating       training i s provided for operations and maintenance o fthe project.
Partners.

Security situation inthe country     Though the security is beyond the control o f this project, FPs try to
remains fluidwhich can result in     minimize these risks by hiring staff locally from the communities they
temporary or permanent suspensions work in. Prior to beginning NSP in any districts, FPs first meet with local
o f implementation incertain         power holders to ensure their buy-in from the onset o f the program. In
districts.                           addition, NSP through a series o f consultations with project stakeholders,
                                     has defined a strategy o f engagement in high risk areas which (i)  provides
                                     MRRD-NSP, FPs, and their partnerswith the flexibility to experiment with
                                     alternative forms o f implementation that are tailored to the local context,
                                     (ii)establishesdecentralizedmechanismswithintheNSPprogramstructure
                                     that allow local decision-making, rapid sub-project identification and
                                     approval, and rapid block grant disbursement, (iii)defines measures to
                                     mitigate fiduciary risk inherent to operating in a volatile insecure
                                     environment and (iv) establishes a ffamework inwhich MRRD-NSP, FPs,
                                     and communities can evaluate the successes and failures of alternative
                                     implementation approaches and share lessons learned.
The long and harshwinters in         NSPMRRD is to ensurethat communities receive their block grants prior
Afghanistan result ina short         to working season (May- October) to allow projects to be completed before
window for sub project               winter.
implementationwhich causes delay


                                                        7

Risk                                Mitigation Plan

inprojectcompletion.

The environmentaland social         NSP is to providedecentralized field leveltrainingon environmental and
safeguardcompliance ofNSPhas so     social safeguards to all relevantfield staff ofNSP and FPs, systematic
far beenratedmoderately             monitoringof safeguards implementation, develop commonNSPapproach
satisfactory.                       to encourage`community compensation' of Project affectedfamilies and
                                    introduce Conflict Mitigationtrainingto all field levelNSP and FP staff-
                                    and link upto understandingofcompensationand documentation issuesof
                                    the LandAcquisitionguidelines inESMF. The operation manual includes
                                    clear guidelines and processes to comply with safeguards;NSPhas
                                    appointedtwo nationalfocal points for environmental and social safeguard
                                    complianceandthe recruitment of internationalsafeguardspecialist hasjust
                                    been completed. These officers have overallresponsibility for overseeing
                                    the implementationofthe Environmentaland Social Safeguards
                                    Framework and ManagementPlan.

The overallprocurementrisk ofthe    Procurementadministrationis overseen by an international procurement
NSP is moderate. The project        specialist who is also building inhouse capacity at the MRRDlevel. IDA'S
includesa largenumber of            procurementteam will continueto supervise the procurement
community levelsub-projectsthat     administrationclosely and carry out post-procurementreviewsperiodically.
are widely spread over the country
andwill be procuredby the           The NSP operationalmanualalso provides step by step proceduresto be
communities. IDA will be unableto   followed by communities for community procurement. The procurement
carry out procurementreviews ofa   proceduresat the communitylevelhavebeenfurther simplified. The
reasonablesample of sub-projects as projectwill continue to providetrainingon communityprocurementto FP
wouldbethe case inanormal           staffand CDCs.
investmentproject.

Financialmanagement is considered   Several steps have been taken in the last three months to improve FM
a moderaterisk.                     including budgeting, reconciliation of block grant disbursement to CDCs,
                                   the recruitmentof a professionallyqualifiedaccountant inthe NSP Finance
                                   team, creation of an Audit unit within the MRRDto carry out independent
                                    internal audits and facilitate external audits, as well as technical and
                                    financialauditingo fthe contracts ofMSC andFPs.

VII.     Financialterms and conditions for the additionalfinancing

30.      The proposedadditional financingwould beprovided on StandardIDA grant terms.




                                                      8

                       Annex 1: Action planfor full compliancewith legalcovenants




a) TheRecipientshall,       The WE3 contracted a team from                                           Baseline
no later than July 31,      Harvard UniversityinSeptember                                            survey
2007conduct a baseline      2008 to designthe impact                                                 completed in
survey of the institutional evaluation and manage the                                                September
and social indicators of    baseline survey, including                                               2008.
theproject.                 appropriate institutional and social
                            indicators. The main reasons for
                            delay incompletion o fthe
                            baseline were the fluid security
                            situation throughout the country
                            andthe suspensiono fwork in
                            several areas during the winter
                            period.
b) TheRecipientshall,       The external consultant for the       > The consultant to send in the    May 15,2009
no later than March 31,     evaluationwas contracted inlate         remaining draft reports before
2008 carry out a            September 2008. The field work          April 30,2009 after
performance evaluation      has beencompleted andthe draft          consolidatingNSP and FP
of Facilitating Partners.   report was received inlate              comments.
                            January 2009.                         > The final individual reports and
                                                                   the synthesized combined
                                                                   report to be made available by
                                                                    May 15,2009.
                                                                  > Presentation on the findings/
                                                                   recommendations o fthe final
                                                                   report to NSP stakeholders
                                                                   before end o fMay 2009.

c) The recipient shall, no  Note: Giventhat the `FP               > The initial contract with the    May 15,2009
  later than March 31,      Performance Evaluation'                 external consultant for this
2008, conduct a technical mentionedabove includeda                 evaluationwas terminated due
andfinancial audit of the   component o f financial audit, this    to non-performance. The
     contracts of the       covenant has beenchanged to            evaluationwill now be
Facilitating Partners and   only include `Technical and            completed by the Client based
theManagement Support       Financial Audit o fthe NSP MSC'.       on the work deliveredso far.
       Consultant           This change was introduced in
                            agreement with IDA.

                            The external consultant for this
                            evaluation was contracted inlate
                            June 2008. Initial meetings and
                            individual evaluations o f MSC
                            consultant outputs were
                            completed by July 2008. Written
                            interviews on contractual targets
                            and deliverables were completed
                            by September 2008. A
                            presentation on the evaluation
                            process and initial findings were
                            made by the consultant to select
                            StakeholdersinNovember 2008.


                                                         9

d) TheRecipientshall,    The initialplanto outsourcethe     > The M&E module is expected         New system to
no later thanMarch 31,  preparationofthe revisednew           to be finalizedby May 15,          be fully
2007, establish a       MISfor theNSPfaileddueto             2009.                               functional by
management information   lack of suitablecandidatesinspite  > The FPmodule is expectedto         30" June 2009
system in accordance     ofnumerous effortsto recruit/hire    be completedby May 15,2009.
with terms of reference  the same.As such, in agreement
and timeplans agreed     with IDA, it was agreedthat the    > The finalizationo f the system
with theAssociation.    NSPMISDepartmentwould                 for decentralizeddataentry to
                        handlethis work themselvesbut        be completedby May 15,2009.
                        with additionaltime requiredfor
                         completion.                        > Testingandpiloting o f system
                                                              to be completedby May 30,
                         Standalone components for the        2009.
                        new MIShavebeencompleted            > Recruitmentandtrainingof
                         andare functionalto various          staffto handlethe decentralized
                         degrees.                             dataentry in34 PMUsto be
                                                              completedby June 30,2009.
                         The maincomponentremainingto
                        be completedis the
                         decentralizationofdata entry with
                        regardto NSPcommunityand
                         subprojectinformation.

e) TheRecipientshall,   NSPproducesbi-annualreports.        > Introducethe forecastingmodel      Forecasting
no later than June 30    Italso producesmonthly and           recommendedby IDAby April          modelwas
and December 31 of each  quarterly expenditureforecasts       15,2009.                           deliveredon
year causeMRRD to        andcashflow projections. Ithas     > Ensurethat the h t u r e forecasts April 3,2009
prepareandfurnish to    beenagreedthatNSPwould                andprojectionsare
theAssociation, bi-     refme itsforecastingmodelto           systematicallysharedwith IDA
annual reports, monthly betterreflectthe complexity of        andother donors.
expenditureforecasts,    operations.                        > Use the modelto improve
and monthly cashpow                                          NSP's financial situation.
projections.




                                                    10

       Y
       0




id
5
L

E
5
&
a
eo
E
1
id



Q)

M
m
5!
E


L.(
eo
ii
.I          3
            ri



G
E

El
0
20
.I
43
id




Q)
P
L
..
e4
!
4

     Y
     0
     ..
     3
     3
     2
     N
     2
     Q2.
     D
     4
     Q



h

n
3     o\
3    0
N    0
      c.l
5-
`c1   vr
     3




             6O , R
                 V
                 B   m
                     A
                     z


3d
D
8

'
0

.-
ti
8
E
8

P




      v,
      3


