Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H261-AF 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
Second Emergency National Solidarity Project 
 
between 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated February 3, 2007  
 
Page  2
2
Page  3
GRANT NUMBER H261-AF 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated February 3, 2007, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF 
AFGHANISTAN (the 
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the “Association”).  The Recipient and the Association hereby agree as 
follows: 
ARTICLE I 
–
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in the Financing 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in 
the Appendix to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II - FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to 
eighty one million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
 
(SDR 81,200,000) (the 
“Grant”) to assist in financing the project described in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (the “Project”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with 
Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the 
Unwithdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is US Dollars. 
 
Page  4
-
2
-
ARTICLE III - PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project.  To this 
end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project through MRRD in accordance with 
the provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV - REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION
 
4.01. 
The Co-financing Deadline for the effectiveness of the ARTF Co-financing 
Agreement is March 31, 2009. 
4.02. 
The Co-financing Deadline for the effectiveness of the JSDF Co-financing 
Agreement is March 31, 2009. 
ARTICLE V 
–
EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION 
5.01. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
5.02. 
For purposes of Section 8.05(b) of the General Conditions, the date on which the 
Agreement shall terminate is twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement. 
ARTICLE VI – REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is the Minister of Finance. 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance 
Kabul 
Islamic Republic of Afghanistan 
Page  5
-
3
-
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS  
248423 
(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
AGREED at Kabul, Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF AFGHANISTAN 
 
By 
    /s/ 
Anwar-ul 
Haq 
Ahadi 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By 
    /s/ 
Ludmila 
Butenko 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  6
-
4
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Project Description
 
The objective of the Project is to strengthen community level governance in 
Afghanistan and to improve the access of rural communities to social and productive 
infrastructure and services by supporting certain components of the Recipient’s National 
Solidarity Program. 
The Project consists of the following parts: 
Part 1
:
Grants for Community Sub-Projects
Provision of Block Grants to local communities to carry out Sub-Projects 
involving reconstruction and development activities through a facilitated participatory 
planning process. These activities shall focus on, 
inter alia
,
community-based productive 
and social infrastructure such as irrigation works, roads, water supply facilities, micro-
hydropower and school buildings. 
 
Part 2
:
Community Facilitation and Sub-Project Preparation 
Supporting local communities through, 
inter alia
:
(i) facilitation exercises to 
establish, through elections, inclusive Community Development Councils and identify 
local development needs and priorities; and (ii) assistance for preparing Community 
Development Plans and Sub-Project proposals. 
 
Part 3
:
Capacity Building of Community Development Councils
Strengthening the capacity of Community Development Councils to carry out 
Sub-Projects and carrying out capacity building for members of local communities and 
their Community Development Councils, through, 
inter alia
,
provision of training and 
technical advisory services in procurement financial management and technical skills. 
 
Part 4
:
Implementation and Management Support
Capacity building and provision of implementation support to MRRD, through 
the provision of consultants’ services, equipment, operating costs and furniture to 
strengthen local communities’ capacity in financial management, procurement, and 
technical skills.  
 
Page  7
-
5
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements
A. 
Overall Project Implementation and Coordination  
 
1. 
(a)  
The Recipient shall vest responsibility for overall implementation of the 
Project in MRRD.  
 
(b) 
MRRD shall be responsible for, 
inter alia
,
policy and strategy 
development and application, coordinating with other ministries of the 
Recipient on the implementation of the Project, resource mobilization, 
program, budget, and financial planning and control,  management of 
relations with Facilitating Partners, appraisal, approval and processing of 
Sub-Project Proposals, quality assurance for engineering works, 
monitoring and evaluation, public consultation and communication, 
procurement administration, and training and capacity development at 
central and regional levels. MRRD shall also be responsible for financial 
management, Block Grant management and management information 
system operations, which it shall carry out with the assistance of an 
external Management Support Consultant firm. 
 
(c) 
MRRD shall, at the regional and provincial levels, be supported by 
regional offices (ROs) and the national solidarity program departments 
of provincial rural rehabilitation and development offices (RRDs), 
respectively. RRDs through their national solidarity program 
departments shall, with the support of ROs, be responsible for receiving, 
reviewing and approving Block Grant proposals, liaising with and 
overseeing the work of Facilitating Partners, overseeing the procurement 
administration of Sub-Projects, building local management capacity of 
the provincial staff through on-the-job training, and overseeing the 
mobilization of communities, formation of CDCs and planning and 
implementation of Sub-Projects. After the phasing out of Facilitating 
Partners, RRDs shall, through their national solidarity program 
departments, be responsible for directly assisting CDCs in the operation 
and maintenance of Sub-Projects and in ensuring the sustainability of 
CDCs.  
 
2. 
The Recipient shall maintain an inter-ministerial Steering Committee to provide 
guidance to MRRD on the overall policy and strategic planning and management 
of the Project, and integration with other rural development programs. MRRD 
shall undertake periodic consultations with the Steering Committee.  The 
Page  8
-
6
-
composition and terms of reference of the Steering Committee shall not be 
changed without the Association’s prior approval. 
 
3. 
MRRD shall contract with Facilitating Partners in accordance with terms of 
reference and eligibility criteria satisfactory to the Association, to assist in 
conducting elections for Community Development Councils; facilitating 
consultative community planning exercises; providing technical assistance in 
designing and preparing Sub-Project proposals; supporting communities in the 
implementation of Sub-Projects including construction quality assurance; 
training communities in book-keeping, procurement and contracting; ensuring 
construction quality control; and conducting monitoring, evaluation and 
reporting. 
 
4. 
Community Development Councils shall be formed at the local community level 
to be responsible for the application for, and planning and implementation of, 
Sub-Projects under the facilitation and technical guidance of Facilitating 
Partners. CDCs shall be responsible for preparing Community Development 
Plans and for the administrative, procurement and financial management of 
Block Grants. CDCs shall form appropriate committees for the management of 
Block Grants and for the overseeing of individual Sub-Projects. 
 
5. 
(a)  
The Recipient shall, and shall cause MRRD to, carry out the Project in 
accordance with the Operational Manual, the Financial Management 
Manual and the Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework, and, 
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not 
amend, vary, or waive any provision of the Operational Manual, the 
Financial Management Manual and the Environmental and Social 
Safeguards Framework if, in the opinion of the Association, such 
amendment or waiver may materially and adversely affect the carrying 
out of the Project or the achievement of the objectives thereof. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall ensure that Sub-Projects financed under the Project 
shall not involve any land acquisition or involuntary resettlement of the 
local population and/or businesses. In the event that any land is required 
for a Sub-Project or any resettlement is to be carried out, the Recipient 
shall, in consultation with the Association ensure that such land shall be 
obtained and such resettlement carried out in accordance with plans 
agreed with the Association. 
 
B. Sub-Projects 
 
 
1. 
(a) 
To be eligible for a Block Grant, a Community Development Council 
shall prepare a Community Development Plan, and prepare and furnish 
one or more Sub-Project proposals to MRRD that fully satisfy the 
eligibility criteria specified in the Operational Manual and the 
Page  9
-
7
-
Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework. Several CDCs may 
combine together to prepare one or more Sub-Project proposals of 
common interest and benefit by pooling up their Block Grant 
entitlements. 
 
(b) 
In evaluating each Sub-Project proposal, consideration shall be given to 
the CDCs capacity to carry out, manage and maintain the Sub-Project in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, technical, 
environmental and managerial standards. 
 
(c) 
If a Sub-Project has been assessed to have potential environmental and 
social impacts, the Facilitating Partner, in coordination with the 
Community Development Council, shall prepare an Environment and 
Social Management Plan before the Block Grant can be awarded to it. 
 
2. 
The Recipient, through MRRD, shall make the proceeds of the Grant available, 
as Block Grants, to CDCs under Block Grant agreements, each to be entered into 
by a representative of the CDC and the Recipient, all under terms and conditions 
which shall have been approved by the Association.  A Block Grant agreement 
shall provide for rights adequate to protect the interests of the Association and 
the Recipient, including to the extent that it shall be appropriate to: 
 
(i) 
require the CDC to carry out the Sub-Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in accordance with sound administrative, financial, 
technical and managerial standards, and maintain adequate records for 
the Sub-Project concerned; 
 
(ii) 
require that all goods, works, and services required for the Sub-Project 
shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section III of 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement; 
 
(iii) 
require that all goods, works, and services shall be used exclusively in 
the carrying out of the Sub-Project;  
 
(iv)  
require that the Block Grant shall not finance or support the cultivation 
of poppy; 
 
(v) 
permit the Recipient to inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of 
the Association if the Association shall so request, any goods, works, 
plants and construction included in the Sub-Project, the operation 
thereof, and any relevant records and documents;  
 
(vi) 
require that the Sub-Project complies with the environmental, 
resettlement, and social standards set forth in the Environmental and 
Page  10
-
8
-
Social Safeguards Framework and the Environment and Social 
Management Plan; 
 
(vii) 
require that any land required for a Sub-Project, which shall have been 
acquired by, or otherwise made available to, the CDC for this purpose, 
be made available on a voluntary basis from the community or from 
available government land and that Block Grants shall not be used for the 
purchase of land; and 
 
(viii) 
suspend or terminate the right of the CDC to the use of the proceeds of 
the Block Grant upon the failure by the CDC to perform any of its 
obligations under the legal agreement(s). 
 
3. 
The Recipient shall ensure that Sub-Projects will not be implemented without 
appropriate mine risk-management measures and procedures in accordance with the Mine 
Risk-Management Procedures. 
 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting, Evaluation 
A.
 
Project Reports 
 
1. 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare 
Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.08 of the General 
Conditions and on the basis of indicators agreed with the Association.  Each 
Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar quarter, and shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than one (1) month after the end of the 
period covered by such report.  
2. 
For purposes of Section 4.08(c) of the General Conditions, the report on the 
execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall 
be furnished to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing 
Date. 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association not later than forty five (45) days after the 
end of each calendar quarter, interim un-audited financial reports for the Project 
covering the quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
Page  11
-
9
-
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09(b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of the Recipient.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than six (6) months after the end of such period.
 
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1.
 
Goods and Works.
 
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
2.
 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be procured in accordance with 
the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Schedule. 
3.
 Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works 
1.
 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
 
2.
 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used: 
Page  12
-
10
-
Procurement Method 
(a)  National Competitive Bidding* 
(b)  Shopping 
(c)  Direct Contracting 
(d)  Community Participation** 
*
National Competitive Bidding
 shall be subject to the following additional  
procedures: 
 
(i) 
Standard bidding documents approved by the Association will be used. 
(ii) 
Invitations to bid will be advertised in at least one (1) widely circulated 
national daily newspaper and bidding documents will be made available 
to prospective bidders, at least twenty eight (28) days prior to the 
deadline for the submission of bids. 
(iii) 
Bids will not be invited on the basis of percentage premium or discount 
over the estimated cost. 
(iv) 
Bidding documents will be made available, by mail or in person, to all 
who are willing to pay the required fee. 
(v) 
Foreign bidders will not be precluded from bidding. 
(vi) 
Qualification criteria (in case pre-qualifications were not carried out) will 
be stated on the bidding documents, and if a registration process is 
required, a foreign firm determined to be the lowest evaluated bidder will 
be given reasonable opportunity of registering, without any hindrance. 
(vii) 
Bidders may deliver bids, at their option, either in person or by courier 
service or by mail. 
(viii) 
All bidders will provide bid security as indicated in the bidding 
documents. A bidder’s bid security will apply only to a specific bid. 
(ix) 
Bids will be opened in public in one place preferably immediately, but 
no later than one hour, after the deadline for submission of bids. 
Page  13
-
11
-
(x) 
Evaluation of bids will be made in strict adherence to the criteria 
disclosed in the bidding documents, in a format, and within the specified 
period, agreed with the Association. 
(xi) 
Bids will not be rejected merely on the basis of a comparison with an 
official estimate without the prior concurrence of the Association. 
(xii) 
Split award or lottery in award of contracts will not be carried out. When 
two (2) or more bidders quote the same price, an investigation will be 
made to determine any evidence of collusion, following which: (A) if 
collusion is determined, the parties involved will be disqualified and the 
award will then be made to the next lowest evaluated and qualified 
bidder; and (B) if no evidence of collusion can be confirmed, then fresh 
bids will be invited after receiving the concurrence of the Association. 
(xiii) 
Contracts will be awarded to the lowest evaluated bidders within the 
initial period of bid validity so that extensions are not necessary. 
Extension of bid validity may be sought only under exceptional 
circumstances. 
(xiv) 
Extension of bid validity will not be allowed without the prior 
concurrence of the Association: (A) for the first request for extension if it 
is longer than eight (8) weeks; and (B) for all subsequent requests for 
extensions irrespective of the period. 
(xv) 
Negotiations will not be allowed with the lowest evaluated or any other 
bidders. 
(xvi) Re-
bidding will not be carried out without the Association’s prior 
concurrence. 
(xvii)  All contractors or suppliers will provide performance security as 
indicated in the contract documents. A contractor’s or a supplier’s 
performance security will apply to a specific contract under which it was 
furnished. 
** Community Participation
 shall be carried out in accordance with the 
procedures set out in the Operational Manual which shall include the following: 
 
Goods and works for Sub-Projects under Part 1 of the Project estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $200 for each family up to an aggregate amount not exceeding $60,000 
equivalent for each community, may be carried out directly by the community or be 
procured through either of the following methods and in accordance with paragraph 3.17 
of the Procurement Guidelines and the Operational Manual:  
 
Page  14
-
12
-
(a) 
assigning all or part of the works to NGOs, community organizations, 
and qualified domestic contractors and/or suppliers without competitive 
bidding;  
 
(b) 
obtaining quotations from qualified domestic contractors with respect to 
all or part of the works; and 
 
(c) 
awarding contracts for works under Sub-Projects, estimated to cost 
$5,000 equivalent or more, through competitive bidding.  
 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultan
ts’ Services
1.
 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in 
 
paragraph 2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of C
onsultants’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
 
Procurement Method 
 
(a)  Quality-Based Selection 
(b)  Single-Source Selection 
(c)  Least-Cost Selection 
(d)  Selection Based on the Consultants’ Qualifications 
(e)  Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(f)  Selection of Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. 
Except as the Association shall otherwise determine by notice to the Recipient, 
the following contracts shall be subject to Prior Review by the Association:  (a) 
each contract for works
 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $500,000 or more 
procured on the basis of International Competitive Bidding or National 
Competitive Bidding; (b) each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $200,000 or more procured on the basis of International Competitive Bidding; 
(c) each contract for goods or works procured on the basis of Direct Contracting 
regardless of value; (d) each contract for consultants’ services estimated to cost 
the equivalent of $100,000 or more; (e) each contract for consultants’ services 
procured on the basis of Single-Source Selection; (f) each contract for 
Page  15
-
13
-
consultants’ services by an individual estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 
or more; (g) the first contract submitted by each district for a Block Grant 
irrespective of value; and (h) all Block Grant contracts procured competitively 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more when more than one CDC 
combines together to carry out a Sub-Project of common interest and benefit by 
pooling together their Block Grant resources.  All other contracts shall be subject 
to Post Review by the Association. 
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Grant
A. General 
1. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in accordance with the 
provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Association may specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated  
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made 
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance Eligible 
Expenditures as set forth in the table in paragraph 2 below. 
2. 
The following table specifies the categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant (“Category”), the allocations of the 
amounts of the Grant to each Category, and the percentage of expenditures to be 
financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
 
Category 
Amount of the 
Grant Allocated 
(Expressed in 
SDR) 
 
Percentage of Expenditures to 
be Financed 
(1) Goods, works, 
consultants’ services, 
training, Block Grants 
and Incremental 
Operating Costs* for 
the Project 
81,200,000 
100% of amounts disbursed by 
MRRD for Block Grants, and 
100% of amounts disbursed for 
all other Eligible Expenditures 
TOTAL AMOUNT 
81,200,000 
 
*
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term “Incremental Operating Costs” means the 
incremental expenses incurred on account of Project implementation and management, 
including the operation and maintenance of vehicles, office supplies, communication 
charges, insurance costs, office administration costs, banking charges, utility charges, 
Page  16
-
14
-
domestic travel and per diem allowances, but excluding salaries of the officials of the 
Recipient’s civil service. 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period   
1. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $40,000,000 
equivalent may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or 
after October 1, 2006, for Eligible Expenditures; 
(b) 
unless a Financial Management Manual satisfactory to the Association 
has been adopted for the Project; 
(c) 
unless the Operational Manual satisfactory to the Association has been 
adopted for the Project; and 
(d) 
unless the terms of reference for the Oversight Consultant have been 
changed in a manner satisfactory to the Association to include 
responsibility for financial management and the management 
information system. 
2. 
The Closing Date is September 30, 2009. 
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
1. 
The Recipient shall, no later than July 31, 2007, conduct a baseline survey of the 
institutional and social indicators of the Project. 
 
2. 
The Recipient shall carry out Project outcome and impact evaluation studies for 
the Project. 
 
3. 
The Recipient shall, no later than March 31, 2008, carry out a performance 
evaluation of Facilitating Partners. 
 
4. 
The Recipient shall, no later than May 31, 2008, conduct a technical and 
financial audit of the contracts of Facilitating Partners and the Management 
Support Consultant. 
 
5. 
The Recipient shall, no later than January 31, 2007, conduct a technical and 
financial audit of the contract of the Oversight Consultant. 
Page  17
-
15
-
6. 
The Recipient shall, no later than March 31, 2007, establish a management 
information system, in accordance with terms of reference and time plans agreed 
with the Association.  
 
7. 
The Recipient shall no later than April 1, 2007 hire the Management Support 
Consultant in accordance with the provisions of Section III of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement. 
 
8.  
The Recipient shall, no later than June 30 and December 31 of each year during 
the implementation of the Project, cause MRRD to prepare and furnish to the 
Association, biannual reports, indicating the biannual program plan, monthly 
expenditure forecasts, and monthly cash flow projections reconciled with 
available and expected co-financing funds. Such reports shall include 
confirmations from co-financing donors that such funds shall be made available 
in a timely manner. 
9. 
In the event that there is a shortfall between the expected and actual availability 
of co-financing funds 
to the Recipient’s National Solidarity Program, the 
Recipient undertakes to give priority to funding completion of community 
mobilization activities and Sub-Projects already commenced in the districts and 
villages.  
 
10. 
The Recipient undertakes that the roll out of the National Solidarity Program to 
new communities and villages in the districts that are either partially covered or 
not covered at all by the said Program shall: (i) depend on the availability of co-
financing resources; and (ii) be carried out after an assessment of the availability 
of financing resources other than the Grant has been carried out and an assurance, 
deemed acceptable by the Association, has been provided to the Association that 
adequate financing is available for the Project. 
 
Page  18
-
16
-
APPENDIX 
Definitions 
1. 
“ARTF Co-financing Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Recipient and Co-financier A providing for its respective amount of 
the Co-financing. 
 
2. 
 “Block Grants” means grants made available by the Recipient to finance the cost 
of goods, works, and services for Sub-Projects under Part 1 of the Project. 
 
3. 
“Co-financier A” means the Afghanistan Reconstruction Trust Fund (ARTF) 
administered by the Association on behalf of various donors. 
 
4. 
“Co-financier B” means the Japan Social Development Fund (JSDF) 
administered by the Association on behalf of Japan. 
 
5. 
“Co-financier” means wither or both of Co-financier A or Co-financier B. 
 
6. 
“Co-financing” means: (i) the amount of two hundred and forty million United 
States dollars (US$240,000,000) to be provided by Co-financier A; and (ii) the 
amount of thirty million United States dollars (US$30,000,000) to be provided by 
Co-financier B. 
 
7. 
“Category” means a category set forth in the table in Section IV of Schedule 2 to 
this Agreement.  
 
8. 
“Community Development Council” or “CDC” means a community-based 
decision making body that includes a chairperson, vice-chairperson, secretary, 
and treasurer, and is responsible for, 
inter alia
,
preparing Community 
Development Plans and Sub-Project proposals, and for the implementation and 
management of Sub-Projects. 
 
9. 
“Community Development Plan” means a plan developed by each CDC as the 
basis for identifying and prioritizing Block Grant investments for Sub-Projects. 
 
10. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
11. 
“Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework” means the Recipient’s 
Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework which sets out, 
inter alia:
 
(i) key principles for social and environmental management of Sub-projects;  
(ii) procedures to screen and process Sub-Projects for significant social and 
environmental impacts, and to assist in mitigating impacts; (iii) procedures to 
Page  19
-
17
-
ensure that these principles and procedures are properly applied; and (iv) 
guidelines for capacity building and monitoring. 
12. 
“Environment and Social Management Plan” means a plan acceptable to the 
Bank to be prepared by each Facilitating Partner in coordination with CDCs for 
the management of natural resources and for the mitigation of any negative 
impacts on the environment that may be caused by the implementation of a Sub-
Project. The Environment and Social Management Plan shall be prepared under 
the guiding principles of the Environmental and Social Safeguards Framework. 
13. 
“Facilitating Partners” means international and/or national non-governmental 
organizations and agencies that shall assist the Recipient in carrying out the 
Project as provided for in Section I.A(3) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
14. 
“Financial Management Manual” means the financial management manual 
setting out the financial management arrangements for the Project, to be prepared 
and adopted in accordance with Section IV.B.1(b) of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, as the same may be updated from time to time in agreement with the 
Association. 
15. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005. 
16. 
“JSDF Co-financing Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Recipient and Co-financier B providing for its respective amount of 
the Co-financing. 
 
17. 
“Management Support Consultant” means a firm to be hired by MRRD in 
accordance with Section V.7 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, to support MRRD 
in financial management, Block Grant management and setting up, operating and 
maintaining a management information system, after the phasing out of the 
Oversight Consultant’s contract. 
18. 
“Mine Risk-Management Procedures” means the Procedures for Mine Risk 
Management in World Bank Funded Projects in Afghanistan, a framework 
document that prescribes various measures and procedures to be followed for 
carrying out activities that could involve, or could potentially involve, exposure 
or contact with mines. 
19. 
“MRRD” means the Recipient’s Ministry of Rural Rehabilitation and 
Development or any successor entity thereto. 
20. 
“National Solidarity Program” means the Recipient’s program launched in 2003 
for the purpose of providing basic rural infrastructure and expanding outreach to 
rural communities through a community driven approach. The National 
Page  20
-
18
-
Solidarity Program is supported by several donors and is executed by MRRD on 
behalf of the Recipient. 
21. 
“Operational Manual” means the Recipient’s Project implementation and 
operation manual to be prepared and adopted in accordance with 
 
Section IV.B.1(c) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, setting forth the procedures 
governing the operation of the Project, as the same may be amended from time to 
time, and such term includes any schedules to the Operational Manual, provided 
however, that in the event of a conflict between this Agreement and the 
Operational Manual, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail. 
22. 
“Oversight Consultant” means the consulting firm engaged by the Recipient 
under the first National Solidarity Project (Cr. H072-AF) to support MRRD in 
overall project management and supervision, including appraising community 
Sub-Project proposals, coordinating financial management arrangements of Sub-
Projects (including effecting fund transfers, tranche payments, record keeping, 
and accounts), supervising the performance of Facilitating Partners, planning and 
conducting staff training and capacity development, undertaking technical and 
financial monitoring, managing a management information system, and 
producing consolidated progress reports. 
23. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004. 
24. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated November 2, 2006 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
25. 
 “Steering Committee” means an advisory committee comprising key stake 
holders, constituted to aid and assist MRRD with policy formulation and 
direction, and overseeing program implementation as provided for in 
 
Section I.A(2) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
26. 
“Sub-Project” means a rehabilitation or development project or scheme to be 
carried out by a CDC or cluster of CDCs with the technical assistance of 
Facilitation Partners under Part 1 of the Project, which meets the eligibility 
criteria to receive financing in the form of Block Grants under this Project.
 
