                                      Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                                Report No: 34508

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                      (FSLT-72150)

                                         ON A

                                         LOAN

                          IN THE AMOUNT OF US$100.0 MILLION

                                         TO THE

                                  DOMINICAN REPUBLIC

                                        FOR THE

                  SOCIAL CRISIS RESPONSE ADJUSTMENT LOAN (SCRAL)




                                      March 1, 2006




Caribbean Country Management Unit
Human Development Sector Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

                                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                          (Exchange Rate Effective December 7, 2005)

                                   Currency Unit = Dominican Peso (DOP)
                                           1 DOP = US$ 0.0303490
                                         US$ 1.0 = 32.95 DOP

                                         FISCAL YEAR
                                      January 1 to December 31

                            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CCT      Conditional Cash Transfer
CDE      Corporación Dominicana de Electricidad (Dominican Power Corporation)
CDEE     Corporación Dominicana de Empresas Eléctricas Estatales (Dominican
         Corporation of State Power Enterprises)
CERSS    Comisión Ejecutiva para la Reforma del Sector Salud (Executive Commission for
         Health Sector Reform)
CNE      National Energy Commission
CNSS     Consejo Nacional de Seguridad Social (Social Security National Council)
IDB      Inter-American Development Bank
ILAE     Incentivo a la Asistencia Escolar (Incentive to School Attendance)
IMF      International Monetary Fund
INESPRE  National Institute for Food Price Stabilization
M&E      Monitoring and Evaluation
NGO      Non-governmental Organization
ONAPLAN  National Planning Office
PAE      Programa de Alimentos Escolares (School Feeding Program )
PRA      Programa National de Reducción de Apagones (Blackout Reduction Program)
SBA      Stand-by Arrangement
SCRAL    Social Crisis Response Adjustment Loan
SEE      State Secretariat of Education
SENASA   National Health Insurance Agency
SESPAS   Secretaria de Estado de Salud Pública y Asistencia Social (Secretary for Public Health
         and Social Asístanse)
SIUBEN   Sistema Unico de Beneficiarios (Unified System for Beneficiary Selection)
STP      Secretaría Técnica de la Presidencia (Technical Secretary of the Presidency)
TAE      Programa de Tarjeta de Asistencia Escolar (Conditional Cash Transfer Program for
         School Attendance)
UNDP     United Nations Development Programme
USAID    United States Agency for International Development
WFP      World Food Programme



                                 Vice President:       Pamela Cox
                                Country Director       Caroline D. Anstey
                       Director/Sector Manager         Evangeline Javier /Helena Ribe
            Task Team Leader/Task Manager:             Samuel Carlsonl

                                 DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
                Dominican Republic Social Crisis Response Adjustment Loan


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            9
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            23
6. Sustainability                                                                24
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 25
8. Lessons Learned                                                               27
9. Partner Comments                                                              29
10. Additional Information                                                       29
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             31
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             36
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             37
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             38
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             40
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                41
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            42
Annex 8. Borrower's Comments                                                     43

Project ID: P085433                                                  Project Name: Dominican Republic Social Crisis
                                                                     Response Adjustment Loan
Team Leader: Samuel C. Carlson                                       TL Unit: LCSHE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: March 8, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: Dominican Republic Social Crisis Response                L/C/TF Number: FSLT-72150
                            Adjustment Loan
   Country/Department: DOMINICAN REPUBLIC                                                 Region: Latin America and the
                                                                                                     Caribbean Region

        Sector/subsector: Other social services (50%); Health (30%); Central government administration (15%); General
                            education sector (5%)
                  Theme: Social risk mitigation (P); Education for all (P); Access to urban services and housing (P);
                            Social safety nets (S); Child health (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 10/30/2003                                     Effective: 03/04/2004                03/04/2004
     Appraisal: 12/19/2003                                         MTR: 11/01/2006                  11/01/2006
      Approval: 02/12/2004                                      Closing: 12/31/2004                 08/31/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          DOMINICAN REPUBLIC/Technical Secretary of the Presidency
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Pamela Cox                                     David De Ferranti
Country Director:               Caroline D. Anstey                             Caroline D. Anstey
Sector Director:                Evangeline Javier                              Ana Maria Arriagada
Team Leader at ICR:             Samuel Carlson                                 Christopher Chamberlin
ICR Primary Author:             Gillette Hall; Kathryn Johns
                                Swatz


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       M
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
Background
In the 1990s, the Dominican Republic experienced strong economic growth with some improvements in the
quality of life. Yet, economic growth slowed in 2000 due to sluggish external demand, high international
oil prices, and a deterioration of the country's macroeconomic framework and growth prospects. In April
2003, the country entered a serious financial crisis, precipitated by the failure of the largest private bank
once accounting irregularities and fraud were discovered. The Central Bank kept the bank open to prevent
a systemic run and guaranteed the payout of 100 percent of its deposits, equaling US$1.5 billion or 15
percent of GDP, issuing treasury bills to cover the cost of this operation. Problems soon extended to two
other medium-sized banks, which were also affected by accounting malpractice and mismanagement.
Central Bank assistance to problem banks contributed to a near doubling in public debt. This situation led
to increasing macro imbalances and a sharp decline in market confidence. The macroeconomic crisis was
characterized by a massive (100 percent) depreciation of the peso from March 2003 to January 2004 and
high inflation (from 5 percent annual average in 2002 to 27 percent in 2003 and 52 percent in 2004).

At the same time, there was a prolonged crisis in the electricity sector with widespread blackouts,
prompting street riots in protest of electricity shortages. The power sector was financially unsustainable,
burdened by high system losses, excessive subsidies to better off consumers, and low collection rates. The
distribution companies were imposing the sharpest supply cuts in the poorest areas, where their collection
rates were the lowest. The currency depreciation pushed up domestic fuel prices on top of increases in
world oil prices that worsened the financial predicament of the electricity sector, and contributed to a
significant increase of the historically low public-debt-to-GDP ratio. The crisis in the electricity sector was
producing many social and health problems, including increasing the risk of crime and violence and
deterioration in medical care due to lack of fuel or diversion of resources to buy fuel in hospitals and
clinics. The shortages were also affecting employment and people's ability to earn a livelihood,
particularly in small firms, which could not afford to run generators. Presidential elections were scheduled
for May 2004, which the increasingly tense social situation--fueled by rising poverty, power blackouts and
resulting civil unrest--placed in jeopardy.

Impact of the Crisis on the Poor. The economic crisis produced significant social impacts in the form of a
dramatic deterioration of real incomes (by about one-third), increasing poverty levels, and producing
cutbacks in social services benefiting the poor (Dominican Republic Poverty Assessment, 2005). As a
result of the crisis, about 15 percent of the Dominican population (1.4 million) became poor and about 6.5
percent (600,000 people) fell in extreme poverty (incomes too low to afford the food basket of minimum
caloric intake). These figures reflect the toll of rampant inflation on living conditions. Average real labor
earnings fell by almost one third and open unemployment worsened by one percentage point from early
2002 to early 2004. The poor were the most vulnerable to the fall in real incomes, as they lacked the
resources to cope with rising food prices, utility prices, and the prolonged blackouts affecting their homes
and enterprises. This situation led to growing social tensions in the form of protests and violence. By the
end of 2003, the country was in an untenable fiscal situation and was at risk of further social unrest.

A qualitative study completed in December 2004 on the social dimensions of the economic crisis revealed
                                                    1/


that some poor households responded to the decline in real incomes by removing their children from school,
reducing food consumption, and eliminating services (phone, gas and electricity). Years of slow, albeit
important, reduction of poverty rates and improved living standards were reversed, all of which threatened
to weaken the country's capacity to meet the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) by 2015.




                                                       - 2 -

Macroeconomic Framework and Role of International Organizations: In 2003, the Government of the
Dominican Republic approached the World Bank and other donors for immediate assistance to mitigate the
impact of the crisis. The World Bank worked with the Government and other partners, including the
International Monetary Fund (IMF), the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) and
the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), in developing a coordinated effort to help the Government
cushion the impacts of the economic and financial crisis. To address the macroeconomic crisis, the
Government designed a program that was supported by a 24-month International Monetary Fund (IMF)
Stand-By Arrangement (SBA) for US$620.0 million, approved by the IMF's Board in August 2003. This
SBA aimed to restore confidence in the banking system and in the overall policy framework. The program
centered on a comprehensive banking strategy, steps to limit the deterioration in the fiscal deficit, and a
fully flexible exchange rate policy accompanied by a tight monetary policy. The first disbursement of the
program was made in early September 2003. In coordination with the IDB, the Bank moved to support the
Government in mitigating the social effects of the crisis. As part of this effort, the Social Crisis Response
Adjustment Loan (SCRAL) was approved in February 2004.

Social Crisis Response Adjustment Loan (SCRAL): Program Objectives
The main objectives of this loan were to: (a) support the Government's response to the social impacts of the
financial and economic crisis to prevent a further deterioration of living conditions among the poor; and (b)
stimulate continuing and overdue policy reforms in the social and electricity sectors, both of which were
key to an effective crisis response and performing well below their potential. This adjustment loan
addressed the Government's and the Bank's concern at the time to "keep the lights on" in the crisis (to
reduce likelihood of additional social unrest, support small and medium enterprises and their employees and
to maintain tourism, which was the strongest sector of the economy) and address the impact of the crisis on
the poorest populations. Specifically, the loan would support Government actions in three areas:

a)       Support an emergency response program in the electricity sector through immediate financial
support for the import of urgently needed fuel to "keep the lights on;"
b)       Build the response capacities and performance of social programs through: (i) the targeted use of
scarce resources to benefit the poor through social and electricity programs; (ii) the protection of key social
safety net, social sector, and electricity sector services in the 2004 budget so as to provide cash and in kind
support to those most vulnerable to inflation and economic contraction; and (iii) urgent steps to accelerate
the inclusion of a large and growing number of undocumented Dominicans who are both ineligible for
social assistance and predominantly poor; and,
c)       Provide a stimulus for longer term reform in the social sectors, through key reforms in health
insurance, social assistance, targeting, monitoring and evaluation, as well as initiation of short-term
measures to target electricity subsidies to poor consumers and move the sector towards financial
sustainability.

The loan was structured so that it could be disbursed during the first six months of 2004 in three tranches,
although a 12-month implementation period was allowed to provide some flexibility in the timing of tranche
releases. An initial tranche of US$50.0 million would disburse based on actions taken prior to Board
presentation, and there were two floating tranches of US$25.0 million each, one for actions in the social
sectors (Tranche A or "Social Tranche") and the other for actions in the electricity sector (Tranche B or
"Electricity Tranche"). The release of funds for each floating tranche would occur as soon as the sector
specific conditions materialized and not necessarily in a sequential order. The floating tranches were
designed to help the Government manage compliance issues with more flexible arrangements for
sequencing and timing, and the integrated program of donor assistance supported the implementation of the
Government's economic stabilization program supported by the SBA with the IMF.




                                                       - 3 -

Assessment
The SCRAL program provided an emergency response to the crisis in the framework of an adjustment
loan. This loan was designed first and foremost to prevent a worsening of conditions, targeting the
electricity and social sectors where the crisis threatened to have its greatest impact on the poor. At the
same time, it was structured to make modest advances on medium-term actions, addressing core structural
problems in the education, health, and social protection sectors. Setting realistically low expectations for
the loan's impact on medium term reform, focusing on creating an enabling environment for future, deeper
reforms, was appropriate in the prevailing unstable political and economic context. The actions in the
electricity sector drew upon the Bank's extensive work in this sector up to that point, while key actions in
the social sector were designed to reinforce the conditions in an IDB-financed social sector loan (being
negotiated at the same time) ensuring protection of social spending in the environment of an IMF SBA.

The pairing of the social and electricity sectors in this loan was unusual, but made sense at the time and in
the given country context, where actions in both areas were needed to provide a cushion for the poorest
population which was most severely affected by the crisis. Since 1999, the Bank had an ongoing dialogue
on the electricity sector with the Dominican authorities and a Programmatic Power Sector Reform Loan
was anticipated in the 1999 Country Assistance Strategy. Yet, due to the Government's unexpected
buy-out in mid-September 2003 of a private investor's shares in two of the country's electricity distribution
companies, this operation did not proceed. The SCRAL operation provided an opportunity to include
specific crisis-mitigating actions in the electricity sector, such as importing fuel for power generation and
maintaining electricity subsidies. It was agreed that regulatory issues and medium-term reforms for the
power sector would be supported by the US$7.3 million Power Sector Technical Assistance (TA) Loan
(approved by the Bank at the same time as SCRAL, though just recently approved by Congress) and by the
proposed Programmatic Power Sector Reform Loan (a US$150.0 million loan that was ultimately
approved by the Bank in May 2005).

3.2 Revised Objective:
The program objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
The SCRAL program consisted of seven short-term crisis response components in the social and electricity
sectors and four medium-term components in the social sectors designed to stimulate further reform. The
maintenance of a satisfactory macroeconomic framework as demonstrated by the continued implementation
of Government stabilization program was a condition for Board presentation and for each of the two
floating Tranches. The main actions are detailed in the text below and in the Matrix of Prior Actions in
Annex 1.

Crisis Response Actions ("trigger" actions required for disbursement are in bold)

A. School Feeding Program (Programa de Alimentos Escolares). The school feeding program was
universal in scope, covering all children enrolled in Grades 1-8. At the time of loan preparation, three
different programs were offered, the largest reaching 1.5 million students with a glass of milk and a
fortified biscuit/muffin every school day. Two other smaller school feeding programs supported by the
World Food Programme and USAID, respectively, reached another estimated 100,000 students. The
SCRAL supported the continuing full coverage of the program through the integration of 22,000 students
previously supported through a World Food Program-sponsored program.

The loan would support efforts to reduce the costs of this program (estimated at US$42.0 million in its
current form in 2004) by (i) introducing open bidding of school feeding programs and (ii) allowing the



                                                        - 4 -

importation of donated milk powder for the School Feeding Program through a presidential decree.

B. Conditional Cash Transfer Program for School Attendance (Programa de Tarjeta de Asistencia
Escolar, TAE). The TAE program provided the equivalent of US$20 every two months to 100,000 poor
mothers as an incentive to send their children to school. Because of weak targeting mechanisms, it was
suspected that many non-poor mothers received financial support, with very little institutional capacity to
verify whether or not children are actually attending school. There were no permanent staff administering
this program, and the systems of payment were cumbersome and improvised. First, the loan was designed
to support the establishment of a formal operational unit for the program, and would also ensure a
minimum level of Government funding in 2004, sufficient to support school attendance by an estimated
250,000 children of 100,000 poor mothers. Second, the loan would support a major effort to improve
program administration, including improved targeting, verification of beneficiaries, efficiency of payment
systems, and monitoring and evaluation, and a new TAE Operational Manual would be approved by the
Secretary of Education (SEE). Third, the loan would support the selection of new entrants into the
program as of January 1, 2004 using the National Planning Office's (ONAPLAN) proxy means test
(Social Tranche).

C. Health Insurance for the Poor. The key intervention was to accelerate the process of enrolling the poor
under the subsidized health insurance scheme, particularly in the border regions with Haiti. The target for
2003 was 35,000 poor families from Region IV of the country (one of the poorest regions in the country).
Families enrolled in the health insurance scheme would receive without cost or insurance premium a basic
Maternal and Child Health package of services, and upon enrollment in the subsidized program, receive a
health insurance card entitling them to the services. The extension of the program to enroll and affiliate
another 35,000 poor families for a cumulative total of 70,000 families would be an action to be carried
out in 2004.

D. Assistance to Undocumented Children and Adults. Estimates indicate that 12 percent of Dominicans
and 30 percent of the poor are undocumented (UNDP, 2005). In the poorer rural regions near the Haitian
border, surveys indicate that up to 20 percent of the population is undocumented, and thus without access
to any social programs. The combination of high poverty rates and lack of access to social services meant
this group was particularly vulnerable to the crisis as it unfolded.

This component was designed to strengthen and in some areas help launch Government efforts to reach out
to the undocumented population, assist them in the arduous process of obtaining birth certificates and their
identity cards, and provide interim and special access to social services in the educational system and the
health insurance system. At the time of preparation, the appropriate channels for this work were the
relevant social agencies and NGOs with the power to take effective, practical measures in the near term.

The SEE'S 2002 initiative to support the enrollment of undocumented children in primary education would
be continued and strengthened in the 2003-04 school year. The SEE would enroll at least 7,000 more
undocumented children for the 2003/2004 school year. This would require the SEE to conduct expanded
informational campaigns targeting the parents of undocumented children in rural and marginalized urban
areas. To ensure the political viability of this initiative, efforts would initially target undocumented
Dominican children and would not require additional national-level legislation of any kind. It was expected
that this process would reinforce the precedent set in 2002 for enrolling undocumented children, which
reached 63,000 Dominican children, and generate valuable experience which could be used to address the
issue of undocumented children of Haitian descent. A second action was the provision of birth
certificates to 11,000 undocumented school children previously enrolled, in cooperation with the



                                                         - 5 -

Central Election Council.

The Consejo Nacional de Seguridad Social (Social Security National Council, CNSS) and the Secretary
for Public Health and Social Assistance (Secretaria de Estado de Salud Pública y Asistencia Social,
SESPAS) would cooperate to address this issue within the subsidized insurance scheme for the poor. The
CNSS would launch a national informational campaign on the importance of obtaining documentation for
access to the program and offer assistance to poor families unable to manage the documentation process on
their own, with a target of 12,000 such families assisted in early 2004.

E. Targeted National Food Subsidy Program. The loan was designed to support the implementation of a
targeted popular marketplace program (Programa Focalizado de Subsidio Alimentario), implemented by
the National Institute for Food Price Stabilization (INESPRE). The most vulnerable and poorest segments
of the population would be targeted for subsidized food sales, through concentration of activities in
provinces with the highest percentages of households living under the poverty line. In addition, INESPRE
would modify its operational structure to improve program execution and institutional coordination,
enhance civil society participation in both execution and monitoring, and adjust its public campaign to
better target the very poor and increase the number of interventions in the neediest areas. An Operational
Manual would be approved by the Social Cabinet and program would function according to the
Manual (in the social assistance sector, the Social Cabinet was formed in 2001 to organize and consolidate
the various social assistance programs financed with the discretional budget of the President's Office).

F. Electricity Supply Assistance. The Bank had a long-standing dialogue with the Dominican authorities in
the sector; resolving both the financial and service reliability problems of the electricity sectors was critical
for the country's continued economic competitiveness and social stability. In 2003, the Bank was active in
discussions on a proposed Programmatic Power Sector Reform Loan, as a major component of the Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS). However, efforts to reach final agreement on the medium-term reform program
were derailed by the crisis of 2003 and ensuing Government re-purchase of the private investor's shares in
two of the country's electricity distribution companies. A truly viable, sustainable reform effort in the
sector would require substantial political commitment and bipartisan support, and these were expected to
be difficult to develop during the short run up to presidential elections in May 2004.

Given the political realities and the need to respond urgently to the deteriorating conditions in the electricity
sector at that time, the Bank's strategy was three-fold. First, it would provide emergency support aimed at
"keeping the lights on," by supporting the allocation of needed resources for the purchase of critical fuel for
power generation Second, the Bank presented the Power Sector Technical Assistance Loan to the Board at
the same time as the SCRAL, designed to provide technical expertise to help restore financial sustainability
and portfolio management, reinforce the transmission network, increase the supply of affordable energy to
the poor and reduce potential negative environmental impacts. Third, the Bank was prepared to resume
                                                                   2 /


discussions of the Power Sector Reform Programmatic Loan once there was adequate demonstrated
Government commitment to resolve the financial crisis and to undertake long-term reforms. This was in
line with the recommendations of the Electricity Sector Report prepared by the International Panel of
Experts appointed in October 2003 and jointly financed by the Bank, the IMF and the IDB, to examine
issues and sustainability prospects of the power sector and public finances, in the context of the
re-purchase of the two distribution companies.

The conditions required prior to Board presentation were: (1) (a) Provision in the 2004 National Budget
of necessary resources to finance electricity subsidies and ensure financial flows from distributors to
generators to purchase fuel for power generation; (b) written commitment consistent with the



                                                      - 6 -

Government's National Budget and public sector deficit targets, that overall central Government
transfers to the power sector will amount to the equivalent of US$240.0 million in 2004. (2) There
would also be publication and wide dissemination of an Electricity Sector Report prepared by the
Panel of International Experts.

The Electricity Tranche conditions included: (1) the Government has delivered at least US$30 million
equivalent worth of fuel to domestic electricity generators, financed through its national budget; (2)
the Dominican Power Corporation (CDE) has continued to supply at least 80 GWh per month for
purposes of the Blackout Reduction Program (PRA); and (3) Tariffs for users consuming less than
200kWh per month will remain frozen at levels no greater than those as of December 1, 2003.

G. Protection of Budgets of Key Social Programs. The Bank, the IDB, and the IMF worked closely with
the Government to ensure that resources were available and that budgets were adequate to sustain key
social services during the crisis, and specifically for 2004 (programs and amounts detailed in Annex 1).
A parallel US$200.0 million IDB loan (Social Reform Sustainability Loan) contained budget protection
conditions and also provided for budget execution thresholds for the protected programs as a prior action
for the second tranche. The SCRAL required the submission of monthly expenditure reports from the
National Budget Office to strengthen Bank supervision of the loan.

Medium-Term Actions ("trigger" actions required for disbursement are in bold)

H. Reform of Health Sector and Subsidized Health Insurance System. This component would assist the
Government in implementing health sector reforms as mandated by the General Health and Health
Insurance Laws of 2001. The SCRAL program was designed to accelerate the process of the issuance of
required Presidential Decrees, Ministerial Decrees and Resolutions, and a draft law that would give weight
and authority to this landmark legislation. The conditions before Board presentation included
promulgation by Presidential Decree of the following regulations: (a) Supplies and staffing of health
clinics and services); and (b) Provision of the public health service networks. For the Social Tranche,
the conditions were: (a) the promulgation by Presidential Decree of the Regulation of Human
Resources in the National Health System; and (b) Revision of the process for categorizing
beneficiaries for the non-contributory health insurance system. Regarding this process for categorizing
beneficiaries, CNSS and SESPAS would revamp the criteria and methodology for assessing the poverty
status of potential affiliates in the subsidized health insurance system, using econometric tools developed by
ONAPLAN.

I. Social Program Consolidation and Rationalization. The First Disbursement action was the submission
to the World Bank of an external report by the Social Cabinet to evaluate social programs and the
proposed matrix of programs to be considered for consolidation or elimination. The Social Tranche
action would support the consolidation of these programs, with the promulgation of a Presidential Decree
ordering the elimination of at least five of the ineffective programs, to improve performance and
efficiency in the country's social assistance programs.

J. Unified System of Beneficiary Selection. The SCRAL program supported the building blocks of the
proposed Unified System for Beneficiary Selection (SIUBEN), which would apply proxy-means testing to
determine eligibility for social programs, particularly the subsidized health insurance scheme and the TAE
program. The actions supported by the SCRAL would include updating of the Poverty Map (taking into
account the results of the 2002 Census), developing the proxy-means testing methodology, and preparing a
manual to guide program managers in the application of proxy-means tests to beneficiary selection.



                                                        - 7 -

K. Program of Transparency, Monitoring, and Evaluation. This program would help improve the
transparency and M&E of Government's social programs. Given the possibility of political manipulation of
social assistance programs in the run-up to the elections, the Government would contract with civil society
organizations to monitor selected programs in 2004. The First Disbursement action was the contracting of
one or more civil society organizations for the monitoring of fulfillment of conditions in the Policy
Matrix covering the school breakfast program, the TAE program, subsidized health insurance
program, and support to undocumented Dominicans (students and families). The Social Cabinet
would be responsible for this activity in collaboration with the Civil Society Consultative Council,
including the development of terms of reference and criteria for selection of potential contractors. The
action for the Social Tranche was the report by the civil society monitoring group and Government's
response.

3.4 Revised Components:
N/A

3.5 Quality at Entry:
ICR Rating: Satisfactory. The Quality at Entry is considered satisfactory, in keeping with the QAG
Quality at Entry Assessment rating and based on the following factors: (a) the program was designed with
an effective combination of short-term actions in the social and electricity sectors to mitigate the immediate
impacts on the poor, and medium-term actions to improve Government performance in social program
design and delivery; (b) the loan focused appropriately on raising the Government's capacity to protect the
poor during this period of crisis, in keeping with the Bank's poverty reduction objectives; (c) the program
was prepared in a timely way and benefited from the Bank's ongoing engagement with the Government,
particularly in the electricity sector; (d) there was strong, effective coordination among international
donors to cover all areas in need of budgetary support during the crisis; (e) the program was consistent
with the CAS Progress Report of February 2004, and the Stand-by Agreement with the IMF at that time.

The Bank made a strategic decision to finance mainly short-term actions to mitigate the crisis, considering
the social unrest and the upcoming elections, while supporting a few key medium-term actions to stimulate
social sector improvements with only modest expectations. The loan was not designed to address core
underlying problems in the electricity sector, nevertheless these were expected to be addressed in the TA
loan and the programmatic power sector reform loan in future. The program design reflected an
appropriate awareness of the limitations of this operation by designing an initial large tranche as a strong
signal of support and immediate assistance and then two subsequent floating tranches. In fact, during
preparation, the possibility that these tranches would never disburse was recognized and the loan was
considered high-risk.

The approach to address both the social and the electricity sectors was atypical but appropriate in the
context of the evolving crisis in the Dominican Republic at the time, when these two areas were
intrinsically linked in terms of the Government's needs for financial assistance and immediate support for
those affected by the crisis (which included blackouts). However, the wording of the original objective was
not consistent with the program actions since it referred to stimulating policy reforms in the social and
electricity sectors, when the medium-term reforms supported by this loan were only in the social sectors. In
the end, the Government was able to fulfill all the conditions in the two floating tranches, however, the
completion of some of the medium-term actions in the social sector tranche did take six months longer than
anticipated, while others had to modified in light of changes in social sector policy once the new
Government came into office (August 2004).




                                                       - 8 -

The SCRAL was consistent with the Dominican Republic CAS Progress Report (February 2004 to
January 2005) (discussed by the Board of Executive Directors on February 12, 2004), in parallel with the
implementation of the Government economic stabilization plan supported by the Stand-by Arrangement
with the International Monetary Fund (IMF). The lending program as described in the Progress Report
                                               3/


included short-term actions to mitigate the social impacts of the economic crisis and subsequent structural
reforms to restructure the electricity sector in a sustainable fashion. This strategy was integrated into the
Bank Group's ongoing efforts to support achievement of the Millennium Development Goals by
strengthening the country's capacity to monitor and evaluate progress in critical areas and improve the
quality of public expenditures, especially in the social sectors. The SCRAL supported the following
objectives in the CAS Progress Report:

   l Mitigate the social impacts of the recent economic crisis by protecting key social expenditures
         while providing impetus for important social sector reforms;
   l Support the stabilization of economic activity and the creation of conditions for renewed growth in
         the medium term.
   l Support the Government's efforts to minimize the immediate effect of the power sector crisis with
         a short-term strategy to "keep the lights on;" and
   l Support initial steps to promote dialogue, improve cash recovery, and strengthen institutions for
         the implementation of the medium-term sector reform agenda.

The project appropriately identified the main risks to implementation and mitigation measures. One of the
main risks was governance, particularly considering the fact that the loan would span a period of upcoming
elections (May 2004) and possible change in Government. The potential for change in Government after
the elections was discussed extensively during preparation and it was agreed that the benefits of the loan
outweighed the risks involved in political changes. The project included provisions for civil society
monitoring of Government programs and also intensive Bank supervision of the appropriate use of Bank
financing for agreed items, such as fuel for electricity generation, and overall strong supervision of program
actions and compliance. Another risk identified was ad hoc budget reallocations during the fiscal year,
from protected and unprotected programs. This risk was mitigated by the strict budget conditionality of a
parallel IDB-financed project in the social sectors and also the Bank's monthly supervision of the budget
execution. The risk of not maintaining a satisfactory macroeconomic framework was identified and it was
clear in the Program Document that the pre-election climate was expected to be very unpredictable and
non-compliance might be an issue. In fact, this risk materialized and program completion was delayed until
August 2005 due first to shortcomings in implementing the macroeconomic framework, and later, even
though IMF targets were exceeded, a delay while a new SBA was re-negotiated with the new
administration. The two floating tranches were designed to help the Government deal with compliance
issues and these tranches worked as planned.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
ICR Rating: Satisfactory. The overall achievement of program objectives is rated satisfactory. The
adjustment operation was able to reduce the social impacts of the financial and economic crisis and
stimulate policy reforms in the social sectors. The loan proceeds played a central role in stabilizing a very
tense political/social situation by "keeping the lights on." The overall outcome for each objective is detailed
below and the triggers and actions are described in detail in Section 4.2.

Macroeconomic Framework
In late 2003 before the approval of the SCRAL loan, the macro stabilization program suffered major



                                                       - 9 -

slippages in policy implementation, including the Government's unexpected buy-out in mid-September
2003 of a private investor's shares in two of the country's electricity distribution companies, generating an
additional US$488.0 million in new public sector debt.4/ After a delayed review of the IMF's SBA in
February 2004, the second IMF tranche was disbursed.

The first tranche of the SCRAL loan disbursed in March 2004, in a "window after the satisfactory review
in March 2004 of the existing SBA with the IMF." However, in the run-up to the Presidential elections in
May 2004, slippages in fiscal and monetary policies and growing questions about the Government's
political will to implement corrective actions undermined market confidence and set off further depreciation
and inflation, sending the macroeconomic framework off track again.

In May 2004, President Hipólito Mejía was defeated and did not win a second term, and former President
Leonel Fernandez (who had served four years earlier) was reelected, Market confidence returned in the
aftermath of the elections due to the perceived strong commitment of President Fernandez's new
administration to stabilize the economy and restore growth. The new administration immediately initiated
negotiations with the IMF for a new Stand-By Agreement (SBA), including a macro stabilization program
with revenue and expenditure measures to reduce the fiscal gap, commitments on improved debt
management process, a range of banking measures to return the sector to sound footing, and reform of
public sector financial institutions to improve the design and execution of fiscal policies. In January 2005, a
new 28-month Stand-by Arrangement with the IMF in the amount of US$643.0 million was announced to
support the country's economic program through May 2007. As a first step, a tax reform package was
prepared in consultation with the IMF and passed by Congress in October 2004. Between July and
November 2004, the peso appreciated from RD$45/US$ to less than RD$30/US$ in November 2004 and
has remained relatively stable since then. Inflation has come down significantly and spreads on external
bonds have also fallen in recent months.

In April 2004 the Paris Club agreed to reschedule debt obligations, pending an agreement of comparable
treatment by private creditors. A market-friendly bond restructuring with private creditors was then
completed, with higher-than anticipated investor participation. The result was a restructuring of over 93
percent of outstanding bonds, whose maturities were pushed from 2006 and 2013, to 2011 and 2018,
respectively, providing the Government with liquidity relief and paving the way for the completion of Paris
Club negotiations. In addition, the Central Bank has managed to stabilize base money (currency held by the
public plus deposits with the Reserve Bank) and interest rates have declined.

Developments under the new IMF SBA program approved in January 2005 remain positive and the end
2005 fiscal and monetary targets were met. The continued implementation of cautious fiscal and monetary
policies has strengthened market confidence, reduced inflation, and lowered interest rates. Real GDP
rebounded vigorously in 2005 growing by an estimated 9.3 percent. Meanwhile, the 12-month inflation
rate fell to 7.4 percent in 2005 from 28.7 percent in 2004, and the average interest rate on Central Bank
certificates declined significantly. In this regard, and despite the rapid growth in Central Bank certificates
in early 2005 (reflecting the larger-than-anticipated accumulation of international reserves) the Central
Bank's quasi-fiscal losses remain within the program's estimates.

In the financial sector, the Government has begun improving the regulatory framework, in accordance with
the IMF SBA, in particular by strengthening supervision and gradually raising commercial banks'
capitalization to international standards. In addition, the World Bank's Technical Assistance Loan for the
Financial Sector, which was declared effective in August 2005, should further help strengthen banking
supervision and consolidation. In July 2005, the IMF confirmed that the country had satisfactory
performance in terms of macroeconomic policies. As of October 2005, according to the IMF's first and


                                                      - 10 -

second reviews of the 2005-2007 Stand-by Arrangement, economic conditions in the Dominican Republic
had improved significantly with rapid economic growth, low inflation, strengthening of the peso, successful
steps toward external debt restructuring, and higher international reserves.

Specific Program Objectives:

Objective: Support the Government's response to the social impacts of the financial and economic crisis

This objective was fully achieved. The SCRAL prevented a further worsening of social conditions by
ensuring budget protection for the continued provision of key education and health services during the
crisis. In fact, in the 2005 National Budget, the Government fully protected key social program spending,
ensuring no decline in real terms (despite 65 percent inflation in 2004). These actions paralleled the
conditions of the IDB-financed social protection project. In addition to protecting social sector spending,
the main achievements are detailed below:

(a)      The targets in the School Feeding and TAE/ILAE Programs were achieved. Children, particularly
those living in poor, rural areas benefited from 100 percent coverage of the school feeding program (grades
1-8, approximately 1.6 million children) and conditional cash payments to 100,000 mothers based on
school attendance of children (250,000 children).

(b)      The target for enrolling beneficiaries in the subsidized national health insurance system (as
amended for individuals) was achieved. Approximately 120,000 poor beneficiaries were enrolled and thus
became eligible for benefits under the subsidized national health insurance system provided by SENASA.
This program is not yet fully operational due to administrative difficulties, thus actual benefits of coverage
under the program have not been provided fully to those newly enrolled).

(c)      Comer es Primero, a new conditional cash transfer program for nutrition, was launched by the
incoming Government in August 2004. The Government requested an amendment to substitute the
INESPRE component with this new program, which the Bank approved. This program developed an
Operational Manual and launched a pilot program for 16,000 households in December 2004, reaching
80,000 beneficiaries. (This has since been scaled up to 200,000 households by the end of 2005 reaching
over 800,000 beneficiaries.)

Undocumented Children and Adults
Providing documentation to families who cannot benefit from public social assistance programs due to their
unrecognized legal status proved to be one of the most difficult and contentious conditions to actually
implement due to political sensitivities around this issue, which largely affects Haitian immigrants in the
Dominican Republic. Until 2004 this issue went virtually unacknowledged by policymakers. In part as a
result of the actions supported by SCRAL, the issue of undocumented families is now discussed more
openly among both Government officials and the public, and is seen at least by some as a key determinant
of success of the Government's social policy.

As a condition of the SCRAL, children continued to benefit from open enrollment into basic education with
or without official documentation. The Government made a significant effort to provide 11,091 birth
certificates to undocumented children enrolled in school (target of 11,000), while uncovering and
addressing significant resistance by local officials in completing the requisite documentation.

In terms of securing identity documents for individuals in order to make them eligible for social security,
about 12,000 undocumented families (original target), identified as otherwise available to participate in


                                                      - 11 -

noncontributory health insurance system, were provided information by CNSS on obtaining their identity
cards. This program was subject to an evaluation by an NGO, which indicated that there were some
problems with CNSS's approach (see Section 4.2 below).

The issue of undocumented children and families has been taken up at the highest levels of Government,
including the President, Vice President, President of the Supreme Court and Director of the Central
Electoral Council (which runs the national civil registry which issues birth certificates). A high profile
forum on undocumented Dominicans was chaired by the Vice President on May 5, 2005 and numerous
Government working groups have been established to propose simplification and acceleration of the civil
registry processes.

Power Supply
The SCRAL program addressed the immediate need to resolve the widespread blackouts affecting the
country by supporting the Government's efforts to finance the import of urgently needed fuel for power
generation. The project required that at least US$30.0 million from the National Budget be spent on
importing fuel, and this expense was confirmed by Bank energy sector staff during supervision. The
resulting decrease in blackouts helped reduce social tensions, particularly in the poorest barrios that were
most affected by the blackouts. The reliable electricity supply also supported service delivery in schools,
hospitals, health clinics, vaccination programs (require a "cold chain") and in other social sectors. The
Government also maintained tariff subsidies and electricity supply to the poorest/lowest income consumers.
The Blackout Reduction Program (PRA) program started in 2002 with the goal of improving coverage in
poor barrios. As of June 2005, 400,000 households (approx. 2.2 million people) were benefiting from the
PRA (at a nominal flat tariff and an overall supply of 80 gigaWatthours a month) and 545,000 households
(approx. 2.75 million people) were benefiting from low electricity tariffs (<US$6/month) for consumption
less than 200 kWh/month.

Though not an actual condition of the loan, the Government worked with the Bank to make modest
improvements in raising incentives for efficient electricity generation. The general preamble of the loan
agreement, which stated that resources should be used efficiently, was drawn on by the Bank to encourage
the Government to fulfill "merit order dispatch" criteria, under which the most efficient electricity
generators were given priority for delivery of fuel for energy generation, and paid first.

Objective: Stimulate policy reforms in the social and electricity sector.5/




The social sector reforms were achieved and the program also helped to set the stage for deeper reforms in
the social protection sector under the leadership of the Fernandez administration, and supported by
continued Bank engagement (the Social Protection Investment Loan is in preparation and approval
expected in 2006).    The core conditionalities of the SCRAL program helped address the immediate needs
of the poorest population groups during the crisis period, and were the first step towards building targeted
and well-designed public programs, with comprehensive monitoring and evaluation to increase
accountability. These reforms include:

(a)     Poverty map and SIUBEN. The updating and completion of the poverty map and development of a
proxy means testing methodology (econometric formula analyzing household socio-economic variables,
developed with technical assistance under the SCRAL), has allowed the Unified System for Beneficiary
Selection (Sistema Unico de Beneficiarios, SIUBEN), a national system for identifying and categorizing
poor households for social programs to be completed and launched in August 2004. The launch of this
system goes beyond conditionalities of the SCRAL itself and is one of the most significant contributions to
social policy in the Dominican Republic, since the system now guides the distribution of benefits based on


                                                     - 12 -

objective targeting criteria. As input to the SIUBEN, household surveys have been conducted in all
geographic areas of concentrated poverty and extreme poverty. In the last quarter of 2004 over 1.2 million
households were surveyed, and with approximately 700,000 households identified as eligible for various
social protection programs. Presidential decrees were issued stipulating that the national health insurance
program, the Comer es Primero nutrition subsidy program, the TAE (ILAE, Incentivo a la Asistencia
Escolar as renamed and redesigned by the new Government) program for school attendance, propane gas
subsidy and other key social programs will all use the SIUBEN for beneficiary identification.

(b)     Civil Society Monitoring. Five Government social programs (school feeding program, the TAE
(ILAE) program, support for undocumented children, support for undocumented families in the subsidized
health insurance scheme, and the Comer es Primero programs) were subject to external assessment through
civil society monitoring of actions supported by the SCRAL. These evaluations did detect some problems
with several programs and the Government has taken remedial action (see Section 4.2)

(c)     Social Program Consolidation. The Social Cabinet completed a survey of major social programs,
and identified lack of targeting and overlapping or contradictory objectives as key problems. With support
from the SCRAL program, various programs were consolidated and eight major programs were eliminated,
over and above the original target of five.

(d)     Health Sector Reform. Health reform legislation was passed including five key presidential
decrees, Secretary for Public Health and Social Assistance (SESPAS) resolutions and Social Security acts.
These health sector reforms and decentralization were advanced by the SCRAL (and a complementary
Health Reform Support APL approved in December 2004) as an input to reducing inequality in access to
health services between different population groups and between urban and rural regions.      Families in
Region IV, one of the poorest regions, were targeted for the implementation of these health sector reforms.
However, it is too early to measure impacts in terms of child and maternal mortality rates and/or the
impoverishment impact of ill health and disability among the poor uninsured population.

4.2 Outputs by components:
The sector reforms supported by the SCRAL program included both crisis response components in the
social and electricity sectors and medium-term components addressing the social sectors (see Table 1, and
Matrix of Prior Actions in Annex 1). The SCRAL program was closely coordinated with the IDB-financed
social sector loan (with many parallel conditions), and the program also coordinated the actions of about
ten different Government institutions.

Regarding the electricity sector, there were three conditions undertaken before Board presentation and three
actions precedent to the electricity floating tranche, which were fully complied with. In the social sector, in
January 2004, the Government began an ambitious set of reforms which constituted the overall program
supported by the SCRAL. Fifteen actions were undertaken before presentation of the SCRAL to the Board
and 19 additional measures were implemented since February 2004, including eight major reforms, all of
which have been fully complied with See Table 1 on next page:




                                                      - 13 -

       Table 1: Summary Table of SCRAL Completed Conditions/Triggers for Disbursement

 Sector/             Board Presentation                           Electricity Tranche      Social Sector Tranche
 Component
 CRISIS
 RESPONSE
 ACTIONS
 Social Sectors
School Feeding      Government issues presidential decree to
Program             permit the importation of donated milk
                    powder, to be used only for the school
                    feeding program.
TAE Program/ILAE Establishment within the SEE of an                                       Approval by the SEE of TAE
Program             operational unit for TAE program                                      Operational Manual, use of Proxy
                    administration, with necessary human and                              Means Test for new entrants as of
                    technological resources.                                              January 1, 2004.
Health Insurance for                                                                      The non-contributory health
the Poor                                                                                  insurance program enrolls and
                                                                                          affiliates 35,000 additional poor
                                                                                          families for a cumulative total of
                                                                                          70,000 (amended to 120,000
                                                                                          individuals).
Assistance to       For school year 2003-04, continuation of                              Provision of at least 11,000 birth
Undocumented        policy permitting undocumented children                               certificates to previously
Children and Adults to enroll in school, inscription of at least                          undocumented children enrolled in
                    7,000 undocumented children into basic                                school..
                    education, in addition to the 63,000
                    undocumented children admitted in
                    2001-02.
Targeted Food                                                                             Approval by the Social Cabinet of
Subsidy                                                                                   Operational Manual submitted by
Program/Amended to                                                                        Comer es Primero and
Comer es Primero                                                                          commencement of targeted program
                                                                                          in accordance with manual.
Protection of Key   Provision in the 2004 Budget of the
Social Spending     necessary resources for key social
                    spending programs (see Policy Matrix in
                    Annex 1 for entire list of programs).
Electricity Sector  (1) (a) Provision in the 2004 Budget of      (1) Evidence of fuel
                    resources to finance electricity subsidies   purchases for electricity
                    and ensure financial flows from              generation, amounting to
                    distributors to generators to purchase fuel over US$30 million,
                    for power generation; and (b) written        financed through the
                    commitment that overall central              national budget.
                    Government transfers to the power sector
                    will amount to the equivalent of US$240      (2) CDE will continue to
                    million in 2004.                             supply the PRA program
                                                                 with at least 80 GWh per
                    2) Publication and wide dissemination of month.
                    Electricity Sector Report prepared by the
                    Panel of Experts.                            (3) Tariffs for users
                                                                 below 200 kWh per
                                                                 month will remain
                                                                 frozen at December 1,
                                                                 2003 levels.




                                                            - 14 -

  MEDIUM-TERM
  REFORMS
  Social Sectors
 Reform of Health    Promulgation by presidential decree of the                   Promulgation by presidential decree
 Sector and          following regulations:                                       of "The Regulation of Human
 Subsidized Health   -(i) improve the health clinics and services                 Resources in the National Health
 Insurance System    -(v) provision of the networks for public                    System"
                     health service providers.
                                                                                  Revision of process for categorizing
                                                                                  beneficiaries for the non-contributory
                                                                                  health insurance system (detail in
                                                                                  Annex 1).
 Social Program      Submission to World Bank of external                         Promulgation of presidential decree
 Consolidation and   report commissioned by Social Cabinet to                     ordering the elimination of at least 5
 Rationalization     evaluate social programs and proposed                        ineffective social programs.
                     matrix of programs to be considered for
                     consolidation or elimination.
 Transparency,       Contracting of one or more civil society                     Civil Society Organization
 Monitoring, and     organizations for the monitoring of                          Monitoring Report and Government's
 Evaluation          conditions in Policy Matrix (five programs                   response submitted to World Bank.
                     to be evaluated).


A description of the program implementation and crisis response and medium-term actions supported by
the SCRAL are detailed below ("triggers are in bold).

Program Implementation
The program implementation period was longer than anticipated with three Closing Date extensions, mainly
due to the weak macroeconomic framework, delays in the negotiation of a new SBA with the new
Government in late 2004, and subsequent delays in IMF reviews. The first tranche of the SCRAL was
released as planned following effectiveness on March 8, 2004. Subsequently, the Government met the
specific conditions for releasing the electricity sector floating tranche in late April 2004, but disbursement
was not made because the country's macroeconomic framework went off track.

In December 2004, the Government requested the first closing date extension to: (a) allow time to negotiate
a new Stand-by Arrangement with the IMF; (b) ensure the disbursement of at least the electricity tranche;
(c) increase the possibility of achieving far-reaching reforms in the social sectors; and (d) allow additional
time for civil society to complete its monitoring of selected Government programs. The Bank approved a
three-month extension until March 31, 2005.

An Amendment to the Loan Agreement was processed in April 2005 to substitute the subsidized food
distribution program administered by the National Price Stabilization Institute (INESPRE) with a new food
subsidy program, Comer es Primero (see further detail below). This amendment also reflected a change in
the language of the conditionality concerning national health insurance enrollment, replacing "families" with
"beneficiaries" (since enrollment in this program is on an individual basis, a fact which only became clear
after loan negotiation).

A second Closing Date extension until June 30, 2005 was needed as the report from civil society was
delayed until May 2005. Since Government had continued to abide by the conditions in the electricity
sector, on April 13, 2005, the Electricity Floating Tranche was released. The third extension for 60 days
until August 31, 2005 allowed time to assess the macroeconomic framework due to a delay in the IMF's
quarterly review of macroeconomic conditions. The IMF provided an assessment letter on July 28, 2005
stating that the country had satisfactory performance in terms of macroeconomic policies. The Bank


                                                            - 15 -

certified completion of all general and specific tranche release conditions and the final Social Sector
Floating Tranche was disbursed on August 12, 2005.

Crisis Response Actions

A. School Feeding Program (Programas de Alimentos Escolares).Satisfactory. All three actions under
this component were completed. The SCRAL program ensured full financing of the universal school
feeding program, which reached 1.6 million children in grades 1-8 each day, the incorporation of students
previously served by the World Food Program, and the implementation of a comprehensive external impact
evaluation of this program, which has been completed but not yet compiled or made available. The costs of
the program were reduced (to US$42.0 million in 2004) by introducing open bidding of school feeding
programs. A Presidential decree was passed to allow for the importation of donated milk powder for
the School Feeding Program, despite strong resistance and concerns over how this would affect
Dominican milk producers. Unfortunately, once the decree was passed, the free milk was no longer
available due to circumstances beyond the control of the Government (regulations of the donating country
had changed) thus the free milk was actually never imported.

The civil society evaluation of this program was generally positive, concluding that in more than 90 percent
of the schools surveyed, the meals arrived in the quantity, quality and timing required. In a few cases, the
number and size of the food rations were below requirements, because of delays in Government payments
to private sector suppliers.

B. Conditional Cash Transfer Program for School Attendance (Programa Incentivo a la Asistencia
Escolar ILAE). Satisfactory. All three actions under this component were completed. The ILAE program
(as renamed and redesigned by the new administration) provided the equivalent of US$20 every two months
to 100,000 poor mothers who send their children to primary school (250,000 children). In order to improve
administration of this program, an operational unit was established for program administration and a
comprehensive Operational Manual (satisfactory to the Bank), which uses proxy-means testing for
beneficiary selection was developed and adopted (both items in Departmental Order No. 202005 of
May 11, 2005). A baseline study of this program was prepared in October 2005, but since this program is
now in the process of being merged with the Comer es Primero program into the broader Solidaridad CCT
(Conditional Cash Transfer) program, the baseline that was completed is not relevant to the new program,
and will have to be redone (see Food Subsidy Program below).

The beneficiaries of this cash transfer program were selected in accordance with the proxy-means test
developed by ONAPLAN starting on January 1, 2004. The Director of ONAPLAN submitted a letter
to the Bank on April 22, 2005 indicating that between January and August 2004 (under the previous
Government) a total of 254 mothers were added to this program using a different, geographic poverty
targeting criteria to replace 254 mothers whose children were no longer in primary school. However, this
represents less than 0.25 percent of the total number of program beneficiaries (100,000). Since September
2004 no mothers have been added to the program. For the 2005/06 school year, mothers were selected
using the newly approved Operational Manual which includes use of the proxy means test. As of
December 2005, the ILAE program is a non-conditional cash transfer program with the first verification of
schooling to occur in early 2006.

The civil society evaluation of this program concluded the program was, overall, functioning with
acceptable targeting mechanisms (that is, the vast majority of beneficiaries were very poor mothers with
children in school), but with uneven payment systems and no effective supervision of children's attendance.



                                                     - 16 -

Due to time constraints, this evaluation only verified that poor mothers actually received the money, but
could not evaluate the impact of the program on education. This program has since received extensive
technical assistance as part of the SCRAL, and has developed new systems and procedures for both
payment and school attendance verification.

C. Health Insurance for the Poor. Moderately Satisfactory. The two actions in this component were
completed and the target was met. As a result of the SCRAL, CNSS enrolled approximately 120,000
poor individuals in Regions III and IV in the non-contributory health insurance program provided by
SENASA (target was amended from 70,000 familes to 120,000 individuals) (CNSS and SENASA
data). Families enrolled in the health insurance scheme are supposed to receive without cost or insurance
premium a basic Maternal and Child Health package of services, and when enrolled in the program, they
receive a health insurance card entitling them to the services. The program is working to some extent, but
the capacity of the health sector is not there to deliver services consistently such that those enrolled are not
yet systematically receiving health services under the program.

The National Health Insurance Agency (SENASA) has also been having some difficulty in actually using
SIUBEN as a targeting instrument, since it identifies a household as those living together, whereas
SENASA defines a household as a nuclear family and direct dependents. There were also reports that
beneficiaries were being enrolled in the program without appropriate verification of their poverty level,
because the number of new enrollments affects how resources are allocated within SENASA, and this
occurs whether or not services are actually being delivered to new beneficiaries. The full implementation of
this insurance program, resolution of problems in the certification process (above) and integration of the
SIUBEN is, since January 2005 supported by the Bank financed health sector reform project.




                                                      - 17 -

D. Assistance to Undocumented Children and Adults.



Undocumented Children Satisfactory. This component was one of the most difficult to implement, but
all five actions were completed. The SCRAL supported the continuation of a policy allowing
undocumented children to enroll in primary school, benefiting at least 20,000 youth in school year
2004/05 and the Borrower provided evidence demonstrating that 11,091 undocumented children
received their birth certificates (SCRAL goal of 11,000). Initially, the ownership of the Government
regarding this condition was weak as it was not seen as an integral part of the crisis response. Yet in the
end, the SCRAL actions helped to initiate and strengthen the Government's efforts to reach out to the
undocumented population. The Government was able to assist these families in the arduous process of
obtaining birth certificates and their identity cards, and provide interim and special access to social
services.

In the process of securing birth certificates for these undocumented children there were some difficulties
mainly due to illegal charging of beneficiaries for the emission of the documents, the lack of office
materials and electricity, and the disorganization of the files in nearly all of the local Civil Registry offices.
In order to achieve this objective, assistance was provided by the Supreme Court, the Central Electoral
Commission, and the Auditor General in terms of requesting support from staff to expedite the
documentation process.

The civil society monitoring of this program revealed uneven application of this policy, and is a good case
of civil society monitoring resulting in efforts by Government to take corrective action. Approximately 75
percent of 380 families with undocumented children surveyed indicated they had been able to enroll their
children, but 25 percent of these families stated their children had been denied access. The Bank raised this
issue with the Minister of Education, who re-clarified the Government's policy on May 18, 2005 at a major
conference regarding undocumented Dominicans. Undocumented Dominican children will be allowed to
enroll up to 8th grade, and will be given school identity cards until such time as they obtain their late birth
certificates.

Undocumented Families. Moderately Satisfactory. The support to the undocumented families for the
purposes of enrollment into the national health insurance program was not a disbursement conditionality,
but rather an action supported in the overall policy matrix for which the Government committed to provide
funding. CNSS signed a contract for a national informational campaign to assist undocumented adults to
obtain their identity card and a plan was adopted to help families obtain their identity cards. The CNSS
carried out a series of actions to educate and inform the population in the Health Region IV related to
securing identity documents. The CNSS produced and disseminated 5,000 posters and 100,000 brochures
that provided information about the requirements for identity documents and the importance of having these
documents, particularly to benefit from social security. These informational pieces were provided in public
places, such as the health clinics, public schools, Government offices, NGOs, and churches. Posters were
placed in high-traffic areas and radio announcements were used to ensure that the information arrived to the
targeted population.

The civil society report concluded however that the Government's efforts were poorly organized, poorly
targeted, one-off events which created publicity but little substantive change in the status of undocumented
families, such that the vast majority of undocumented families remain excluded from national health
insurance. The CNSS acknowledged these problems in their own report, concluding that targeted,
household-specific actions are required. Subsequent to the completion of this report by civil society, the


                                                       - 18 -

National Health Insurance Agency (SENASA) embarked on its own campaign to assist undocumented
families, applying lessons learned, and successfully documented and enrolled 36,000 new beneficiaries.

E. Targeted National Food Subsidy Program (Comer es Primero). Satisfactory. This component was
implemented successfully, although it was not with INESPRE as originally planned. In August 2004,
President Fernandez announced the launch of Comer es Primero (Eating comes First), a targeted CCT
program. The Comer es Primero program uses the updated National Poverty Map (prepared under the
SCRAL) and the new system for beneficiary identification (SIUBEN) to select households in extreme
poverty. These households receive an electronic debit card they can use to purchase food at local grocery
stores. The program design, with inputs from Bank staff, features improved targeting, less leakage, lower
administrative costs, and greater accountability compared to the program developed by INESPRE. By
Government request, the SCRAL tranche action related to INESPRE's program was amended to state that
the "Social Cabinet has approved an operational manual prepared by the Borrower for the targeted food
subsidy program, Comer es Primero, and the Borrower has initiated the implementation of such program"
(Amendment to Loan Agreement in April 2005).

The Operational Manual for the Comer es Primero program (satisfactory to the Bank) was submitted
for approval and approved by the Social Cabinet (The head of the Social Cabinet --Vice President of
the Country signed a resolution dated May 20, 2005) and the program is being implemented in
accordance with the manual. This program was initiated among 16,000 households (reaching 80,000
beneficiaries) on a pilot basis and had scaled up to 200,000 households by the end of 2005.

The civil society report on this program concluded that it was indeed reaching extremely poor households
and that the participating grocery stores were appropriately selected and were respecting the program's
criteria, but that supervision of fulfillment of co-responsibilities for receiving the subsidy had not begun.
In September 2005, the Comer es Primero and the ILAE cash transfer programs were technically
consolidated under the new Solidaridad program, yet much of this consolidation process remains to be
completed, The proposed Bank-financed Social Protection Investment Loan is designed to support the
consolidation and effectiveness of the Solidaridad program, including monitoring of co-responsibilities.

F. Electricity Supply Assistance. Satisfactory. The SCRAL program supported the provision of a more
reliable electricity supply for the general population, including for small and medium-sized enterprises.

The actions precedent to the first disbursement were met, including the evidence of the necessary
Government resources to finance electricity subsidies and transfers of US$240 million to the power
sector in 2004 and dissemination of the Electricity Sector Report prepared by the Panel of
International Experts. In May 2004 for the Electricity Tranche, the Government submitted to the
World Bank all receipts and invoices which showed purchases and delivery of fuel equivalent to
US$30.0 million financed through its national budget, for the purposes of domestic electricity
generation. This documentation was confirmed by Bank energy sector staff. In addition, the Government
submitted evidence which demonstrated "merit-based dispatch" such that the most efficient electricity
generators were given priority for the delivery of fuel.

Related to the condition for the supply of at least 80 GWh per month for the purposes of the Blackout
Reduction Program (PRA), energy supply by the three regional distribution companies over the period
January-December 2004 averaged 71 GWh per month, equivalent to 88 percent of the SCRAL target
. Because there is an electricity transmission loss of approximately 3 percent, the Dominican Power
Corporation (CDE) actually provided slightly more than this amount of energy to the regional distribution



                                                      - 19 -

companies. If this is included, actual CDE energy supply rises to 73 GWh per month, or 91 percent of the
SCRAL target.

It is worth noting that during the first nine months of 2004, average monthly energy supply to the PRA
barrios was 81.8 GWh. Supply to the PRA fell during the last three months of 2004 as hydroelectricity
generation fell by 24 percent compared to the first nine months of 2004. Hydropower is the primary (and
cheapest) source of energy for the PRA. If the Government had continued full PRA supply through
electricity generated by fuel imports, the macroeconomic situation would have been negatively affected.

In view of (i) the decline in hydroelectricity power generation in the last three months of 2004; (ii) the
Government's commitment to maintain the PRA in 2005 at the same levels (or even higher should
electricity supply be sufficient); and (iii) the many other electricity sector reforms underway as part of the
World Bank-financed Programmatic Power Sector Sector Reform Loan, this is considered satisfactory
performance.

Regarding the condition to freeze the electricity tariffs payable by users consuming less than 200 kWh per
month at levels no greater than those as of December 1, 2003, Government submitted evidence to the
World Bank, consisting of formal resolutions of the Superintendent of Electricity (the regulatory
authority for electricity), confirming that such tariffs remained unchanged from December 2003 to
January 2005. These resolutions were issued on a monthly basis and included tariff increases on
consumers of more than 200 kWh, an essential step towards financial sustainability of the energy sector.

There continue to be serious problems in the electricity sector that the Government is starting to address
with support from the Bank. The sector has been unable to generate adequate resources due to large
distribution losses and low bill collection rates. The sector is characterized by a vicious circle of a
consumer culture of non-payment, inadequate cash flow, debt escalation, poor reliability of power supply,
and consumer dissatisfaction. The program for the recovery of the electricity sector guarantees the stability
of power supply while improving the performance of the distribution utilities to reduce losses and improve
collection. The Programmatic Power Sector Reform Loan (approved in May 2005 by the Bank) provides
support to the Government for the implementation of this program. In parallel, the Technical Assistance
Loan for the Energy Sector (approved at the same time as the SCRAL), is supporting a program of
assistance to the main institutions in the sector to strengthen their regulatory and policy making capacity
while advancing with the medium-term reform agenda.

G. Protection of Budgets of Key Social Programs. Satisfactory. The Bank, the IDB, and the IMF
worked closely to ensure that resources were available and that budgets were adequate to sustain key social
services. The SCRAL helped to ensure satisfactory protection of priority social program expenditures
in the 2004 and 2005 National Budgets (equivalent to US$130.0 million each year), including the
School Feeding program, educational materials, classroom maintenance, maternal-child health, expanded
immunization program, blood banks, immunizations, Sexually Transmitted Diseases and HIV/AIDS;
Vector-borne diseases, essential drugs, and medical supplies/hospital subsidies. The SCRAL program
specifically required increased financial resources for helping undocumented Dominicans access education
and health services, ensuring an adequate operational budget for the ILAE program, and supporting
increased community participation through financial transfers to at least 50 School Committees of
necessary funds for decentralized management of classroom maintenance activities.       6/These protected
programs were also protected by the IDB loan. Monthly expenditure reports were submitted to the Bank
within 15 working days of the completed month.




                                                      - 20 -

Medium Term Actions (trigger actions in bold)

H. Reform of Health Sector and Subsidized Health Insurance System. Moderately satisfactory. All
actions required in loan agreement were successfully carried out, but the intended impact of these actions in
reducing inequality in access to health services has not yet consistently occurred, largely due to weaknesses
in service delivery capacity outside the purview of this operation. All five decrees for the first
disbursement of the SCRAL related to continued legal reform of the health sector were promulgated,
including: (i) the Presidential Decree to improve the health clinics and services; (ii) Rehabilitation of
Blood Banks and Transfusion services; (iii) Registry of clinical diagnostics; (iv) Rehabilitation of Clinic
Laboratories; and (v) provision of the networks for public health service providers.

For the Social Tranche, all five actions were carried out including: (i) promulgation by presidential
decree of the "Regulation of Human Resources in the National Health System" (signed and published
in the Gaceta Oficial on October 28, 2004); (ii) regional health providers in Region IV and V operate in
a decentralized manner through Management Agreements with Social Security System Institutions; (iii)
approval by the Secretary of Public Health and Social Assistance (SESPAS) of the Resolution which
initiates the separation of functions in the health sector; (iv) draft of law submitted to the National Health
Council that creates Regional Public Health Service Providers; and (v) the process for categorizing
beneficiaries for the non-contributory health insurance system was revised.

As part of the process of categorizing the beneficiaries, the following actions were taken: (a) a Presidential
Decree was signed on March 21, 2005 for the declaration of effectiveness of an amendment, approved
by the Borrower's National Social Security Council, for the regulations governing the
non-contributory health insurance program; and (b) on May 18, 2005 the Consejo Nacional de la
Seguridad Social, Act # 130, approved the modifications to the operational manual for community
committees to conform to the Presidential Decree of March 21, 2005 regarding the selection of
beneficiaries for the non-contributory health insurance program.

In addition, the Government has moved forward with overall reform of the health sector supported by the
recently launched World Bank financed Health Sector Reform Adaptable Programmatic Loan (January
2005), and it has substantially improved the implementation of its national HIV/AIDS prevention and
control programs, also supported by the Bank.

I. Social Program Consolidation and Rationalization. Highly Satisfactory. The Social Cabinet
successfully carried out the two actions in this component. In coordination with the IDB, the Social
Cabinet launched a process to streamline and consolidate the numerous social assistance programs that
were for the most part managed under the auspices of the President's Office. This process included the
commission and submission to the Bank of a report evaluating the social programs and proposing
programs to be considered for consolidation or elimination. For the Social Tranche, a Presidential
decree was signed on December 13, 2004 and published in the national newspaper that eliminated
eight social programs in the areas of housing, health, training, employment, and agriculture (three
more than goal of SCRAL). This action has reduced duplication and helped consolidate the sector.

J. Unified System of Beneficiary Selection. Highly Satisfactory. The implementation of the SIUBEN is
lauded as one of the main achievements of the SCRAL. The SCRAL actions for the Social Tranche
included: (a) the Operational manual for the SUIBEN was updated; (b) the econometric formula used to
select beneficiaries according to levels of poverty was approved by the Social Cabinet; and (c) the National
Poverty Map using 2002 Census data was updated. The development of a Unified System for Beneficiary



                                                      - 21 -

Selection (SIUBEN) had been in process in the Dominican Republic since 1997, yet remained incomplete
until the actions carried out under this loan. Since the SCRAL conditions included updating the Poverty
Map, it was possible to carry on technical work despite the change in Government, a significant and
positive change in modus operandi noted by Government officials.

In August 2004, the Fernandez Government officially launched the Unified System for Beneficiary
Selection (SIUBEN), which uses the updated National Poverty Map and household surveys in areas of
extreme poverty to identify those households most in need of public social programs. SIUBEN will be used
for targeting of almost all public social programs, which should greatly improve efficiency, transparency
and effectiveness of these programs, while reducing indiscriminate use of social programs for political
purposes.

K. Program of Transparency, Monitoring, and Evaluation. Highly Satisfactory. All the actions under
this component were completed. Civil society organizations were contracted to monitor Government
implementation of key social programs supported by the SCRAL (school feeding, the ILAE program,
support to undocumented families (SEE and CNSS), and Comer es Primero). The Government also
submitted terms of reference for a comprehensive national evaluation of the SEE's school feeding program,
and health and education modules were included in the labor force survey of 2003.

For the Social Tranche, the civil society reports were submitted to the Bank along with Government's
response to the reports. On May 24, 2005 the Bank received this independent monitoring report,
prepared by the Consultative Council of Civil Society, and the Borrower's comments on this report
prepared by the Technical Secretariat of the Presidency. Overall, the five programs were functioning as
planned, but the evaluations did detect some issues that Government has since corrected (see descriptions
above in each program).

This program provided an opportunity for civil society organizations to evaluate Government programs and
has generated demands from civil society and local committees for better services. The Government is
receptive to the evaluations of the programs, but as this is still a new initiative, there is still some hesitation
on the part of Government to build a strong Consultative Council for future program evaluation and
monitoring. To the Government's credit, it is nevertheless partnering with the Bank to strengthen the
Consultative Council as part of the Social Protection Investment Loan preparation.

Other completed actions included the contracting of individuals or firms to conduct evaluation of the school
feeding program and submission of Terms of Reference to collect and evaluate baseline information on the
ILAE program and contracting experts to conduct initial impact assessment of program.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
N/A

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N/A

4.5 Institutional development impact:
ICR Rating. Modest. Institutional development was not a principle objective of the SCRAL program.
Nevertheless, it did have modest impact on institutional development in the social protection sector,
supporting changes in program targeting, consolidation and civil society monitoring, while also
establishing a foundation for future reforms in the health, education, and social assistance sectors. The



                                                     - 22 -

SCRAL program started a policy dialogue in the social protection sector and leveraged some important
initial reforms that have now been taken up by the new Government, including protection of social program
budgets, consolidation of overlapping programs, improved targeting, and collaboration with civil society to
evaluate social programs. The main institutional development impacts are detailed below:

Unified System for Beneficiary Selection. The implementation of the SIUBEN system will allow for
objective targeting of several social protection programs. This system will enhance the effectiveness and
efficiency of these programs and ensure appropriate benefits for those that need assistance. The actions
that supported the implementation of this system resulted in one of the most substantial and long-term
achievements of the SCRAL program.

Undocumented Families. The SCRAL program raised the profile of the issue of undocumented
Dominicans and their lack of access to social service programs. This issue is now receiving attention at
high levels in Government and civil society. The SEE was already sensitized about this issue, but the
SCRAL program helped to increase the awareness in the CNSS and SENASA about the undocumented
population and their access to the subsidized health insurance program. Building on this progress, the
proposed Social Protection Investment Loan will specifically target the inclusion and empowerment of the
undocumented Dominicans that are excluded from social services and economic opportunities.

Civil Society Inclusion in Governance. The SCRAL program introduced civil society monitoring of
programs and initiatives supported by the social cabinet, which will be continued and have an even more
important role in the proposed Social Protection Loan. This new operation will include more broad-ranging
civil society monitoring of social programs and increased transparency of social program expenditures and
outcomes.



5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
World Oil Prices. In 2003, world oil prices increased due to oil production cuts, unrest in Venezuela, and
rising tension in the Middle East (particularly military action in Iraq). The high price of imported fuel for
electricity generation in the Dominican Republic worsened the financial situation of the electricity sector
and exacerbated the economic crisis.

Timing of IMF Quarterly Review of Macroeconomic Conditions. The IMF's 2005 second quarter review
of macroeconomic conditions was delayed. As such, even though the country's national accounts indicated
it was exceeding targets it was not possible to assess the macroeconomic framework, causing the third
extension of the loan for 60 days until August 31, 2005.

Changes in Donor Government Regulations. The Dominican Government had been offered free milk from
a bi-lateral aid agency for its school feeding program, and the importation of this milk was an expected
outcome of the loan. However once legislation had been passed allowing the importation of free milk
(meeting the conditionality of the SCRAL program), donor Government regulations had changed such that
the milk was no longer available.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Macroeconomic Framework. The status of the macroeconomic framework varied under the previous
administration and the current Fernandez administration. Prior to the elections in May 2004, the
Government had poor macroeconomic performance, which affected the IMF's SBA and subsequently


                                                     - 23 -

delayed disbursement of the electricity sector floating tranche. The Fernandez administration immediately
renegotiated a new SBA (agreed in January 2005), which put the project back on track to disburse the
social sector floating tranche that year.

Government Commitment. The commitment under the Fernandez administration has been strong in terms
of giving a priority to the actions in the social protection sector and incorporating these reforms into their
social policy planning.

Governance. The Fernandez administration has taken an anti-corruption stance. The civil society reports
produced under the SCRAL have initiated an important and innovative process in the country for an
external review of Government-financed programs.

Stance on Undocumented Children and Families. The SCRAL program supported the continuation of the
Government policy in the education sector to provide education to undocumented children (in grades 1-8).
Under the SCRAL, the Government also expanded their subsidized health insurance scheme to
undocumented families. This issue now has a high priority in the Government and this commitment helped
to ensure that the SCRAL program was able to support the inclusion of this poor and vulnerable population
group into the social safety net.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Program Management. During the transition to a new administration, the Technical Secretary of the
Presidency (Secretariado Tecnico de la Presidencia, STP) did not initially provide adequate leadership and
coordination of the program, which required supervision of the actions among the various social sector
institutions (Secretary of Education, Secretary of Health, Social Cabinet, Junta Central Electoral,
INESPRE, etc.). With encouragement from the Bank, this situation was addressed via the establishment of
a Task Force headed up by the National Planning Office (ONAPLAN), which helped to improve
coordination beginning in 2005.

Involvement of Third Party Organization in Program Administration. The Mejía Government contracted a
third party to handle the technical assistance required to fulfill the loan conditionalities, at a total cost of
US$2.8 million (50 percent was disbursed in April 2004 and 50 percent was disbursed in January 2005).
This proved to be an excellent decision as it protected funds needed for technical assistance from being
used in the Presidential campaign and provided continuity during the changes that occurred after the
elections in May 2004. Since all of the Government's technical staff who had been working on the loan
were replaced when the new administration came into office, the consultants hired by the contracted
organization provided critical institutional memory and technical support to keep implementation moving
forward. The funds were managed appropriately by the organization and qualified consultants were hired
to carry out specific tasks.

Delay in Delivery of Audit. The audit for the first tranche of US$50.0 million was significantly delayed.
The audit was finally carried out and delivered in February 2005. To address this situation, the Bank
carried out a detailed financial management supervision during early 2005 that reviewed the records and
evidence of the compliance with the conditions to ensure that there was appropriate allocation of funds.

5.4 Costs and financing:
N/A

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:



                                                      - 24 -

ICR Rating: Likely. The SCRAL's achievements in mitigating the short term social impact of the crisis
and in initiating medium term reform in the social sectors provided the building blocks for sustained
recovery from the crisis and for deeper reforms in the social and electricity sector. Cuts in critical social
spending and electricity supplies were averted, protecting the poor from the most pernicious effects of the
crisis, and the Fernandez administration has both maintained macroeconomic stability and launched an
ambitious social agenda. This agenda has already led to core improvements in social program design,
targeting and monitoring, and has set the stage for on-going deeper reforms. These reforms include the
introduction of the SIUBEN targeting instrument, expansion of conditional cash transfer programs, Comer
es Primero for those living in extreme poverty," and the ILAE for poor families who send their children to
primary school. These programs are being merged into Solidaridad program and the proposed Social
Protection Loan will support actions to consolidate these programs into a more effective conditional cash
transfer program. The Government is providing full financing of these programs within the macroeconomic
constraints of the IMF's SBA and savings are expected from reductions in spending on poorly targeted
social programs.

Recognizing that the crisis has set back progress on many of the Millennium Development Goal (MDG)
indicators, President Fernandez has also strengthened a Social Cabinet to spearhead social sector reforms
and set up a Presidential Commission for the Achievement of the MDGs and Sustainable Development. A
key task of the Commission is to catalyze the incorporation of the MDGs in all Government programs as
well as to monitor progress.

The Bank Group's CAS (2005-09) supports this agenda, which includes improved targeting of social
programs through the use of an updated Poverty Map (based on the 2002 Census and relying on unsatisfied
basic needs) and household-level surveys, enabling the development of a unified system for beneficiary
selection.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The SCRAL operation helped to set the stage for the preparation of the Social Protection Investment Loan
(expected approval in May 2006), which will deepen and strengthen the reforms in the social sectors,
particularly in strengthening the social protection services and the provision of national identity documents.
Overall, the Dominican authorities have made important progress in stabilizing the economy, regaining the
confidence of international markets and protecting the poor from the impact of the crisis. The country
however still faces formidable challenges related to weak governance and fragile public institutions and
there is a need for continuing reforms in the areas of state modernization, anti-corruption, eradication of
poverty and inequality, particularly in rural areas, and improving the capacity to measure and monitor
poverty and other indicators, including the achievement of the MDGs.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
ICR Rating: Satisfactory. The Bank team prepared a relatively complex project in a short period of time
and in a volatile environment, and successfully coordinated actions, particularly with the IDB in the social
sector and with the IMF and USAID in the energy sector. Even though the project had conditions in a
number of different sectors, it was carefully planned to address the Government's needs and priorities and
complement actions by other donors. The program built on the previous engagement of the Bank in the
health, education, and electricity sectors and addressed crisis actions and medium-term actions to improve
the effectiveness of the social sectors, particularly to provide a foundation for future actions to improve the
functioning of the social protection system. The Program Document included detailed information on each
sector and the rationale for selecting conditions for disbursement and other related actions. The program


                                                       - 25 -

was closely linked to the CAS Progress Report and reflected the priorities of the Bank in the crisis
situation.

7.2 Supervision:
ICR Rating. Satisfactory. The Bank assigned a locally-based Task Team Leader to provide daily
supervision, coordination and quick responses to client concerns. This was particularly important as much
of the loan was implemented in the midst of a political transition, during which time attention from key
policymakers to implementation of activities supported by the loan was inconsistent. The Bank provided
excellent supervision support during implementation with a consistent team and assistance from the
Country Manager, Country Officer and Financial Management Specialist located in the Country Office.
This high-quality support was specifically noted by the Government during the ICR mission. There was
some concern expressed about the preparation of the Aide Memoires, particularly the practice of requiring
Government signature which disallowed the necessary candid reporting. Government also observed that the
Bank team could have developed stronger linkages with technical staff charged with the actual work of
fulfilling program conditions, and identified specialized technical assistance as needed. The project team
provided excellent reporting and documentation about the project progress and accurately downgraded the
project when there were issues and delays in disbursement and upgraded it when the situation improved.
The Bank team provided high quality support particularly in seeing the program through a transition to a
new Government, and has continued to provide this support in development of new operations to
consolidate and extend the reform process.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
ICR Rating: Satisfactory. The Bank's overall performance was satisfactory since it was able to respond
to the crisis situation rapidly and also provide follow-up during supervision when there were delays in
disbursement. The Bank team showed flexibility and also attention to detail in terms of ensuring
appropriate use of funds and accurate reporting on the fulfillment of the conditions. The Tranche Release
Memoranda provided clear and concise documentation of the status of the conditions and actions in the
Matrix of Prior Actions.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
ICR Rating: Satisfactory. The Borrower's performance during preparation was satisfactory as it ensured
close coordination among the Bank and other donors to design a program that would address priority needs
and avoid any duplication of effort. The Government met all required disbursement conditions for the
release of the first tranche prior to Board approval, even in a difficult environment during the crisis
situation.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
ICR Rating: Satisfactory. The Government's implementation performance is rated satisfactory in the
absence of a marginally satisfactory rating. The Government's performance in terms of the
macroeconomic framework was poor during the final months of the Mejía administration. The Fernandez
administration was able to turn things around, but the delays in program implementation were mainly due
to the macroeconomic situation and then subsequent delays in agreeing on a new IMF SBA and then the
reviews. The commitment of the Fernandez administration during late 2004 and 2005 to address the
macroeconomic challenges and take on the medium-term reforms in the social sectors was notable.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
ICR Rating: Satisfactory. The performance of the Technical Secretary of the Presidency (Secretariado
Tecnico de la Presidencia, STP) is rated satisfactory in the absence of a marginally satisfactory rating
since the performance of the STP was uneven during the period of program implementation. There were


                                                      - 26 -

some problems early on and during the transition with a lack of clear leadership and coordination, but near
the end of implementation, the STP provided closer oversight of the program and demonstrated leadership
and decisive action at critical times. When the new administration took office, there were some concerns
about the loan conditions as they had been negotiated with the previous Government. The new
administration however opted to continue to meet the conditions rather than cancel the two floating
tranches. Early on, the financial management was unsatisfactory as the Government failed to comply with
the Bank's request to submit an audit for the first tranche of US$50.0 million. Although this was
eventually completed in February 2005, this delay was problematic.

The Government contracted with a third party organization to supervise the fulfillment of the conditions of
Tranches A and B. This organization provided very good support for the coordination and documentation
of the conditions and this arrangement worked very well, particularly during the transition time after the
elections.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
ICR Rating: Satisfactory. The overall Borrower performance is satisfactory in the absence of a
marginally satisfactory rating. The Borrower successfully implemented the SCRAL program in the end
and has maintained a satisfactory macroeconomic framework, but there were periods of less than
satisfactory performance, particularly in terms of the macroeconomic framework, financial management,
and program management.

8. Lessons Learned

Lending in the Social Protection Sector

Unified System of Beneficiary Selection. The launching of this system was a significant achievement for
the Government. However for it to reach its full potential and ensure objective targeting of social safety net
programs, the system may need to be adapted to address specific requirements of particular agencies. The
census of beneficiaries also needs to be carried out with a transparent sampling plan (to avoid any
appearance of favoritism of urban/less poor areas over poor rural areas).

Local Technical Expertise. To increase ownership of a finished product by the Government, such as the
updating of the National Poverty Map, it was important that the work was led by local Dominicans.
Technical assistance is welcome, but the use of local expertise is the best way (as it was in this case) to
ensure that the work continues and that it results in a product that is accepted by all the Government
agencies.

Technical Capability. In wide-ranging loans with actions in different agencies, it is useful for the Bank to
evaluate the technical capacity to implement a sophisticated social program targeting methodology and
provide close follow-up with the technical staff responsible for completing the conditions. When necessary,
specific expertise may need to be contracted to provide technical assistance on proxy-means testing and
targeting instruments as occurred in this project.

Undocumented Families. The SCRAL program highlighted the importance and the complexity of the issue
of undocumented families and individuals in the Dominican Republic. As these households are also among
the poorest in the country, the provision of national identity documents will be crucial to improve the access
of these households to basic social services and economic opportunities.




                                                      - 27 -

Civil Society Monitoring. The civil society monitoring component of the SCRAL program was very
positive as it has helped to increase transparency and improve Government-financed social programs. The
Civil Society Consultative Council still exists, but remains somewhat marginalized and has a very small
budget. The proposed Social Protection Investment Loan should include a strong monitoring and
evaluation component that includes participation of civil society organizations.

Lending in a Crisis Situation

Overview
Experience with the SCRAL program demonstrates that in crisis situtations, Bank lending can effectively
achieve short-term crisis alleviation along with modest advances on medium policy actions. Flexibility,
setting realistic expectations and a frank appraisal of risks as input to program design (the establishment of
loan conditions), and collaboration across sectors and with other major donors are critical to success in
Bank lending under these conditions, while moral hazard remains a risk.

Flexibility with Floating Tranches. In an uncertain environment of a crisis situation and political change,
the integration of floating tranches can be very appropriate and effective to maintain focus on certain
actions and also provide the flexibility to delay and/or adjust the timetable when necessary.

Careful Selection and Consensus on Loan Condition. In a crisis situation, the Government and the Bank
need to negotiate conditions that meet the identified needs and are likely to be achievable and relevant in the
existing context, even though a program may emerge which spans across sectors not traditionally paired
together in operations (such as electricity and the social sectors, in this case). It is also important to ensure
that the implementing agency has the authority to ensure fulfillment of the conditions, even if they are to be
completed by other agencies. The conditions related to reforms need to emerge from a consensus in the
Government, particularly among the political and technical staff, and including local Governments as
appropriate. Conditions should also reflect the capacity of the institutions involved and be focused on
results, rather than specific inputs or actions that are not necessary to accomplish the task. For the
condition regarding the maintenance of a satisfactory macroeconomic condition, it should be made clear
from the outset how this would be evaluated.

Inter-Sectoral and Donor Cooperation. In a crisis situation, it may be necessary to address different
sectors in the same operation, both in-country and in the Bank. This situation works when there is close
coordination among staff in different departments, as occurred in the SCRAL program with staff in the
Human Development Sector and the Energy Sector staff. In the Dominican Republic, the SCRAL program
encouraged cooperation among about ten different Government agencies and this was a strong contribution
of the program. The SCRAL also demonstrates the importance of coordinating with other major donors in
the country in a crisis situation, in order to develop complementary actions and ensure there is no overlap
or gaps in coverage. When possible, the close coordination of loans in the same sector financed by
different donors is welcomed by the Borrower. As in the case of the SCRAL, joint efforts can strengthen a
sector and allow for greater results from each of the donor's actions.

Moral Hazard. Finally, and perhaps most importantly, the need for financial assistance and the desire of
the Bank to provide this assistance can provide much needed stabilization in a crisis situation. However,
given the complexity of issues that cause such a crisis, the provision of emergency loan funds may not
resolve the issues that caused the crisis in the first place and give rise to `moral hazard', in which
international assistance is interpreted by some as a reward for past behavior which has prompted the crisis.
The SCRAL was very successful in both `keeping the lights on' and producing several important lasting
achievements in the social sectors, but progress in areas outside the scope of the loan ­which are


                                                       - 28 -

nevertheless key to heading off a future similar crisis (banking regulation, prosecution of fraud, and
electricity sector reform) has been uneven. Until these issues are resolved, the country ­ and particularly
the nation's poor ­ may still be at risk from some of the same weaknesses in the banking and electricity
sectors that caused the crisis and brought the country to its knees in 2003-04. Lending in a crisis situation
requires that a difficult and rapid judgment be made vis-à-vis the benefits to mitigating the effects of the
crisis measured against the possibility of some element of moral hazard when financing is made available
(the World Bank or any other financing such as the IMF).

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The full text of the Borrower's contribution is in Annex 8. This section highlights the main issues raised by
the Government.

The Government's letter highlights the loan's contribution to the overall reform of the social protection
sector, including the updating of the poverty map, development of a beneficiary targeting system
(SIUBEN), preparation of first-ever operational manuals for the conditional cash transfer programs (ILAE
and Comer es Primero), deeper understanding of the magnitude and complexity of the issue of birth
certificates and documentation, and participation of civil society in evaluation of Government programs.

The letter also presents some concerns about the following issues:

(a) Perception that the Bank was inflexible about the new administration's desire to re-negotiate most of the
conditionalities agreed to by the previous government.

(b) The implementing agency expressed difficulty with completing conditionalities that required
implementation by institutions beyond the control of the Executive Branch, such as the Junta Central
Electoral.

( c) The Government expressed some discomfort in signing Ayuda Memorias of SCRAL supervision
missions, particularly when they may have disagreed with the content.

(d) The Government requests clarity in the future on what constitutes a satisfactory macroeconomic
framework. It was not made clear in the Program Document that this would require the results of the IMF
review of the SBA.

(e) Concern that the quantitative targets for the components may not actually measure institutional
development of that program.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information

List of Footnotes

1/ Informe Final de Investigación "Dimensiones Sociales de la Crisis Económica y Financiera en la
Republica Dominicana,"INTEC, December 2004.




                                                    - 29 -

2/ This project has only recently begun implementation due to a delay in its ratification by Congress.

3/  The last full CAS prior to this operation was in 1999, and most recently a full CAS was discussed and
endorsed by the Board in May 2005

4/  In fact, after this action (which was not consulted with the Bank), the Bank halted preparation of the
power sector reform loan and this Social Crisis   Response Adjustment Loan (SCRAL). After further
discussions with the Government, the IMF, and the IDB and given the urgency of the situation, the SCRAL
negotiations continued, pending satisfactory review of the IMF's SBA.

5/ As mentioned above, this wording in the objective does not accurately reflect the program actions,
which addressed medium-term policy reforms in the social sector, not in the electricity sector.

6/ In the education sector, the Government announced in early February 2005 its intention to work with
all major donors on the preparation and implementation of a Sector Wide Approach (SWAP), which should
significantly improve access and quality of education over the next few years.




                                                    - 30 -

      Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

      (Actions required for disbursement are in bold)
SECTOR/PROGR          ACTIONS                 ACTIONS                     ACTIONS                 EXPECTED RESULTS              ACTUAL SITUATION
AMS                   PRECEDENT TO            PRECEDENT TO                PRECEDENT TO                                          (August 2005)
                      FIRST                   SOCIAL FLOATING             ELECTRICITY
                      DISBURSEMENT            TRANCHE                     FLOATING TRANCHE
MACROECONO
MIC
FRAMEWORK
                     Maintenance of           Maintenance of              Maintenance of         Satisfactory performance on    IMF Stand-by Arrangement
                     satisfactory             satisfactory                satisfactory           the Government's               2005-2007
                     macroeconomic            macroeconomic               macroeconomic          stabilization program.
                     framework as             framework as                framework as
                     demonstrated by the      demonstrated by the         demonstrated by the
                     continued                continued                   continued
                     implementation of        implementation of           implementation of
                     Government               Government                  Government
                     stabilization            stabilization program.      stabilization program.
                     program.
CRISIS
RESPONSE
ACTIONS
A. School Feeding     A.1. Government        A. 3. Promulgation of                                1.6 million children enrolled 100% of children (1.6
Program               provides evidence      administrative act                                   in Grades 1-8 will benefit    million) enrolled in basic
                      that 22,000 students   authorizing an open                                  from school feeding           education (grades 1-8)
State Secretariat of  formerly under the     competitive bidding process                          program.                      receiving nutritional
Education (SEE)       WFP breakfast          with private firms for school                                                      supplementation through
                      program are            feeding contracts for the                                                          school feeding program,
                      effectively integrated entire needs of the                                                                incorporation of students
                      into the national      marginalized urban school                                                          previously served by the
                      program.               breakfast program (                                  Cost effectives of school     World Food Program.
                                             programa desayuno                                    feeding program will
                     A. 2. Government        escolar urbano-marginal)                             increase, while monetization Cost effectiveness of school
                     issues presidential                                                          of donated milk powder will feeding program increased
                     decree to permit the                                                         increase resources available
                     importation of                                                               to improve basic education. Presidential decree permitting
                     donate milk powder,                                                                                       importation of donated milk
                     to be used only for                                                                                       powder for school feeding
                     the school feeding                                                                                        program met at effectiveness.
                     program (no sales on
                     open market), with
                     quality verified by
                     Dominican
                     authorities.
B. Conditional Cash B.1. Government           B. 3. Approval by the                               100,000 poor mothers and      100,000 poor mothers and
Transfer Program      provides TAE            SEE of TAE Operational                              approximately 250,000         approximately 250,000
(TAE to Poor          program support in      Manual and use of Proxy                             children will benefit from a  children benefiting from a
Mothers for           September and           Means Test developed                                monthly (US$10) cash          monthly cash transfer
Children's School     October 2003 to         by ONAPLAN for new                                  transfer program.             program.
Attendance            100,000 poor            entrants as of January 1,
(Programa de la       mothers whose           2004.                                              The TAE program will           Operational unit was
tarjeta asistencia    children attend                                                            improve its targeting          established for program
escolar ­ TAE)        schools located in                                                         mechanisms, school             administration, Operational
                      poor areas (as                                                             attendance verification,       Manual was developed that
State Secretariat of  defined by national                                                        payment systems, and impact    uses proxy-means test for
Education (SEE)       poverty map).                                                              assessment, so as to increase  beneficiary selection,
                                                                                                 the program's positive impact baseline impact evaluation
                     B.2. Establishment                                                          on school attendance of        was launched.
                     within the SEE of an                                                        children from poorest
                     operational unit for                                                        households.
                     TAE program
                     administration, with
                     necessary human
                     and technological
                     resources.
C. Health             C.1. The               C.2. The non-contributory                            70,000 poor families are      Loan Amendment to adjust
Insurance for the     non-contributory       health insurance program                             effectively enrolled in       "families" to "individuals."




                                                                          - 31 -

Poor                  health insurance       enrolls and affiliates                                  subsidized Government
                      program enrolls and    35,000 additional poor                                  health insurance program,      120,000 poor beneficiaries
National Social       affiliates 35,000      families in Regions IV and                              and benefiting from free       enrolled in subsidized
Security Council      poor families in       V for a cumulative total of                             health services.               national health insurance
(CNSS)                Region IV.             70,000.                                                                                system.
D. Assistance to     D. 1.For school year     D. 4 Provision of at least                             7,000 additional                Continuation of policy
Undocumented         2003-04,                 11,000 birth certificates                              undocumented children are       allowing undocumented
Children and         continuation of          to previously                                          enrolled in school, and         children to enroll in primary
Adults               Government policy        undocumented children                                  11,000 currently                school, benefiting at least
                     permitting               enrolled in school, in                                 undocumented children           20,000 youth in school year
State Secretariat of undocumented             accordance with                                        received their birth            2004/05 and provision of
Education (SEE) and children to enroll in     agreement between SEE                                  certificates (an essential step 11,091 birth certificates to
National Social      school and               and the Central Election                               towards obtaining their         previously undocumented
Security Council     inscription of at least  Council.                                               identity cards).                children.
(CNSS)               7,000 undocumented
                     Dominican children      D. 5. Actions undertaken to                             12,000 undocumented             CNSS carried out an
                     into basic education, help 12,000 undocumented                                  families receive help in        information and education
                     in addition to the      families, identified as                                 obtaining their identity        campaign , raising
                     63,000                  otherwise eligible to                                   cards, which would enable       awareness and providing
                     undocumented            participate in subsidized                               them to participate in the      information on obtaining
                     children admitted in social security system,                                    subsidized health insurance     identity cards to benefit
                     2001-02.                obtain their identity cards.                            program and benefit from        from the non-contributory
                                                                                                     other Government social         health insurance system.
                     D. 2 Contract signed                                                            services.
                     by the CNSS for a
                     national informational
                     campaign to assist
                     undocumented adults
                     obtain their identity
                     cards.

                     D. 3. Plan adopted by
                     CNSS to help
                     undocumented
                     families, identified as
                     otherwise eligible to
                     participate in
                     subsidized social
                     security system, obtain
                     their identity cards.
E. Targeted Food E. 1. Operational           E.2. Approval by the                                    Improved nutritional status Loan Amendment to
Subsidy Program      manual for targeted     Social Cabinet of                                       among 25,000 poor families substitute this program with
                     food subsidy program    Operational Manual                                      participating in INESPRE's improved Comer es Primero
National Institute   submitted by            submitted by INESPRE                                    targeted subsidized food       Program.
for Food Price       INESPRE for             and commencement of                                     program, and reduced           The operational manual for
Stabilization        approval to the Social  targeted food subsidy                                   household expenditures on this program was approved by
(INESPRE) and        Cabinet, with program program in accordance                                     food.                          the Social Cabinet and the
Social Cabinet       to be administered in   with manual.                                                                           program is being
                     2004 using RD$73                                                                                               implemented in accordance
                     million originally                                                                                             with the manual.
                     budgeted for producer
                     marketing program.                                                                                             This program has been
                                                                                                                                    initiated among 16,000
                                                                                                                                    households (reaching 80,000
                                                                                                                                    beneficiaries) on a pilot basis
                                                                                                                                    and has scaled up to 200,000
                                                                                                                                    households by the end of
                                                                                                                                    2005. It has also been
                                                                                                                                    supervised by civil society.
F. Electricity        F. 1. A) Provision                                  F. 3. Government will      1,335,000 households           Government provided
Supply Assistance     in the 2004                                         exhibit evidence of fuel   across the country will        documentation verifying
                      National Budget of                                  purchases for electricity  benefit from increased         purchase of fuel, and
                      necessary                                           generation, amounting to   reliability of electrical      electricity supply has been
                      resources to                                        over US$30 million,        supply, reducing social        stabilized.
                      finance electricity                                 financed through the       unrest, enabling improved
                      subsidies and                                       national budget.           provision of essential social
                      ensure financial                                                               services (e.g. hospital care),
                      flows from                                          F. 4. CDE will continue to and increasing viability of
                      distributors to                                     supply the PRA program     small and medium-sized
                      generators to                                       with at least 80 GWh per   businesses which will lead     As of June 2005, 400,000




                                                                            - 32 -

                      purchase fuel for                                month.                    to positive income             households (approx. 2.2
                      power generation;                                                          generation and employment million people) are benefiting
                      and B) written                                   F. 5. Tariffs for users   effects.                       from PRA program (zero
                      commitment                                       below 200 kWh per month                                  tariff and 80 gigawatts a
                      consistent with the                              will remain frozen at     Of which, 400,000 poor         month).
                      Government's                                     December 1, 2003 levels.  households (comprising
                      National Budget                                                            approximately 2.2 million
                      and public sector                                                          people) will benefit from      Approximately 545,000
                      deficit targets, that                                                      low energy tariffs (less than households (approx. 2.75
                      overall central                                                            US$4 per month).               million people) are benefiting
                      Government                                                                                                from low energy tariffs
                      transfers to the                                                           Of which, 545,000              (<US$6/month).
                      power sector will                                                          households (comprising
                      amount to the                                                              approximately 2.75 million
                      equivalent of about                                                        people) which consume less
                      US$240 million in                                                          than 200 kWh per month
                      2004.                                                                      will benefit from low energy
                                                                                                 tariffs (less than US$6 per
                     F. 2. Publication and                                                       month).
                     wide dissemination
                     of Electricity Sector
                     Report prepared by
                     the Panel of Experts
F. Protection of Key G.                 1.  G.2. Monthly expenditure                             Sustained basic education      Educational indicators
Social Spending      Provision in the       reports for protected                                quality (due to reliable       (attendance, dropout,
                     2004 Budget of the     programs provided to the                             supply of educational          repetition and academic
                     necessary resources    Bank wihin 15 working                                materials and adequate         performs) do not appear to
Secretaria de Estado for the following      days of completed month,                             school facilities) for 1.6     have suffered any
de Salud Publica y   programs:              including the last full                              million students; Provision deterioration despite the
Asistencia Social    -School Feeding        month completed before                               of birth certificates to       economic and social crisis.
(SESPAS), National (RD$1.5 billion)         tranche release request.                             11,000 undocumented
Program for          -School Attendance                                                          children, enabling access to 11,091 birth certificates were
Essential Drugs and TAE (RD$320,000)        G.3. Transfers to at least                           social services and            provided to undocumented
Medical Supplies     -Educational           50 School Committees of                              conferring civic identity.     children enabling access to
(PROMESA) and        Materials              necessary funds for                                                                 social services and conferring
State Secretariat of (RD$497,000)           decentralized management                                                            civic identity.
Education (SEE)      -Classroom             of classroom maintenance
                     Maintenance            activities.
                     (RD$348,000)                                                                                               Regarding these results, these
                     -Support to                                                                At least 50 School              are all financed by the
                     Undocumented                                                               Committees received             National Budget. They were
                     Schoolchildren (RD$                                                        financial transfers stimulating conditionalities which the
                     1 million)                                                                 increased parental and          IDB and WB supported, but
                     -Maternal-child                                                            community involvement in        the Bank's respective
                     health (RD$42                                                              school management, which is financing just went into the
                     million)                                                                   positively associated with      Treasury, not for specific line
                     -Expanded                                                                  improved student learning       items.
                     Immunization                                                               outcomes.
                     Program (RD$57
                     million)                                                                   141,000 children under age
                     -Blood Banks                                                               of 3 will receive vaccinations.
                     (RD$22.89 million)
                     -TB (RD$25 million)                                                        8.3 million people will benefit
                     -Rabies (RD$8.6                                                            from safe blood supply,
                     million)                                                                   control of tuberculosis and
                     -STDs and                                                                  reduced spread of HIV/AIDS.
                     HIV/AIDS (RD$42.5
                     million)                                                                   2 million poor clients of
                     -Vector-borne                                                              public health facilities will
                     diseases (RD$37.2                                                          continue to receive essential
                     million)                                                                   drugs at low or no cost.
                     -Essential Drugs
                     (RD$871 million)                                                           Reliable provision of essential
                     -Medical                                                                   health services and programs
                     Supplies/Hospital                                                          leading to stable and/or
                     Subsidies (RD$764                                                          improving health status and
                     million)                                                                   reduced economic losses due
                                                                                                to ill health and disability.
MEDIUM-TERM
REFORMS




                                                                        - 33 -

H. Reform of          H.1. Promulgation    H. 2. Promulgation by                  Note: these are
Health Sector and     by presidential      presidential decree of                 national-level policy
Subsidized Health     decree of the        "The Regulation of                     reforms with national level
Insurance System      following            Human Resources in the                 impact, covering all 8.3
                      regulations:         National Health System"                million citizens of the
State Secretariat of -(i) Habilitación de                                         Dominican Republic.
Public Health and of los establecimientos  I.    3. Regional Public                                              Five key presidential
Social Assistance    y servicios de salud  Health Service Providers in            Key legislative and            decrees including the
(SESPAS) and         -(ii) Habilitación de Regions IV and V operating             regulatory reforms in the      "Regulation of Human
National Council for Bancos de Sangre y    in a decentralized manner,             health sector will lead to (i) Resources in the National
Social Security      Servicios de          through Management                     reduced inequality in access Health System" and Social
(CNSS)               Transfusión           Agreements with Social                 to health services; (ii)       Security acts promulgated
                     -(iii) Registro de    Security System institutions.          reduced inequality of health as part of decentralization of
                     Reactivos para                                               status among different         the health sector,
                     Diagnostico Clínico   H.4. Approval by SESPAS                population groups and (iii)    particularly of human
                     -(iv) Habilitación de of the Resolution which                decreased impoverishment       resources.
                     Laboratorios Clínicos initiates the separation of            impact of ill health and
                     -(v) Provisión de las functions in the health                disability among the poor
                     Redes de los          sector, by which is                    uninsured population.
                     Servicios Públicos de authorized the creation of                                            SESPAS resolutions
                     Salud.                Regional Public Health                 Increased decentralization     (Resolution to initiate the
                                           Service Providers.                     and regional management        separation of functions in
                                                                                  autonomy will promote shift the health sector, by which
                                           H. 5. Law in draft form                from a supply-driven health    is authorized the creation of
                                           submitted by the National              system controlled by the       Public Health Service
                                           Health council to the                  central Government to a        Providers);
                                           National Congress, which               demand driven health
                                           creates Regional Public                system centered on clients
                                           Health Service Providers, in           (patients), an essential step
                                           accordance with the General            in making social services
                                           Health Law 42-01.                      work for the poor.
                                                                                                                 Revision of the process for
                                           H.6. Revision of process               Improved process for           categorizing beneficiaries
                                           for categorizing                       categorizing health            for the non-contributory
                                           beneficiaries for the                  insurance beneficiaries will   health insurance system;
                                           non-contributory health                also generate key data
                                           insurance system, through              required to help establish a
                                           -National Health Council               universal single database for
                                           approval of a revised                  social program beneficiaries
                                           operational manual for                 in the country.
                                           community committees;
                                           and
                                           -promulgation of
                                           presidential decree
                                           introducing the revisions
                                           for the
                                           prioritization/categorizati
                                           on of beneficiaries, in
                                           accordance with CNSS
                                           amendments.
I. Social Program    I. 1. Submission to    I. 2. Promulgation of                 Five duplicative and/or low    Eight duplicative and/or low
Consolidation and    World Bank of          presidential decree                   performing social programs     performing social programs
Rationalization      external report        ordering the elimination              eliminated.                    in housing, health, training,
(Social Cabinet)     (preliminary           of at least 5 ineffective                                            employment, agriculture
                     version)               social programs.                                                     eliminated.
                     commissioned by
                     Social Cabinet to                                            Reduced duplication,           Increased cost-effectiveness
                     evaluate social                                              "leakage" and wastage of       and targeting of remaining
                     programs and                                                 public resources allocated     programs.
                     proposed matrix of                                           for social programs, will
                     programs to be                                               promote improved
                     considered for                                               cost-effectiveness and
                     consolidation or                                             targeting of remaining social
                     elimination.                                                 programs.
J. Universal                                J. 1. Updated Operational             By end of 2005,               200,000 households are now
System for                                  Manual and econometric                approximately 1 million       participating in the Comer es
Selection of                                formula used to select                citizens will be benefiting   Primero program,
Beneficiaries for                           beneficiaries according to            from social services for      representing approximately 1
Social Services.                            levels of poverty, approved           which participation is        million poor Dominicans.
                                            by the Social Cabinet.                determined through use of




                                                                        - 34 -

National Planning                                                                 updated national Poverty
Office (ONAPLAN)                            J. 2. Updated national                Map.
                                            poverty map using 2002                                              SIUBEN (Sistema Unico de
                                            Census data, approved by              Improved targeting and        Beneficiarios), based on
                                            Social Cabinet                        cost-effectiveness of        updated National Poverty
                                                                                  Government-financed social Map, launched in August
                                                                                  programs.                    2004. This will be used for
                                                                                                               targeting of almost all public
                                                                                                               social programs.
K. Transparency, K1. Contracting of         K4 Civil Society                      Improved transparency of      Civil society organizations
Monitoring and     one or more civil        Organization                          Government social services evaluated five Government
Evaluation         society organizations    Monitoring Report and                 and independent verification social programs: (i)
                   for the monitoring of    Government's response                 of fulfillment of policy      enrollment of undocumented
Social Cabinet     fulfillment of           submitted to World                    conditionalities, leading to children in school; (ii)
(Gabinete Social)  conditions in Policy     Bank.                                 improved provision of socialperformance of the school
with Civil Society Matrix, in                                                     services for the poor (school feeding program; (iii) support
                   accordance with         K5. Contracting of                     feeding, conditional cash     to undocumented families
                   terms of reference      individuals or firms to                transfer, assistance to       otherwise eligible for
                   acceptable to the       conduct evaluation of school           undocumented citizens,        subsidized health insurance;
                   World Bank,             feeding program, acceptable            availability of essential     (iv) implementation of the
                   covering the school     to the World Bank.                     drugs, etc.)                  subsidized nutrition program,
                   feeding program,                                                                             "Comer es Primero"; and
                   TAE program,            K6. Submission of Terms of             School Feeding Program       (v) implementation of the
                   subsidized health       Reference acceptable to the            evaluation may lead to       conditional cash transfer
                   insurance program,      Bank to collect and evaluate           changes in program's         program for poor mothers to
                   and support to          baseline information of                coverage and services,       in exchange for school
                   undocumented            School Attendance TAE                  perhaps including targeting attendance by their children.
                   Dominicans              program, and contracting of            (in terms of grades and
                                           experts to conduct initial             geographical areas covered),
                   K2. Government          impact assessment of                   in order to maximize
                   submits terms of        program (specifically                  program's positive impact
                   reference acceptable to regarding school attendance,           on children's nutrition,
                   the World Bank for      dropout and academic                   school attendance and
                   comprehensive           performance).                          retention.
                   national evaluation of
                   the SEE's school                                                                            Labor force surveys are
                   feeding programs.                                             Generation of important       available and downloadable
                                                                                 information documenting the on the Central Bank's
                   K. 3. Include health                                          impact of the economic crisis website, and have in fact been
                   and education                                                 on health and education statusused to calculate economic
                   modules in labor force                                        of the population, useful for rates of return for the
                   survey in 2003.                                               future programming of social proposed Social Protection
                                                                                 services and poverty          Investment Loan!
                                                                                 interventions.




                                                                       - 35 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

N/A




                                      - 36 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

N/A




                                      - 37 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                  Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)          Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                         Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              08//2003                  4    Human Dev. Spec. (1)
                                             Social Sector Spec. (1)
                                             Economist (1), Consultant (1)
              11/2003                   4    Human Dev. Spec. (1)
                                             Social Sector Spec. (1)
                                             Economist (1), Consultant (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              12/22/2003                     Task Team Leaders (2)
                                             Economist (1)
                                             Procurement Specialist (1)

 Supervision
              03/19/2004                7    Task Team Leader (1);                  S               S
                                             Social Sector Spec. (1);
                                             Energy Spec. (2)
                                             Social Program Spec. (1);
                                             Nutrition Specialist (1);
                                             Economist (1)
              06/18/2004                6    Task Team Leader (1)                   S               S
                                             Nutrition Specialist (1)
                                             Social Programs Specialist (1)
                                             Lawyer (1)
                                             Social Development Spec. (1)
                                             Economist (1)
              10/25/2004                     PSR update                             S               S
              10/29/2004                5    Team Leader (1); CCT Program           U               U
                                             Specialist (1); Targeting
                                             Specialist (1); Lawyer - Human
                                             Rights (1); Audit Oversight (1)
              04/01/2005                4    Task Team Leader (1)                   S               S
                                             Social Programs Spec. (1)
                                             Lawyer (1)
                                             Program Assistant (1)
                                             Actual rating for PDO and IP
                                             was MS, but system will not
                                             allow this entry.
              06/17/2005                     PSR Update                             S               U
                                             Actual rating for PDO was MS
                                             and for IP it was MU, however
                                             system will not allow this entry.
              10/27/2005                     PSR Update                             S               S




                                              - 38 -

 ICR
               12/12/06                     Team Leader (2)                   S    S
                                            PR Spec.(1)
                                            Financial Management (1)
                                            Sector Leader (1)


(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               38                    193,051.45
  Appraisal/Negotiation                     1                         5,000
  Supervision                              36                    181,787.36
  ICR                                       9                        45,000
  Total                                    83                    424,838.81




                                            - 39 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 40 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 41 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

IMF, Dominican Republic IMF Assessment Letter, July 28, 2005

World Bank, Dominican Republic Social Crisis Response Adjustment Loan, Tranche Release
Memorandum, August 10, 2005.

World Bank, Dominican Republic Poverty Assessment: Achieving More Pro-Poor Growth, Report No.
32422-DO, June 10, 2005

World Bank, Country Assistance Strategy for the Dominican Republic, 2005-09, May 19, 2005.

World Bank, Republic Social Crisis Response Adjustment Loan, Tranche Release Document (Tranche B),
April 2005.

World Bank, Dominican Republic, Programmatic Power Sector Reform Loan, April 12, 2005.

World Bank, CAS Progress Report: Dominican Republic, February 12, 2004.

World Bank, Project Appraisal Document, Dominican Republic Social Crisis Response Adjustment Loan,
January 7, 2004.

World Bank, Project Appraisal Document, Dominican Republic Power Sector Technical Assistance
Project, January 7, 2004.

World Bank, Project Status Reports/ISRs #1-7.




                                                - 42 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Comments - Unofficial Translation
(Original in Files)

         Technical Secretariat of the Office of the President

No. 00113

08 Feb 2006

Mr. Paul Wolfowitz
President
World Bank


                 Attention:      Christina Malmberg-Calvo
                                 Resident Representative
                                 Office of the World Bank in the Dominican Republic

                 Subject:        Borrower's final report

                 Ref.            Social Crisis Response Adjustment Loan, No. 7215-DO


Mr. President,

        Following the economic crisis caused by improper management of public finances and
fraud in the banking sector in 2003, the Dominican Republic was obliged on August 29, 2003 to
conclude a Stand-by Agreement with the International Monetary Fund for two years. This
Agreement was immediately violated by the repurchase of EDES, owned by UNION FENOSA.
This purchase, as well as problems caused by the inefficiency of the electricity supply, added to
the government budget deficit. In order to mitigate the adverse effects of the economic crisis on
the most vulnerable population, on February 13, 2004 the Dominican Government obtained from
the World Bank the emergency loan entitled "Social Crisis Response Adjustment Loan" (No.
7215-DO).

        The loan amounted to US$100 million and was released in three tranches (a first tranche
of US$50 million and two additional tranches of US$25 million) subject to compliance with
conditionalities.

ON COMPLIANCE WITH THE LOAN CONDITIONALITIES

        The Technical Secretariat of the Office of the President, as executing agency for the loan,
subscribed to the loan on behalf of the Dominican Government and was responsible for
coordination, follow-up and technical support to the sectors involved in the attainment of these
objectives.

        With respect to the electricity sector conditionalities, views were exchanged with World
Bank experts, since the Dominican Government had identified this sector as being of priority
importance for the economy. As a result, an electricity sector programmatic loan was obtained
from the World Bank in the amount of US$150 million, in order to assist in reforms in this sector.
The loan is part of a program of support to upgrade the electricity service and to ensure its
financial sustainability.



                                                          - 43 -

- 44 -

The need to focus public spending by concentrating resources and efforts on the neediest
population promotes efficiency and equity, since it enables extremely poor groups to have access
to basic services and helps to improve living conditions. This has enabled the Dominican
Government to decide the direction and tools for the new social policy, with the basic aim of
eliminating the social debt accumulated to the groups living in extreme poverty, guaranteeing
them a minimum standard of living.

         The Study on Poverty Targeting in the Dominican Republic allows social spending to
be targeted and geared to the most poor or vulnerable sectors. It gives, for 2002, estimates of
poverty and living conditions broken down by district and census coverage area.

         In connection with the loan, Operational Manuals for the conditional transfer
programs "Comer es Primero" ("Eating comes First") and the School Attendance Incentive
were designed. These programs are for households living in extreme poverty identified by the
Unified System for Beneficiary Selection (SIUBEN), which was itself based on the Targeting
Study mentioned above.

         The "Eating comes First" program targets households in a situation of extreme poverty,
which receive each month a conditional transfer of RD$550 on a debit card that can be used to
purchase food at local grocery stores.

         The old School Attendance Card has been redesigned to become the new School
Attendance Incentive program. The benefits of this program consist of an additional allowance of
RD$300 for families covered by the Eating comes First program that have one or two children
between six and sixteen years of age attending school and RD$150 for each additional child, up
to four children, provided that the family meets its responsibilities.

         In addition, loan activities are promoting a more inclusive social policy. The provision
of 11,000 birth certificates for children enrolled in basic education has highlighted the
institutional weakness existing in the Dominican Republic, revealing the need to adopt solutions
to enable all Dominicans to enjoy the right to an identity and to the benefits inherent in that right.

         This more inclusive and participatory social policy applies not only to the education
sector, enabling boys and girls to complete primary and secondary studies, but also to the health
sector, through the inclusion of potential beneficiaries in the subsidized social security
scheme. The SIUBEN database will be used to select the beneficiaries under this scheme.

         Activities financed by the loan have promoted the reform of the social welfare sector.
Over five social programs have been discontinued, programs and agencies have been
consolidated and functions have been reassigned.

         As a result, the social welfare program now consists of six subprograms and institutions
and programs financed within and outside the budget of the Office of the President of the
Republic, in accordance with Decree No. 1554-04 of December 13, 2004.

         In order for social policy to be truly conceived as a State policy, all social sectors must
participate and work together: non-governmental organizations, civil society and the
beneficiaries themselves.
         In this connection, it should be noted that a new element has been introduced under this
loan: evaluation of government performance by the Civil Society Advisory Board.




                                                     - 45 -

OTHER ACTIONS TAKEN BY THE TECHNICAL SECRETARIAT OF THE OFFICE
OF THE PRESIDENT IN ITS CAPACITY AS EXECUTING AGENCY

        With respect to the other legal conditionalities and the actions forming an integral part of
the loan program, the Technical Secretariat provided appropriate follow-up, organizing and
promoting the following:

            ·  Adoption of the Law on separation of functions of regulation, financing and
               delivery of health sector services.
            ·  Adoption of management agreements for the allocation of resources to the
               agencies providing public health services.
            ·  Coordination of the bodies responsible for issuing a presidential decree enforcing
               a regulation to improve human resource management in the public health sector.
            ·  Coordination of the bodies responsible for enrolling 70,000 beneficiaries in the
               subsidized scheme in health regions IV and V.
            ·  Coordination for the amendment of the subsidized scheme regulations and of the
               handbooks for selection and certification of the community committees to use the
               SIUBEN database and mechanism as the sole method for the selection of
               beneficiaries (including the SIUBEN files).
            ·  Guidance for the awareness and orientation campaign for the management of
               identity documents for access to the subsidized social security scheme in health
               region IV.
            ·  Monitoring of the transfer of resources by the Secretariat of State for Education
               to 50 associations so that they can work on the decentralized management of
               classroom maintenance.
            ·  In 2004, the Dominican Government promoted priority social programs in the
               education and health sectors. Similarly, administrative action was taken to index
               them to the inflation level anticipated in the income budget and Law on Public
               Spending of 2005.
            ·  These programs are designed to meet the basic learning needs of boys and girls
               (school feeding program, school attendance incentive, teaching materials,
               classroom repair and maintenance).
            ·  With regard to health, the following programs continue to be supported:
               expanded immunization, maternal and child care, prevention of sexually
               transmitted diseases and HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, and vector-transmitted
               diseases.
            ·  Certification and quality control of blood banks, rabies prevention, essential
               medicines and surgical medical equipment.
            ·  Quarterly budget performance has been studied to evaluate the extent to which
               these programs have achieved their financial and coverage goals, as established
               in the loan contract.
            ·  Competitive international bidding was conducted to select a firm to evaluate the
               school feeding program of the Secretariat of State for Education.
            ·  Advice was sought on the design of an instrument to establish a base line and
               subsequent line for measuring the impact of the school attendance incentive
               program.


SOME COMMENTS ON THE PROCESS OF COMPLIANCE WITH THE
CONDITIONALITIES OF LOAN NO. 7215-D0



                                                   - 46 -

- 47 -

The Latin American and Caribbean region has embarked on a process of expanding a range of
services for the entire population with the goal of achieving more democratic and participatory
development, guaranteeing enjoyment of fundamental and universal rights to a long and healthy
life, education, resources needed for a sustainable living environment, political freedom and
protection for human rights. The World Bank, as a development institution, is part of this
process, sharing knowledge and building capacity.

        With regard to capacity building, which is of crucial importance to the Technical
Secretariat of the Office of the President, an evaluation was made of the way in which
compliance with the legal conditionalities of the loan is helping to strengthen institutions.

        This evaluation revealed that the institutions strengthened in this process were: the
Secretariat of State for Education, the Social Policy Cabinet and the Secretariat of State for
Health. The impact was less in the case of the social security institutions and no strengthening
was observed of the institutions involved in the electricity sector.

        An analysis is given below of the various obstacles to compliance with the
conditionalities:

        1. Inflexibility of the conditionalities for adjustment loans

        When it formulated the conditionalities for the adjustment loan, the World Bank did not
        take into account the effect of a change of government and the commitment of the new
        authorities to the program concerned.

        In this connection, the Government was allowed to replace only one (1) out of a total of
        eight legal conditionalities in the social sector, three legal conditionalities in the
        electricity sector and nine activities included in the loan program, excluding the essential
        conditionality of maintaining a satisfactory macroeconomic framework.

        The new Government was faced with the need not only to incorporate the programs and
        activities covered by this loan but also to ensure their sustainability.

        The Dominican authorities are aware that the commitments made by the State must be
        honored but we believe it is appropriate to submit for the consideration of the World
        Bank the idea that a certain flexibility should be allowed as regards compliance with the
        conditionalities of adjustment loans. As mentioned above, the commitments given by a
        particular administration as part of its government program are not necessarily the
        commitments and priorities of a new administration.

        2. Approval by bodies outside the purview of the executing agency

        It is very difficult for executing agencies to foresee how long it will take to comply with a
        conditionality, when monitoring requires the promulgation of a law or a decree. It
        should be pointed out that the responsibility for compliance with conditionalities lies with
        the executing sector and not with the approving sector.

        The loan was arranged when the Office of the President and the Congress were controlled
        by the same political party. The conditionality thus presupposed that the State was a
        monolithic structure.




                                                     - 48 -

- 49 -

We therefore believe that any conditionality should take into account the area of action of
the Executive and respect the authority of the other government branches. If the
conditionality were limited to the administrative reforms depending on the institutions
that are to be strengthened, it might be more effective in terms of achievement of
programmatic goals.

3. One-sided nature of the World Bank's economic evaluation

During the process of compliance with the conditionalities, several technical missions to
monitor the loan were made by World Bank consultants. Each technical mission
produced an aide-mémoire that had to be co-signed by this Office with the Loan Manager
from the World Bank.

We consider it acceptable to co-sign a monitoring and review aide-mémoire, provided
that it was prepared by a team composed of representatives of the lender and the
borrower, but not if it is a document expressing only the viewpoint of the World Bank
consultants.

In our view, this type of procedure needs to be rethought. It is not appropriate for the
executing agency to have to countersign an aide-mémoire expressing only the opinions of
the technical missions of the World Bank.

4. Evaluation of the macroeconomic framework

Under World Bank procedures and rules, its adjustment loans require a satisfactory
evaluation of the macroeconomic framework. In this connection, we would like to know
what constitutes a satisfactory evaluation of the macroeconomic framework. In June
2005, the Dominican Government provided proof of compliance with all the
conditionalities. However, no funds were released until August that year, after the
International Monetary Fund (IMF) had expressed its "no objection" to the
macroeconomic framework.

The loan document signed by the Technical Secretariat of the Office of the President does
not specify that this satisfactory evaluation is to be provided by the Fund. On that
occasion, this Technical Secretariat asked the World Bank to inform us of any
unfavorable aspects of the macroeconomic environment, but no response was provided.
Yet at that time the Dominican Government had exceeded the targets agreed under the
Stand-By Agreement with the IMF and was therefore in the process of renegotiating new
targets.

5. Need for less precise quantitative targets

Some of the conditionalities stipulate goals expressed in precise figures. For example,
with respect to the goal of enrolling 70,000 beneficiaries in the borrower's subsidized
health scheme, we discussed the objective of this conditionality in terms of strengthening
and what would have happened if, instead of 70,000 beneficiaries, 60,000 had been
enrolled. We have not received a response concerning the number or the conditionality
itself.

We recommend that, in cases such as this, the Bank should consider a target defined as a
range, rather than precise figures.



                                            - 50 -

       6. Inclusion of the national context

       In addition, we have learned from this process that great care should be taken when
       including as a conditionality actions that consist of or require institutional changes and
       that all reforms should reflect the particular national context. The task of the World
       Bank, as a development agency, is to guide and advise the Government on the
       achievement of the reforms to which it has attached priority.

       Although the current authorities did not negotiate loan No. 7215-DO, the executing
       agency's negotiating and management capacity was strengthened, especially since w
       propose that any loan contracted should include components of institutional,
       administrative, financial and technical capacity building.

       This Technical Secretariat of the Office of the President therefore intends to continue to
       promote national capacity building and institutional strengthening through international
       financial and technical cooperation and to ensure that such development is sustainable.


       The role of the international lending and donor agencies should be to support capacity
       building and not simply technology transfer and provision of equipment and funding. On
       the contrary, they should facilitate processes whereby developing countries can expand
       their capacity and prioritize their own development needs.

       Satisfied with the progress achieved in the execution of Social Crisis Response
Adjustment Loan No. 7215/DO, I take this opportunity to renew the expression of my highest
esteem and personal consideration.


                                         Yours sincerely,

                         (Signed) JUAN TEMISTOCLES MONTAS

                        Technical Secretary of the Office of the President
Borrower's Comments - Original




                                                   - 51 -

- 52 -

