   DominicanRepublic-Social CrisisResponseAdjustment Loan(SCRAL)
                                  (Loan 7215-DO)

                 Release of SecondTranche- FullCompliance

                   PROGRAMPERFORMANCE OVERALL

 1.      MacroeconomicFramework. Marketconfidence returnedwith the arrival o f
 President Fernandez in August 2004 and the commitment o f his administration to
 stabilize the economy and restore growth.      The new administration immediately
 initiatednegotiations with the IMF for a new Stand-By Agreement (SBA) including a
 macro stabilization program with revenue and expenditure measures to reduce the
 fiscal gap, commitments on improved debt accrual and management process, and a
 range of banking measures to retumthe sector to sound footing. As a first step, a tax
 reform package was prepared inconsultation with the IMF andpassedby Congress in
 October 2004; this i s expected to generate additional revenues equal to 1.7 percent o f
 GDP in 2005. Since July 2004, the peso has appreciated from RD$45/US$ to less
than RD$30/US$ in November 2004 and has since then remained stable between
RD$28 andRD$32 to the US$. Inflationhas come down significantly and spreads on
 external bonds have also fallen inrecent months. InApril 2004 the Paris Club agreed
to reschedule US$193 million in 2004 debt obligations, pending an agreement o f
comparable treatment by private creditors. In October 2004 the authorities hired
investment bank advisors to pursue a market-friendlyrestructuringo fprivate debt. In
addition, the Central Bank has managed to stabilize base money. Regular auctions
have been significantly or fully subscribed, and interest rates on Central Bank
certificates have come down significantly in the last two months, with longer
maturities. Loan and deposit interest rates at commercialbankshave also fallen since
July 2004. All these measures culminated with the approval by the Board of the
IMFoftheSBA onJanuary31,2005.


2.       Looking ahead, the Dominican economy will face new and large competitive
pressures in the framework o f imminent trade policy changes that will make
achieving and maintaining the high growth rates o f the 1990s more challenging.
Increased trade liberalization i s expected in the form o f the phase-out of the Multi
FibreAgreement in2005 (which will meanincreased competition on apparel exports,
especially from China), the new free trade agreement with the U S (DR-CAFTA) and
the forthcoming WTO requirement to adjust the Free Trade Zone (FTZ) tax regime to
eliminate effective export subsidies by 2010. The Multi Fibre Agreement phase-out
may result in a major contraction inFTZ apparel exports, although the DR-CAFTA is
expected to cushion the impact by stimulating trade, investment and employment.
The fiscal impact o f DR-CAFTA may be particularly challenging, however, with
fiscal revenues potentially falling by as much as 40 percent. But, provided the
Dominican authorities respond with adequate policies and reform, the pay-off to
increased trade liberalization will be higher growth.        Greater competition for




                                         1

 Dominicanproducers will spur them to take advantage o f the opportunities associated
withtrade opening.

 3.      Inthe case of the agriculture sector, the impact of trade liberalization under
DR-CAFTA will be mainly on the fiscal side: fiscal revenues on agriculture imports
 are expected to decline by the equivalent o f 5 percent o f total current agriculture tariff
revenue in the short run, reaching 12 percent in 15 years. DR-CAFTA will most
 likelyhave limited short-term impact on agricultural trade volumes andprices, given
that Dominican agriculture exports already have preferentialaccess to the US. Onthe
import side, most prices already reflect foreign competition, except for protected
products that will continue to be protected for another 15 to 20 years.               Price
distortions created by highimport tariffs to selected crops, such as rice, will decrease
in the medium and long term, although they will not disappear. However, in the
medium term, the new incentive structure will likely induce a shift from rice
cultivation to higher value-added products, such as tropical fruits.

Poverty Trends and Social Issues

4.       The country's impressive economic growth during the 1990s (5.9 percent on
average) resulted in a reduction o f poverty from 34 percent in 1992 to 29 percent in
 1998 (from 7 to 5 percent for extreme poverty). Economic growth had been the
overarching force behind poverty reduction while persistent disparities in the
distribution o f human, physical and financial assets and inefficiency and inequity in
public spendingprevented a faster decline inpoverty. Inparticular, large segments o f
the rural populationhave not participated inthe benefits of growth. Povertyrates are
also higher among households headed by females and elderly people, and take their
heaviest toll on children and youth through increased rates o f malnutrition, school
dropouts, youth unemployment and riskybehavior such as violence, drugs, crime and
riskysexual activity. Entrenched pockets ofpovertypersist onthe Haitianborder and
inthe bateyes, the old sugarplantations. This indicates that while economic growthis
critical to reduce poverty inthe Dominican Republic, it has to be complemented by a
range o f public actions to ensure that poor people benefit, as well as the most
vulnerable amongthe poor.

5.      Preliminary assessments indicate an increase in the percentage o f people
living at or below the poverty line and a general worseningof livingconditions across
income groups. A qualitative study completed in December 2004 on the social
dimensions of the economic crisis, which the SCRAL aims to ameliorate, revealed
that poor households responded to the decline in real incomes by removing their
children from school, reducing food consumption, and eliminating services (phone,
gas and electricity). Years o f slow, albeit important, reduction o f poverty rates and
improved living standards were reversed, all o f which weaken the country's capacity
to meetthe MDGs by 2005. Inaddition, the country's capacity to meet the MDGs by
2015 hasbeen affected.




                                         2

6.      Poor households have been disproportionately affected by the crisis given
their higher levels of unemployment, especially among women and youth, and
inability to offset income losses forcing them to cut back on consumption. The most
important impact o f the crisis came from the high inflation resulting from the sharp
currency depreciation. Food, medicine and transport prices became prohibitive for
large segments o f the population and the reduction in fiscal revenues and in public
investment, combined with the increase in the price o f commodities, i s affecting the
provision o f basic social services and social programs. In addition, the electricity
sector crisis has had serious social repercussions, with electricity blackouts resulting
in increased crime and violence and electricity shortages for basic hospital
procedures. The earthquake, floods and hurricanes that hit the country in 2003 and
2004 compounded the already serious social situation, and impacted the most
vulnerable populationthe hardest.

Social Sector Reforms

7.      In February 2004 the Government began an ambitious set of social sector
reforms, almost all o f which are on track, although slightly behind schedule. This
includes eight major reforms which are included in Schedule 3 o f the S C M L Loan
Agreement for Floating Tranche "A", four of which have been fully complied with
andfour o fwhich are intheprocess o f fulfillment(expected byMarch 31,2005).

8.      These actions included:


    0  Full financing of a universal school feeding program reaching 1.6 million
       children ingrades 1-8 each day, and the launching o f a comprehensive impact
       evaluation of this program (the contract for the evaluation was signed by
       February28,2005);

       Implementation o f a conditional cash transfer (CCT) program for 100,000
       poor mothers who send their children to primary school, including the
       development o f a comprehensive operational manual satisfactory to the Bank
       which uses a proxy-means test for beneficiary selection (the latter i s a
       completed condition for Floating Tranche "A");

    0  Enrollment o f 70,000 poor families in the subsidized component o f the
       national health insurance system (a fulfilled condition for Floating Tranche
       "A" still awaitingfinalverification ofthehealthinsurancedatabase);

       Continuationo f a policy allowing undocumented children to enroll inprimary
       school, benefiting at least 20,000 youth in school year 2004-2005 (fulfilled),
       and provision o f over 6,000 birth certificates to previously undocumented
       children (Floating Tranche "A" conditionality requires             11,000 birth
       certificates issued);




                                        3

   Support from the National Council o f Social Security to                12,000
   undocumented families, identifiedas otherwise available to participate innon-
   contributory health insurance system, to obtain their identity cards (activities
   are underway as o f January 2005);


0 Development o f an Operational Manual satisfactory to the Bank by the
  National Institute for Price Stabilization (INESPRE) for a targeted food
   subsidy program, and commencement of this program (a completed condition
  for Floating Tranche "A");

   Satisfactory protection of priority social programs in the 2004 and 2005
  NationalBudget (fulfilled);

  Continued legal reform o f the health sector, including (i)   promulgation by
  presidential decree o f the "Regulation o f Human Resources in the National
  Health System" (a completed condition for Floating Tranche "A"), (ii)
  approval by the Secretary o f Public Health and Social Assistance (SESPAS)
  o f the Resolution which initiates the separation o f fimctions in the health
  sector, by which i s authorized the creation o f Regional Public Health Service
  Providers (not a condition o f Floating Tranche "A"), and (iii)  revision of the
  process for categorizing beneficiaries for the non-contributory health
  insurance system acceptable to the Bank (a completed condition for Floating
  Tranche "A");

  Promulgation o f a presidential decree ordering the elimination o f eight
  ineffective social programs (a completed condition for FloatingTranche "A");

  Updating o f the Operational Manual and econometric formula used to select
  beneficiaries according to levels o f poverty, approved by the Social Cabinet,
  and updating o f the national poverty map using 2002 Census data
  (completed); and


0 Contracting o f five civil society organizations to monitor government
  implementation o f key social programs supported by the S C M L (school
  feeding, the CCT program, support to undocumented families, the targeted
  food subsidyprogram, etc.), and submission o f their reports to Government (a
  partially completed conditionfor Floating Tranche "A").




                                   4

    9.      In addition, the Government has moved forward with overall reform of the
    health sector with the approval by Congress inDecember 2004 o f the World Bank's
    Health Sector Reform Adaptable Programmatic Loan and its                 subsequent
    effectiveness, and it has substantially improved its nationalHIV/AIDSprevention and
    control programs.     Inthe education sector, the Government announced in early
    February 2005 its intention to work with all major donors on the preparation and
    implementation o f a Sector Wide Approach (SWAP), which should significantly
    improve access and quality o f education over the next few years.

    10.     Finally, the Fernandez Government launched in August 2004 the Unified
    System for Beneficiary Selection (Sistema Unico de Beneficiarios, STCTBEN), a
    sophisticated system which uses the updated National Poverty Map and household
    surveys in areas o f extreme poverty to identify those households most in need of
    public social programs. SIUBENwill be used for targeting o f almost all public social
    programs, which should greatly improve efficiency, transparency and effectiveness o f
    these programs, while reducing indiscriminate use o f social programs for political
    purposes (a long-time tradition inthe DominicanRepublic).

        11. PROGRESSINMEETING FLOATINGTRANCHE RELEASE "B"
              CONDITIONSRELATEDTO THE ELECTRICITY SECTOR

    11.     General Condition: The status o f the two general conditions associated with
    the Loani s as follows:

        The macroeconomic policy framework o f the Borrower is satisfactory.       This
        condition is met, as a result of the assessment of the country's macroeconomic
       performance inSection Iabove.
       The progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Program i s
        satisfactory. This condition is met, as demonstrated inparagraphs 12-16 below.
       The actions described in Schedule 4 o f this Agreement have been taken in form
       and substance satisfactory to the Bank. This condition is met. Government
       performance in meeting each o f the 3 specific conditions for floating tranche
       release "B" i s described below inParagraphs 12 - 16.

    12.     Condition 1.       The Borrower has delivered at least US$30,000,000
   equivalent worth of fuel to domestic electricity generators, financed through its
   national budget. This condition is met. In May 2004, the Government submitted to
   the World Bank all receipts and invoices which showed purchases o f fuel equivalent
   to US$30,000,000, financed through its national budget, for the purpose o f domestic
   electricity generation.    In addition, the Government submitted evidence which
   demonstrated "merit-based dispatch" such that the most efficient electricity
   generators were givenpriority for fuel purposes.

   13.     Condition 2. CDE has continued to supply at least 80 Gwh per month for
   purposes of the PRA.'      This condition is met. Energy supply by the regional
`"Program  de Reducci6nde Apagones"


                                             5

distribution companies ("the Edes") to the PRA over the 12-month period from
January-December 2004 averaged 73 Gwh per month, or 91 percent o f the SCRAL
target. Because there is an electricity transmission loss o f approximately 3 percent,
the CDE actually provided slightly more than this amount of energy to the regional
distribution companies (EdeSur, EdeEste and EdeNorte). If this is included, actual
CDE energy supply rises to 73 GWhper month, or 91 percent o fthe SCRAL target.

14.      It is worth noting that during the first nine months of 2004 average monthly
energy supply to the PF2A banios was 81.8 Gwh. Supply to the PRA fell duringthe
last three months o f 2004 as production o f hydroelectricity during this period fell by
24 percent compared to the first nine months o f 2004. Hydro power i s the primary
(and cheapest) source o f energy for the PRA. Ifthe Government had continued full
PRA supply through electricity generated by fuel imports the macroeconomic
situation would have been negatively affected.

15.      Inview of (i) decline in hydroelectric power generation inthe last three
                         the
months o f 2004, (ii) Government's commitment to maintain the PRA in 2005 at
                        the
the same levels (or even higher, should hydroelectric supply be sufficient), and (iii)
the many other electricity sector reforms underway as part o f preparation o f the
World Bank Power Sector Adjustment Loan, due for Board presentation in May
2005, this i s satisfactory performance.

16.      Condition 3. TheBorrower hasfrozen the electricity tar$%,payable by users
consuming less than 200 kwh per month, at levels no greater than those as of
December 1,2003. This condition i s met. The Government has submitted evidence
to the World Bank, consisting o f formal resolutions o f the Superintendent o f
Electricity, which confirm that the tariffs for consumers o f less than 200 kwh per
month remain unchanged from December 2003 to January 2005. These resolutions
were issued on a monthly basis, and included tariff increases on consumers o f more
than 200 kwh, an essential step towards financial sustainability o fthe energy sector.

                                  111. CONCLUSION

17.     In view of the overall satisfactory performance and progress with the
implementationo f the program supported by the Loan, including the macroeconomic
framework andthe specific conditions o f releasereferredto inSchedule 4 o fthe Loan
Agreement, the Bank has informed the Borrower o f the availability for disbursement
o fthe floating tranche "B" o f the Loan inthe equivalent o fUS$25 million.




                                          6

