Page  1
 1
27621 
Initial Project Information Document (PID) 
 
Project Name 
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC Social Crisis Response Adjustment Loan 
Region 
Latin America and Caribbean Region 
Sector 
Human Development 
Project 
P085433 
Borrower(s) 
Dominican Republic 
Implementing Agency(ies) 
Secretariado Técnico de la  Presidencia 
 
Environment Category 
C 
Date PID Prepared 
December 18, 2003 
Auth Appr/Negs Date 
December 19, 2003 
Bank Approval Date 
February 3, 2004 
 
1. Country and Sector Background 
The Dominican Republic  in early 2003  entered a period of financial crisis, precipitated by a 
major bank failure, followed by  macroeconomic contraction, rapid currency depreciation and 
inflation, increasing incidence of electricity blackouts as power companies could not afford to 
import fuel, and social impacts in the form of substantial real declines in household incomes and a 
an increase in poverty incidence.  The spreading fiscal crisis has also affected social programs, 
which have been starved of recurrent budget support, as shortfalls in government revenues and an 
higher than projected public enterprise deficit have meant rationing of resources.   An overall 
crisis of confidence, a worsening balance of payments position, severe fiscal constraints, an 
electricity sector on the brink of collapse,  and growing social tensions in the form of protests and 
violence, place the Dominican Republic, once one of the fastest growing  economies in the region, 
in an untenable fiscal  situation and at risk of further, even more severe, social unrest.  
 
The Dominican Republic presents some unusual challenges as a middle income country in crisis.  
As detailed in the Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report, macroeconomic management in 
the 1990s was prudent and successful, with declining levels of external indebtedness and fiscal 
deficits, and robust economic performance.  This was accompanied by steady advances in the 
reduction of poverty, with the percentage of Dominicans living below the poverty declining from 
38% in 1986 to 29% in 1998.
1
  Income distribution, although highly unequal, also improved 
during the 1990s. These indicators set the Dominican Republic apart and above the LAC region, 
but these achievements were not reflected in other social gains. 
 
Social indicators for health and  education, as of 1998, were well below the expected outcomes for 
countries of similar economic attainments.  This applies consistently across nearly all major health 
and education measures, including enrollment/attendance at both primary and secondary levels, 
illiteracy, infant and child mortality,  and maternal mortality.  Public spending on social programs 
as a percentage of GDP has remained well below LAC averages over the 1990s and remain so.  
Social safety net programs are highly fragmented, most quite small in scale, and despite the efforts 
of the Social Cabinet to better coordinate such programs, they lack  strategic direction in terms of 
targeting, integration, evaluation, and long term sustainability.  Food and housing subsidies 
                                                          
 
1
 The poverty estimates are based on those calculated for the headcount ratio in World Bank, 
Dominican Republic Poverty 
Assessment Dec. 17, 2001, 
p. 7.   New estimates will be available with the results of a planned income/expenditure survey in 
2004. 
Page  2
 2
represent a substantial portion of social expenditure with benefits flowing to poor and non-poor 
alike, while undocumented poor Dominicans are excluded from most social services.  The 
Presidency has taken a direct role in delivering social programs, particularly social assistance.  
This is diminishing as the budget is increasingly allocated to line ministries, but social services in 
the Dominican Republic remain for the most part insulated from the new generation of social 
reforms based on accountability and inclusion that have made such important progress in 
neighboring Latin American states. 
 
In the electricity sector, reforms that began in the mid 1990s with the entry of Independent Power 
Producers were followed by other privatization steps, but these were unable to overcome the long 
standing management deficiencies in the sector and left the sector highly vulnerable to the recent 
shock of higher fuel costs.  Less than 60% of all energy provided to the distribution companies is 
recovered through tariffs, due to a pervasive culture and practice of illegal connections and non 
payment of bills. Untargeted consumer subsidies compound the problem. Large scale  government 
subsidies (and arrears) and escalating power blackouts have  contributed to the underlying lack of 
sustainability in the sector.  These problems were worsened by the sudden devaluation of the 
Dominican peso, which doubled fuel costs and sent the sector deeper into crisis. 
 
The Social Situation 
Although it is too early to assess the full social impact of the crisis, a preliminary assessment shows a loss in real 
purchasing power of 17% among all income groups, including the poorest, over the year from April 2002 to April 
2003. This is caused primarily by the steep rise in inflation (18%) over the year April 2002-2003.   The poorest 
households are in a situation of greater vulnerability given the high proportion of income spent on 
basic
 goods and 
services.  Food prices are particularly sensitive in the Dominican Republic, where a history of public distribution of 
free meals and subsidized marketing of basic foods has created expectations of a Government response.  Inflation 
since April 2003 has accelerated along with further depreciation of the peso, and the impact on real incomes will be 
more severe than for the April 2002 – April 2003 period 
 
As of April 2003 unemployment had not been affected by the crisis. However Government data 
indicates that over 64,000 formal sector workers were laid off in the first seven months of 2003, 
25% more that the total number of workers laid off in all 2002. Unemployment impacts are 
expected to show up in the Labor Force Survey conducted in October 2003 (results in January 
2004). If unemployment impacts emerge, this would exacerbate an already dire situation for the 
the poorest, among whom unemployment levels are disproportionately high.  
 
At this early stage of crisis impacts, there are no indications  that families have been withdrawing 
their children from school, at least as of April 2003. The Government was compelled to cutback 
on social programs expenditures during 2003.  Due to increases in prices of imported drugs and 
medical supplies,  public hospitals are reported to be experiencing shortages of stock, and patients 
are not being treated. Market prices for certain drug treatments are reportedly rising rapidly, well 
ahead of the CPI increases.   
   
Endemic and worsening problems in the electricity sector have become a major challenge for economic and social 
stability in the Dominican Republic.  The social problem is exacerbated by the tendency of the distribution companies 
to impose the sharpest supply cuts in the poorest areas, where their collection rates are lowest.  In September 2002, 
social protests against the prolonged blackouts in the barrios led to widespread riots that claimed 15 lives.   Although 
some urgent measures provided a temporary sector-wide reprieve, the sector once more slipped into growing crisis in 
2003.  On November 11, 2003 a nationwide general strike protesting the economic situation and especially the 
electricity blackouts led to the death of 7 persons. 
Page  3
 3
 
2. Objectives 
The objectives of the proposed loan are to help the Dominican Republic cope with the current  economic and social 
crisis and to stimulate overdue and continuing reforms in the social and electricity sectors
.
  
 
 
3. Rationale for  World Bank Involvement 
The features of the current social and  economic crisis establish the priority elements of the World 
Bank’s response in cooperation with the IMF, the IDB and other donors. The Dominican economy 
faces foreign exchange shortage, devaluation and inflation, each of which increase the financial 
crisis of the electricity sector and worsen living standards, particularly among the poor.  This has 
increased social unrest, a loss of investor confidence, and capital flight, thus creating a vicious 
circle.  Most critically, the country is underachieving in two important domains – social services 
and power generation.  The proposed loan would help stabilize the economic and social situation 
of the Dominican Republic through timely financial support and a program of near term actions to 
improve social and electricity programs performance while providing  longer term reform impetus.
 
The power sector would make initial, specific steps toward better targeting of subsidies and 
toward financial sustainability, and the social sectors would implement pro-poor targeting, 
national-scale health sector reforms, acceleration of health insurance enrollments of the poor, and 
modernization of the school feeding and school attendance conditional cash transfer programs.  In 
regard to the large undocumented population in the Dominican Republic, the loan would support 
government efforts to make services accessible to the undocumented and to help families obtain 
documentation.  Finally, civil society would be engaged to provide transparent oversight of 
programs and actions supported under the loan, an important step forward for transparency. 
 
 
 
4. Program Description 
The loan would support government actions in three areas.  First, it would help build the response capacities and 
performance of social and electricity  programs through improved targeting of resources to the poor, the protection of 
key social and electricity programs in the 2004 budget, and steps to accelerate the inclusion of the large group of 
undocumented Dominicans.  Second, it would support a rapid response program in the electricity sector to “keep the 
lights on” during the current period of social tensions. And third, it would provide a stimulus for médium  term 
reforms in the social and electricity sectors in such areas as targeting mechanisms, program evaluation, health reform, 
and electricity sector sustainability.
 
 
5.  Financing 
IBRD (US $100 million) 
Total Project Cost: US$ 100 million 
 
 
6. Environmental Aspects
 
The program is an adjustment operation and has been placed in category “C” according to screening guidelines.  
 
7. Project Risks 
 
The first category of risk is governance,  in the context of the upcoming May 2004 Presidential elections.   The 
important provisions under the proposed loan  for civil society monitoring as well as intensive World Bank 
Page  4
 4
supervision should reduce but cannot eliminate this risk.  Linked to that risk is that of ad hoc budget reallocations 
during the fiscal year, from protected to unprotected programs.  A parallel project supported by the Inter American 
Development Bank contains strict budget execution conditionality that should  mitigate that risk, as will supervision of 
monthly budget execution by the World Bank. The second category of risk is that of  non-compliance.  Actions 
required for the two floating tranches are substantial, both in the social and the electricity sectors.  Although there is 
strong government endorsement of these actions, the pre-election climate is unpredictable and potentially a cause for 
non compliance by the incumbent administration. Finally, a surge in civil disturbances might undermine consensus for 
social and electricity sector reforms, taking the country into deeper crisis.  The proposed loan, although aimed at 
easing social tensions, is only one element in a complex and uncertain  social environment.. 
 
8. Contact Point: 
Task Manager 
Christopher Chamberlin 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
Washington D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 473-2349 
Fax:  (202) 522-0050 
 
Co-Task Manager 
Samuel C. Carlson 
The World Bank Office in the Dominican Republic  
Telephone:  (809)  566-6815 
Fax:  (809)  566-7746 
 
9.  For information on other project related documents contact: 
 The InfoShop 
    
 The 
World 
Bank 
    
 1818 
H 
Street, 
NW 
    
 Washington, 
D.C. 
20433 
 Telephone: 
(202) 
458-5454 
    
 
Fax:       (202) 522-1500 
 
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop 
 
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may not be necessarily 
included in the final project.
 
