  DominicanRepublic-SocialCrisisResponseAdjustment Loan(SCRAL)
                                (Loan 7215-DO)

                   Releaseof TrancheA -FullCompliance

                I.PROGRAMPERFORMANCEOVERALL


1. The Dominican Republic Social Crisis Response Adjustment Loan (SCRAL) in
   the amount of US$lOO million was approved by the Board of Directors on
   February 12, 2004, andbecame effective on March 4, 2004. The loan comprises
   three single currency tranches: a first tranche, and two floating tranches
   henceforthidentified as Tranche A andTranche B.

2. As per loan agreement nr. 72150 DO signed by the Borrower on February 13,
   2004, the disbursement o f Tranche A i s triggered by a series o f actions in the
   social sector, while Tranche B by a different set o f action inthe electricity sector.
   The release o f hnds for each ofthe floating tranches occurs as soon as the sector-
   specific conditions materialize andnot necessarily ina sequential order.

3. The first tranche inthe amount o f US$49 million was released on March 8, 2004
   upon meeting a set of actions before Board presentation. Tranche B inthe amount
   o f US$25 million was released on April 13, 2005.            This Tranche Release
   Document (TRD) sets forth a description o f the tranche conditions and
   compliance status o fthe borrower for Tranche A o fUS$25 million.

4. Macroeconomic Framework. In the aftermath o f the May 2004 elections,
   market confidence returned as a result o f the perceived strong commitment of
   President Femandez' administration to stabilize the economy and restore growth.
   The new administration immediatelyinitiatednegotiations withthe IMFfor a new
   Stand-By Agreement (SBA), including a macro stabilization program with
   revenue and expenditure measures to reduce the fiscal gap, commitments on
   improved debt management process, a range o f banking measures to retum the
   sector to sound footing, and reform o f public sector financial institutions to
   improve the design and execution o f fiscal policies. As a first step, a tax reform
   package was prepared in consultation with the IMF and passed by Congress in
   October 2004. Since July 2004, the peso has appreciated from RD$45/US$ to
   less than RD$30/US$ in November 2004 and has remained stable since then.
   Inflation has come down significantly and spreads on external bonds have also
   fallen inrecent months.

5. InApril 2004 the Paris Club agreed to reschedule debt obligations, pending an
   agreement o f comparable treatment byprivate creditors.     A market-friendlybond
  restructuring with private creditors was recently completed, with higher-than-
   anticipated investor participation. The result was a restructuring o f over 93
  percent o f outstanding bonds, whose maturities were pushed from 2006 and 2013,
  to 2011 and 2018, respectively, providing the Government with liquidity relief

                                                DR SCRALSocial Sector TrancheReleaseMemorandum



   andpavingthe way for the completiono fParis Clubnegotiations. Inaddition, the
   Central Bank has managed to stabilize base money and interest rates have
   declined.

6. The Board o f the IMF approved the SBA on January 31, 2005. Developments
   under the program remainpositive and preliminary information indicates that the
   end-June 2005 fiscal and monetary targets have been met with comfortable
   margins(see IMF assessmentletter inattachment). The continued implementation
   o f cautious fiscal and monetary policies has contributed to strengthening market
   confidence, reducing inflation, and lowering interest rates. Preliminary data
   indicate that real GDP grew by 4.3 percent inthe first quarter o f 2005 suggesting
   that GDP growth for 2005 could reach 3.5 percent. Meanwhile, the 12-month
   inflation rate fell to -1.0 percent inJune from 28.7 percent inDecember 2004, and
   the average interest rate on Central Bank certificates has fallen to close 10
   percent. Inthis regard, and despite the rapid growth in Central Bank certificates in
   early 2005 - reflecting the larger-than-anticipated accumulation o f international
   reserves - the Central Bank's quasi-fiscal losses remain within the program's
   estimates.

7. In the financial sector the Government has moved to improve prudential
   regulations, in accordance with the IMF SBA, in particular by strengthening
   supervision and gradually raising commercial banks' capitalization to
   international standards.       In addition, Congress recently approved the World
   Bank's Technical Assistance Loan for the Financial Sector, which should further
   help strengthen bankingsupervision andconsolidation.

8. The electricity sector has shown some positive signs o f improvement, with
   decreased distribution losses and increased collections, although it i s still not
   financially solvent.      Congress recently approved the World Bank's Technical
   Assistance Loan for the Energy Sector which should improve sector perfonnance
   in preparation for the recently approved World Bank US$l50 million Power
   Sector Adjustment Loan which supports a program to improve the sector's
   financial and technical viability, particularly in the improvement o f collection
   rates, revision o f tariffs, reduction o f transmission losses and in stolen electricity,
   andoverallimprovements inthe stability and supply of electricitynationwide.

Poverty Trends and Social Issues

9. The country's impressive economic growth duringthe 1990s (5.9 percent per year
   on average) lifted about 5 percent o f Dominicans out o f poverty (2 percent out o f
  extreme poverty). Butpersistent disparities inthe distributiono fhuman, physical
   and financial assets and inefficiency and inequity inpublic spendingprevented a
  faster decline in poverty.       Inparticular, large segments of the rural population
  have not participated inthe benefits o f growth, and income and inequality remain
  at the average level o f the LAC region, already the highest in the world.
  Preliminary results from a recent living conditions survey indicate that about 36



                                           2

                                                        DR SCRALSocial Sector Tranche Release Memorandum



         percent of the population had incomes insufficient to cover their basic needs in
         2004, andover 13 percent couldnot even affordminimumfood requirements.

    10. Social indicators in the Dominican Republic remain below the L A C region's
         average and that o f countries with similar income per capita. According to the
         2004 UNDP Human Development Index the country ranks 98 among 177
         countries.    At current rates and trends, the Dominican Republic is not well
         positionedto achieve some MillenniumDevelopment Goals (MDGs), particularly
         those related to the eradication o f hunger, improvement o f child and maternal
         health, and environmental sustainability.

    11.Preliminary assessments of the impact of the recent crisis on the poor indicate a
         dramatic increase in the percentage o f people living in poverty and a general
         worsening o f living conditions across income groups. About 15 percent o f
         Dominicans (about 1.3 million) fell in poverty during 2000-2004 and close to 7
         percent (over half a million) became unable to afford even the basic food needs.'
         The bulk o f the increase in poverty occurred during 2002-04 since poverty
         remained stagnant during 2000-02. The increase in poverty is similar to that
         observed inArgentina duringthe severe crisis o f 2000-2002.

    12. These figures reflect the toll o f rampant inflation on living conditions. Average
        real labor earnings fell by almost one third and open unemployment worsened by
         one percentage point from early 2002 to early 2004.                      A qualitative study
         completed in December 2004 on the social dimensions o f the economic crisis
        under the SCRALrevealed that somepoor households responded to the decline in
        real incomes by removing their children from school, reducing food consumption,
        and eliminating services (phone, gas and electricity).                Years o f slow, albeit
        important, reduction o f poverty rates and improved living standards were
        reversed, all of which weaken the country's capacity to meet the MDGs by 2015.

    13. Poverty rates stand at 31 percent in urban areas and 45 percent in rural zones.
        Povertyrates are higher among households headed by females and elderly people,
        and take their heaviest toll on children and youth through increased rates of
        malnutrition, school dropouts, youth unemployment and risky behavior. This
        indicates that while economic growth is critical to reduce poverty in the
        Dominican Republic, it has to be complemented by a range o f public actions to
        ensure that poorpeoplebenefit including the most vulnerable amongthe poor.

   Social Sector Reforms

   14. InJanuary 2004 the Government began an ambitious set o f social sector reforms,
        described in the Policy Reform Matrix detailed in the Staff Appraisal Report,
        which constitute the overall program supported by this loan.                      The reforms
        included both crisis response actions and medium term reforms, addressing

'Resultsarefrom an on-goinganalysisof the Labor ForceSurveys 1998-2004and a2004 living conditions survey
(ENCOVI), whichwill befinalizedinan ongoingpovertyassessment.


                                                     3

                                             DR SCRAL Social Sector Tranche Release Memorandum



    education, health, nutrition, poverty, and social sector expenditures. Fifteen o f
   these measures were undertaken before presentation o f the SCRAL to the Board.
   Nineteen additional measures have been implemented since February 2004,
   including eight major reforms which are included in Schedule 3 o f the SCRAL
   Loan Agreement for Floating Tranche "A", all o f which have been fully complied
   with (described fkther inSection 11).


15. Overall program actions implemented since February2004 include inter alia:

    0  Satisfactory protection o f priority social program expenditures inthe 2004 and
       2005 National Budgets (equivalent to US$130 million, each year);


   0  Full financing o f a universal school feeding program reaching 1.6 million
       children in grades 1-8 each day, incorporation o f students previously served
      by the World Food Program, and the launching of a comprehensive extemal
       impact evaluation o f this program;


   0  Implementation o f a conditional cash transfer (CCT) program for 100,000
      poor mothers who send their children to primary school, including the
      establishment o f an operational unit for program administration, development
      o f a comprehensive operational manual satisfactory to the Bank which uses a
      proxy-means test for beneficiary selection, and the launching o f a baseline
      impact evaluation for this program;


   0  Enrollment o f over 74,000 poor individuals in the subsidized component o f
      the nationalhealthinsurance system;


   0  Continuation o f a policy allowing undocumented children to enroll inprimary
      school, benefiting at least 20,000 youth in school year 2004-2005, and
      provision o f over 11,000 birth certificates to previously undocumented
      children;


   0  Support from the National Council o f Social Security to                         12,000
      undocumented families, identified as otherwise available to participate innon-
      contributory health insurance system, to obtain their identitycards;


   0  Development o f an Operational Manual satisfactory to the Bank by the food
      subsidy program, "Comer es Primero", and implementation o f this program
      inaccordancewiththe Operational Manual;


   0  Continued legal reform o f the health sector, including (i)         promulgation by
      presidential decree o f the "Regulation o f Human Resources in the National
      Health System", (ii)    approval by the Secretary o f Public Health and Social
      Assistance (SESPAS) o f the Resolution which initiates the separation o f
      functions inthe health sector, by which i s authorized the creation o f Regional


                                          4

                                            DR SCRAL Social Sector Tranche ReleaseMemorandum



        Public Health Service Providers, and (iv) revision o f the process for
        categorizing beneficiaries for the non-contributory health insurance system
        acceptable to the Bank;


    0   Promulgation o f a presidential decree ordering the elimination o f eight
        ineffective social programs, and the consolidation o f many other programs
        resultinginincreased rationalizationo fthe social protection sector ingeneral;


    0   Updating o f the Operational Manual and econometric formula used to select
        beneficiaries according to levels o f poverty, approved by the Social Cabinet,
        andupdatingo fthe nationalpovertymap using2002 Census data; and

        Contracting o f five civil society organizations to monitor government
        implementation o f key social programs supported by the SCRAL (school
        feeding, the CCT program, support to undocumented families, the targeted
        food subsidyprogram, etc.), and submission o ftheir reports to Government.

16. Inaddition, the Government has moved forward with overall reform o f the health
    sector supported by the recent launched World Bank financed Health Sector
    Reform Adaptable Programmatic Loan, and it has substantially improved the
    implementation o f its national HIV/AIDS prevention and control programs. In
    the education sector, the Government announced in early February 2005 its
    intention to work with all major donors on the preparation and implementation o f
    a Sector Wide Approach (SWAP), which should significantly improve access and
    quality o f education over the next few years.

17. Finally, the Femandez Government launched inAugust 2004 the Unified System
    for Beneficiary Selection (Sistema Unico de Beneficiarios, STCTBEN), a
    sophisticated systemwhich uses the updatedNational PovertyMap andhousehold
    surveys in areas o f extreme poverty to identify those households most inneed o f
   public social programs. SIUBEN will be used for targeting o f almost all public
    social programs, which should greatly improve efficiency, transparency and
    effectiveness o f these programs, while reducing indiscriminate use o f social
   programs for politicalpurposes.




                                          5

                                            DR SCRALSocial Sector TrancheReleaseMemorandum



11. PROGRESS IN MEETING FLOATING TRANCHE RELEASE "A"
CONDITIONSRELATEDTO THE SOCIAL SECTOR

18. General Conditions: The status o f the two general conditions associated with the
    Loani s as follows:

    - the macroeconomic policy fiamework o f the Borrower i s satisfactory. This
    conditionis met, on the basis of the assessmento fthe country's macroeconomic
    performance inSection Iabove.
    - The progress achieved by the Borrower in carrying out the Program is
    satisfactory. This conditionis met, demonstrated inparagraphs 12-15 above and
    intherecent disbursement ofthe electricity sector tranche.

19. The actions described in Schedule 3 o f the Loan Agreement have been taken in
    form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. This condition is met. Government
    Performance inmeeting each ofthe specific conditions for floating tranche release
    "A" is describedbelow inParagraphs 18-25.

20. Condition 1. (a) The Secretary o f Education (SEE) has approved an operational
    manual for the Cash Transfer Program; and (b) The beneficiaries o f the Cash
    Transfer Program have been selected, as o f January 1, 2004, in accordance with
    the proxy-means test developed bythe Borrower's NationalPlanningOffice.

    The Secretary o f Education signed a resolution dated May 11, 2005, approving
    this operational manual, satisfactory to the Bank, a copy o f which has been
    submitted to the Bank. The Director o f the National PlanningOffice submitted a
    letter to the Bank on April 22, 2005 indicating that between January and August
    2004 (under the previous Government) a total o f 254 mothers were added to this
    program using a different, geographic poverty targeting criteria to replace 254
    mothers whose children were no longer in primary school.              However, this
    represents less than 0.25 percent o f the total number o f program beneficiaries
    (100,000). Thus, overall performance is considered acceptable. Since September
    2004 no mothers have been added to the program. For the upcoming school year
    (2005/2006) mothers will be selected using the newly approved Operational
   Manualwhich includes use o fthe proxy meanstest.

21. Condition 2. Birthcertificates have been issued to at least 11,000 undocumented
   children enrolled in the Borrower's school system pursuant to an agreement
   between the Secretary o fEducation andthe Borrower's central election council.

   The Borrower submitted evidence demonstrating that 11,09 1 undocumented
   children received their birth certificates. This evidence has been certified by the
   Resident Representative o f the UNDP in the Dominican Republic (UNDP was
   hiredby the Government to supervise fulfillment o f SCRAL conditionalities) ina
   letter dated May 11,2005.




                                         6

                                             DR SCRALSocial Sector TrancheRelease Memorandum



22. Condition 3. The Social Cabinet has approved an operational manual, prepared
    by the Borrower's "Comer es Primero" program, for a targeted food subsidy
    program, and implementationo fthis programhas been initiated.

    The head o f the Social Cabinet (Vice President of the Country) has signed a
    resolution dated May 20, 2005, approving this operational manual, a copy o f
    which has been submitted to the Bank. This program has been initiated among
     16,000 households (reaching 80,000 beneficiaries) on a pilot basis and i s due to
     scale up to 150,000 households by the endo f 2005. It has also been supervised by
    civil society (see Condition 8 below).

23. Condition 4. The Borrower's non-contributory health insurance program has
    enrolled and affiliated at least 70,000 poor individuals in the Borrower's health
    regions IV and V defined in the Borrower's General Health Law, dated March
    2001.

    The National Social Security Council (CNSS) and National Health Insurance
    Agency (SENASA) have submittedsatisfactory evidence to the Bank that 74,548
    poor individuals in these regions have been affiliated in the non-contributory
    healthinsurance program.

24. Condition 5. A Presidential Decree has been issued declaring the effectiveness o f
    a regulation for the improvement of human resources management in the public
    health sector.

    This decreewas signed andpublishedinthe Gaceta Oficial on October 28,2004.

25. Condition 6. The following actions to revise the process o f categorizing the
    beneficiaries o f the Borrower's non-contributory health insurance program have
    been taken:    (a) a Presidential Decree has been issued for the declaration of
    effectiveness o f an amendment, approved by the Borrower's National Social
    Security Council, to the regulations governing such non-contributory health
    insurance program; and (b) an operational manual for community committees has
    been approved by the Borrower's Consejo Nacional de Seguridad Social for
    purposes o f selecting the beneficiaries o fthe above reference program.

    (a) The Presidential Decree was signed on March 21, 2005 and subsequently
    published inthe Gaceta Oficial. (b) On May 18, 2005 the Consejo Nacional de
    la Seguridad Social, Act # 130, approved the modifications to the operational
    manual for community committees to conform to the Presidential Decree o f
   March 21, 2005 regarding the selection o f beneficiaries for the non-contributory
    healthinsurance program.

26. Condition 7. A Presidential Decree has beenissued to eliminate at least 5 social
   programs considered to be ineffective pursuant to the matrix submitted by the
   Social Cabinet to the Bank on December 23,2003.



                                          7

                                            DR SCRAL Social Sector TrancheReleaseMemorandum




   The Presidential Decree was signed on December 13, 2004 and published in
   national newspapers. The decree eliminates 8 social programs in the areas o f
   housing, health, training, employment and agriculture, which has reduced
   duplication and helpedconsolidate the sector.

27. Condition 8. The Borrower has submitted to the Bank: (a) an independent
   monitoring report, prepared by one or more civil society organizations, on the
   progress achieved in the carrying out o f the Program, including the actions
   detailed inthis Schedule; and (b) the Borrower's comments on such report.

   OnMay 24,2005 the Bank receivedthis independent monitoringreport, prepared
   by the Consultative Council of Civil Society, and the Borrower's comments on
   this report prepared by the Technical Secretariat of the Presidency. The report
   assesses government implementation o f five critical social sector reforms related
   to: (i) enrollment o f undocumented children in school; (ii)       performance o f the
   school feeding program; (iii)  support to undocumented families otherwise eligible
   for subsidized health insurance; (iv) implementation o f the subsidized nutrition
   program, "Comer es Primero"; and (v) implementation o f the conditional cash
   transfer program for poor mothers to in exchange for school attendance by their
   children.

   Relative to the Government's SCRAL-supported policy to permit the enrollment
   o f undocumented children inschool, the civil society monitoring revealed uneven
   application o f this policy.   Approximately 75 percent o f 380 families with
   undocumented children surveyed indicated they had been able to enroll their
   children, but 25 percent o f these families stated their children had been denied
   access. The Bank raised this issue with the Minister o f Education, who re-
   clarified the Government's policy on May 18 at a major conference regarding
   undocumented Dominicans. Undocumented Dominican children will be allowed
   to enroll up to 8th grade, and will be given school identitycards untilsuch time as
   they obtain their late birth certificates.   This is a good case o f civil society
   monitoring resultinginefforts by Government to take corrective action.

   Concerning the school feeding program, civil society concluded that inmore than
   90 percent o f the schools surveyed the meals arrived inthe quantity, quality and
   timing required. In a few cases, the number and size of the food rations were
   below requirements, because o f delays in Government payments to private sector
   suppliers.

   With regards to support to undocumented families, civil society concluded the
   government's efforts were poorly organized, poorly targeted, one-off events
   which created publicity but little substantive change in the status o f
   undocumented families, such that the vast majority o f undocumented families
   remain excluded from nationalhealth insurance. The government agency charged
   with this action, the ConsejoNacional de Seguridad Social, acknowledged this in



                                         8

                                             DR SCRAL Social Sector TrancheReleaseMemorandum



    their own report, concluding that targeted, household-specific actions are
    required.   Subsequent to the completion o f this report by civil society, the
    National Health Insurance Agency (SENASA) embarked on its own campaign to
    assist undocumented families, applying lessons leamed, and successfully
    documented and enrolled 36,000 newbeneficiaries.

    Regardingthe nutrition subsidy program, civil society concluded the programwas
    indeed reaching extremely poor households and that the participating grocery
    stores were appropriately selected and were respecting the program's criteria, but
    that supervision o f fulfillment o fresponsibilities (such as child vaccination) which
    are a condition for receiving the subsidy had not begun. This i s not to be
    unexpected for a program which is just beginning, and this issue i s now being
    addressedas part o fpreparation o fthe Social ProtectionInvestment Loan.

    Finally, concerning the conditional cash transfer program to poor mothers for
    their children's school attendance, civil society concluded the program was,
    overall, functioning with acceptable targeting mechanisms (that is, the vast
    majority o f beneficiaries were very poor mothers with children in school), but
    with uneven payment systems and no effective supervision o f children's
    attendance. This programhas since received extensive technical assistance as part
    o f the SCRAL, and has developed new systems and procedures for both payment
    and school attendance verification.


CONCLUSION

28. In view o f the overall satisfactory performance and progress with the
   implementation o f the program supported by the Loan, including the
   macroeconomic framework and the specific conditions o f release referred to in
    Schedule 3 o f the Loan Agreement, the Bank has informed the Borrower o f the
    availability for disbursement o f the floating Tranche "A" o f the Loan in the
   equivalent o fUS$25 million.




                                          9

