Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7215-DO 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Social Crisis Response Adjustment Loan) 
 
between 
 
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated February 13, 2004 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7215-DO 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated February 13, 2004, between the DOMINICAN 
REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received from the Borrower a letter, dated 
December 23, 2003, describing its macroeconomic framework and the objectives and 
policies of its social and power sector reform programs which consist of actions designed 
to improve the ability of the Borrower to respond to the current social crisis (hereinafter 
called the Program), 
declaring the Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the 
Program, and requesting assistance from the Bank in support of the Program during the 
execution thereof; and 
(B) 
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided in support 
of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the loan provided 
for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) as hereinafter provided;  
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999, with the 
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 41, is modified to read: 
“Project” means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the Loan 
Agreement, in support of which the Loan is made.”; 
(b) 
Section 3.08 is modified to read: 
“Each withdrawal of an amount of the Loan from the Loan Account shall 
be made in the Loan Currency of such amount.  If the Loan Currency is 
Page  3
-
2
-
not the currency of the deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the 
Loan Agreement, the Bank, at the request and acting as an agent of the 
Borrower, shall purchase with the Loan Currency withdrawn from the 
Loan Account the currency of such deposit account as shall be required 
to deposit the withdrawn amount into such deposit account.”; 
(c) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan 
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of the Loan 
Agreement and of these General Conditions.”; 
(d) 
the last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted; 
(e) 
Section 9.07 (c) is modified to read: 
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution 
of the program referred to in the Preamble to the Loan Agreement, the 
performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective 
obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan.”; and 
(f) 
Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified above), 9.08 
and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 
9.08. 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a) 
“Cash Transfer Program” means a program established pursuant to 
Presidential Decree No. 1147-01 of November 29, 2001, designed to provide cash to poor 
mothers as an incentive for them to allow their children to attend school; 
(b) “CDE” 
means 
Compañía Dominicana de Electricidad, 
the Borrower’s 
Electric Power Company; 
Page  4
-
3
-
(c) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; 
(d) 
“Floating Tranche A” means the portion of the Loan not exceeding 
$25,000,000 to be released by the Bank upon fulfillment of the conditions set forth or 
referred to in Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement;  
(e) 
“Floating Tranche B” means the portion of the Loan not exceeding 
$25,000,000 to be released by the Bank upon fulfillment of the conditions set forth or 
referred to in Section 2.02. (e) of this Agreement; 
(f) “PRA” 
means 
Programa de Reducción de Apagones
,
the Borrower
’s 
Blackout Reduction Program, created pursuant to Presidential Decree No. 1080-01, dated 
November 3, 2001; 
(g) “SEE” 
means 
Secretaría de Estado de Educación
,
the Borrower’s 
Education Secretariat; and 
(h) 
“Social Cabinet” means 
Gabinete Social
,
the Borrower’s group created 
to organize and coordinate the Borrower’s social sector and social assistance programs. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to one hundred 
million Dollars ($100,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time 
through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b), (c), (d) and (e) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the amount of ninety-nine million 
Dollars ($99,000,000) from the Loan Account in support of the Program. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall, prior to furnishing to the Bank the first request for 
withdrawal from the Loan Account, open and thereafter maintain in its Central Bank a 
deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. All 
withdrawals from the Loan Account of the amount referred to in (a) above shall be 
deposited by the Bank into the Deposit Account. 
Page  5
-
4
-
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the Loan 
shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (i) deposit into the Deposit Account an 
amount equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Bank shall so request, refund 
such amount to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such request shall be 
credited to the Loan Account for cancellation. 
(d) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account in respect of the 
Floating Tranche A unless the Bank shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as 
described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank: 
(i) 
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out 
of the Program; 
(ii) 
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is 
satisfactory; and 
(iii) 
that the actions described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement have 
been taken in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
If, after said exchange of views, the Bank shall have given notice to the Borrower 
that any of  the applicable conditions referred to in this paragraph have not been fulfilled 
and, within 90 days after such notice, such conditions continue to be unfulfilled, then the 
Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the amount of the Floating Tranche A. 
(e) 
No withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account in respect of the 
Floating Tranche B unless the Bank shall be satisfied, after an exchange of views as 
described in Section 3.01 of this Agreement based on evidence satisfactory to the Bank: 
(i) 
with the progress achieved by the Borrower in the carrying out 
of the Program; 
(ii) 
that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is 
satisfactory; and 
(iii) 
that the actions described in Schedule 4 to this Agreement have 
been taken in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank. 
Page  6
-
5
-
If, after said exchange of views, the Bank shall have given notice to the Borrower 
that any of the applicable conditions referred to in this paragraph have not been fulfilled 
and, within 90 days after such notice, such conditions continue to be unfulfilled, then the 
Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, cancel the amount of the Floating Tranche B. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to one per cent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  The Borrower agrees that on or 
promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower withdraw 
from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) 
eighty five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) 
seventy five one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 2.07. Interest and commitment charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; 
Page  7
-
6
-
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and 
(iii) 
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any 
portion of the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and 
outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap or 
Interest Rate Collar on said Variable Rate. 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion,” as defined in Section 2.01 
(7) of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
Section 2.10.  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of  Section 
2.09 of this Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in 
accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate basis 
applicable to the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during each Interest 
Period shall be changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate for the full 
maturity of such amount  in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Bank shall from time to time, at the 
request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program and the actions specified in Schedules 3 and those specified in Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. 
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request. 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to be taken 
after the disbursement of the Loan which would have the effect of materially reversing 
the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including any 
action specified in Schedule 3 or in Schedule 4 to this Agreement. 
Page  8
-
7
-
Section 3.02. Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(b) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
four months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy of the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
have reasonably requested; and 
(c) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested. 
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Events of Suspension 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: (a) the Borrower’s macroeconomic policy 
framework has become inconsistent with the objectives of the Program; and (b) an action 
has been taken or a policy has been adopted to reverse any action or policy under the 
Program (including any action or policy listed in Schedule 3 or Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement) in a manner that would, in the opinion of the Bank, after consultation with 
the Borrower, adversely affect the achievement of the objectives of the Program. 
ARTICLE V 
Termination
 
Section 5.01.  The date May 13, 2004, is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Technical Secretary of the Presidency is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Page  9
-
8
-
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Borrower: 
 
Secretariado Técnico de la Presidencia 
 
Palacio Nacional 
 
Avenida México 
 
Santo Domingo, República Dominicana 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(809) 695-8432 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
  64145 (MCI) 
Page  10
-
9
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC 
 
By /s/ Hugo Guiliani Cury 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Caroline Anstey 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean 
Page  11
-
10
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Excluded Expenditures 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
 
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower; 
 
2. 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank shall have financed or 
agreed to finance, or which the Bank shall have financed or agreed to finance under 
another loan; 
 
3. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any 
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Bank by notice to the Borrower: 
 
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112 - 
 
Alcoholic 
beverages 
 
121 - 
 
Tobacco, 
unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122 
- 
 
Tobacco, manufactured  
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525 
- 
 
Radioactive and  
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
 
Pearls, precious and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
Page  12
-
11
-
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
718 
718.7 
 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 
elements (cartridges), 
 
non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
728 728.43 
 
Tobacco 
processing 
 
machinery  
 
897 
897.3 
 
Jewelry of gold,  
 
silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 
cases) and 
 
goldsmiths’ or  
 
silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including  
 
set gems) 
 
971 - 
 
Gold, 
non-monetary 
 
(excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates) 
 
4. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
 
5. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this 
paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, 
use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party); 
 
6. 
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or 
import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under 
Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
 
7. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or execution of such contract, without the 
Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Bank to remedy 
the situation. 
Page  13
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Amortization Schedule 
1. 
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment 
Date (Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the 
Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by 
multiplying: (a) the total principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of 
the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal Payment 
Date, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts 
referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Installment Share 
 Payment 
Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each April 15 and October 15 
 
Beginning April 15, 2009 
 
through April 15, 2020 
4.17% 
 
On October 15, 2020 
4.09% 
 
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on 
each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows: 
 
(a) 
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as 
of the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule. 
 
(b) 
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be 
repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in 
amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by 
a
fraction, the numerator of which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the 
table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original 
Installment Share) and the denominator of which shall be the sum of all remaining 
Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such date, 
such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to 
in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion applies. 
 
Page  14
-
13
-
3. 
(a) 
Withdrawals made within two (2) calendar months prior to any Principal 
Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable 
on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second 
Principal Payment Date following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each 
Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following 
the date of withdrawal. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, 
if at any time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are 
issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-
paragraph shall no longer apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such 
billing system.  
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a 
Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan 
to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall 
be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, 
shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (a) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (b) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate. 
 
5. 
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time 
shall be denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule 
shall apply separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to 
produce a separate amortization schedule for each such amount. 
Page  15
-
14
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (d) of this Agreement 
1. 
(a) 
SEE has approved an operational manual for the Cash Transfer Program. 
 
(b) 
The beneficiaries of the Cash Transfer Program have been selected, as of 
January 1, 2004, in accordance with the proxy-means t
est developed by the Borrower’s 
National Planning Office (ONAPLAN). 
2. 
Birth certificates have been issued to at least 11,000 undocumented children 
enrolled in the Borrower’s school system pursuant to an agreement between SEE and the 
Borrower’s central election council. 
3. 
The Social Cabinet has approved an operational manual, prepared by the 
Borrower’s National Institute for Price Stabilization (INESPRE), for a targeted food 
subsidy program, and such Institute has initiated the implementation of such program. 
4. 
The Borrower’s non-contributory health insurance program has enrolled and 
affiliated at least 70,000 poor families in the Borrower’s health regions IV and V defined 
in the Borrower’s General Health Law, dated March 2001. 
5. 
A Presidential Decree has been issued declaring the effectiveness of  a regulation 
for the improvement of human resources management in the public health sector. 
6. 
The following actions to revise the process of categorizing the beneficiaries of 
the Borrower’s noncontributory health insurance program have been taken: (a) a 
Presidential Decree has been issued for the declaration of effectiveness of an amendment, 
approved by the Borrower’s National Social Security Council, to the regulations 
governing such noncontributory health insurance program; and (b) an operational manual 
for community committees has been approved by the Borrower’s 
Consejo Nacional de 
Salud
 for purposes of selecting the beneficiaries of the above referenced program. 
7. 
A Presidential Decree has been issued to eliminate at least 5
 
social programs 
considered to be ineffective pursuant to the matrix submitted by the Social Cabinet to the 
Bank on December 23, 2003. 
8. 
The Borrower has submitted to the Bank: (a) an independent monitoring report, 
prepared by one or more civil society organizations, on the progress achieved in the 
Page  16
-
15
-
carrying out of the Program, including the actions detailed in this Schedule; and (b) the 
Borrower’s comments on such report. 
Page  17
-
16
-
SCHEDULE 4 
Actions Referred to in Section 2.02 (e) of this Agreement 
1. 
The Borrower has delivered at least US$30,000,000 equivalent worth of fuel to 
domestic electricity generators, financed through its national budget. 
2. 
CDE has continued to supply at least 80 Gwh per month for purposes of the 
PRA. 
3. 
The Borrower has frozen the electricity tariffs, payable by users consuming less 
than 200 kwh per month, at levels no greater than those as of December 1, 2003. 
 
