                                          Documentof
                                         The World Bank

                                 FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY




                                                                      Report No. 27497 - DO


       INTERNATIONALBANK FOR RECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT
                                   PROGRAMDOCUMENT

                                             FORA

                                          PROPOSED

                    SOCIAL CRISIS RESPONSEADJUSTMENT LOAN

                          INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$lOOMILLION

                                               TO

                                THE DOMINICANREPUBLIC


                                         January 7,2004




HumanDevelopmentDepartment
CaribbeanCountryManagementUnit
LatinAmerica andthe CaribbeanRegionalOffice




This documenthas a restricteddistribution andmaybe usedby recipientsonly in the
performanceof their official duties. Its contentsmay not otherwisebedisclosedwithout World
Bankauthorization

                   CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS



        Currency Unit           -          Dominican Peso (DMP)

          US$1.00               -
                                -       38 DMP (December 11,2003)

                           FISCAL YEAR
             January I              --         December31




              ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

SCRAL   Social Crisis ResponseAdjustment Loan
AIDS    Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
APL     Adaptable ProgramLoan
ARS     Health Risk Administrators
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy
CDE     Corporaci6n Dominicana de Electricidad
        (Dominican Power Corporation)
CDEE    Corporacidti Dominicana de Empresas Ele'ctricas Estatales
        (Dominican Corporation of State Power Enterprises)
CERSS   Comisidn Ejecutiva para la Reforma del Sector Salud
        (Executive Commission for Health Sector Reform)
CNE     National Energy Commision
CNSS    Consejo Nacional de Seguridad Social
        (Social Security National Council)
CPAR    Country ProcurementAssessment Review
CPI     Consumer Price Index
ECD     Early-Childhood Development
EPI     ExpandedImmunization Program
EU      EuropeanUnion
FY      Fiscal Year
GDP     Gross Domestic Product
HIV     Human Immune-Deficiency Virus
IDB     Inter-American DevelopmentBank
IDSS    Dominican Social Security Institute
IFC     International Finance Corporation
IMF     International Monetary Fund
IMR     Infant Mortality Rate
INESPRE Institute of Price Stabilization
INFOTEP lnstituto Nacional de Formacidn Te'cnicoProfesional
        (National Institute for Technical and ProfessionalTraining)
IPP     IndependantPower Producers
LAC     Latin America and the Caribbean
LCSHD   Latin America Human Development Department
MCH     Maternal and Child Health
M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
MDG     Millennium DevelopmentGoal
NGOs    Non-Governmental Organizations
NHC
oc      National Health Council
        Oficina de Coordiriaciori
        (Coordinating Body)



                                  11

                                                                FOROFFICIAL USEONLY

                                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

             ONE           National Statistical Office
             ONAPLAN       National PlanningOffice
             PAE           Prograrnas de Alimentos Escolares (School FeedingProgram)
             PAEF          Programfor Elimination of Electrical Fraud
             PAHO          Pan-AmericanHealth Organization
             PIB           Product0 Interno Bruto
                           (Gross Domestic Product)
             PRA           Blackout ReductionProgram
             PROJIL        Programfor Youth Employment
             PSS           Health ServiceProvider
             SAL           Structural Adjustment Loan
             SBA           Stand By Arrangement
             SEE           Secretaria de Estado de Educacidn (Ministry of Education)
             SEESCyT       Secretaria de Estado de Educacidri Superior, Ciencia y Tecnologia
                           (Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology)
             SIE           Electricity Superintendence
             SENASA        National Health InsuranceProgram(Ministry of Health)
             SESPAS        Secretariat of Public Health and Social Assistance
             SISARIL       Health and Labor Risk Superintendence
             SP            Social Protection
             STI           Sexually Transmitted Infection
             SRS           RegionalHealth Services
             TAE           Tarjeta de Asistencia Escolar
                           (SchoolAttendanceCard)
             TB            Tuberculosis
             TTL           Task Team Leader
             USAID         United States Agency for International Development
             WB            World Bank
             WDR           World Development Report




              Vice President                      David de Ferranti
              Country Director                    Caroline D. Anstey
              Sector Director                     Ana Maria Arriagada
              Country Sector Leader               William Experton
              Task TeamLeaders                    Christopher ChamberlidSamuel Carlson




This document has a restricteddistributionandmay be usedby recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.


                                            DOMINICANREPUBLIC
                    SOCIAL CRISIS RESPONSEADJUSTMENT LOAN

                                              TABLE OF CONTENTS


I IntroductionandOverview                                                                                                                             1
I1   Macroeconomic Context and Recent Performance                                                                                                     4

I11
 ...                                             ...............................................................................................
                                                                                           ........................................................
     Social Impactsof the Crisis                 ...............................................................................................      6
I V
  .  Sectoral Context and the Government's Program                                         ........................................................   8
     Education   .............................................................................................................................        8
     Health.................................................................................................................................         11
     Electricity........................................................................................................................... 13
     Social Assistance ............................................................................................................... 16
     Social Program Transparency. Monitoring and Evaluation ..............................................                                           19

V    Loan Objectlvesand Rationale
               . .                                     .......................................................................................      20
V I
  .. ProposedBank Support and Program Prior Actions                                             ..................................................  21
     Crisis Response Actions ....................................................................................................                   21
     MediumTermActions.......................................................................................................
VI1. Environmental and SocialImpact, Fiduciary Requirements, and FiscalImpact 28                                                                   ...26
     Environmental Impact ....................................................................................................... 28

     Financial Management.......................................................................................................
     Social Impact .....................................................................................................................             29
                                                                                                                                                     30
     Procurement and Governance............................................................................................ 31
     Fiscal Impact of SCRAL ...................................................................................................                      32
     DisbursementArrangements .............................................................................................                          33
VI11 Benefits and Key Risks
    .                                    ...................................................................................................        $34
     Benefits .............................................................................................................................. 34
     Risks..................................................................................................................................         34




                                                                iv

                                            DOMINICANREPUBLIC
                        SOCIAL CRISIS RESPONSE ADJUSTMENT LOAN

                                              TABLE OF CONTENTS




Annexes
Annex 1: Letter Of Development Policy                          ................................................................................       36
Annex 1A: Letter Of Development Policy (in Spanish)                                   ...........................................................     47
Annex 2:        Matrix Of Prior Actions             ..........................................................................................        62
Annex 3:        Social Impacts Of The Economic And Financial Crisis                                          ....................................... 70
Annex 4:       Public Expenditure          ..................................................................................................        79
Annex 5:       Education Sector       ......................................................................................................          89
Annex 6:        Health Sector Reform.......            .......................................................................................        96
Annex 7:        Social Assistance     ....................................................................................................           105
Annex 8:        Power Sector    ...........................................................................................................          113
Annex 9:       IBRDOperations Portfolio                  ...................................................................................         122
Annex 10: Dominican Republic At A Glance                              ........................................................................       124




This operation was prepared by a multi-disciplinary team under demanding, crisis-driven conditions. The
government team was ably led by Carlos Despradel and his colleagues, Julio Estrella and Ranulfo Rodriguez, of the
Secretariado Tecnico of the President's Office, with critical support from the Social Cabinet led by Peggy Cabral and
Clara Solis and by the Superintendent of Electricity, Jorge Reynoso. Wolfgang Munar and Moises Pineda of the
IDB and Marcel0 Figueroa of the IMFwere especially helpful. The Bank team, bringingtogether professionals
from human development, social development, fiduciary, and power sectors, was composed of Christopher
Chamberlin (Task Team Leader), Samuel Carlson (Co-Task Team Leader), Patricio Marquez (Lead Health
Specialist), William Experton (Country Sector Leader), Aracelly Woodall (Program Assistant); Antonella Bassani
(lead Economist and Sector Leader), Jyoti Shukla (Sector Leader), Marco Mantovanelli (Country Manager),
Massimiliano Poulucci (Country Officer), Auguste Tano Kouame (Country Economist), Jaime Port0 Carreiro (Lead
Energy Specialist), Sue Goldmark (Sector Manager), Carlos Sobrado (Economist), Josefina Stubbs (Sr. Social
Development Specialist), Andre S. Van Hoeck (Young Profesional), Dione Lee Sunglay (Administrative Assistant),
Guido Paolucci (Sr. Procurement Specialist), Patricia Hoyes (Financial Management Specialist) ,Yashira Sanchez
(Team Assistant), Fernando Lecaros, Francisco Ayala, Steve Ettinger (Consultants)




                                                                 V

                          DOMINICANREPUBLIC


             SOCIAL CRISIS RESPONSEADJUSTMENTLOAN (SAL)

                          Loan and Program Summary



Borrower               Government of the Dominican Republic

Implementing           Secretariado TCcnico de la Presidencia
Agency

Poverty Category       Poverty Targeted Intervention


Amount                 US$lOO million


Terms                  Payable in 12 years, including 5 years of grace, at the standard
                       interest rate for US dollar fixed-spread loans, and level
                       repayments.


CommitmentCharge       0.85% of undisbursedbalances for the first four years and
                       standard charges of 0.75% on undisbursed balance thereafter,
                       beginning60 days after signing, less any waiver


Front-EndFee           1% on principal amount, capitalized

Objectives             The objectives of the proposed loan are to help the Dominican
                       Republic cope with the current economic and social crisis and to
                       stimulate overdue and continuing reforms in the social and
                       electricity sectors.

Description            The Dominican Republic in early 2003           entered a period of
                       financial crisis, precipitated by a major bank failure, followed by
                       macroeconomic contraction, rapid currency depreciation and
                       inflation, increasing incidence of electricity blackouts as power
                       companies could not afford to import fuel, and social impacts in
                       the form of substantial real declines in household incomes and
                       cutbacks in social services benefiting the poor. The poor are
                       most vulnerable to the fall in real incomes, as they lack the
                       resources to absorb the higher cost of living. This has led to
                       growing social tensions in the form of protests and violence. The
                       Dominican Republic, once one of the fastest growing economies



                                      vi

            in the region, now faces an untenable fiscal situation and is at
            risk of further social unrest. The loan would support government
            actions in three areas. First, it would help build the response
            capacities and performance of social and electricity programs
            through improved targeting of resources to the poor, the
            protection of key social and electricity programs in the 2004
            budget, and steps to accelerate the inclusion of the large group of
            undocumented Dominicans. Second, it would support a rapid
            response program in the electricity sector to "keep the lights on"
            during the current period of social tensions. And third, it would
            provide a stimulus for medium term reforms in the social and
            electricity sectors in such areas as targeting mechanisms,
            program evaluation,        health reform, and electricity sector
            sustainability.

Benefits    The most important benefit of the proposed loan would be its
            contribution to stabilization of the economic and social situation
            in the Dominican Republic.         The loan, which i s part of a
            coordinated effort by the International Financial Institutions and
            bilateral donors, would help the Government preserve a basis for
            near term resumption of growth and help cushion the impacts of
            the economic and financial crisis, thereby sustaining human
            capital achievements and contributing to a reduced probability of
            renewed social conflict. The power sector would make initial,
            specific steps toward better targeting o f subsidies and financial
            sustainability, and the social sectors would implement pro-poor
            targeting, national-scale health sector reforms, acceleration of
            health insurance enrollments, and modernization of the school
            feeding and school attendance conditional cash transfer
            programs.      In regard to the large undocumented population in
            the Dominican Republic, the loan would support government
            efforts to make services accessible to this group and to help
            families obtain documentation.      Finally, civil society would be
            engaged to provide transparent oversight of programs and actions
            supported under the loan, an important step forward for
            transparency.

Risks       The first category of risk is governance, in the context of the
            upcoming May 2004 Presidential elections, a period that could
            involve the mis-use of social programs for election campaign
            purposes. The important provisions under the loan for civil
            society monitoring as well as intensive World Bank supervision
            should reduce but cannot eliminate this substantial risk. Linked
            to that risk i s that of ad hoc budget reallocations during the fiscal
            year, from protected to unprotected programs. A parallel project
            supported by the Inter American Development Bank contains



                            vii

                         strict budget execution conditionality that should mitigate that
                         risk, as will supervision of monthly budget execution by the
                         World Bank. The second category of risk i s that of            non-
                         compliance with actions for the two floating tranches, including
                         maintenance of a satisfactory        macroeconomic framework.
                        Although there i s strong government endorsement of these
                         actions, the pre-election climate i s unpredictable and potentially
                         a cause for non compliance by the administration. The loan
                         structure of the two floating tranches i s designed to help the
                         government manage compliance issues with more flexible
                         arrangements for sequencing and timing, and          the integrated
                         program o f donor assistance supports the implementation of the
                        Government's economic stabilization program supported by inter
                        alia the IMF. Finally, there is the risk of a surge in civil
                        disturbances that would undermine consensus for social and
                         electricity sector reforms, taking the country into deeper crisis.
                        The proposed loan, although aimed at easing social tensions, is
                         only one element in a complex and uncertain                   social
                         environment.

Scheduleof Disbursements The loan is expected to be disbursed during the first six months
                         of 2004 in three tranches: an initial tranche of U S $50 million
                         based on actions taken prior to Board presentation, and two
                        floating tranches of US $25 million each, one for actions in the
                         social sectors and the other for actions inthe electricity sector.

ClosingDate              December 31,2004

ProjectID                PO85433
Number

                         19599R




                                        ...
                                       V l l l


                                    DominicanRepublic
                        Social Crisis ResponseAdjustment Loan


                                PROGRAMDOCUMENT




I. INTRODUCTIONANDOVERVIEW


1.      This Program Document proposes a three tranche Social Crisis Response Adjustment
Loan (SCRAL) to the Dominican Republic (an initial tranche and two floating tranches), as a
response to converging elements of a fiscal and social crisis, and as a stimulus to ongoing and
overdue social policy and electricity sector reforms.

2.      The Dominican Republic in early 2003 entered a period of financial crisis, precipitated
by a major bank failure, followed by macroeconomic contraction, rapid currency depreciation
and inflation, increasing incidence of electricity blackouts as power companies could not afford
to import fuel, and social impacts in the form of substantial real declines in household incomes
and an increase in poverty incidence.        Food, medicine and transport prices have become
prohibitive for larger segments of the population, and daily reports highlight the serious social
repercussions caused by the     financial crisis o f the electricity sector. For example, some
hospitals have run out of funds for the purchase of fuel to run emergency diesel generators,
which often must run more than 12 hours per day. The spreading fiscal crisis has also affected
social programs, such as school feeding, for which imported inputs (milk and wheat flour) have
risen in cost by 100 percent because of the currency depreciation, without compensatory
increases in budget. Other programs have been starved of recurrent budget support, as shortfalls
in government revenues and an higher than projected non-financial public sector deficit have
meant rationing of resources. Thus, an overall crisis of confidence, a worsening balance of
payments position, severe fiscal constraints, an electricity sector on the brink of collapse, and
growing social tensions in the form of protests and violence, place the Dominican Republic, once
one of the fastest growing economies in the region, in an untenable fiscal situation and at risk of
further social unrest. Further complicating the Government's crisis management are national
elections scheduled for May 2004, for which the current President i s an announced candidate.

3.      The Dominican Republic presents some unusual challenges as a middle income country
incrisis. As detailed inthe CAS Progress Report, macroeconomic management inthe 1990swas
prudent, with declining levels of external indebtedness and fiscal deficits, and robust economic
performance. This was accompanied by steady advances in the reduction of poverty, with the
percentage of Dominicans living below the poverty declining from 38 percentin 1986 to 29




                                                  1

percentin 1998.' Income distribution, although highly unequal, also improved during the 1990s.
These indicators set the Dominican Republic apart and above the L A C region, but these
achievements were not reflected in other social gains.

4.       Social indicators for health and education are well below the expected outcomes for
countries of similar economic attainments. This applies consistently across nearly all major
health and education measures, including enrollment/attendance at secondary levels, illiteracy,
infant and child mortality, and maternal mortality. Public spending on social programs as a
percentage of GDP has remained well below L A C averages since the 1990s. Social safety net
programs are highly fragmented, most quite small in scale, and despite the efforts of the Social
Cabinet to better coordinate such programs, they lack strategic direction in terms of targeting,
integration, evaluation, and long term sustainability. Food and housing subsidies represent a
substantial portion of social expenditure, and are both weakly targeted to the poor. The large
group of undocumented poor Dominicans are excluded from access to most social services. The
Presidency has taken a direct role in delivering social programs, particularly social assistance,
and many programs within the President's Office overlap with each other and line ministry
initiatives.    Social services in the Dominican Republic thus remain, with some notable
exceptions in health and social security, insulated from the new generation of social reforms
based on accountability and inclusion that have made important progress in neighboring Latin
American states.

5.       In the electricity sector, reforms that began in the mid 1990s with the entry of
Independent Power Producers were followed by other privatization steps, but these were unable
to overcome the long standing management deficiencies in the sector and left the sector highly
vulnerable to the recent shock of higher fuel costs. Less than 60 percentof all energy provided to
the distribution companies is recovered through tariffs, due to a pervasive culture and practice of
illegal connections and non payment of bills. Untargeted consumer subsidies compound the
problem. Large scale government subsidies (and arrears) and escalating power blackouts have
contributed to the underlying lack of sustainability in the sector. These problems were worsened
by the sudden depreciation of the Dominican peso in 2003, which doubled fuel costs and sent the
sector deeper into crisis.

6.       Those features of the current social and economic crisis establish the priority elements of
the Bank's response in cooperation with the IMF, the IDB and other donors. The Dominican
economy i s struggling with declining production, foreign exchange shortage, currency
depreciation and inflation, each of which increases the financial crisis o f the electricity sector
and worsens living standards, particularly among the poor. This has led to social unrest, a loss of
investor confidence, and capital flight, thus creating a vicious circle. At this critical moment, the
country i s underachieving in two sectors vital to social and economic stabilization - social
services and power generation. The objectives o f the proposed SCRAL are therefore to help the
Dominican Republic cope with the current economic and social crisis and to stimulate overdue




' The poverty estimates are based on those calculated for the headcount ratio in World Bank, Dominican Republic
Poverty Assessment Dec. 17,2001, p. 7. New estimates will be available with the results of a planned
income/expenditure survey in 2004.


                                                       2

and continuing reforms in both sectors. These objectives will be achieved through three sets of
activities:

         Building the response capacities and pe$ormance of social programs, which means (i)
         the targeted use of scarce resources to benefit the poor through social and electricity
         programs; (ii) protection of key social safety net, social sector and electricity sector
                         the
         services in the 2004 budget so as to provide cash and in kmd support to those most
         vulnerable to inflation and economic contraction; and (iii) steps to accelerate the
                                                                       urgent
         inclusion of a large and growing number of undocumented Dominicans who are both
         ineligible for social assistance and predominantly poor;
         An emergency response program in the electricity sector through immediate financial
         support for the import of urgently needed fuel "to keep the lights on";
         Stimulus for longer term reform in the social sectors, through key reforms in health
         insurance, social assistance, targeting, monitoring and evaluation, as well as initiation of
         short term measures to better target electricity subsidies to poor consumers and move the
         sector towards financial sustainability.

7.      Three themes underlie the many management and performance issues in the social and
power sectors. The first i s the theme of inclusion. Poor, undocumented Dominicans (including
Dominicans of Haitian descent) are denied access to social services`for lack of an identity card
and have no voice whatsoever as social service clients. Substantial transaction costs beset any
poor adult seeking to acquire necessary documentation.         A second aspect of inclusion is the
mistargeting of public resources and subsidies. The food distribution and subsidy programs are
an example of a potentially effective crisis response mechanism that has evolved into a general
entitlement, without regard to poverty of the beneficiaries or how to respond to an economic
shock, as i s the case today. The fully un-targeted consumer subsidies in the electricity sector are
another. Cash transfer programs in education and health lack the capacity to measure household
income and wealth to determine eligibility.        These targeting problems create errors of both
inclusion of the non-poor and exclusion of the poorest.

8.      The second major theme seen across the social sectors in Dominican Republic i s the need
to integrate and consolidate social sector programs, thereby gaining important improvements in
efficiency, synergy, and targeted advances in human capital accumulation. Opportunities to
reform and integrate beneficiary data bases for social security, food assistance and the
conditional cash transfer education program remain untapped, even as complex household data i s
collected and stored. The high number of specialized and small scale social assistance programs
managed under the Office of the President have continued to expand, despite the efforts of the
Social Cabinet to reduce their number and variety, and without any mechanism to ascertain who
i s benefiting, how extensive i s the duplication of benefits across programs, and what the overall
benefits of their interventions might be. The opportunity to learn from systematic evaluations
has largely been ignored, across the sectors.

9.      The third theme is sustainability. Programs incur unnecessarily high fiscal costs. For
example, the school feeding program i s nearly universal in coverage and utilizes a substantial
portion of education sector budget resources, but current policies prohibit acceptance of donated
(free) food and milk from international sources. Procurement procedures for school feeding



                                                 3

services are non-competitive and costly. Electricity distribution companies are unable to raise
collection rates and control loses. Consumption subsidies are applied to nearly all consumers.
Both the social and power sectors urgently need key reforms to increase the sustainability of
services. with clear and substantial fiscal and social benefits.



11.     MACROECONOMIC CONTEXT AND RECENT PERFORMANCE

10.     Past performance. Throughout the 1990s the Dominican Republic ranked among the
fastest growing economies in the Latin American and Caribbean region. During 1991-2000, the
economy grew by 5.9 percent on average, and per capita income increased by 4.1 percent.inreal
terms. The country achieved fast economic growth within an increasingly stable macroeconomic
environment, characterized by low inflation, manageable fiscal deficits and declining public
sector debt. During 2001-2002 a combination of external factors (the global economic
slowdown, the events of September 11, 2001 and the oil price increase) and domestic policy
weaknesses contributed to a slower economic growth rate (3.5 percent p.a. during 2001-02). The
Government responded to the growth slowdown with increased public spending, which led to
worrying but still manageable deficits, largely financed by foreign borrowing.                   Waning
confidence in the adequacy of macroeconomic policies in the face of external pressures, coupled
with a current account deficit, averaging 3.6 percent of GDP during 2001-2002, led to a
weakening of the peso which depreciated by 27 percent against the dollar between December
2001 and December 2002, compared to a 2.7 percent depreciation the year before. This
depreciation happened despite heavy intervention of the Central Bank in the foreign exchange
market in a bid to defend the currency. Central Bank's intervention contributed to a sharp
decline in net international reserves from US$962 million in December 2001 to US$376 million
in December 2002, thus contributing to wiping away the exceptional reserve increase brought
about by the country's first sovereign bond of US$500 million issued in September 2001.

11.     The crisis of 2003. In 2003, the already weak economic performance of 2001-02 was
further worsened by a massive banking crisis that shattered the country's already weakened
macroeconomic framework andjeopardized its growth prospects. InApril 2003, the third largest
commercial bank, Baninter, collapsed amid mismanagement, fraudulent banking practices and
inadequate banking supervision. To avoid the spread of a crisis of confidence to the rest of the
financial sector, the Central Bank stepped in by guaranteeing all of Baninter's deposits. In the
months following this intervention, two medium-sized banks experienced large deposit
withdrawals and also received liquidity support from the Central Bank. The macroeconomic
impacts of the banking crisis have been massive. Central bank assistance to the troubled banks i s
estimated to amount so far to 20 percent of GDP. A large share of the liquidity support provided
to the failed banks was converted into dollars, fueling a further depreciation of the peso and
inflation.*

12.     Inthe second half of 2003 the authorities started implementing an economic stabilization
program supported b y a 24-month IMF Stand-by Arrangement (SBA) for US$620 million,


1.  * The peso has depreciated by 90 percent against the dollar in the first eleven months of 2003.



                                                4

whose first tranche of US$120 million was disbursed in September 2003. The IMF-supported
program included measures aimed at ensuring banking sector reform, sound fiscal policy, a
flexible management of the currency and sound monetary policy. However, an improvement in
market sentiment after announcement of the Stand-by Arrangement came undone following the
Government's buy-out in mid-September of a private investor's share in two electricity
distribution companies (Edenorte and Edesur). It i s estimated that the new public sector debt
generated by the re-purchase of the two electricity distributors amounts to US$488 million in
2003 (significantly contributing to the total electricity sector public debt of 4.9 percent of GDP).
The consequences of this deal for the Government's cash-flow and debt position, its possibly
adverse effect on the sustainability of the electricity sector, and the lack o f information on the
manner inwhich the deal was negotiated ledto the delay of the first review of the IMF-supported
SBA and the disbursement of the second tranche of an IDB social sector adjustment loan. Rating
agencies downgraded the country on several occasions in 2003, and the exchange rate and risk
spreads resumed a deteriorating trend which was particularly pronounced in early December.
Net international reserves fell to US$128 million at end-November, and the authorities are facing
difficulty servicing the country's external debt (by mid-October the country had accumulated
US$80 million inexternal arrears, of which US$28 million was beyond the grace period).

13.     The combined economic effect         of the banking crisis, the deterioration in market
sentiment, Government's re-purchase of the electricity distributors and resulting delay in external
financing flows have been significant. GDP i s projected to decline by 1.3 percent in 2003, as
export growth has not offset a steep decline in domestic demand. Inflation i s projected to exceed
40 percent by end-December 2003. A stronger than expected surplus on the external current
account has been offset by significant capital outflows, especially .in the third quarter. Fiscal
pressures have emerged on several fronts leading to a projected combined public sector primary
deficit of 0.9 percent of GDP and an overall deficit of 5.2 percent of GDP in 2003. Central
government revenue fell short of the level projected in the IMF-supported program by 1percent
of GDP, and the deficit of the non financial public sector exceeded program projections by about
2 percent of GDP. Public debt more than doubled from 27.5 percent of GDP in 2002 to a
projected 58.4 percent in 2003.

14.     After an independent commission of international experts set up to evaluate the
Government's re-purchase of the two electricity distributing companies submittedits draft report
on November 10, 2003, the IMF resumed the first review of the SBA. These discussions had to
also take into account slippages that had emerged with respect to several program targets,
including those related to fiscal and monetary policies, and delays in completion of some of the
program's structural measures. The discussions for the first review of the program centered on
plans to address these slippages with a revised program for 2004, including a number of
commitments to be fulfilled before completion of the review. The technical level discussions
were concluded on December 17, 2003, with agreement on policies for 2004, including a set of
upfront actions to be implemented before the authorities' revised program and Letter of Intent
would be circulated to the IMF's Executive Board. At the time of circulating to the Board this
document, the authorities were in the process of implementing these commitments and the IMF
Board meeting was expected to take place in the second half of January 2004 (for details see
Annex F of CAS Progress Report).




                                                5

15.     Fiscal adjustment, with a view to stabilizing the public debt, i s central to the authorities'
revised program. The authorities intend to adopt additional expenditure reduction and tax
measures in the 2004 budget to reach a consolidated public sector deficit target, from more than
5 percent of GDP in 2003 to 3.5 percent of GDP in 2004, with a further reduction in 2005 after a
comprehensive tax reform i s put in place. These measures are incorporated in the 2004 budget
and an associated set of tax legislation which were submitted to Congress in December 2003 and
are expected to be approved by early 2004. To achieve the fiscal target, the authorities have
designed revenue measures including: (i)       increases in excise tax rates on alcohol and tobacco
products; (ii)elimination of certain income tax exemptions; and (iii)regularization of tax
measures approved by decree in 2003, including a temporary 5 percent export tax and a
temporary 2 percent import surcharge, and an increase in the airport exit tax. The authorities plan
to replace these temporary measures with a tax reform in the second half of 2004 focused on
widening the domestic tax base and revision of tax rates, in order to replace highly distorting
taxes and offset the reduction in customs tariffs required under expected bilateral trade
agreements. On the expenditure side, the 2004 budget envisages significant cuts in capital
expenditure with respect to GDP and curtails the growth o f discretionary current spending. On
this basis, the 2004 budget submitted to Congress limits total government expenditure to less
than 16 percent of GDP-the          lowest level in five years. However, steps have been taken to
protect priority social programs from expenditure cuts included in the 2004 budget. These
programs focus mainly on mitigating the impact of the crisis on the poor and vulnerable groups.



111.    SOCIAL IMPACTS OF THE CRISIS

16.     Although it i s too early to assess the full social impact of the crisis (October 2003 Labor
Force Survey data are not yet available), a preliminary assessment shows a loss in real
purchasing power of 17% among all income groups, including the poorest, over the year from
April 2002 to April 2003. This i s caused primarily by the steep rise in inflation (18%) over the
year April 2002-2003.        The poorest households are in a situation of greater vulnerability given
the high proportion of income spent on basic goods and services. Food prices are particularly
sensitive in the Dominican Republic, where a history of public distribution of free meals and
subsidized marketing of basic foods has created expectations of a Government response.
Inflation since April 2003 has accelerated along with further depreciation of the peso, and the
impact on real incomes will be more severe than for the April 2002 - April 2003 period, which i s
shown below inTable 1and explained inmore detail in Annex 3.

            Table 1 Annual Per Capita Incomein 2002 and April 2003 By Quintile of Income
                                                                      -
                   2002'                    2003'       PercentageChange
    Quintiles      April        October     April       Apr.02-Oct 02 Oct     02-Apr Apr.02-
                                                                       03            Apr.03
    1                3,734        3,363       3,088     -10%           -8%           -17%
    2                 8,623       8,173       7,107     - 5 8          -13%          -18%
    3                14,238      13,364       11,609    -6%            -13%          -18%
    4                23,367      21,887       19,375    -6%            -1 1%         -17%
    5                63,000      58,541      52,115     -7%            -1 1%         -17%
    Average
    '                22,591      21,055       18,665    -7%            -1 1%         -17%
      Realper capita annual income in DominicanPesosfrom January 1999.
    Source: Banco Central de RepliblicaDominicana, LaborForce Surveys 2002 and 2003



                                                   6

17.     As of April 2003, there were no indications that families were withdrawing their children
from school. The Government recently proposed significant budget cuts in student welfare
spending which finances the school breakfast and school attendance program, thus undermining
incentives to keep children in school (see paras. 26, 28). Health service utilization may be
affected by increases in prices of imported drugs and medical supplies. Public hospitals are
reported anecdotally to be experiencing shortages of stock, and patients are not being treated.
Market prices for certain drug treatments are reportedly rising rapidly, well ahead of the CPI
increases.

18.     Unemployment had not been affected by the crisis as of April as well. Open
unemployment (those reporting zero hours worked and seeking work) actually declined slightly
between April 2002 and April 2003 to 5.6%.          However, Government data indicates that over
64,000 formal sector workers were laid off in the first seven months of 2003, 25% more that the
total number of workers laid off in all 2002. Unemployment impacts are expected to show up in
the Labor Force Survey conducted in October 2003 (results in January 2004). If unemployment
impacts do emerge, this would exacerbate an already serious situation for the poorest quintile o f
the population, whose level of open unemployment i s over 12%.

19.     Endemic and worsening problems in the electricity sector have become a major challenge
for economic and social stability in the Dominican Republic. The social problem i s exacerbated
by the tendency of the distribution companies to impose the sharpest supply cuts in the poorest
areas, where their collection rates are lowest. In September 2002, social protests against the
prolonged blackouts in the barrios led to widespread riots that claimed 15 lives. Although some
urgent measures provided a temporary sector-wide reprieve, the sector once more slipped into
growing disarray in 2003. On November 11, 2003 a nationwide general strike protesting the
economic situation and especially the electricity blackouts led to the death of 7 persons.

20.     Daily news reports highlight how the financial crisis of the electricity sector i s having
serious social repercussions. The absence of illumination at night increases the risk of crime and
violence, especially for women and in congested urban slums. Hospitals have had to divert
resources from the purchase of medicines and other supplies in order to buy fuel to run
emergency diesel generators. Some of them are even running out o f resources for this fuel;
newspapers have documented at least five recent cases of newborns who died for lack of energy
to run oxygen machines.

21.     The long and frequent blackouts are also adversely effecting people's ability to earn a
livelihood.    Most small firms, including those owned by the poor, cannot afford back-up
generators, so any power outage directly cuts their output.     Prolonged blackouts force them to
rely on more expensive and inefficient gas (propane and kerosene) lighting. The smaller tourist
resorts, which are a major source of employment, are being hurt by cancellations, as potential
visitors choose not to have to deal with lack o f lighting and hot water for much of the day.

22.     Since the economic crisis, electricity tariffs have also gone up significantly for some
groups, as shown in Table 2. The Government picks up the difference between the unsubsidized



                                                7

rate and the actual rate through a so-called Stabilization Fund. Price increases have been
particularly large for non-residential consumers; lower-consumption households have been
shielded from the tariff increases to a large extent; higher-consumption households also continue
to be subsidized significantly.




                                           IndustrialConsumers
                                        Unsubsidized       ActuaY Subsidized
                                                                RD$/k/Wh
                           Feb-03

                        1  JuI-03           4.7 1                  4.81
                           Nov-03  I        5.88                   5.65

23.     In responding to the impacts of the crisis, the most urgent priorities for the Government
are to reduce the occurrence of power blackouts and to better target its existing social programs
so that the poor living in urban barrios and poor rural areas benefit from basic services, cash
transfers, and subsidized food.


IV.     SECTORAL CONTEXT AND THE GOVERNMENT'S PROGRAM

Education

24.     The Dominican Government recently released its ten-year Strategic Plan for the
Development of Education, 2003-2012, with a focus on primary education access and quality.
Net enrollment at the primary level has increased from 63 percent in 1996-97 to 93 percent in
2002-03 (124 percent gross enrollment), and the Government has stated its firm commitment to
reach the Millennium Development Goal (MDG) of 100percent by 2015, for both boys and girls
(currently, there i s little difference between enrollment at the basic education level between boys
and girls). In the context of the crisis, the main risk i s that the admirable achievements to date
will be diminished through school dropouts, thus makingthe MDGtarget more difficult to attain.

25.     Educational attainment i s very closely correlated with poverty and income distribution in
the Dominican Republic. Eighty five percent of poor heads o f households have never completed
primary education. Approximately 29 percent of Dominicans live below the poverty line. Most


                                                  8

of these poor live in rural areas, where the uneducated population i s 2.5 times greater than that of
urban areas. Among the poorest 25 percent of rural families, average schooling completed i s just
3.3 years. Many low-income children enter school underdeveloped and ill-prepared, in terms of
healthhutritional status and readiness to learn, which leads to poor academic performance and
higher repetition and dropout rates (compared to middle-income children). This leads to a cycle
of inheritedpoverty.

26.     To address this issue, the government recently introduced a program of cash incentives to
poor families to enroll and send their children to school. The Tarjeta de Asistencia Escolar TAE
program now reaches 100,000 households in areas targeted as poor from the national poverty
map. The program would benefit from improved administration and verification, as well as a
more refined household targeting system, similar to those used worldwide to identify poor
households by means of a proxy means test.            Ensuring that children stay in school and that
recent progress in enrollments i s not lost i s a priority of the Government during the crisis.

27.     Overall education spending as a portion of the country's GDP (average 2.1 percent, 1991-
2003) has remained low despite steady improvement, and is still approximately half of the
average for Latin America as a whole (see Figure 1). In 2003, the projected decline in public
expenditure on education i s attributed to the fiscal crisis, although until final GDP and education
expenditure data are available this cannot be confirmed. There are inadequate resources for
qualitative inputs such as books, laboratory equipment, audiovisual aids, workshops and
computers. Low educational quality leads to relatively high repetition and dropout rates, which
translate into low internal efficiency: it takes nearly 12 years of spending per student to produce
a basic education (Grade 8) graduate, 50 percent more than it should. Protecting education
spending on qualitative inputs i s a priority during the crisis

  Figure 1

             Public Expenditureon Education as Percentage of
                                    GDP, 1990-2003


       3.5
         3
       2.5

    5 1.5
    8    2

    8    1
       0.5
         0




Source: SEE, Oficina de Planificacion Educativa

28.     Learning and nutrition and school attendance are an important nexus in the Dominican
Republic. An estimated 11 percent of all Dominican children under the age o f five are believed



                                                  9

to suffer from chronic malnutrition, with the number increasing to 17-20 percent in rural areas.
The family i s the primary source for nutritional and preventive health interventions, but poor
families frequently lack the resources, support and information to adequately fulfill this
responsibility. In addition, the out of pocket costs of sending children to school are substantial,
particularly as real incomes decline during the crisis. The Dominican Republic has implemented
a complex but universal program of free school breakfasts, both to supplement the diets of school
children and to act as an incentive for parents to enroll and send their children to school. Three
different approaches to school feeding are beingimplementedin different regions of the country,
without a clear indication of the comparative costs and benefits of each approach. Moreover, the
relative effectiveness of school feeding vs. targeted conditional cash transfers are yet to be
evaluated in terms of school enrollment, attendance, repetition and transition rates. Particularly
during economic crises, school feeding programs can be an important counter-cyclical response,
so as to maintain children in school and even more importantly provide in kind transfers to poor
families. However for the long term the Government seeks to better understand the most efficient
approach to improving nutritional, learning, and internal efficiency outcomes in the Dominican
context.

29.     To be enrolled in the Dominican education system students must have an official birth
certificate. For many poor Dominican children and several hundred thousand children of Haitian
descent, this criteria cannot be met. Despite significant controversy, the Secretaria de Estado de
Educaci6n (SEE) recently implemented a process for non-documented children to enroll in
primary school. This process required parents to provide key information to the local Electoral
Councils (which issue birth certificates) and enabled an estimated 63,000 additional poor
students to attend school, a major improvement. It i s difficult to estimate with any precision the
total number of undocumented children in the Dominican Republic, but based on various
estimates, the total number of poor, undocumented children, both Dominicans and Dominicans
of Haitian descent, could be as high as 200,000 of primary school age. The enrollment efforts so
far have only reached undocumented Dominicans, but 63,000 enrolled children still accounts for
about 35% of the grand total, an admirable start. There i s still a large number left to reach.
Renewed efforts to enroll undocumented children in school would help the most vulnerable
families manage the household-level impact of the current economic crisis and build human
capital among the poorest.

30.     Despite a 1997 General Education Law which mandates decentralization of the education
system, the SEE remains highly centralized. Regional offices are weak and poorly integrated
into the SEE'S management system, lacking significant budget authority to enable them to
respond to local needs, particularly in rural areas. This has lead to low educational quality,
reflected in the fact that out of every 100 students who began basic education in 1993, only 35
reached eighth grade by 2000. Experience in some Latin American countries has shown that
decentralization can have a favorable impact on educational quality, leading to improved
attendance, learning outcomes and graduation rates. Increasing financial transfers to district and
school levels would be a concrete step towards improving educational services where the
proportion of poor students is highest.

31.     In the context of the crisis, the Government therefore has identified its priority actions,
which the proposed SCRAL i s designed to support.            The school breakfast program, the



                                              10

conditional cash transfer program, the provision of classroom materials, decentralized school
maintenance funds, and critically, the resources needed to sustain the enrollment of
undocumented children begun last year - all of these need to be protected from budget cuts
within the tight fiscal situation, and in some cases the programs require increases to handle new
administrative challenges (such as the conditional cash transfer program). Reforms are also
essential, for the crisis response and for the longer term, such as removing legal obstacles to the
acceptance of donated food for the school feeding program, changing the targeting strategy and
administrative systems of the conditional cash transfer program to reduce targeting errors and
achieve higher levels o f compliance, and evaluating the school feeding program as an input into
national policy.



Health.

32.     The Dominican Republic, with 8.4 million people growing at a projected average annual
rate of 1.7 percent, i s one of the more densely populated countries in the Americas. Health
indicators do not compare favorably with countries of similar per capita income (US$2,320 in
2002). Infant mortality has decreased from the period 1990-95 to 41 deaths per 1,000 live births
for the period 1995-2000. The 2002 ENDESA survey puts the infant mortality rate (IMR) at 31.
This average IMR is still too high compared to Chile (lo), Costa Rica (12) or Jamaica and
Panama (both at 20) and hides the large variation between urban and rural areas and between
income levels. The IMR for the poorest quintile i s 67 whereas the IMR for the richest quintile i s
23.

33.     The Dominican Republic's health system, until recently, consisted of multiplepublic and
private providers operating with loose guidelines, minimum regulations, overlapping functions,
and with scarce coordination to guarantee universal access to quality and efficient health
services. The Secretariat of Public Health and Social Assistance (SESPAS) has been responsible
for setting health policies, enforcing the provision of public health services, and ensuring quality
and effective health care.

34.     Several entities have financed and provided health care in the public sector: SESPAS, the
Dominican Social Security Institute (IDSS), the Social Security Institutes for the Armed Forces
and the National Police, and other decentralized institutions and NGOs receiving state subsidies.
SESPAS' mandate i s to provide health care to meet the health needs o f the poor and the
indigent. The IDSS provides health services to 530,000 regular beneficiaries and to about
100,000 temporary workers, or at most to 7.5 percent of the population.

35.     Most private hospitals tend to be small. About 80 percentof the private hospitals have
fewer than 20 beds. Almost all private sector activity i s concentrated in the two largest cities:
Santo Doming0 and Santiago.         N o statistical data are available on the number, size, and
composition of the private sector, which i s largely unregulated and unsupervised.            Non-
Governmental Organizations (NGOs) have grown throughout the country and are active in health
promotion and reproductive health services. The current and the past two governments have
been very much aware o f the inequitable access to health services by all Dominicans, the




                                                11

inefficiency and the low quality in the health sector, and the dissatisfaction of the population
with public services. This inspiredthe preparation of a vast health sector reform program.

36.     The executive and legislative work spanning a ten year time period culminated in 2001
with the approval by Congress and the Presidential signature of two laws that reshape the
financing, organization, management and delivery of health services in the Dominican Republic.
The first one i s the General Health Law approved in March 2001 that authorizes, inter alia,
deconcentrating and decentralizing the management of health care services from the central
SESPAS level to local administrative units (regional, provincial) and to health care institutions.
The General Health Law also creates the National Health Council (NHC) as the institution
responsible for formulation, follow up, and evaluation of health policy.

37.     The second Law that created the Dominican Social Security System, was approved by
Congress and signed by the President in May 2001. This law mandates the content of health
reform with specific provisions of far reaching consequences, among which are:

        Separation of the functions o f (i)stewardship of the health sector, (ii)
                                                                                financing services,
        and (iii)service provision. Stewardship would be the responsibility of SESPAS. Health
        care would be financed through a family insurance system consisting of an autonomous
        national agency for the public sector (SENASA) and Health Risk Administrators (ARS)
        for the private sector. Health care provision would be the responsibility of regional
        health network providers contracting with SENASA and ARS to provide the basic health
        plan. SISARIL i s the regulatory body of the new system;
        Definition of a basic health plan (benefits plan for the insuredpopulation) and creation of
        a program of subsidized insurance for the poor;
        Gradual transition from a supply-driven health care delivery system to a demand-driven
        system;
        Creation of Regional Health Service Management Units (SRS) to manage the regional
        health networks and their respective hospitals, diagnostic centers, health centers, rural
        clinics and Primary Health Care Units;
        Passage of regulations that would define management and delivery models, including the
        role and functions of governing bodies and organizational structures within a framework
        of decentralized decision-making and management agreements;
        Assurance of quality of care by introducing accreditation and licensing of public and
        private providers, blood banks and transfusion services, and clinical laboratories.
        Accreditation and licensure would be granted b y SESPAS and would be a requirement to
        contract as a Health Service Provider (PSS).

        The legal basis for a thorough modernization of the health system has been set, with wide
consensus within the government and other key stakeholders and among its principal donors,
including the World Bank, IDB, USAID, the EU and others. Implementation of the reforms i s
scheduled to begin in January 2004, and key regulations needed to operationalize the reform
laws have been prepared and approved by the National Health Council but their promulgation
through presidential decrees i s still pending. In particular the process o f decentralization and
separation of functions in the new system needs to be pushed forward, the minimum quality of
care standards need to be defined, and the management of the health system human resources



                                              12

adjusted to the new decentralized system. Another challenge i s directly related to the crisis
impacts. The subsidized insurance program for the poor i s in the enrollment stage, but i s
encountering a key obstacle among the target group - almost half are undocumented thus
excluding them from eligibility for the program and slowing the enrollment process.

39.      In the context of the crisis, the subsidized program i s a crucial safety net for the poor and
vulnerable, and must be accelerated and expanded to reach the large pool of undocumented. The
methodology for identifying poor families i s currently inadequate to achieve minimal levels of
accuracy and fairness. The health authorities urgently are redesigning the criteria and formulas
so that a proxy means test can be employed based on a government approved methodology.
Finally, the crisis i s placing pressure on specific segments o f the health system, notably the
higher costs of imported vaccines and medicines, the irregular supply of electricity to hospitals
and clinics, and the vulnerability of the public health programs (TB, AIDS, Malaria, EPI, M C H
and others) to budget cuts. These public financing issues need to be addressed urgently in the
2004 Budget so that hard won gains in these areas are not lost in the context of an extremely
tight fiscal situation.


Electricity


40.     During the 1980s and early 1990s, the country had substandard electricity service,
marked by frequent power cuts.           The responsibility for this rested on the Government's
integrated power company        (Corporacidn Dominicana de Electricidad, or CDE).              I t s poor
service and low collections constituted a vicious cycle, in which CDE lacked the resources to
make the necessary investments to improve power availability. Sector reforms started in the
mid-1990s with the entry of independent power producers (IPPs). This reduced the problem of
power shortages, but led to its own set of problems, mainly in terms of high electricity prices. In
1998, the Government began a major sector restructuring, by spinning off two thermal
generation and three distribution companies from CDE, and auctioning majority control of them
to the private sector, leaving only transmission and hydro generation in public hands. Combined,
the total private investment in the sector (IPPs, privatizations, and subsequent investments by the
private firms) totaled about US$1 billion. Subsequent to the privatizations, the Electricity Law
of July 2001 created the National Energy Commission (CNE) in charge of policy, the Electricity
Superintendence (SE) in charge of sector regulation, and the Coordinating Body (OC)
responsible for dispatch and the administration o f the wholesale power market. Around the same
time, the Government established the Blackout ReductionProgram (PRA) for consumers in poor
barrios, in order to extend their hours of access to electricity and encourage collections, while
still maintaining heavy subsidization.

41.     Although these reforms created a modem, competitive sector structure with adequate
capacity, serious problems remained. The IPPs and privatizations had preceded the legal and
regulatory reforms, and the contracts were not always fully consistent with the new framework.
In addition, the CNE and SIE did not receive the expertise, budgetary resources and autonomy
necessary to carry out their responsibilities adequately. Most seriously, the sector remained
plaguedby problems that have now undermined its financial sustainability - a tradition of illegal
connections and non-payment of bills (less than 60 percent o f all energy i s ever paid for through



                                                 13

tariffs) that the private distributors have been unable to overcome, subsidies for both poor and
better off consumers, unwillingness of Government to allow tariffs to adjust fully to reflect
changes in fuel prices and the exchange rate, and inadequate fiscal resources to cover the
resultant gap between costs and revenues.

42.     There was a crisis in the third quarter of 2002, after international fuel prices had risen
sharply, but the Government did not increase electricity prices commensurately. The distribution
companies responded by cutting power in poor areas, where their losses were greatest, and
suspending payments to the IPPs and privatized thermal generators. At the same time, the
Government lacked the funds (some $179 million) to compensate the IPPs. The IPPs, in turn,
suspended production, leading to a power shortage and then riots. In response, the Government
announced a series of measures, including (a) payment of its debts to the IPPs and of its own
electricity bills, (b) elimination of the generalized subsidy, in favor of more focused subsidies to
the poor, and adjustment of the remaining tariffs at a rate of 3 percent per month, (c) expanded
efforts to fight electricity theft and non-payment of bills, including through better attention to
consumer grievances.

43.     These measures provided a temporary respite, but the 42 percent depreciation of the
Dominican peso over the first 7 months of 2003 again required a sharp increase in electricity
tariffs (in peso terms).     Instead, the Government reinstated subsidies (which it paid to the
distributors with IOUs, under the title of a Stabilization Fund) for small businesses and for the
first 300 kWh of all residential consumers. This, plus the two-month regulatory lag in adjusting
other distribution tariffs (which i s not compensated for later), led successively to financial and
liquidity crises for the distributors, their failure to pay the generators, cuts in power availability
(now down to 80 percent of estimated demand), long blackouts and a new round of social unrest.
Foreign private ownership of distribution became a lightning rod for the sector's problems, and
political pressure grew on the Government to reassert control and improve service. Its response
was to repurchase in September 2003 the two electricity distribution companies controlled by
Union Fenosa. These are now being run by CDE, but Government has stated its intention to
eventually re-privatize them. Meanwhile, this purchase increased the public debt by almost
US$488 million in 2003 (significantly contributing to the total electricity sector public debt of
4.9 percent of GDP). It will also raise the fiscal deficit (the companies are losing money), while
once again raisingfundamental questions about the long-term Government strategy in the sector.

44.     The President appointed an advisory Commission for the Stabilization of the Electric
Sector, to make recommendations for dealing with the crisis, including possible changes to the
law and sector structure. As a major input to this work, the Government accepted a
BanWIMFADB suggestion that an International Panel of Experts examine the implications of the
Government re-purchase of the distribution companies, and make recommendations for the
sector. This panel recommended that.


         0   The average tariff be increased rapidly from its current US$0.09/kWh to
             US$O.lZ/kWh by February 2004, with subsequent increases of 3 percenvmonth to the
             full cost recovery level of US$O.lS/kWh.      To help achieve this, subsidies should be
             given only to households that consume less than 200kWMmonth (the current
             subsidies are for the first 300kWh/month used by all households).



                                                 14

       0    In the context of the Presidential Decree to review the Electricity Law, initial efforts
            be concentrated on identifying shortcomings of the existing legislation. The approach
            to restructuring ownership, the institutional set up and the regulatory system should
            be very cautious, because of the large adjustment effort implied and the implications
            for the investment climate;
       0    For the re-privatization of the two distribution companies, rigorous sales procedures,
            an independent asset valuation audit and a clear tariff policy are needed in advance, in
            order to ensure transparency and competition.          In the meanwhile, independent
            managements should be put in charge;
       0    Most importantly, there should be a broad dialogue on the sector, as proposed by the
            Government and others, leading to a "political pact". This should be accompanied by
            a public communication plan emphasizing, infer alia, the linkage between payment of
            electricity bills and the quality of service;

45.    Consistent with these recommendations and its own goal of sector financial
sustainability, Government announced the following measures aimed at "keeping the lights on"
by overcoming the financial crisis. This requires that the distributors receive enough resources
to make the necessary energy and power purchases from the generators, so that the latter in turn
can purchase the fuel needed to keep their plants running. At the same time, the poor are
protected because the measures (a) maintain and seek to improve the Blackout Reduction
Program (PRA), and (b) focus tariff subsidies on small residential consumers. The different
classes of electricity consumers, the number of households within each class, their average
consumption, and their average monthly bills for 2003 are presented below in Table 3. Most
households in the Dominican Republic (70 percent) are either poor or are small consumers, and
will receive continuing subsidies under the Government's plan. Elements of the Government's
plan include:
            0   Work with the distributors, especially through continuation of the anti-fraud
                PAEFprogram to reduce losses and increase the collections rate;
                Modify the tariff regulations to reimburse distributors for the impact of the two-
                month lag in the calculation o f the indexed "efficiency tariff';
            0   Continue and improve the implementation of the PRA in the poor barrios;
            0   Reduce gradually the subsidization of the larger consumers, while continuing to
                protect consumers using less than 200kWh/mo and continuing with the program
                of tariff adjustment for those consuming above 200kwh as announced by the
                Government in December 2003;
            0   Make the obligated payments to the distributors from the Stabilization Fund to
                cover the remaining subsidies (some US$lOS million in 2004). Government will
                shortly issue the operating rules for the Fund;
            0   In accordance with this Social Sector Stabilization Loan, provide at least US$lOO
                million to the distributors, in the form o f fuel import coupons, with which they
                would pay the generators, who in turn would import the fuel; these funds could be
                provided as loans or as capital injections. The use of fuel coupons would ensure
                that the resources were used for the fuel necessary to increase power generation
                duringthe current shortage.




                                                 15

                                                           Average      Average monthly
                                     No. of households Consumptionper bill per household
            Consumptionclass         per consumption      Household         inDee 2003
                                           class         kWh/Month              RD$
            PRA                          400.000             190                 140
            0-200 kWh                    549.443              48                 217
            201-300 kWh                  222,828             218                 706
            301-700 kWh                   123,676            533                2,095
            >700 kWh                      39.906             1.OS9              5.241




46.     To this end, the authorities have agreed to transfer about US$240 million from the central
government to the electricity sector in 2004. Among other objectives as specified above, this
transfer would help (i)restore the sector's financial health and the chain of payments from
distributors to generators, (ii) electricity production to again satisfy demand, and (iii)
                                enable                                                           keep
generation costs down by permittingthe economic order of dispatch to be maintained.

47.     For the longer term, especially to prevent the recurrence of such crises, a more
comprehensive and profound review of the sector i s required. Government intends to begin now
the review process, utilizing inputs from:


            0   A broad sector dialogue within the country,;
            0   Other Panel recommendations, e.g. regarding private sector participation in the
                power sector and review of the electricity law;
            0   The analyses by the USAID-financed consultants, on urgent sector issues;
            0   A preliminary power sector environmental assessment;
            0   Preliminary work towards articulation of a policy on rural electrification;
            0   The initial studies and consultancies under the proposedPower Sector Technical
                Assistance loan from the World Bank.


SocialAssistance


48.     Over the years, each one of the government administrations in the Dominican Republic
has created different institutions and programs either by law or decree in order to meet the needs
of the poor. The high discretional use of the budget b y the Presidents has allowed successive
administrations to increase the number of such social assistance programs and to lodge them
within the ambit of the President's Office, which has long enjoyed access to a large discretionary
budget allocation. Fragmentation, lack of coordination and strategy, absence of adequate
targeting, and heavy politicization of social assistance led to a series o f initiatives undertaken by
the current government, as described below, with the support of IDB, to develop a poverty
reduction strategy and to create a new coordination focal point that would begin the process of
rationalization of the many uncoordinated social assistance programs.               Budget for social



                                                16

assistance has been as high as 1.6 percent of GDP in 2001, declining to 1% in 2002 (see Annex
4).

49.     At the onset of the current Government, in 2000, the aggregate social assistance effort in
the Dominican Republic showed evident problems that can be summarized as follows: (a) lack
of a national policy or strategy in the struggle against poverty; (b) entities and programs
performing similar activities in the same geographic areas in most of the cases; (c) entities and
programs carrying into effect isolated initiatives having no clear objectives and based only in
general guidelines; (d) absence of targeting systems and clearly focused beneficiary selection
mechanisms; and (e) non-existent monitoring and assessment mechanisms for virtually all
programs. Under these circumstances and given the characteristics prevailing in social
assistance, the current Administration of President Hipdlito Mejia, with the support of the IDB,
put inplace a consolidation and organization process.

50.     The establishment of the Social Cabinet (Cabinete Social) is counted among the initial
measures that were introduced in 2001 for the purpose of organizing social assistance and
consolidating those programs financed with the discretional budget under the President's Office.
As a first step, information was gathered from all entities and programs that were aimed at the
poor. During the course of this exercise, it was found that 25 such entities and programs existed
in the country, not all of them operational, some existed only in name or were maintained with
minimal staffing (See Annex 7, Table 1). The programs fell into several categories: food
assistance for both children and the general population; training and skills development projects;
community development programs; micro enterprise programs; and specialized assistance
projects within the education and health sectors. Many programs were so broadly defined that
they appear in all the above categories. The Blackout Reduction Program (PRA) was also
included in the programs to be coordinated by the Social Cabinet. Many of the programs were
and are lodged within the President's Office. Subsequent work by the Social Cabinet identified
another set of programs within line ministries and other entities, adding up to a grand total of 70
distinct programs to be considered within future consolidation efforts (see Annex 7 for further
details).

51.     Food assistance i s a long standing area of social activism within the Dominican
government. The autonomous Institute of Price Stabilization (INESPRE) commands untargeted
programs aimed at subsidizing producers in the marketing of basic food crops and other
programs designed to market basic foods at subsidized prices for consumers. Other food and
feeding programs exist outside of INESPRE, such as "Economical          Kitchens", a 50 year old
program of subsidized meals sold to institutions both public and private. School feeding (see
Education section) is another major feeding program. Formerly, the President's Fight Against
Poverty program distributed free food baskets at holidays and other occasions to various urban
and rural communities and households.

52.     INESPREwas established in 1969. Initially, it responded to a price stabilization model
developed by USAID. During the 80's more emphasis was placed on providing support to
producers through technical assistance programs.             During the previous Government
administration (1996-2000), INESPRE focused on selling products for the basic food basket, at
subsidized prices through state-owned supermarkets (Alimento para Todos). The current



                                              17

administration closed down this scheme, due-according       to the current directors-to  corruption
and losses sustained by the Institution. Instead, INESPRE established a scheme of ``popular
marketplaces" to: (a) provide support to small producers, by serving as intermediary wholesaler
which assumes all handling, packaging and distribution costs, and (b) sell products in poor
barrios at lower costs than those found in supermarkets or formal markets.

53.     INESPRE organizes about 3,000 popular marketplaces each year across the country.
Community associations or municipal governments, together with INESPRE, decide on the
market day, location and frequency (i.e., once a week). Marketplaces are open to everyone and
the location i s agreed with community groups and local authorities.

54.     Nevertheless, it i s not clear if poor are actually benefiting from marketplaces and
subsidies, or if the marketplaces are being frequented by higher or lower income households.
Targeting i s ad-hoc and follows no systematic criteria. For example, INESPRE typically sells
rice in bulk quantities (large sacks), which require disposable income poor families often lack.
Instead, owners of local markets often purchase these sacks at INESPRE's reduced prices and
then sell the rice to the poor in small quantities at full retail prices.        Food prices, food
consumption and the current crisis are closely linked, and the Government will now reorient
INESPRE to reach poor communities, and cut back its marketing support program. This will
entail the first major pro-poor targeting effort undertaken at INESPRE, and will be an important
element in the crisis impacts mitigation effort of the Government.

55.     The coordination process under the Social Cabinet on topics of targeting, program
consolidation, and budget implementation has been slow and politically complex. N o programs
have yet been eliminated or consolidated. To help move the process into more concrete action, a
private firm has been contracted to undertake a major review of the 70 programs, with the
objective of recommending steps to consolidate and coordinate the fragmented social assistance
structure. In addition, a second Presidential Decree was issued during 2003, to authorize the
initial restructuring of social assistance based on a two-stage plan, Le.: (a) establishment of the
Budget Program under the name of "Proteccidn Social;" (Social Protection) and, (b)
establishment of the new institutionalization for social assistance in order to enable the transition
into decentralized functions and the consolidation of a single organization for social policy
issues. At this stage, the many social assistance programs entities and programs continue to
work independently, and the Social Cabinet has actually launched or revived three social
assistance programs addressed to poor communities: the "mercados mdviles " (mobil markets)
under INESPRE, "boticus comuniturias (community drugstores), and a targeted labor training
                                          "
and integration project (PROJIL).

56.     The proposed SCRAL will support the government's response to the crisis and its longer
term reform of social assistance in three ways. First, the conditional cash transfer program
within the SEE and the Subsidized Health Insurance program will be improved with new
targeting methodologies and capacities (see Educatiun and Health sections above). Second, it
will support the reorientation and poverty targeting of the food susbsidy program under
INESPRE in 2004, as an explicit crisis response initiative. Third, over the medium term, it will
support the first steps of program consolidation of social assistance.




                                               18

57.      Parallel to the Social Cabinet reforms are a set of health insurance and social security
reforms now being administered by the Centro National de Seguro Social (CNSS). These widely
welcomed and modern reforms launch the Dominican Republic on a new phase of insurance
based social policy, combined with plans for subsidized access to both health insurance and
pensions for the poorest membersof society. The health program i s covered above in the Health
section.    The pension reforms, already well advanced and progressing satisfactorily, are not
covered under the SCRAL. In the future, CNSS will launch a subsidized pension program for
the poor, for which there are a number of issues and challenges. This i s reserved for dialogue
with the next government.


Social Program Transparency, Monitoring and Evaluation

58.     A strategic element of social policy reform in the Dominican Republic is monitoring and
evaluation of social programs, which i s the responsibility of the Social Cabinet and the planning
agency (ONAPLAN).         The Social Cabinet has formed a Civil Society Consultative Council
composed of leading NGOs, religious groups and universities to help the Social Cabinet in its
management of reforms and in monitoring programs.            The Central Bank and the National
Statistical Office (ONE) share responsibilities for household surveys and their analysis. To date
these agencies are only in the very early stages of undertaking serious            monitoring and
evaluation, particularly that which i s independently executed.       The survey capacities of the
Central Bank, which manages the Labor Force Survey, and ONE, which has managed the less
frequent income and consumption surveys, could be improved and their efforts integrated
institutionally. The Labor Force Survey carried out semi annually i s a reliable source of labor
force and wage data, and in response to the crisis, the Central Bank added an education and a
health module to the October 2003 round. This nationally representative instrument enables
reasonably up to date checks on social conditions, particularly wages and employment, and with
the two social modules will be the main statistical source for analysis of social service utilization
and access.

59.     Ensuring transparency in the implementation of the Government's social programs
mobilized to confront the impacts of the crisis i s recognized as essential by all stakeholders.
While there is risk that such programs (food assistance, cash transfers, health benefits) will be
utilized for political purposes in the run-up to the May elections, the Social Cabinet and the Civil
Society Consultative Council have worked collaboratively over the past two years to minimize
this risk and to ensure that such programs are implemented within the framework of a coherent
poverty reduction strategy. To further strengthen this commitment, the Social Cabinet, as part of
the SCRAL, will contract with civil society groups to conduct systematic monitoring of several
social assistance programs, for both short term governance objectives and long term reform
purposes

60.      To address the near absence of rigorous evaluation in the Dominican Republic, the
SCRAL will support the carrying out of two strategic evaluations in the near term. The school
feeding program and the education conditional cash transfer programs will be evaluated b y
independent experts, so that the Ministry of Education is able to make overdue policy choices
based on systematic evidence concerning the effectiveness of these programs in raising school
system performance.



                                                19

V.     LOANOBJECTIVESAND RATIONALE

61.    There are two central objectives for the SCRAL. The first i s to support the Government's
response to the social impacts of the current financial and economic crisis. The poorest are least
able to withstand this sudden reduction in their real incomes, and least able to cope with rising
food prices, utility prices and the prolonged blackouts affecting their homes and enterprises. The
second objective of the loan i s to stimulate continuing and overdue policy reforms in the social
and electricity sectors, both of which are key to an effective crisis response and performing well
below their potential. Social services in education, health and social assistance have long been
inadequate to raise the social outcomes of the Dominican Republic on a par with other Latin
American countries of similar per capita income. Social assistance programs in particular suffer
from substantial structural deficiencies. The power sector i s both financially unsustainable and
burdened by subsidiesto better off consumers.

62.    These objectives will be achieved through three sets of activities:


    0   Financial support to the electric@ sector for the import of much needed fuel to generate
        electricity for national distribution;
    0   Building the response capacities and outcomes of social and electricity programs, which
        means (i)  the targeted use of scarce resources to reach the poor with basic services, food
        and cash; (ii)  the fiscal protection of 2004 budgets of key social and electricity sector
        programs so as to sustain basic services; and (iii) urgent steps to accelerate the inclusion
        of a large and growing number of undocumented Dominicans who are therefore
        ineligible for social assistance and also overwhelmingly poor;
    0   Stimulusfor longer term reform in the social and electricity sectors, through key reforms
        in health insurance, social assistance, targeting, and monitoring and evaluation, and
        initiation of immediate measures to better target electricity subsidies to poor consumers.

63.    The expected disbursement period for the loan is potentially less than six months, so that
the program can exert most of its impact during the period of most severe social stress (early
2004), and so that the program i s seen through by the current government (elections are in May
2004 and handover to the next administration i s in August). The content of the loan has been
widely discussed in and outside of government, and the reforms aimed at the medium term enjoy
broad acceptance, thus raising the probability that the next government, if different than the
present administration, will be supportive.

64.     Three reform themes guide the content of the SCRAL in the short and potentially into the
medium term:       inclusion of the poor and the undocumented into society and services;
integration and consolidation of inefficient, overlapping, competing social programs; and
sustaining social and power services through better targeting, efficiency gains, and structured
public scrutiny and rigorous evaluation. Given the nascent status of social assistance, education
and power sector reforms in the Dominican Republic, and in light o f the longer term time frame
required for seeing measurable social impacts in these areas, this loan and the reforms it will
support must be seen as the stimulation of a longer term reform process.




                                               20

65.      Several areas of social and power sector reform have been set aside from the loan after
early consideration, so as to sustain a strategic focus on empowering the government to address
successfully the escalating social impacts of the crisis. Thus, for example, some potential
initiatives were excluded because their focus on housing or on generating public workfare
employment was not matched by the known crisis impacts, and because of low existing capacity
to offer these services efficiently and at scale. The community infrastructure programs and
projects, of which there are several with overlapping objectives and areas of operation, will be
considered within the social assistance consolidation effort.       Regulatory issues and other
medium term reforms for the power sector are not included under this loan.

66.      The proposed operation is well integrated with existing Bank operations and to those with
similar objectives supported by the IDB. Thus, the Loan will           protect on-going reforms
promoted by the World Bank financed "Health Reform Support APL I"and "Early Childhood
Education" projects, and in several critical areas, move the agenda forward. In addition it will
begin to strengthen the country's capacity to monitor and evaluate progress in critical areas for
the achievement of the MDGs. The proposed project i s complementary to the following IDB
projects aimed at protecting social spending and promoting reforms in the social sector: (i)      a
Social Reform Sustainability Loan of US $200 million with which the SCRAL shares some
budget protection measures; (ii)    the programmatic Social Sector Reform Loans, the second of
which will be prepared in 2004; and (iii)   the Program for the Reform and Modernization of the
Executive Branch technical assistance loan, which is available to finance specific TA activities in
support of the SCRAL.



VI.      PROPOSEDBANK SUPPORT AND PROGRAMPRIORACTIONS

67.     The proposed operation i s organized into short term crisis response actions and more
medium term actions designed to stimulate further reform. The loan i s proposed as an initial
tranche of US $50 million based on a set of actions that take place before Board presentation
followed by two floating tranches of US $25 million each, one for social sector actions and one
for actions in the electricity sector. The following discussion and the Matrix of Prior Actions in
Annex 2 show the actions required for disbursement in bold and a fuller set of actions
(unbolded) agreed with the government as part of the program. The Government's Letter of
Development Policy i s contained in Annex 1; the proposed Matrix of Prior Actions i s in Annex
2; Social Impacts of the Crisis are discussed in Annex 3; Public Expenditure Issues are discussed
in Annex 4; Education, Health, and Social Assistance are in Annex 5, 6, and 7; and the
Electricity Sector i s presented in Annex 8.


Crisis ResponseActions

68.     A. School Feeding Program (Programas de Alimentos Escolares, PAE). The school
feeding program is universal in scope, covering all children enrolled in Grades 1-8. Three
different programs are offered, the largest reaching 1.5 million students with a glass of milk and
a fortified biscuit/muffin every school day. Two other smaller school feeding programs
supported by the World Food Program and USAID, respectively, reach another estimated
100,000 students. Initial studies of cost-effectiveness and nutritional value suggest that these



                                               21

smaller programs offer lessons that might be incorporated into the larger national program. The
SCRAL would support the continuing full coverage of the program through the integration of
22,000 students previously supported through a World Food Program-sponsored program for
which the government would provide specific evidence (component A, Annex 2, first tranche).
Second, the loan would support efforts to reduce the costs of this program (estimated at US42
million in its current form in 2004) by (i)introducing open bidding of school feeding programs
and (ii) allowing the importationof donated milk powder for the School Feeding Program
through a presidentialdecree (component A, Annex 2, first tranche). This latter step would
reduce costs by approximately 12% (savings of US$4.5 million). Government regulations so far
have prevented acceptance of donated milk, but with in kind resources available from the US
Department of Agriculture in particular, the cost effectiveness of the School Feeding Program
can be improved in the near term. The loan would also support full government funding of
the school feeding program in 2004 (see budget protection component G, Annex 2, first
tranche).

69.     B. Conditional Cash Transfer Program for School Attendance (Programs de Turjeta de
Asistencia Escolar, TAE). The TAE program currently provides the equivalent of US$20 every
two months to 100,000 poor mothers as an incentive to send their children to school. Because of
weak targeting mechanisms, many non-poor mothers receive financial support, with very little
institutional capacity to verify whether or not children are actually attending school. There are
no permanent staff administering this program, and the systems of payment are cumbersome and
improvised. The loan would support the establishment of a formal operationalunit for the
program (component B, Annex 2, first tranche), and would also ensure a minimum level of
government funding in 2004 for this conditionalcash transfer (TAE) program(component
G, Annex 2, first tranche), sufficient to support school attendance by an estimated 250,000
children of    100,000 poor mothers (see Annex 2, Component G). Second, the loan would
support a major effort to improve administration of this conditional cash transfer program,
including improved targeting, verification of beneficiaries, efficiency of payment systems, and
monitoring and evaluation, and a new TAE OperationalManual would be approved by the
State Secretariat of Education (component B, Annex 2, social floating tranche). Technical
assistance would be provided to revise the operational manual for this program, and the SEE
would provide personnel in charge and the necessary administrative support. Third, the loan
would support the selection of new entrants into the program as of January 1, 2004 using
ONAPLAN'sproxy meanstest (component B, Annex 2, social floating tranche). Evaluation of
this large and potentially overlapping program with school feeding is a medium term reform
(component IS, Annex 2).

70.     C. Health Insurance for the Poor. Inthe health sector, the main objective of the proposed
project i s to respond to the urgent health care needs of the poor, particularly women in
reproductive ages and children, while simultaneously assisting the government in implementing
the health reform program as mandated by the General Health and Health Insurance Laws of
2001. In the near term, the key intervention is to accelerate the process of enrolling the poor
under the subsidized health insurance scheme, particularly in the border regions with Haiti. The
target for 2003 i s 35,000 poor families from Region IV of the country (one of the poorest regions
in the country). Families enrolled in the health insurance scheme would receive without cost or
insurance premium a basic Maternal and Child Health package of services, and upon enrollment



                                              22

in the subsidized program, receive a healthinsurance card so entitling them to the services. The
extension      of the program to enroll and affiliate another 35,000 poor families for a
cumlative total of 70,000 families (component C, Annex 2, social floating tranche) would be an
action to be carried out in 2004.

71.      D. Assistance to Undocumented Children and Adults. The extent of this probleminthe
Dominican Republic i s debated, both in regard to the total number of undocumented residents
and to the composition of that total between poor Dominicans and Haitian immigrants. In the
poorer rural regions near the Haitian border, surveys indicate that 15-20 percent of the
Dominican population remains undocumented; another survey in the far eastem part of the
country found 20 percent of Dominicans to be undocumented. Meanwhile, the World Bank's
latest Poverty Assessment3 estimated the undocumented population of Haitian descent at over
500,000 people in 1998. Viewed together it i s safe to estimate that at least 1 million people (12.3
percent of the total population) Iiving in the Dominican Republic lack the legal identity which
would allow them to benefit from public services. B y all accounts, this group of undocumented
people i s much poorer than the general population, and highly vulnerable to the current crisis.

72.      This component of the SCRAL i s designed to strengthen and in some areas help launch
government efforts to reach out to the undocumented population, assist them in the arduous
process of obtaining birth certificates and their identity cards, and providing interim and special
access to social services. At this stage, the appropriate channels for this work are the relevant
social agencies and NGOs with the power to take effective, practical measures in the near term.
This component includes steps for the educational system and the health insurance system.

73.      The SEE'S2002 initiative to support the enrollment of undocumented children in primary
education would be continued and strengthened in the 2003-04 school year. The SEE would
enroll at least 7,000 more undocumented children for the 2003/2004 school year (component
D, Annex 2, first tranche). This requiredthe SEE to conduct expanded informational campaigns
targeting the parents of undocumented children in rural and marginalized urban areas. To ensure
the political viability of this initiative, efforts would initially target undocumented Dominican
children and would not require additional national-level legislation of any kind. It i s hoped this
process would reinforce the precedent set in 2002 for enrolling undocumented children, which
reached 63,000 Dominican children, and generate valuable experience which could be used to
address the issue of undocumented Haitian children. A second action is the provision of birth
certificates to 11,000 undocumented school children previously enrolled, in cooperation with
the Central Election Council (component D,Annex 2, social floating tranche).

74.      The CNSS and SESPAS will cooperate to address this issue within the subsidized
insurance scheme for the poor, which i s encountering a large proportion of potential affiliates
without legal status.          The CNSS will launch a national informational campaign on the
importance of obtaining documentation for access to the program and offer assistance to poor
families unable to manage the documentation process on their own, with a target of 12,000 such
families assistedin early 2004 (component D, Annex 20).




 Dorniriicari Republic Poverty Assessnient (World Bank, Dec. 17, 2001)


                                                    23

75.     E. Targeted National Food Subsidy Program. Given the current economic crisis and
INESPRE's capacity to provide subsidized food to the poor, the loan will support the
implementation of a targeted popular marketplace program (Programafocalizado de Subsidio
Alimentario). The most vulnerable and poorest segments of the population will be targeted for
subsidized food sales, through concentration of activities in provinces with the highest
percentages of households living under the poverty line: Elias Pifia (78 percent, El Seybo (88
percent), Bahoruco (87 percent), Monte Plata (84 percent), y Samani (84 percent). In addition, it
will offer the Program in the Capital and province of Santo Domingo, but only in those places
with large concentrations of urban poverty. With the help of ONAPLAN, local and community
authorities, specific geographic areas with large number of very poor and vulnerable families
will be identified for market location, following strict selection guidelines. N o additional budget
resources will be provided to INESPRE, as it will reallocate from its existing marketing support
program. This action i s in accordance with the reform objectives pursued by the Government's
Social Cabinet.

76.     In addition, INESPRE will modify its operational structure to ease program execution
and institutional coordination, enhance civil society participation in both execution and
monitoring, and adjust its public campaign to better target the very poor and increase the number
of interventions in the neediest areas. Initially the Program will have a budget of US$2 million
to benefit 11 barrios in the National District, 5 municipalities in Santo Domingo and 26
municipalities in the other 5 provinces. Later, the Program will expand to other provinces after
its operational structure and targeting process i s proved and functioning, and i s ultimately
expected to reach approximately 500,000 people.

77.     INESPRE will develop an operation manual approved by the Social Cabinet and
provide evidence of program implementation in accordance with manual for the social
floating tranche (component E, Annex 2).           All operational procedures will be thoroughly
described, most importantly: (a) the targeting process; (b) operational procedures for the
different operational modalities of marketplaces; (c) coordination with other entities and civil
society; (d) monitoring and evaluation processes; and (e) institutional rearrangements.

78.     F. Electricity Supplv Assistance. The Bank has had a long-standing dialogue with the
Dominican authorities in the sector, and resolving both the financial and the service reliability
problems of the electricity sectors i s critical for the country's continued economic
competitiveness and social stability. Over the past twelve months, the Bank has been in active
discussions on a proposed Power Sector Reform Programmatic Loan, as a major component of
the CAS. However, efforts to reach final agreement on the medium-term reform program were
derailed by the crisis of 2003. A truly viable,       sustainable reform effort in the sector would
require substantial political commitment and bipartisan support, and these will be difficult to
develop during the short runup to presidential elections inMay 2004.

79.     Given these political realities and the need to respond urgently to the deteriorating
conditions in the electricity sector, the Bank's strategy i s three-fold. First, it would provide some
emergency support aimed at "keeping the lights on," by providing resources for the purchase of
critical fuel for power generation.




                                                24

80.    Second, the Bank management plans to present to the Board, together with this operation,
the Power Sector Technical Assistance Loan, which will support the national dialogue by
providing expert assistanceto help:
            0   Complete power sector reform and strengthen regulatory and consumer protection
                performance;
            0   Improve policy formulation and portfolio management;
            0   Develop the transmission grid and the wholesale power market;
            0   Increase the quantity and quality of electricity for the poor; and
            0   Protect the environment.

81.    Third, the Bank remains prepared to resume discussions of the Power Sector Reform
Programmatic Loan once there i s adequate demonstrated Government commitment to resolve the
financial crisis and to undertake long term reforms. This would entail performance of the next
government as well. The indicators of this commitment, in addition to fulfillment of the prior
actions of the SCRAL, as described below, would be:
            0   Government honors its commitments under the Stabilization Fundand the
               emergency fuel coupons program, as included in its 2004 budget;
            0   Continued progress on reducing subsidization of larger consumers, while
                protecting the poorest groups;
            0   The cost recovery index is kept at least at the same level as before September
                2003;
            0   Agreement between the Government and private operators on a plan to settle
                arrears in the sector;
            0   A national pact on the future legal, regulatory, financial and policy framework for
                a sustainable electricity sector in the mediumterm.

82.    There are two prior actions for the disbursement of the first tranche of this loan
(component F, Annex 2):


            0   The Governmentpublishesand disseminates widely the November 25, 2003,
                Electricity Sector Report (Los efectos de la compra por parte del Gobierno de
                las empresas Edenorte y Edesur sobre lasfinanzas publicus, el sector electric0 y
                la gobernabilidad de la Republica Dominicana) prepared by the Independent
                Panelof Experts
            0   The Government(a) includesinthe 2004 Budgetspecificprovisions to
                supportthe powersector and (b) provideswrittencommitmentconsistent
                with itsmacroeconomic programthat the equivalentof about US$240million
                will be transferredto the sector throughout2004 (component F, Annex 2). As
                described above, this i s the currently estimated fiscal transfer needed from the
                Government to meet its obligations under the Stabilization fund and to provide
                fuel to support adequate generation of electricity over the coming year.

83.    There are three conditions for release of the electricity floating tranche of this loan
(component F, Annex 2):




                                                 25

            0   The Governmentprovidesevidence that it hasfinancedthe importationof
                fuelfor electricitygeneration,amountingto over US$30 million(theestimated
                fuel needs for two months). The evidence will consist of fuel invoices and proof
                o f the corresponding payments through letters of credit or other instruments;
            0   CDE continuesto supply at least80 GWh per monthfor the PRA; and
                The tariff subsidies are focused on the poor by maintaining the freeze on
                tariffs for households consuming less than 200 kWh per month, while the
                program of tariff adjustment for those consuming above 200 KWh/mo, as
                announced by the GovernmentinDecember2003, continues.

84.      G.Protection of Budgets of Kev Social Programs. The Bank, the IDB and the IMF
 have worked closely with the government to assure that resources are available and that budgets
are adequate to sustain key social services during the crisis, and specifically for the 2004 fiscal
year. A parallel U S 2 0 0 million IDB loan (Social Reform Sustainability Loan) contains budget
protection conditions and also provides for budget execution thresholds for the protected
programs as a prior action for the second tranche. The SCRAL budget protection provisions
complement the IDB provisions in several respects, by insisting on increased financial resources
for helping undocumented Dominicans access education and health services, ensuring an
adequate operational budget for the School Attendance TAE program, and supporting increased
community participation through financial transfers to local School Committees. The rest of the
protected programs listed in component G, Annex 2 are also protected by the IDB loan. The
SCRAL also provides for the submission of monthly expenditure reports so as to strengthen
Bank supervision of the loan (component G,Annex 2, social floating tranche).

85.      The protected budgets and their minimumamountsfor 2004 are actions for the first
tranche (component G, Annex 2). Specific areas for budget protection include school feeding,
basic education inputs, several public health and social insurance programs, essential drugs and
medical supplies, blood banks, social assistance programs such as the Conditional Cash Transfer
Program, and undocumented school children program. In addition the 2004 budget allocates
resources to continue decentralization of school maintenance through specific transfers to school
management committees.        Total budget protection i s equivalent to US$133 million, US$80
million for the education sector and U S 5 3 million for health. An additional US$240 million
will be transferred by the central government to the electricity sector over the course of 2004.


MediumTermActions


86.      H.Reform of Health Sector and Subsidized Health Insurance Svstem. The health reform
initiatives in the Dominican Republic enjoy solid institutional backing from the           new and
previous health management and service delivery institutions.          The initial laws have been
approved but the implementing regulations and decrees have been slow in preparation and
promulgation. The SCRAL i s designed to accelerate the process of the issuance of required
Presidential Decrees, Ministerial Decrees and Resolutions, and a draft law that will give weight
and authority to those implementing the reforms of the 2001 legislation.          Two presidential
decrees on "Upgrading HealthFacilitiesand Services" and "Provisionof the PublicHealth
Service Networks'' are required actions (component H, Annex 2) for the initial tranche. These


                                             26

decrees are concerned with defining the minimum quality of care standards for the reformed
health system. Another presidential decree deals with the sensitive issue of human resource
management under the reformed and decentralized system, setting in place new arrangements for
remuneration and contracting, as well as training and incentives to raise performance of health
personnel.    Promulgation of the Presidential decree on the "Regulation of Human
Resources in the National Health System" (Component H, Annex 2) i s a prior action for the
social floating tranche. Other steps, not required as conditions of disbursement, would support
decentralization of the health system by strengthening regional public health providers
(Component H, Annex, 2, social floating trance.

87.     In addition, the CNSS and SESPAS will revamp the criteria and methodology for
assessing the poverty status of potential affiliates in the subsidized health insurance system,
using econometric tools developed by ONAPLAN. Currently, an employment status indicator i s
the only criterion employed to determine eligibility, and this will be substantially reformed
through the application of a proxy means test composed of an index of several variables, all of
which are currently being collected for each candidate family, but not utilized. As prior actions
for the social floating trache, the President will issue a decree to mandate implementation of
an amendment to the appropriate regulation to fully institute these changes (component H,
Annex 2), and an operational manual for community committees will be approved by the
Government's National Health Council for purposes of selecting the beneficiaries to the
subsidized health insuranceprogram (component H, Annex 2).

88.     I. Social Program Consolidationand Rationalization. The Social Cabinet has launched
a process, with IDB support, to streamline and consolidate over 70 social assistance programs
that are for the most part managed under the auspices of the President's Office. Many of the
programs absorb administrative resources but are not operationally active. Some are moribund,
while several overlap with each other, serving the same target population, and in some cases, the
same operational region.     An independent assessment of these programs i s under preparation
and its preliminary report, including its matrix of recommendations for elimination of
specific programs will be submitted to the Bank as a prior action for the initial tranche
(component I,Annex 2).       A presidential decree will eliminate at least five of the ineffective
programs as a prior action for the social floating tranche (component I,Annex 2), while other
programs will be consolidated or decentralized, as a first step in a longer term process of
structural reform of the social assistance sub-sector.

89.     J. Universal Svstem of Selection of Beneficiaries. Two essential steps are necessary to
lay the policy and institutional groundwork for the application of proxy means testing to
determine eligibility for social programs (Subsidized Health Insurance and the School
Attendance TAE Program).        The Social Cabinet must approve the revised Poverty Map taking
into account the results of the 2002 Census; and the Social Cabinet must also approve a manual
prepared and approved by ONAPLAN to guide program managers in the application of proxy
means tests to beneficiary selection.    These actions, although not required, will be taken to
coincide with compliance for the social floating tranche.

90.     K. Program of Transparency, Monitoring, and Evaluation. The Government is prepared
to take several important steps to improve the transparency and M&E o f its social programs,



                                               27

particularly those whose budgets are protected and whose management, targeting and
performance will be improved by SCRAL-supported reforms. Given the possibility of political
manipulation of social assistance programs in the run-up to the elections, the Government will
contract with civil society organizations to monitor selected programs in 2004. The Social
Cabinet will be responsible for this activity in collaboration with the Civil Society Consultative
Council, including the development of terms of reference and criteria for selection of potential
contractors. Terms of referenceand a signed contract(s)with a civil society organization(s)
for this activity is a prior action for the first tranche (component K, Annex 2).     Submission of
the first Civil Society Monitoring Report and the Government's response to it is a prior
condition for the social floating tranche (component K, Annex 2)




VII. ENVIRON-MENTALAND SOCIAL IMPACT, FIDUCIARY REQUIREMENTS,
       AND FISCALIMPACT

 EnvironmentalImpact


91.      This Social Crisis Response Structural Adjustment Loan has no direct anticipated impact
on the environment.      For the purposes of Operational Directive 4.01, it does not have an
environmental category rating (unrated) and i s not subject to the requirements of the Bank's
Environmental Assessment or other Safeguard Policies.

92.      Nonetheless, several environmental concerns are worth addressing. First, the SCRAL
supports recurrent social spendingbudget protection, including for school and health care facility
maintenance. The maintenance activities anticipated are considered low in complexity and not
expected to pose significant risks for environment.         Indeed, maintenance activities will likely
improve treatment of waste and water at these facilities, improving surrounding environmental
conditions. No new constructions are anticipated.

93.      Secondly, the World Bank Health Reform Support APL Iproject, recently approved by
the Board, will support activities related to the handling of medical waste in the Dominican
Republic, specifically through investments to (i)strengthen biomedical waste management
systems and processing in participating facilities, and (ii)   train health personnel associated with
these activities. (Annex 2.b of the Dominican Republic Health Reform PAD, Report 25809-DO,
has a full treatment of this topic.) Environmental construction and management norms for health
facilities, including internal waste management, personnel health and safety provisions for the
handling and disposal of biological waste and operation of equipment are part of the Operations
Manual for that project.

94.      Thirdly, with respect to the electricity sector, the program will not have any direct or
indirect adverse environmental or social impacts, since it focuses on legal, regulatory and
institutional reforms. Moreover, as an adjustment operation, the project provides general budget
support as opposed to financing specific power sector investments. Proceeds of the loan are
integrated into the reserves of the Central Bank, and the loan does not contain any specific
provisions for its use for sector investments. In addition, a preliminary sector environment


                                                 28

assessment of the power sector in the Dominican Republic has already been completed to ensure
that the main issues will be addressed and that sound planning will help guide the reform process
in an environmentally and socially sustainable direction. The Dominican Republic's
environmental legislation includes the 2002 Electricity Law, which establishes the power sector's
environmental responsibilities.


Social Impact

95.     This loan is specifically intendedto have a positive social impact, especially for the most
vulnerable segments of the population, first by ensuring continued provision of key education
and health services, and second, by supporting new targeting mechanisms and policies in social
and electricity programs.

96.     Children, particularly those living in poor, rural areas, will benefit from: full coverage of
the school feeding program; conditional cash transfer payments to their mothers based on their
school attendance; open enrollment into basic education with or without official documentation;
school supplies; and full funding of essential health programs.         Quantitatively, 1.6 million
children enrolled in grades 1-8 will benefit from the school feeding program, including 22,000
poor students living near the Haitian border previously supported through a World Food
Program-supported initiative. The families of approximately 250,000 poor students will benefit
from the School Attendance Program, and at least 71,000 undocumented children will be
enrolled in school.

97.     In addition to the benefits described above for poor children, poor families will benefit
from subsidized enrollment into the Government's health insurance program, support in
obtaining essential Government identity cards, access to a targeted subsidized food distribution
program, and more effective social programs. At least 70,000 poor families will enrolled free of
charge into the Government's health insurance program, and another 12,000 undocumented
families (almost exclusively poor) will receive specific support to obtain documentation. The
targeted food distribution program by INESPRE i s expected to ultimately reach 500,000 poor
consumers.

98.     Health sector reforms that are supported under the Health Reform Support APL and
further advanced by the SCRAL will reduce inequality in access to health services, leading to a
decline in inequality of health status among different population groups and between urban and
rural regions. They should also reduce child and maternal mortality rates for the country as a
whole, and the impoverishment impact of ill health and disability among the poor uninsured
population. Families living in the poorest regions o f the country (Region IV) are particularly
targeted for the implementation of these health sector reforms during the implementation period
of this adjustment operation.

99.     For the population at large, a more reliable energy supply will promote the viability of
small and medium-sized businesses dependent on the national grid which in tum maintains
employment. Reduced blackouts will lower social tensions, particularly in the poorest barrios
which are usually most affected by blackouts. Equally important, reliable electricity supply will




                                               29

promote service delivery in schools, hospitals, health clinics, vaccination programs (which need
a "cold chain" to protect vaccines) and in other social sectors.

100.     As a prior action of the SCRAL, the Government will sign a contract with independent
NGO(s) to carry out verification and monitoring of the activities under the adjustment operation.
This is to promote greater transparency with civil society at large, reduce the risk of mis-use of
Bank funds, and ensure that services are actually provided to those who need it most. This
collaboration between the Government and civil society will promote social cohesion around the
reform program, particularly important duringthis pre-electoral period.
Financial Management

101.    Financial Management in the Dominican Republic i s considered weak in some areas,
such as its legal and regulatory framework, and its accounting and audit functions. Reforms are
needed to improve the regulatory framework and the fiscal transparency, eliminate
discretionality, and increase the efficiency of government expenditures.

102.    The governing legal and regulatory framework for public financial management i s
outdated. The current laws and regulations do not reflect actual practice of public financial
management inthe Dominican Republic.

103.    The budget cannot be considered an accurate tool for managing public resources since it
does not reflect a consolidated picture of the revenues and expenditures o f the central
g~vernment.~The budget execution process lacks some of the substantive aspects of budget
development that provide the tools to hold government, and those responsible for managing and
executing public resources, accountable for results.

104.    The treasury manages two separate registers for approved invoices and payment
information. Neither register shares information nor are these registers reconciled to ensure that
all payments have been executed for approved expenditures. Furthermore, the government's
single entry cash flow system does not reflect outstanding obligations. As a result, there are
delays in closing the expenditure accounts and payments and for commitments for prior year
obligations occur outside the budget year.

105.     Currently, financial reports prepared by the Contraloriu are kept mainly confidential,
even though in some cases irregularities and mismanagement of funds have been revealed. As a
result, there i s a need for greater transparency and dissemination of public financial information.
In addition, the Contraloria and Cdmaru de Cuentas, which are responsible for the internal and
external audit functions, have limited capacity to carry out their mandate, as in the case of the
CBmara de Cuentas, their capacity only allows for the completion of 30 percent of the audits.

106.    The Inter-AmericanDevelopment Bank (IDB) has taken the lead with several projects to
reform the state of financial management systems and specifically to modernize the executive
and legislative branches. Under the IDB financed Integrated Financial Management (IFM)


`In2001.57% of total government revenues were off budget (forthcoming Public Expenditure Review)


                                                  30

project, it i s expectedthat new legislationwill be passedto better define the roles of Contraloria
and CBmara de Cuentas, as well as those of the Public Debt ManagementUnit and the Budgeting
PlanningOffice.

107.   Additionally, the President, in his February 27, 2003 address to the nation, promised to
present several bills, some of which deal with the modernization and improvement of the
legislation governing public financial management. However, these projects/proposals are still
underimplementationand their effectivenesshas not yet beendemonstrated.

108. The Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) that i s plannedjointly with
the IDB for the early 2004, will, in addition to analyzing the government systems, practices and
procedures for budgeting, accounting, treasury and public debt management, pay particular
attention to the effectiveness of the legal and regulatory framework to enforce the transparent
and effective management of public resources and to the internalcontrols of centralgovernment,
and their effectiveness in contributing to a transparent environment for public financial
management.

109.   The results of the CFAA, together with the dissemination the recently complete Public
ExpenditureReview,should help engage the administrationin a productivedialogueon financial
management by: (1) identifying weaknesses in the public financial management systems; and (2)
makingrecommendationsfor improvingefficiency,transparency and accountability.
Procurement and Governance

110.   The latest Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) for Dominican Republic
was discussedin 1999 and approvedby the Government in October 2002. Procurementof works
in the DominicanRepublic continue to be regulatedby Law 105, without any regulatorydecrees.
A Regulatory Decree for procurement of goods No. 262-98 was approved in July 1998 by
PresidentialDecree (the most recent since 1966), but it is still without effect. Many institutions
have started to apply this decree, but only in regards to thresholds for public bidding, quotations
or direct contracting.

111.   Inthe last quarter of 2002 some of the recommendationsmade in the Action Plan of the
CPAR were considered and the country has seen significant advances with the preparationof a
draft public procurementlaw, currently in Congress. This draft law covers Public Procurementof
Goods, Works, Services and Concessions, and although the proposed law still has to be
discussed and approvedby both Chambers, there is significant consensus aroundthe draft law. If
it were to be implementedit would mean a great improvement in procurement procedures. The
CPAR will be updatedinFY04 and the Action Plan adjusted, to reflect recent developments and
required follow up actions. This update and any subsequent interventions in public procurement
reform shall take into consideration any related measures included in the agreement with the
IMFas well as IDB's project activities.

112. With respect to anticorruptioninitiatives in the country, Decree No.149-98providedthat
each Secretary of State, Directors, and General Managers must form in each one of their
dependencies a Commissionof Public Ethics.EachCommissionmust be of no less than five nor
morethan nine persons, without regardfor race, creedor hierarchy. In addition, the Department



                                              31

of Prevention of Administrative Corruption (Departamento de Prevencidn de la Corrupcidn
Administrativa) was createdby Decree No. 322-97, under the Attorney's General Office with the
objective of:


      0  creating policies that will contribute to control and avoid public administration
         corruption acts; and
      0  generating and developing policies tending to change the behavior of the citizens toward
         corruption and fighting against it.

113.     Other legislative pieces that provide anticorruption measures are the Constitution of the
Republic, the Penal Code, the Law for Civil Service and Administrative Career and its regulation
81-94, Law 5924 for General Confiscation of Assets of              corrupt civil servants, and the
Presidential Decree 783-01 that creates the National Advisory Council for the fight against
Corruption. Law No. 120-01of July 20, 2001 establishes the Code of Ethics of Civil Servants.
I t s objective i s to govern the behavior of public servants regarding the ethical principles that
should guide their performance inthe public administration.

114.     The country ratified the Inter-American Convention Against Corruption in 1998 and is
currently working on adapting its legislation and institutions to comply with this Convention,
although the process to comply with the Convention has been slow. Finally, by Decree No. 39-
03 the Executive Power created the Commissions of Social Audits, as a mechanism for the
community to oversee the government social expenditures for public works. These Commissions
will have access to all relevant information pertaining to works financed by the Government and
inturn will present their findings to the Departmentof Prevention of Administrative Corruption.


FiscalImpact


115.     For a full discussion the fiscal aspects of the loan, including protected items in the 2004
budget, please refer to Annex 4. Inregard to the incremental costs of reforms and other actions
included inthe SCRAL, the net fiscal impact i s estimatedto be positive (approximately US$ 1.8
million). This is linked to the donation of milk powder for the school feeding program, valued at
approximately US$4.5 million, which will lower (and stabilize) costs for the program, which
have been based on purchase of milk from domestic suppliers. This savings will be partially
offset by the costs related to fulfillment of all actions foreseen under the loan, which total
approximately US$2.7 million. These actions and their estimatedcosts are included in the table
below.




                                                32

                        NET FISCALIMPACT                          I -$1,838,5711   -$82,350,000/



116.      The incremental costs associated with the above actions in some cases should recur in
subsequent budgets, such as follow up evaluation work in the Ministry of Education, continuing
support for the documentation of children, and the civil society monitoring group. If a decision
i s made to expand the School Attendance Program in 2005 this would require additional
spending on household surveys in poor areas to identify poor mothers with school-age children.
I t i s also possible that international milk donations will be available and the Government will
accept them in 2005, and this would again reap substantial net savings.


DisbursementArrangements


117.      Disbursement arrangements would follow the simplified procedures for SALSapproved
by the Board on February 1, 1996. The Borrower will open an account in The Dominican
Republic's Central Bank. Once the Bank formally notifies the borrower that a tranche i s available
for withdrawal, the borrower may submit a simplified withdrawal application so that the
proceeds of the tranche are deposited by the Bank in this account, for use in accordance with
the Loan Agreement. Disbursements will not be linked to specific purchases, and supporting
evidence for disbursements i s therefore not required. The proceeds of the loan may not be used
to finance expenditures typically excluded under the Loan Agreement. Although a routine audit
of the deposit account would not be required, the Bank reserves the right to request that an audit
be conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing, by an independent firm
acceptable to the Bank. If requested, the audit will be performed in accordance with terms of
reference (TORS)approved by the Bank.




                                                33

VIII. BENEFITSAND KEY RISKS

Benefits

118.    The benefits of the SCRAL can be described as     1 :lows:

                Participation in a coordinated effort by the International Financial Institutions and
                bilateral donors to help the Government preserve a basis for near term resumption
                o f growth in the Dominican Republic and the prevention of a financial and
                economic collapse;
                The mobilization of a coordinated social sector and power sector effort to cushion
                the impacts of the economic and financial crisis and to thereby sustain social
                services and human capital achievements and to diminishthe chance for renewed
                social conflict;
                Initial, but specific steps toward power sector sustainability and pro-poor
                targetingof subsidies;
                Specific social sector reforms, including acceleration of health insurance reform,
                modernization of the school feeding and conditional cash transfer programs, an
                end to a long standing prohibition on receipt of donated food to the school feeding
                program, and the reorientation of the existing food subsidy program toward the
                poor;
                Launch of a new, more rigorous targeting methodology, based on proxy means
                testing,  to assess poverty status of beneficiary households in two key social
                transfer programs;
                Inclusion and registration of undocumented Dominicans for access to basic social
                sector services, including over 70,000 children enrolled in school;
                First concrete steps to consolidate the fragmented structure of social assistance
                programs;
                Protection of budget allocations for key social and power sector programs for the
                pre and post election period;
                Civil society engagement through the formal role in the program of a civil society
                monitoring group, contracted to provide transparent oversight of programs at risk
                of political manipulation.



Risks

119.    The risks of proceeding with this SCRAL fall into two broad categories: governance and
non-compliance. Governance issues arise in the context of the run-up to the elections, a period
that could prompt the mis-use of programs and resources for election campaign purposes by the
incumbent administration. Despite the provisions for civil society monitoring and intense Bank
supervision, this risk remains high. Linked to that risk i s that of ad hoc budget reallocations
during the fiscal year, from protected to unprotected programs, or to the discretionary fund
managed by the President's Office. IDB budget execution conditionality should mitigate that
risk, as will supervision of monthly budget execution by the World Bank.



                                               34

120.      The second category of risk worthy of note is that of non-compliancewith actions for the
two floating tranches, including maintenance of a satisfactory macroeconomic framework.
Although there is strong government endorsement of these actions, the pre-election climate is
unpredictable and potentially a cause for non compliance. The two floating tranches have been
designedto help the Government manage such risks with flexibility on sequencingand timing. In
addition, the integrated program of donor assistance supports the implementation of the
Government economic stabilization program supportedby inter alia the IMF. Nonetheless, the
risk of undisbursedfloatingtranches is high. The specific risksof the operationare listedbelow.

Kev risks                                               Mitigation
1.   Mis-use of protected budget resources for          1.   Civil Society Oversight group contracted to
election purposes and undermining of targeting and      monitor     selected   programs,     intense     Bank
other management reforms.                               supervision. Risk remains high nonetheless.
2.    Low institutional capacity to implement the       2. IDB financial resources for T A to be available;
social sector actions.                                  sustained WB       engagement through       intensive
                                                        supervision from the field.
3.    Breakdown of political support for floating       3.    A high risk, which is being addressed by
tranche conditions and delay in compliance,             informal discussions of the loan with a broad
especially if current government is trailing and        political and technical cast of players in Dominican
unlikely to be re-elected.                              Republic and with prominent civil society leaders.
                                                        Consensus reforms carry a higher probability of
                                                        acceptance by a new set of actors. Fiscal pressures
                                                        will provide high level incentive. Broad donor
                                                        consensus and collaboration in a program of
                                                        integrated support of the Government economic
                                                        stabilization program.
4. Failure to execute protected budgets, and 4.              Collaboration with IDB parallel loan which
reallocation of resources to other programs.            includes    budget execution      conditionality, the
                                                        provision for monthly execution reports, and civil
                                                        society monitoring of key programs will enhance
                                                       probability for compliance.
5. Loan instrument not sufficiently long term for       5. Actions have been distributed into three tranches,
full,. sustained uptake of key reforms, both in social  two of which are floating, to allow flexibility on
and electricity sectors.                                timing and sequence of program implementation.
                                                        Strong linkage to other WB operations, IMF SBA,
                                                        and to IDB operations. Electricity measures
                                                        fundamental to preventing renewed sequence of
                                                        debilitating black outs.
6. As election pressures intensify, government drops    6. Floating tranche condition may be adequate
plan for reorientation of electricity subsidy to poorer incentive, as well as fiscal issues        and donor
consumers.                                              agreements, but risk remains.
7. Electricity sector crisis worsens, as LDP actions    7. Few actors wish to see the re-emerging of
to provide resources to the system via fuel coupons     blackouts, and resources should be sufficient to
and cash are not carried out.                          prevent a deepening crisis.
8. Further civil disturbances undermine consensus 8. "Keeping Lights on" strategy, PRA protection,
for social and electricity sector actions, taking the and other cash and commodity transfers to the poor
country into deeper crisis.                             should ease tensions, but the loan is only one
                                                        element mitigating risk of social unrest.        Risk
                                                        remains high.




                                                       35

                     ANNEX 1: LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY
                                    (Translated from official version)

                            Technical Secretariat of the Presidency


                                         Dominican Republic
                               Social Crisis ResponseAdjustment Loan
                                     Letter of Development Policy



                                                                   Santo Domingo, December 23,2003

Mr. James D. Wonfensohn
President
The World Bank
Washington, D.C.

Dear Mr. Wonfensohn:

Recent economic developments

Fromfast to slow growth

Throughout the 1990s the Dominican Republic ranked among thefastest growing economies in the Latin
American and Caribbean region. During 1991-2000, the economy grew by 5.9 percent on average and
per capita income increased by 4.1 percent in real terms. Thisfast economic growth was achieved within
an increasingly stable macroeconomic environment, characterized by low inflation, manageablefiscal
deficits and declining public sector debt. Thefast growth of the 1990sfollowed a series of reforms and
policy choices that in effect created a hybrid of two ver?, different growth models: a dynamic export-led
model based on tourism and Free Trade Zones manufacturing on the one hand, and an import-
substitution model based on trade protection and subsidies in the agricultural sector on the other.

At the beginning of this decade, economic performance was affected by the rise in oil prices combined
with the events of September 11, 2001 and the slowdown in the world economy. Exports and tourism
receipts beganfalling in the second half of 2001. We relaxed ourfiscal policy stance in order to dampen
the economic slowdown. The result was that real GDP growth picked up slightly to 4.1 percent in 2002.

The banking crisis

The defining momentfor the country was the failure of Baninter, the third largest private bank, in the
spring of 2003. Once accounting malpractices andfraud were discovered, the bank was intervened by the
Central Bank in April 2003. In order to protect depositors and prevent a systemic run, we kept Baninter
open to the public and financed the payout of its deposits, which fell some 80 percent. Problems soon
extended to two other banks, Bancrkdito and Banco Mercantil, which were also affected by accounting
malpractices and mismanagement. Central bank assistance to these problem banks amounted to 20
percent of GDP and signijicantly contributed to the doubling in public debt, estimated at 58.4 percent of
GDP at end-2003.


                                                  36

 We decided to address these challenges through a comprehensive economic stabi1i:ation program that
focuses on strengthening confidence in the banking system, reversing the recent deterioration in the
public finances. ensuring a flexible management of the currencj. and implementing a tight moneta?
policy to reduce inflation and the immediate pressures on the currency.           Our strategy to restore
confidence in the banking system has four main pillars. The first, already implemented, focused on
resolving the problems of identifed weak banks. The second, now under way, aims to assess the situation
of the banking system as a whole through internationally assisted audits of all banks, and to identifi
further necessary measures. The third will put in place a legal and regulatory framework to deal with
systemic banking problems. The fourth pillar is the enhancement of prudential regulations and
supervision.

To implement our economic stabilization program, we signed a Stand By Arrangement with the
International Monetary Fund in August 2003. The SBA covers a 24 month period and gives us access to
the equivalent US$620 millionfrom the IMF. A key objective of theprogram is to raise thefiscal primary
surplus over the next three years to a level that would allow a gradual reduction in the public debt ratio
over the medium term. In the near term, thefiscal effort relies on expenditure compression and temporary
revenue measures. These initial steps will give way to a broader reform of the tax system and of spending
in 2004, as well as asset sales to reduce public debt. Improved debt management also will help reduce
vulnerabilities, with greater emphasis on the domestic market to meet the government's borrowing needs,
and less reliance on foreign currency debt. Monetary restraint will help contain pressures on the
currency and inflation. Thefull unijication of the exchange rate market is being implemented.

The worsening of the electricity crisis

The depreciation of the peso, combined with continued high oil prices on the international market,
affected the finances of electricity generating and distributing companies. Theformer face escalating
prices of importedfuel (which they reflect in the price of electricity sold to distributing companies) and
the latter find it increasingly difJicult to collect payment of bills from consumers in a context of higher
tariffs and reduced household incomes. This situation compounded a long standing crisis in the electricity
sector.   One of the two distributing companies co-owned by Union Fenosa and the Govemment -
Edenorte -- was nearly bankrupt, and the other - Edesur - had cash flow problems. Fulfilling its
responsibility, the Government bought-out the share of Union Fenosa in these two distributing companies
so as to prevent the worsening of power outages and the collapse of the electricity sector. However, the
transaction increased thefinancial obligations of the State. In fact, the impact of this purchase for the
 Government's cash-flow and debt position, its possibly adverse impact on the sustainabilio of the
electricity sector and concerns on the manner in which the deal was negotiated, led to the delay of the
first review of the IMF-supported SBA and the disbursement of the second tranche of an IDB social sector
adjustment loan.

Social impact and challenges

 The social impact of the crisis is still evolving. The most important impact of the crisis comesfrom the
high inflation resulting from the sharp currency depreciation. Food, medicine and transport prices are
becoming prohibitive for larger segments of the population. The reduction in fiscal revenues (in real
terms) and in public investment, combined with the increase in the prices of commodities, is affecting the
provision of basic social services and social programs.        Real wages declined by I7 percent in the 12
month period of April 2002-April 2003, with a possibly sharper decline after April 2003 (as inflation
worsened). On the other hand, remittancesfrom abroad may have helped reduce the adverse impact of
real wage declines on overall household incomes. Unemployment impacts are expected to show up in the
Labor Force Survey conducted in October 2003 (results to be released in January 2004). Earthquake,


                                                     37

floods and late season hurricane that hit the country in 2003 compounded the already serious social
situation.    A key challenge for us beyond the immediate response to the crisis \till be to integrate,
deepen, and improve the efJiciency of social programs so as to maintain the Dominican Republic's
chances of reaching the Millenriium Developmeiit Goals.

Status of our economic stabilization program supported by the Stand By Arrangemenl

After an independent commission of international expert5 set up to evaluate the government's re-purchase
of the two electricity distribution companies submitted its draji report on November IO, 2003, the IMF
resumed the first review of the SBA for which technical discussions were concluded on December 17,
2003. Goingforward, we have introduced in our economic stabilization program expenditure reduction
and tax measures in the 2004 budget to reach a public sector consolidated deficit target of 3.5 percent of
GDP, with afurther reduction to 1.8percent in 2005 after a comprehensive tax reform is put in place.

In order to contain spending, the 2004 budget envisages a low level of capital expenditures with respect
to GDP (2.7percen~compared to 2.8percent in 2003 and 7.1percent in 2002). On this basis, and taking
into account a limit on public sector wage growth to 9 percent, the 2004 b~idgetlimits total government
expenditure to 15.8percent of GDP, the lowest level infive years. We are tuking steps to protect priority
social programs from expenditure cuts included in the 2004 budget. As a result, social expenditure is
projected to remain at about 7percent of GDP in 2004, similar to its level in 2002-03. The budget also
incorporates a subsidy of 0.9 percent of GDPfor electricity that takes into account the broader strategy
for improving thefinancial situation of this critical sector and the need to protect the poor from price
increases. Another 0.6 percent of GDP has been allocated to meet the flow deficit of electricity
distributors, pending such time as prices for higher-income consumers can be aligned with production
costs and collection rates can be improved.

The revenue measures, which are contained in the 2004 budget expected to be approved by Congress by
end-December 2003, include: (i) increases in excise tax rates on alcohol and tobacco products by 30
percent; (ii) elimination of income tax exemptionsfor interest accruing to corporations on central bank
certificates and on the income of savings and loan associations; and (iii) regularization of tax measures
approved by decree in 2003, including a temporary 5 percent export tax and a temporary 2 percent
import surcharge, and an increase in the airport exit tax. Weplan to replace these temporary measures
 with a tax reform in the second half of 2004 focused on widening the domestic tax base and revision of
tax rates.

 We are also in the process of completing some prior actions before the discussion of the first review of
SBA by the IMF Board. Theseprior actions include: passage of a 2004 budget incorporating the tax and
expenditure measures detailed above, adoption of actions to ensure a minimum level of electricity
generation and reduce electricity blackouts, maintaining a tight monetary policy, ensuring that the
foreign exchange market operatesfree of inte$erence, obtaining financing assurancesfrom Paris Club
creditors and other oficial bilateral creditors for a treatment of reschedulable arrears and flow
rescheduling of some current maturities, completion of the unification of theforeign exchangemarket and
of critical banking sector reforms originally planned for implementation before December 2003 under the
SBA. We continue to make efforts to improve transparency and governance, especially in the banking
system and more recently in the electricity sector, including implementation of the recommendations of
the recent panel of international experts oti the electricity sector.

 We are confident that with the successful implementation of the economic stabilization program,
macroeconomic stability will return and growth prospects will improve.         Real GDP is projected to
decline by around I percent in 2004 (after a decline of 1.3percent in 2003), but to grow strongly in 2005.
Inflation, after peaking at 42 percent in 2003, is targeted to decline to under 14 percent in 2004 and to


                                                    38

the single digit range in 2005. The external current account is projected to remain iri surplus in 2004
after a substantial external adjustment, with the current account balance improvingfrom a deficit of 3.8
percent of GDP in 2002 to a surplus of 5.6percent of GDP in 2003.

However, a sizable financing gap of more than US$] billion is projected for 2004. After factoring in
projected disbursements from the World Bank, the IDB, and bilateral sources, there would still be a
residual financing gap of some US$300 million. To cover this gay, the government has approached the
Paris Club and other ofSicial bilateral creditors for a treatment of reschedulable arrears and a firow
rescheduling of some current maturities. Treatment of these amounts could be adequate to cover the
residual financing gap. We remain committed to the implementation of our economic stabilization
program supported inter alia by the IMF SBA and are prepared to take any further measures that may
become necessalyfor maintaining a sustainable macroeconomicframework.

Reducing the social impact of the crisis and setting the stagefor structural reforms

We are determined to mitigate the impact of the crisis on the poor and vulnerable groups in the short
term. We are also determined to set the stage for structural reforms that would allow the country to
return tofast economic growth and poverty reduction. Towards this end, we have designed a strategy to
ensure adequate supply of electricity by the generating companies in the short term while initiating a
national dialogue on key reforms of the electricity sector as detailed below. We have also designed a
strategy to protect and better target key social programs while advancing key reforms in the health,
education and social protection sectors as detailed below.

Social Protection Sector Policy

The decision of the Government of the Dominican Republic to promote the reform of the Social Sectors
has implied assuming the challenge of overcoming the historical "social debt" which has persisted in the
country for many years.        This social debt worsened as a result of repeated fiscal crises and
implementation of economic policies which were not accompanied by an adequate social policy. This
social policy should support social investment strategies with a focus on transfers and subsidies to the
poorest, based on inclusion and equity, rather than on preferential treatment to groups or individualsfor
political purposes.

This reform has also implied the development of short and long term actions, since the Government
obligation is to offer direct assistance to the poor in a continuous and sustainedfashion, due to the needs
faced by more than 50 percent of the population. Simultaneously, the Govemment has been developing
processes of consultation, negotiation, agreement, and compromise with society as a whole - government
and private sector - to guarantee that the new institutional arrangements offer eflicient, effective and
sustainable responses to society's needs.        The objective is to build a more equitable, fair and`
participatory society, asforeseen in the agreements of the Millennium Summit.

In this context, the Government approved the Poverty Reduction Strategy (PRS), with a target of 201.5,
which was broadly discussed with civil society, political parties, and community and grassroots
organizations. Decree 566-03 puts into effect the execution of the PRS and instructs the Social Cabinet to
submit it to the National Congress to guarantee its validity as State Policy. At the same time the
Development Plan for Dominican Education 2003-2013 was approved. In complementan)fashion, the
Government institutionalized Budgeting by Programs and established a system of financial programming
for budgetary execution through the public sector, beginning with the Ministries of Education, Health and
social assistance institutions. In addition, regulations were passed (decree 646-02) regarding the use of
the extra budgetan] income. All the above assures an increasingly eflective, eficierit and transparent use
of the Government resources.



                                                    39

Accordingly, the Government commitred itself to reorganize the social assistance sector, which entailed
the identification of the resources invested at this level and an assessment of the institutions which make
up the sector. The Government now has the necessary information to create a rteit' institutional str~rctirre
which assumes the responsibility of implementing a nationai policy of social assistance. All this means
the elimination of most of existing social assistance institutions and programs, with subsequent resource
savings and the restructuring of social protection programs so they are appropriately targeted,
decentralized and developed in collaboration with civil society. Thefulfillment of this commitment will be
achieved through the submissionfor approval of a law by the President to the National Congress, and
through implementation by Executive Decree of the required reforms provided for in Decree 623-03 of
July 2003.

Complementary to this, the Government is assessing existingfinancial transfers to NGOs, so as to design
a competitive and coherent process for resource allocation consistent with the Poverty Reduction
Strategy, which also ensures transparency in the allocation and use of resources.

The strengthening of the Social Cabinet has helped to articulate the Government's institutional structure
for (i) the development of Social Policy, (ii) relationships with civil society through the Consultative
Council of Civil Society, and (iii) the Network of Community Organizations. Coordination between
Social and Economic Policy, and the development of a new institutional structure for social protection,
will bejointly undertaken, supported by the Programfor the Modernization and Reform of the Executive
Branch, Social and institutional reforms in this sector will be complemented by economic reforms
implemented by the Government, enhancing competitiveness, sustainable growth, poverty reduction,
social inclusion and equitable income distribution.

 With these objectives in mind, we commit to support within the context of this Reform Program the
following: (I)reforms in expenditure administration, in theformulation, execution and monitoring of the
public budget; (2) reforms aimed at strengthening the institutional frameworks of health, education and
social assistance; (3) the protection of the priority social expenditure in health and education; (4)
institutional capacity-buildingfor monitoring of social policy and poverty reduction; (5) the urgently
necessary restructuring of the social assistance sector; (6) the implementation of a growing and
consistent policy of targeting direct subsidies and transfers; and (7) pro-active encouragement of
organized civil society to participate actively in the development of intervention strategies and in the
monitoring of compliance with the commitments and goals for the different programs developed by the
 Government, to ensure increased transparency of Govemment actions and to facilitate citizen
participation andfeedback.

As part of the strategy to strengthen the joint efforts of the Govemment and civil society for the
development of a Social Policy, the Government will request the Civil Society Consultative Council to
 include within its mandate monitoring of the conditionalities established in the present adjustment loan.
 To that effect, the Social Cabinet will arrangefor the contracting of one or more NGOs to carry out this
 work. The terms of reference will be developed collaboratively and shall be previously approved by the
 World Bank.

In the context of the implementation of decree 623-03, the Government commits to promulgate a
presidential decree which will eliminate at least five of the programs identified in the Social Assistance
 Institutional Assessment carried out by the Social Cabinet.

 Given the worsening of the poverty situation due to the recent crisis, the Govemment has decided tofocus
 its subsidized food distribution programs on the poorest households, and based on this experience to
generalize its targeting mechanismsfor direct transfers and subsidies for thepoor.


                                                   40

In addition, the poverty map will be ~ipdatedwith datafrom the 2002 census, and the systemfor selection
of poor families for participation in various social programs will be revised.         This work will be done
jointly by ONAPLAN and the Program for the Reform and Modernization of the Executive Branch, and
will be thefoundation for the development of a processfor targeting of social progrums.

Education Sector Policy

During the last 20 years important actions have been carried out aimed at improving education and
achieving better results. Worth noting is the effort of the country in preparing and implementing the IO-
 Year Educational Development Plan, 1992-2002.In thisframework the country introduced reforms which
enabled basic education enrollments to increase, a new curriculum to be developed, increased
professionalism of the teachers and advances in ed~icationaladministration.

An important achievement in this process was the approval in 1997 of the General Law of Education,
No. 66. Within this legal framework a new ed~icationalstructure is established; the principles of
community participation in school management are incorporated; decentralized educational
administrative structures are promoted; and the themes of educationfinancing and quality are addressed.
However, upon completion of the IO-Year Plan, challenges remained related to enrollment, the
application and relevance of the new curriculum, quality and equity, the development of more efficient
and democratic management practices and of a shared vision among stakeholders regarding the purpose
of education.

Recent international initiatives, such as the Global Forumfor Education For All held in Dakar in April
2000, establish the framework for action for the elaboration of a new plan.           With the support of the
 United Nations and the European Union, the State Secretariatfor Education prepared the Strategic Plan
for the Development of Dominican Education, 2003-2012.                 As a consequence of this plan, the
Government has oriented its educational policy around five strategic programs: (i) the satisfaction of
basic learning needs of children; (ii)the expansion of educational opportunitiesfor youth and adults; (iii)
strengthening of educational qualily and management; (iv) the use of new technologies in education; and
(v) institutional capacity-building.

 With respect to thefirst program, this isjustified in light of thefact that the high enrollment ratefor basic
education obscures high rates of dropout and repetition. Approximatelv 40 percent of students who begin
first grade do not complete basic education. In addition, approximately 20 percent of the student
pop~ilationis over-age, which makes access to schooling more difficultfor those who need it. This
situatiori is the worst in rural areas. Similarly, there are significant differences in schooling according to
household income levels. These differences areparticularly extreme comparingfamilies with and without
 identity cards (documentation), the latter are almost completely excludecl.from the school system.

It is the Government's urgent interest to implement this strategic program detailed in the new Strategic
 Plan. Accordingly, the 2004 Budget contains specific resourcesfor the program "satisfaction of basic
 learning needs of children". In addition, the Govemment guarantees sufJicient financing to maintain
national coverage of the school feeding program in grades 1-8. At the same time the Government
 recognizes the urgent need to improve operational and financial efficiency of this program. In the short
 term the Govemment will seek to decrease operational costs in light of offers from international agencies
 to donatefoodstuffs, such as milk powder, and ensure that food services purchased from private sector
 vendors are procured efficiently through open bidding. Over the medium term, however, the Government
seeks longer-lasting solutions for the school feeding program, for which a comprehensive national-scale
evaluation will be carried out so that the optimum mix of food, operational costs and logistical
 eflciencies can be achieved.


                                                     41

As a complementary actiori designed to decrease dijterences in enrollment due to household income
levels, the Government implemented the School Attendatice Conditional Cash Transfer Program during
the school year 2002-2003. This program provides direct economic support to poor mothers of children
attending school. This program is an essential element of the Government's educational policy, and
urgently needs increased operational efficiency in order tofulfill the program's goals and expectations.
First, the State Secretariat for Education will establish an operational unit for the Program with the
necessary resources (human, financial and technological).        Second, an Operational Manual for the
Program will be developed so that itfunctions as a Conditional Cash Transfer program.

The targeting and selection of poorest households is a priority of the Government's social policy.
Accordingly, modern techniques such as updated poverty maps and the selection of families based on
proxy means tests will be ~rsedto identif) beneficiaries for educational, health and social program. This
work will be carried o ~ i twith the support of ONAPLAN which has the technological capacity and
itformation required to develop these systems.

In the new strategy of the Government, much emphasis is placed on the inclusion of Dominican children
who do not possess identification documents (such as a birth certificate). In 2002 the Government
initiated a policy permitting the enrollment of all children in school, irrespective of whether or not they
had identification documents. The Government is committed to continue this policy in 2004. As a
complementary measure, the Government will assist undocumented children to obtain their birth
certificates, as part of a joint collaboration between the State Secretariat for Education and the Central
Electoral Council. Sufficient funds will also be allocated in the 2004 Budget for the SEE Division of
Guidance and Psychology which is responsible for carrying out activities to assist undocumented
children.

To promote the process of decentralization and community participation, the Government commits to
transfer financial resources to hundreds of School Committees during the school year 2003-2004, for
school maintenance activities as agreed with community members.

Finally, the Government is committed to maintaining educational spending in the short and medium term,
despite thefinancial crisis. Public spending on basic education in 2004 will be equivalent to at least 50
percent of total public education spending. In addition, suficient resources will be included in the 2004
Budgetfor textbooks, educational materials and classroom maintenance.

Health Sector Policy

As indicated in the Letter of Health Sector Policy sent in April 2003 to World Bank President, James D.
Wolfensohn, the Government and civil society have developed important initiatives over the last ten years
in the searchfor solutions to the main problems in the health sector.

In 1995 the National Health Commission, established by the President of the Republic, developed a
national agendafor health sector reform, which was enriched in 1997 b.y a draft Law for Social Security
presented to the Executive Branch.         Via Decree No. 308-97 the President created the Executive
Commissionfor Health Sector Reform (CERSS),which reports directly to the Presidency, demonstrating
the Government's strong intention to implement the reform and modemization of the Health Sector.

Since I997 this modemization reform is in the process of implementation. through the development of
health policies, the strengthening of de-concentrated administrative structures of the State Secretariatfor
Public Health and Social Assistance (SESPAS), the expansion of primary health care coverage, the




                                                  42

modernization of hospitals and their incorporation into networks, and the implementation of the social
security system.

The central axis of health policy is the development and strengthening of the separation of basicfunctions
of the National Health System. These functions, corresponding to Supervision, Supply, Insurance and
Financing, have been given by the National Congress an appropriate legal framework through the
General Law for Health and the Law which Creates the Dominican Social Security System. These laws
define the institutional responsibilities of thefiinctions described above, and are thefoundation on which
health sector regulation, modernization and institutional capacity-building are based.

In this context, the Government has prioritized actions aimed at developing and strengthening the basic
functions of Supervision and Supply in the National Health System, the National Council for Social
Security (CNSS), the Superintendencefor Health and Occupational Risks (SISARIL), and the National
Health Insurance Agency (SENASA). In addition, actions have been undertaken related to thefunctions
of Insurance and Financing, public health budgeting and expenditures, support for timely and eflcient
resource transfers, the development of regulatory mechanisms and procedures for contracting,
purchasing and payment to market providers of health services.

With the goal of ensuringfuljZlment of the objectives and timelines established by the Lawfor Dominican
Social Security, SESPAS will design and implement a Strategic Plan for the Functional Decentralization
of Health Care Services, which will include immediate actions tofacilitate and enable the establishment
and development of Regional Health Services (SRS), with new models of health care services and of
health care management which will permit theformation of health care networks.

Specifically, with respect to legislative reforms, the Government is committed to promulgating via
Presidential Decrees thefollowing regulations: (i) Authorization of Health Service Establishments; (ii)
Authorization of Blood Banks and Blood Transfusion Services; (iii)the Register of Chemicalsfor Clinical
Diagnosis; (iv) Authorization of Clinical Laboratories; (v) Supply of Public Health Service Networks;
and (vi) Health Sector Human Resources. In addition, SESPAS will approve the resolution which
initiates the process of separation of functions, whereby the creation of Regional Public Health Service
Providers is authorized. Finally, the National Health Council will submit to the National Congressfor
approval a draft law which creates the aforementioned Regional Public Health Service Providers, in
according with the General Lawfor Health, 42-01.

As part of the process of de-concentration of the National Health System, the Regional Public Health
Service Providers in Regions IV and V of the country will operate in 2004 through Management
Agreements with institutions of the Social Security System.

Regarding the process of enrollment in the subsidized health insurance program of the National Council
for Social Security, the Government will enroll and issue health insurance cards to a minimum of 70,000
beneficiaries in Regions IV and V in the country. At least 35,000 of these beneficiaries will be selected
according to the new proxy means testfor prioritization and categorization of beneficiaries.

To assist undocumentedDominicans to benefitfrom the national health care system, CNSS will launch a
national information     campaign regarding the processes and information             necessary to obtain
identification cards. In addition, CNSS will undertaken a series of actions to assist at least 12,000
undocumented Dominicans who have been identified as otherwise eligible for the subsidized health
insurance program to obtain their identity cards.

The current economic crisis in the country requires actions to protect social spending, in health,
education and social protection. Accordingly, the Government commits to including in the 2004 Budget


                                                    43

sufJicient resources to protect essential health programs, specifically:        maternal-child health care;
expanded vaccination program; security of blood banks; preventiori and treatment of tuberculosis;
prevention and treatment of rabies; preventiori and treatment of sexually transmitted diseases and of
HIV/AIDS; prevention and treatment of vector-borne diseases; esseritial drugs; and medical supplies.

Electricity Sector Policy

The electricity sector, which wasjust recoveringfrom the international oil price crisis of 2002, was again
plunged intofinancial disarray during 2003, when the rapid depreciation of the Dominican peso
intensified the traditional problems of losses and low collections. Under these circumstances, the
Government temporarily re-purchased the controlling shares of EdeNorte and EdeSur, two of the three
distribution companies. In order tofrilly understand the implications of this purchasefor publicfinance,
sector reform and sector governance, and to assist in the design of more comprehensive solutions to the
sector's problems, the Government sought advicefrom an Intemational Panel of Experts. The
Government is currently reviewing the recommendationsof the Panel, with a view to using them as a key
element in overcoming thepresent crisis and strengthening the sector over the longer term.

During the coming year, our highest priority in the sector is "to keep the lights on, '' through emergency
measures designed to overcome the current liquidity squeeze and resultantfinancial disarray. This
requires that the distributors be able to receive enough resources to make the necessary energy and
power purchasesfrom the generators, so that the latter in turn are able to purchase thefuel needed to
keep their plants running. To this end, the Government has designed a six-pronged approach:

         (a) work with the distributors, especially through continuation of the anti-fraud PAEF program,
             toward reducing losses and increasing the collections rate; lit particular, we will seek to
             ensure that collections ratios remain at least at the same levels as before the purchase of
             Union Fenosa's distribution companies;

         (b) modib the tariflregulations to reimburse distributorsfor the impact of the two-month lag in
             the application of the indexed "eflciency tariff' (it takes two months to calculate and apply
             indexation of exchange rate andfuel price changes to the distribution tarifi whereas the
             distributors have topay 'thehigher prices to the generators immediately);

         (c) continue the implementation of the PRA (Blackout Reduction Program) in the poor barrios,
             and seek ways to make tfzis program more efficient anclfinancially sitstainable;

         (d} reduce gradually the subsidization of the larger consiimers, while continuing to protect
             consumers using less than 200kWWmo,and implementing our program of tariff adjustments
             for consumers using more than 200 kWWmo as announced in December 2003;

         (e) make the obligated payments to the distributorsfrom the Stabilization Fund (which was
             established in early 2003 to smooth out the tarif changes resulting from abruptfluctuations
             in international oil prices, but has subsequently also been used to make more gradual the
             impact on tariffs of the depreciation of the DR$), to cotver the remaining subsidies; these are
             estimated to be around US$IOS million in 2004. As a~firststep in this direction, we will
             shortly issue the operating rulesfor the Fund;

         (f) in accordance with this Social Sector Stabilization Loan, provide at least USSIOOmillion to
             the distributors in 2004, in theform of fuel import coupons, with which they would pay the
             generators (directly or through CDE, which is party to some of the power purchase
             agreements), who in turn would import thefirel needed,for their plants; thesefunds could be


                                                    44

             provided as loans or as capital injections, depending upon thejinancial situation of the
             distributors. Fuel coupons would be used instead of cash to ensure that the resources were
             usedfor thefuel purchases necessary to maintain and increase power generation during the
             current shortage.

We are committed to ensure that arrears do not increase, and have therefore agreed with the World Bank
to allocate in the 2004 budget US$240 million, which is the estimated amount needed by the power sector
for this purpose. These resources would (i)restore the sector'sfinancial health and the chain of
paymentsfrom distributors to generators, (ii)enable electricity production to again satisjj demand
(currently, it is about 20% below demand), and (iii)keep generation costs down by permitting the
economic order of dispatch to be maintained. This US$240 million would cover items (e) and      cf) above,
plus additional amounts as may be required in pursuit of these objectives.

For the longer term, especially toprevent the recurrence of such crises, a more comprehensive and
profound review of the sector is required, covering losses and collection rates, tariffs and subsidies, the
PRA, sector structure, the legal and regulatory framework, institutional strengthening etc. While this will
likely extend over several years, we will begin now the review process. Inputs which we intend to use in
this regard include:

         (a) a broad national dialogue, along the lines of the "Political Pact" recommended by the
             International Panel of Experts;

         (b) other specific recommendationsby the Panel, e.g., regarding private sector participation in
             the power sector and review of the electricity law;

         (c) the ongoing analyses by the USAID-financed consultants, on urgent sector iss~ies;

         (d) a preliminary power sector environmental assessment;

         (e) preliminary work towards articulation of a policy on rural electrification;

         cf) the initial studies and consultancies under the proposed Power Sector Technical Assistance
             loanfrom the World Bank, which willfocus on strengthening the sector in the medium and
             long term.

 We recognize that the problems of the electricity sector are deep-seatedand that it is important that there
be adequate technical review, discussion and transparency around any future actions. To this extent, we
do not plan to make any major legal, regulatory or institutional changes in the sector without a broad
dialogue and consultation.

Financing of Loan-Supported Reforms and Actions

 Through the sale of donated milk powder to suppliers of the national school feeding program
 (monetization), sufJicient resources will be generated tofinance the reforms and actions supported under
 the Social Crisis ResponseAdjustment loan, detailed asfollows:




                                                    45

                                     ACTION                                   US$
         School Feeding Proaram Evaluation                                   300.000
         Strengthening of the School Attendance Incentive CCT program        570.000
         Targeting of benefciaries,for the School Attendance Incentive       100.000
         CCT program
         Baseline Evaluation of the School Attendance Incentive CCT          60.000
         Dropram
         Actions to support undocumentedDominican youth                      60.000
         Actions to assist undocumentedDominicanfamilies obtain              800.000
         identity Cards so as to be enrolled in National Health Insurance
         Program.
         Training and Operational Costs related to change in process of      200.000
         Selection of Beneficiaries for National Health lnscirance Proaram

         Monitoring by Civil Society of Compliance with Social Sector
                                    . .                                      100.000
         Conditionalities
         Total                                                              2,690,000

In case of insufficient resources from the monetization of milk powder, the Govemment commits
itself tofinancing these costs.




                                              Lic. CarlosDespradel
                                     Technical Secretary of the Presidency




                                                  46

                ANNEX 1A: LETTER OF DEVELOPMENTPOLICY
                                 (Official version)




                               ,--_




Succsos Ecoalmiros Kecientcs




                                      47

La crisis bvncvris




E,#cnrptoramionttrde la Crisis dktricn




                                               c-
                                               I'




                                         48

f




  49

50

la Politic* Social




                      51

52

53

      i
s



  54

55

t u E'oliticr dc Solurl




                           56

          L '

It




    57

La3 puliticas en el sector ellctrico




                                        58

59

60

61


    i  ema
        C
        e3
      r,0
        m
        m
       .L
        m
        a
        E a :
       - 0
        E l =
        o m
  ia

                 .-C
z

  m
  5
  aw
  d
  ci
  w
  e
  W
  w
  a
  B




e
z




    i 5         Y
           3
        i




               -
                Li

f
Lr




      s

a
a


0   I




     I

 v1
 E-
 i
 2w
 p?
 P
 w
 i
 w
 u
 30




0

   ANNEX 3:        SOCIAL IMPACTS OF THE ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL CRISIS

1.      The effects of economic downturns are not homogeneous. In this respect, the present
fiscal and financial crisis in the Dominican Republic i s no exception:                some sectors of the
economy have been more severely impacted than others. Similarly, the effects of the crisis are
not felt uniformly throughout the entire population.

2.      The Government of the Dominican Republic must be ready to respond to the new
demands arising from the poorest and most vulnerable segments of the population as a
consequence of the crisis. The tendency in crisis situations i s to cut back on social spending
while the needs are completely the opposite: in times of crisis social safety networks play an
even more important role.

3.      To present a picture of the impact of the crisis on the economy and on the population the
following aspects are reviewed:          (i)trends in Gross Domestic Product (GDP); (ii)trends in
unemployment and incomes; (iii)changes in the purchasing power of the Dominican peso; and
(iv) basic social services of education and health. Unfortunately, data are only available for the
period April 2002- April 2003. A new survey was fielded in October 2003, and we expect
updated information will be available inJanuary 2004.

A. The decline inGross Domestic Product

4.      Experience shows there i s a generally positive relationship between a country's growth
and the well-being of its inhabitants: the more growth, the less poverty and vice versa. This was
the case in the Dominican Republic during the period 1992-1999, with average economic growth
in excess of 6% per year coupled with a 22% reduction inpoverty (from 37% to 29%). Figure 1
shows the trend in GDP growth from 2000-2006.

                Figure 1
               I                                                                           I
               I                          GDP Growth per Year                              ,
               I
                                                                                           I
                       8
                       7
                       6
                       5

                  c
                  $ 4
                  5 3

                  n.
                  g 2
                       1
                       0
                     -1
                     -2
               I                                                                           i
                Source: Central Bank (2000-2003)and IMFProjected Estimates (2004-2006)




                                                      70

5.      The effectsof the crisis on GDP are concentratedin 2003 and 2004 (projected). As
can be seen in Figure 1, the effect of the economic and financial crisis on GDP is expected to be
felt during the years 2003 and 2004, in the form of an estimated negative growth (contraction of
1.3 percent and 1.0 percent, respectively). For 2005 and 2006 a return to positive GDP growth
of 4.5 percentper year i s predicted.

B. Unemploymentremainsstable and incomesfall

6.      Open unemployment has not yet been affected by the crisis. Between April 2002 and
April 2003, the expanded unemployment rate rose by 0.3 percentage points (1.9%) which
includes open unemploymentplus discouragedworkers. At the same time, open unemployment
droppedby 0.6 percentagepoints (9.8%). Open unemployment is similar to the morecommonly
used measure        internationally (see endnote 2 for definitions of expanded and open
unemploymentas utilizedby the CentralBank in the DominicanRepublic).




                                         2002              2003           Absolute change'
          Rates                     April     October      April    Oct 02-Apr 03 Apr 02-Apr 03

          Expanded
          Unemployment            16.10%       16.20%     16.40%        0.30%         0.30%
          Open
          Unemployment             6.10%       5.80%       5.60%        -0.20%        -0.60%




7.      The stability of unemployment is constant in all income q~intiles.~No major
differences are observed between the income quintiles as regards the changes in unemployment
levels between 2002 and April 2003 (Table 2). However, it i s worth noting the high levels of
unemployment(in any period) among personsin the lowest per capita incomehouseholds




 Quintilesbasedon total per capita income per household (see Endnote 1).




                                                   71

8.     Incomes have fallen by around 17 percent across all income quintiles. The drop in
incomes between April 2002 and April 2003 was basically the same for all income levels (see
Table 3).   However, the consequences of such a fall are very different depending on the
economic level of the households.         Poorest households are more vulnerable to income
reductions, and changes of lesser intensity have more far-reaching negative impacts than those
experienced in better-off households. For the poorest households, a 17 percent drop in their
incomes means that they have to limit or reduce their consumption of basic goods and services.
The less poor households have more tools for offsetting such a reduction of incomes by using
savings or investments, or, as a last resort, cutting back consumption of goods that are not
considered basic necessities.

                   Table 3. Annual per capita incomes in 2002 and April 2003 by quintiles

                          2002'             2003I    [              Percentage change
        Quintiles April
                 I           IOctober   1IApril      IApr 02-0ct 02 Oct 02-Apr 03
                                                                     I                 IApr.02-
                                                                                        Apr.03
               1      3,734       3,363        3.088           -10%               -8%          -17%
               2      8,623       8,173        7,107            -5%             -13%           -18%
               3     14.238      13.364       11.609            -67r            - 137r         -18%
               4     23,367      21,887       19,375            -6%             -I17r          -17%
               5     63.000      58,541      52,115             -1%             - 1 1 %        -17%
         Average     22,59 1     21.055       18,665            -7%             - 1 1 %        -17%




                          Table 1. Income distributionand GISI coefficient
                    I             I          % of income per quintile           I
                    Quin-tiles            Apr-02         Oct-02          Apr-03

                                           3.30%         3.20%            3.30%
                                                         7.80%            7.60%
                                          12.60%         12.70%          12.40%
                           4              20.70%        20.80%           20.80%
                           5              55.80%        55.60%           55.80%
                      GIN1Coef.              51.5          51.3             51.6



                                               72

9.       No significant changes in inequality between 2002 and April 2003 are observed
(Table 4). No change over time is detected in the proportions of the total income received by
each quintile. In the same way, the coefficient of the per capita income remains very similar
throughout this period (around 51S).

10.      There are significant increases in the exchange rate as of February 2003. Not until
February 2003 does the exchange rate post an increase divergent from the historical pattem6
The monthly increases since then have ranged between 5% (April) and 25% (March).


11.      The CPI (ConsumerPriceIndex)has posted significantincreases since August 2002.
Unlike the exchange rate, the CPI has posted increases differing from the historical pattern since
September-October 200L7


                  I           Figure 2. C u m u l a t i v e C h a n g e since A p r i l 2 0 0 2

                          100%

                     %     80Yo
                           60 Yo
                           4 0 Yo
                           2 0 Yo
                            0 04


                                  2 0 0 2  2002         2002       2002     2003        2003     2 0 0 3  2003




12.      The exchange rate rose faster than the CPI. Until April 2003, inflation in the
preceding twelve months was half (18%) o f the increase in the exchange rates (35%) (see Figure
3). This difference .has widened and for July 2003, the cumulative inflation i s approximately
one-third of the increase in the exchange rate (29% and 96% respectively).

13.      To measure the overall impact on the population, it is best to use the CPI. Since the
CPI is an average of a basket of products (food and non-food items) and services that reflects the
population's consumption patterns, it is a better index of how the change in the purchasing power
of the Dominican peso i s affecting the population.

14.      The exchange rate is a better indicator of the movement of the prices of imported
goods. The increase in the cost of products that depend to a large extent on the exchange rate,
will be more closely linkedto exchange rate changes than to the CPI. This category includes two
products of major importance in the Dominican Republic: energy and medicines. The cost of



'InInFebruary 2003 it is 3.8% per month, in 2001 it was 2.1% per year, and during 2002 it was 3.0% per year,
     October 2002 the CPI posted a monthly increase of 2.9% while during 2001 the annual increase was 1.8%


                                                            73

fuels and their products (such as electricity), and also that of medicines, are the two items most
frequently mentionedboth by governmental institutionsand by non-governmentalorganizations
(NGOs). These two items are for the most part imported so the increase in their real cost is
betterrepresentedby the exchange rate.

C. Basic social services of education and health

15.      The impact of the social services during a crisis will be different depending on the
programs and sectors concerned. When the institutionsproviding the social services manage to
maintain their quality levels, the social services tend to grow in importance and become even
more attractive than in normal times (counter-cyclical effect); this is the normal case with the
social services associated with education.8 On the other hand, if the institutions or service
delivery cease to function or are unable to function, the contrary effect is produced, thereby
feeding the negative impacts of the crisis (cyclical effect). This has been observed in the health
system, where the lack of inputs basically paralyzes a system leadingto a surge in sickness and
diseases which underminesthe productivecapacity of the population.

16.      Up to April 2003 school enrollment hasnot been adversely affected by the economic
crisis. Gross enrollment in pre-primaryand secondary vocational education has been maintained
at around 53% and 59% respectively, while in the case of primary education it appears to have
undergone a slight increase of 1.5 percentage points bringing it up to 97% (Table 5).                                 Net
enrollment rates display an upward trend, especially in primary education. This data taken from
the Labor Force Survey will differ somewhat from data published by the SEE due to
methodologicaland source differences.




 At least as long as the crises are not too severe and long-lasting and do not affect the teachers' participation or the
infrastructureof the educationcenters.


                                                         74

                          llments the calculations were made for the entire level and not for each grade



17.     Enrollment levels are different depending on households' income levels. Pre-primary
enrollment levels have declined in the three poorest quintiles and have improved in the two
better-off quintiles. For primary and secondary education, the groups that benefited are those at
the two oppositeends of the spectrum, namely the poorest and the least poor, while the members
of the thirdquintile have posteda reductionin all the enrollment indices (Table 6).




        For pre-primary the October 2002 data were used

18.     Social assistance programs linked to education help to maintain enrollment levels.
Although no empirical evidence is available for the Dominican Republic, international
experience shows in difficult times that the provision and transfer of funds linked to school
attendance play a fundamental role in maintaining and even increasing enrollment levels. It i s
essential that an in-depth study be made of this topic and better evidence be obtained that
demonstrates that the TAE Programand the school lunch programs are helping during the crisis
to keep students in school, improvefamily incomesand maintaina minimum level of nutrition.

19.     Lack of medical inputsand the cost of medicines can paralyze the delivery of health
services. The lack of medical inputs in hospitals and the high cost of medicines are problems
mentionedby representativesof the official social institutions, NGOs and the National Planning
Office. Since the great majority of medicines and medical supplies are imported, their cost.in
real terms has risen significantly in the Dominican Republic. Because of the health system's




                                                    75

markeddependence on a constant supply of inputs' and the high cost of these inputs, the system
i s particularly susceptible to the impacts of crises when a reduction of supplies of needed inputs
to health facilities can virtually shut down the system. In the DR, it appears that the Essential
Drugs Program (PROMESE), combined with the community drugstore program, have had
positive effects but have not been readily accessibleto the majority of the population."




'Medicines  and other medical inputs cannot be efficiently stored for long periods of time, which means that
resupply is necessary more frequently than for other inputs.
   For 2003 it i s estimatedthat the Community Drugstoresprogram, operating out of nine establishments, has
benefited41,000 persons.


                                                       76

Endnote 1: The calculation of total income

           The calculationof incomeswas based on the Labor Force Survey currently being made
by the Central Bank of the Dominican Republic. The surveys of April and October 2002 and
that of April 2003 were used.

           The incomes used were wages from principal employment and from secondary
employment, pensions paid, interest or dividends earned, rents received in respect of properties,
national remittances of any type, other national income not derived from work or employment,"
and income from foreign sources including pensions, interest, gifts, remittancesand so on.12 To
create a measurement of well-being that will reflect the circumstances of the households and
their members, the incomes of all the members of a household were calculated and the figures
arrived at were converted into annual amounts which were then totaled for each household. The
annual figure for each household was divided by the number of members making up the
householdto produce the per capita income. Finally, to be able to compare the values over time,
the Dominican peso values were convertedusing the CPI.I3




I'
''Including   inheritances, life insurances, winnings from gaming and gambling, government assistance,etc.
  I t i s important to note that the surveys did not ask about income in the form of on-farm or producer consumption
or the value assignedto use of their dwellings for homeowners, so these items were not included when totaling
income.
I3Taking January 1999 as 100, the figure for April 2002 is 123.8, for October 2002 it is 129.89 and for April 2003 it
is 145.66.


                                                          77

Endnote2 - CentralBank Definitionsof Unemploymentand Rateof Underemployment

The definitions of the Central Bank regardingthe labor force and unemploymentare:'':

EconomicallyActive Population(EAP)

Population 10 years old or older that were engaged in economic activities at least one hour per
week during referenceweek, that actively lookedfor work during the previous four weeks, and
those who were not looking for work but would be immediately availableto work. In other
words, the EAP i s comprisedof employedand unemployed.                    1s


UnemployedPopulation(UP)

I s the proportion of the population 10 years old or older that during the referenceweek declared
themselvesas having no work, who were immediately available to work, and who in the last four
weeks haddiligently lookedfor work.

ExpandedUnemployedPopulation(EUP)

Includesall unemployed (UP) plus those persons who althoughthey did not look for work during
the reference weeks were immediately availableto work.


Rateof ExpandedUnemployedPopulation: loo* EUPEAP
Rateof UnemployedPopulation:                           lOO* UPEAP


Table A2.1 is similar to Table 2 but presents data on the rate of ExpandedUnemployment,
insteadof the rate of Open Unemployment.




l4 Central Bank of the Dominican Republic, Departmentof National Surveys and Economic Statistics. Labor
Market 2003, Santo Domingo, D.N. Dominican Republic, March 2003.
l5 The non-economicallyactive population would be the proportion of the working-age population which is not
working, not actively looking for work in the last four weeks, nor available to work. In this group are included:
students, housewives, retired persons, disabled persons, and vagrants.


                                                        78

                             ANNEX 4:        PUBLIC EXPENDITURE


1. This Annex describes (a) historical trends in the allocation and use of public resources in the
social sectors (health, education, and social protection), (b) the Government's initial'response to
the crisis, and (c) the rationale and significance of proposed budget protection measures, as well
as the impact of specific loan reforms on public expenditures. In addition, the Annex discusses
complementarities with respect to the Inter-American Development Bank's US$200 million
Social Sector Protection loan and the fiscal impacts of the proposed loan.

 A. PastTrends inAllocationand Performanceof PublicExpenditurein Social Sectors

Education

2. Since 1997, central government education expenditures have been kept at levels higher than
2 percent of GDP, averaging 2.6 percent of GDP during 1997-2002.                However, the 2003
approved budget allocates only 2.3 percent of GDP to education, down from 3.0 percent in 2002.
These levels compared unfavorably with 3.5 percent on average for the LAC region (1999 data).
Moreover, the Dominican Republic's public expenditure on education remains below
Government's target of reaching 4 percent of GDP (or 16 percent of total central government
expenditure), as set in the Education Act 66-97.          The Dominican Republic's low public
expenditure on education, combined with the inefficiencies in education spending, have
contributed to its relatively weak educational indicators in comparison with other L A C countries.

3. The level of public resources allocated to basic education is insufficient in view of the large
demand for primary education. Basic education receives less than 50 percent of the public
resources spent on education (declining to 46 percent in 2003); however, the gross amount i s
insufficient to ensure quality and high internal efficiency. Extremely limited public resources are
allocated to public Early-Childhood Development (ECD) programs and pre-school education.

4. Beyond the primary school level, there i s a distortion in the allocation between secondary
and university levels, with university institutions receiving more public resources than secondary
institutions. Allocation to secondary education fell from 11 percent of public education spending
in 1991-95 to 8 percent in 2000, while allocation to the university level increased from 10
percent in 1991-95 to 14 percent in 2000. The lack of attention to secondary education can
jeopardize the Dominican Republic's chances to close the secondary education gap with other
L A C countries and impair its ability to close the technology gap with advanced countries. On
the other hand per student allocation in technical education i s relatively high.

5. To meet the increasing needs of university level education (enrollment grows at 16 percent a
year on average) the authorities should consider some cost recovery options, incentive-based
funding formulas for universities other than the UASD, as well as merit and needs-based student
loans/scholarship programs.

6. Life-long learning is yet to be fully integrated into a Dominican educational system that
remains largely traditional. The only public institution that has carved a niche as a provider of
life-long education is the Znstituto Nacional de Fomacidn Tecnico Profesional (INFOTEP) an


                                                79

autonomous institution funded through a public-private partnership (mainly through a 1 percent
levy on the monthly paychecks issued by public, private, autonomous, decentralized as well as
non-profit institutions and organizations).

7. The analysis of expenditures of the Ministry of Education reveals that fiscal resources are
concentrated on staff compensation which averaged 74.1 percent of the Ministry's total budget
during 1991-2001,though it declined from 74.3 percent in 1991 to 69.5 percent by 2001. Very
few resources are spent on library holdings and acquisitions, equipment and audiovisual aids,
laboratoriesand workshops or remedialprograms.

8. Public spending on education i s progressive in absolute terms (See Figure 1).       The poor
represent 31 percent of the school-age population between 5 and 24 years of age but receive 33
percent of the total public spending on education. They benefit relatively more from public
spending at the pre-schooland primary school levels than at higher levels.

Figure 1: Public Expenditure on Education (Poor versus Non-poor by Level)




 Source: ENGIH 1998



9. At the pre-school, public spending i s progressive; it benefits the poor who comprise 39
percent of children between the ages of three and five and are recipients of 41 percent of total
government spending on pre-school education. At the primary education level, public spending
i s also progressive: the poor represent 37 percent of the school-age population and account for
39 percent of the sector public expenditure. In relative terms, primary school subsidies are over
five times more important for the poor, representing 8.7 percent of the per capita income of the
poor, compared with 1.6 percent for the non-poor. However, there are some access issues as
many children in' low-income households are denied access to school for lack of birth
certificates. This exclusion affects Haitians or Dominicans of Haitian descent as well as poor
Dominicans.

10.At the secondary school level, public spendingis regressive in absolute terms but progressive
in relative terms: 77 percentof the sub-category allocation benefits the non-poor; only 23 percent


                                                 80

goes to the poor. In relative terms, at the secondary level, subsidies represent 0.3 percent of the
per capita income of the non-poor compared with 0.7 percent of the poor. At the university
level, public subsidies are even more regressive in both absolute and relative terms: 91 percent of
education sector expenditure benefits the non-poor. In relative terms, public spending on higher
education represents more than 0.4 percent of the per capita income of the non-poor compared
with 0.35 percent for the poor.

11. In terms of geographical distribution, public expenditure on education favors zones outside
the Distrito Nacional (the Santo Domingo metropolitan area) especially at the primary level.
Rural inhabitants, who make up 34 percent of the school age population, receive 40 percent of
the total government spending on education. This i s consistent with the favorable position
enjoyed by the primary school level in the allocation of public spending on education. By
contrast, inhabitants of the Distrito Nacional receive only 23 percent of the spending on
education, although they comprise 30 percent of the population betweenthe ages of 5 and 24. In
fact, much of the expenditure allocated to the metropolitan areas goes to tertiary education; and
metropolitan areas outside the Distrito Nacional receive a share of public spending on education
that i s commensuratewith their demographic size.

12.Educational Programs to be Supported under the Loan. Specific educational programs
worthy of mention are the school feeding program (Desayuno Escolar), the School Attendance
Conditional Cash Transfer (TAE) Program, and basic education classroom maintenance.           The
school feeding program has grown exponentially, in both coverage and expenditure, since its
inception in the early 90s. Following a 15 percent expansion in coverage and spending in 2002
(compared to 2001), the Government decided to implement a universal school feeding program
for all children enrolled in Grades 1-8, at a cost of US$38 million. In 2003, the depreciationof
the peso greatly increasedthe costs of imported milk and wheat (50 percent of the milk and 100
percent of the wheat used in this program i s imported), such that program costs doubled in peso
terms to RD$l.4 billion, although in US$terms expenditures increasedjust 20 percent and were
equivalent to US$45 million.

13. The TAE program for school attendance is a relatively new program, with spending of
RD$6 million in 2001, RD$106 million in 2002, and RD$220 million in 2003, equivalent in US
dollar terms to $378,000, $5.7 million and $6.5 million, respectively. These expenditures were
entirely dedicated to the actual paymentsto poor mothers of school-aged children. The program
had no operational or administrative budget whatsoever - costs for staff, technology, program
design, supervision, etc., are borne by the budget of the SEE'SDepartment of Planning, as an un-
funded mandate. The lack of administrative budget is a major issue in order to ensure proper
targeting and programtransparency, and is addressedunder the loan.

14.Public expenditures on classroom maintenance over the 2001-2003 period increasedsteadily
in nominal terms, from RD$lOO million in 2001 to RD$220 million in 2003. However, the fall
of the peso meant that in real terms spending on maintenance declined in 2003 by 28 percent,
from US$9.8 million to US$7.0 million. This is a critical issue, as the Government recently
completed a major classroom construction program for basic education (financed by the World
Bank and IDB), and sustained financing for maintenance is essential to preserve and maximize
these investments. In addition, depreciation of the peso has led to significant inflation of



                                               81

construction and maintenance costs, so that less work can be achieved for the same amount of
money. Finally, the September 2003 earthquake and November 2003 floods severely damaged
many basic education classrooms, increasing the urgency of maintenance funding so as to
prevent declines in educational access.

Health

15. Public expenditure on health represented a quarter to a third of total health expenditures,
amounting to about 2.0 percent of GDP during the period 1996-1999. Central government
expenditure on health and social assistance as a share to GDP represented on average 2 percent
of GDP during 1966-2002, with health averaging 1.3 percent and social assistance 0.7 percent.
These numbers are low compared with the averages for the L A C Region.                 The average
percentage of health spending in total public spending for 1996-99 was 12.5 percent, and health
spending is one-third (31.6 percent) of total spending for social services. Total spending on
health by the population was estimated by the Central Bank in May 1996 at 6.5 percent of GDP,
which is similar to the average percentage of GDP spending in L A C countries during the period
1990-98. In the recent years, allocated funds to health expenditures have seen a reduction, from
an expenditure execution of 10.6 percent of total central government expenditure in 2002 to an
approval of funds of 9 percent of total central government expenditure for 2003 (1.96 and 1.6
percent of GDP, respectively).      Expenditures on social assistance have presented a similar
pattern as that of health expenditures, with the exception of a significant reduction in 2002, when
social assistance expenditures decreased to 0.95 percent of GDP after having reached the level of
1.62 percent of GDP in 2001.

16. The Ministry of Health and Public Assistance (SESPAS) is heavily present in the sector as a
service provider, while the private sector i s largely embryonic and informal, except in
ambulatory, physician consultation and specialized care.        SESPAS provides 48 percent of
ambulatory care and 46 percent of hospital care; the private sector provides 40 percent of
ambulatory care and 48 percent of hospital care. SESPAS has the largest percentage of hospital
beds (56 percent), followed by the private sector (36 percent) and IDSS (8 percent).I6 The
mandate of SESPAS is to meet the healthcare needs of the poor and medical indigents. SESPAS
provides services through 152 hospitals, 448 rural health centers and 236 urban health centers.
IDSS provides healthcare services to 530,000 regular beneficiaries and to about 100,000
temporary workers -- in other words, about 7.5 percent o f the population. It i s the second most
important public provider of healthcare services to formal sector employees (through 18
hospitals, 27 polyclinics and 157 physician offices) and manages 8 percent of the hospital beds in
the country.

17. Expenditure allocation by program reveals a surprisingly low allocation to health promotion
and preventive care, and heavy bias toward salaries and wages. About 75 percent of SESPAS
funds were spent on curative care and the purchase of medical supplies and pharmaceuticals,
spending on health promotion and preventive care represented only 1.1 percent. Nearly 70
percent of SESPAS disbursements paid for salaries and wages; medical supplies and



''Basedonthe 1996 ENDESA survey


                                               82

pharmaceuticals accounted for 12 percent; and equipment and non-medical supplies combined
for 12.4percent.

18.      The three poorest health regions in the country (Regions IV, V I and VII) account for 70
percent of the targeted population but, combined, they receive less than 10 percent of public
health budget allocations. The National Capital District received an average of 43.5 percent of
allocations during the 1996-1999 period while the 20 other provinces each received on average
about 2 percent of al10cation.l~To increase access and reach a higher percentage of its target
population, SESPAS needs to improve geographic accessibility and enhance the quality of its
services.

19.      Health Expenditures to be Protected Under the Loan. Reliable dataon annual
expendituresfor specific health sector programsi s very difficult to obtain, given the financial
administrationsystem of the Ministry of Health (SESPAS). 2003 is the first year that budgeting
was done by program. However, relevant datadoes exist for expenditureson essential drugs,
which i s managed by a Presidentialprogram, PROMESE. In nominal terms, essential drug
spendingincreasedby over 20 percent in 2002 (relative to 2001) and by 25 percent in 2003, to
reachRD$290million (US$9.2 million). InU S dollar terms, however, spendingon essential
drugs declinedby 28 percent in 2003 relative to 2002 -this is arguably the more relevant figure
as almost all drugs are imported and paid for in US dollars. Moreover, this decline in spending
must bejuxtaposed against declines in real incomesof the population and increasedrelianceon
public sector subsidizedmedicines(as opposedto purchasesin private pharmacies). Indeed,
local newspapers are full of anecdotalstories regardingthe near complete lack of essentialdrugs
in public hospitals and health clinics.

 Electricity


20.      The electricity sector entered a crisis in 2002 which continues to affect the sector and to
put pressure on public finances. When the increase in international fuel prices of 2000-2001
struck the sector, retail tariffs, which were indexed to variations in fuel prices, inflation, and the
exchange rate, required a substantial increase. Instead, the Government froze retail prices at
February 2000 levels for all consumers. The difference between the indexed rate and the actual
rate was borne by the Government (in what became known as the subsidio generalizado). The
subsidy was paid to distribution companies through lower energy prices from CDEEE (the
Govemment-ownedCorporacidn Dominicana de Empresas ElPctricas Estatales),while the price
paid by CDEEE to the Independent Private Producers was indexed according to their Power
Purchase Agreements (PPAs). This resulted in a generalizedsubsidy amountingto 1.2 percent of
GDP in 2002. This quickly became unsustainable. The PPAs imposed a financial drain on
CDEEE, which was unable to draw sufficiently upon the limited fiscal resources of the central
government. CDEEE's accumulateddebt with the IndependentPower Producers (IPP) reached
US$179 million in September 2002, putting IPPs in a difficult financial position and leading
some of them to suspend production. In the absence of energy supplies, the distribution
companies had no option but to cut service to consumers. They did so to a large extent in


" This disequilibrium is partly explainedhy the fact that upper-tierhealthinfrastructure (emergency unitsandsecondary care
centers) are located mostly in Santo Domingo and other urban agglomerations.


                                                          83

predominantly poor neighborhoods where losses were more acute, but also in many other
sectors. The resulting blackouts gave rise to economic losses and serious social disturbances,
including several deaths.

21. On September 17, 2002 the Government announced urgent measures to deal with the crisis
and to seek a structural and permanent solution to the sector's problems.''             The measures
announced by the Government included: payment of arrears to generators; payment of the
Government's electricity consumption arrears to distribution companies; and elimination of the
generalized subsidy. Electricity prices rose sharply to the indexed level. The poor were partially
protected from the rate increase by targeted subsidies for poor neighborhoods. The authorities
also decided in late 2002 to transfer to each public institution the payment of their electricity bill,
thus discontinuing the practice of non-payment of public sector consumption to CDEEE.

22.      With these measures, the sector stabilized for a brief period; however, the currency
depreciation experienced in 2003 prompted the authorities to resume a subsidy of electricity
tariffs for all consumption levels. The new subsidy (equal, as before, to the difference between
the indexed tariff and the actual price) i s now accounted for in a price stabilization fund to be
supported by budgetary transfers from the Government. Faced with a tight fiscal situation, the
Government has accumulated arrears in payment to the stabilization fund.                   Distribution
companies have had to sell electricity at a subsidized price without receiving the equivalent
subsidy from the Government. The power sector i s now in a financial and supply crisis similar
to that of a year ago, with generators cutting off deliveries for lack of payment, imminent
blackouts, and large debts to the generation and distribution companies.

 B. Government'sInitialResponseto the Crisis

23.      The Government's response to the economic crisis has been a mixture of reduced,
protected, and expanded social sector and electricity sector spending. Counterpart funding for
donor-financed investment projects has been greatly reduced (according to informal surveys of
donors and project coordination offices).                  The Government's own 2003 public investment
program, much of it in rural basic infrastructure such as aqueducts (safe water) and bridges
(marketing of agricultural products), has been cut from R D $ l O billion to RD$3 billion (Source:
Director, ONAPRES).

24. The Government also cut education spending severely in 2003. Out of a total budget of
RD$l 1.5 billion (US$370 million), actual total education spending (projected through December
31, 2003) was just RD$7.5 billion, 35 percent below budgeted levels. The SEE has been obliged
to postpone payments of debts to private schools accepting public school students, classroom
maintenance activities, and payments to poor mothers under the School Attendance Incentive
Scheme, among other delayed expenditures.

25.      Actual health sector expenditures in 2003 are similarly expected to be far below budgeted
amounts. This is especially of concern as actual health costs have risen dramatically with the fall
in the peso and rise in cost of imported medicines, supplies and other equipment. Compounding



  Support for these measures is the essence of a proposed Bank loan.


                                                           84

matters further, extended blackouts in the electricity sector have forced many hospitals and
health clinics to spend what little budget they have on the purchase of diesel fuel to maintain
electrical generators.

26.     In other cases the Government has sought to protect social programs, such as school
lunches. At the beginning of the 2003/04 school year the Government renegotiated contracts
with private sector suppliers to ensure universal coverage of all children enrolled in public basic
education, resulting in a 40 percent unit price increase and an increase of RD$l00 million in
overall spending.

27.     In the energy sector the Government has tried to maintain full subsidizationof electricity
tariffs and cooking gas, as well as controls in gasoline pricesfor the transport sector. Indeed, this
subsidization is partly to blame for the Government's current fiscal and balance of payments
crisis. As the domestic financial crisis decreased the value of the peso relative to the U S dollar,
the cost of importedenergy supplies increasedproportionately. Partly to maintain social stability
the Government decided against passing on these increased costs to consumers, and was forced
to dramatically increase spendingon energy subsidies.

28.     Other social programs overseen by the Social Cabinet (Gabinete Social) have continued
at reduced levels, such as income-support for the elderly, subsidized housing, job training for
low-income youth, etc.      Most of these programs lack effective targeting mechanisms and
establishedfunding mechanisms- many of them are at a standstill pendingbudget allocations.

29.     As discussed in more details in Annex 8, government's response to the electricity crisis
consists of urgently restoring service and preventing a worsening of the blackouts stemming
from an absence of financial liquidity, while ensuring that these measures are consistent with
what would need to be done over the longer term to address the structural problemsof the sector.
The authorities have committed to transfer the equivalent of about US$240 million from the
central governmentto the power sector in 2004 in order to carry out the following actions:

     0  Making requiredpaymentsto the distributors from the Stabilization Fund (which was
        establishedin early 2003) to cover the remaining subsidies estimated to be around
        US$lOO million in 2004.

     0  Providing at least US$lOO million to the distributors in 2004, as loans or as capital
        injections, in proportion to their electricity sales, in the form of fuel import coupons, with
        which they would pay the generators, who in turn would import the fuel neededfor their
        plants.

     0  Continuing the implementationof the PRA (Blackout ReductionProgram) in the poor
        barrios, while paying attentionto the level of subsidy that the Government budgetcan
        afford, makingthe program more efficient, and ensuring its viability.


30.     Moreover, the authorities plan to reduce gradually the subsidies for larger consumers,
while continuing to protect consumersusing less than 200kWh per month.




                                                85

C. GovernmentStrategy and ProtectedSpendingSupportedUnder the Loan

31.     Under the SCRAL, adequate social sector and electricity sector spending will help
mitigate the social impact of the economic and electricity sector crises. Specific programs to be
protected and their amounts are shown in the table below.


        Social Spending Protection of Social Crisis Response Adjustment Loan, 2003 a 12004
                                                                                     As a percentage of total
                                                                                       central government
                                                                                       expenditure without
                                                                                      interest payment and
                                                                                          amortization
                                                           Protected     Protected
                                                           Spending      Spending
                                                          (US$ x 1000) (RD$x 1000)
Public Education
SchoolLunch Program                                            $44,143     1,545,00(      1.97%          1.89%
School AttendanceConditional Cash Transfer Program              $10,286      360,000      0.55%         0.44%
EducationalMaterials                                           $14,200       497,000                    0.61%
Repair and Maintenance of primary classrooms                    $1 1,600     406,000                    0.50%
                  Sub-Total Education                          $80.229     2.808.000                     3.34%




Total expenditure                                                                     91,663,000   I20,928,000
Interestpayment and amortization                                                      25,744,000    39.13 1,000
Expenditurewithout interest payment and amortization                                  65919,000     8 I.797,000




                                                    86

32     Total budget protectionis equivalent to US$133million, US$80 million for the education
sector and US$53 million for health. In addition, the authorities are committed to transfer the
equivalent of about US$240millionfrom the central government to the electricity sector.

EducationSector

33.    In the education sector, these protected amounts will ensure:
           0   level spendingin real terms for the school feedingprogram (relative to 2003), so
               as to provide full universalcoverageto all basic education schoolchildren;
           0   an 40 percentreal increasein spending for the School AttendanceCCT program
               (relative to 20031, so as to (i) increasethe amount of paymentsto poor mothers
               slightly, (ii) establish a fully functional operational unit for the administration of
               this program, and (iii) finance desperatelyneeded supervision and verification;
           0   a 44 percent real increasein spending for classroommaintenance(relative to the
               2003 budget allocation), as maintenanceneeds have increasedgreatly as a result
               of the September 2003 earthquake and November2003 floods which damaged
               many school facilities, and because actual 2003 spendingon maintenancewas far
               less than budgetedso there i s a backlog of essential maintenanceto be carried out;
           0   level spendingin real terms for educational materialsand textbooks (relative to
               2003).

34.    More concretely, this protected spending will ensure feeding for 1.6 million
schoolchildren, school incentive payments to 100,000 poor mothers of schoolchildren, didactic
materials (including textbooks) for 1.5 million students, and the maintenance of 10,000
classrooms.

Health Sector

35.    In the health sector these protectedamounts will ensure:
   0   A 100percent increasein nominal terms (60 percent real increase) for these high-priority
       protectedprogramsoverall;
   0   A tripling in US$ dollar terms of spending on essentialdrugs, linked to increasesin prices
       of importeddrugs and the introduction of the basic health care package as part of the
       health sector reform;
   0   A near doubling in US$ terms of spendingon HIV/AIDS (which will also leverage as
       counterpartfunds the World Bank-supportedCOPRESIDA program);
   0   Minor real increases in funding for maternal-child health, vector-borne disease control,
       and medical supplies for healthclinics and hospitals.

36.    In terms of coverage, this spending will ensure immunization of 141,000 infants under 3
years of age, and national coverage for public health program needs, including essential drugs
and medical supplies.

Relationship to IDB Social Sector Protection Loan

37.    Protected social spending levels were agreed upon with the Govemment and the Inter-American
Development Bank. The IDB is usingthese same figures as part of their US$200million Social Sector


                                                 87

Protection and Sustainability Loan, whose first disbursement would roughly coincide with the Bank's.
The IDB loan also protects social spending in the areas of potable water, housing for the poor, adult
literacy, and essential counterpart funding for health (US$7 million) and education (US$5 million)
investment projects. Total protected social sector spending under the IDB loan i s US$152 million,
whereas for the World Bank loan it is USS133 million, plus electricity.

Electricity Sector

38.      In the electricity sector these protected amounts will ensure financial liquidity for the
sector for at least the first six months of 2004, maintenance of electricity tariffs for the poor and
low energy consumers. For poor consumers 2004 spending on subsidies in U S dollar terms will
increase three-fold, from US$23 million to almost US$75 million.

 Fiscal Cost of ProposedReforms

39.     The fiscal impact of the actions included under the SCRAL is actually negative (minus
US$ 2.0 million). This is linked to the donation of milk powder for the school feeding program,
valued at US$ 4.5 million, which will lower (and stabilize) costs for the program. This saving
will be offset by the costs related to fulfillment of all actions foreseen under the loan, which total
US$ 3.0 million. These actions and their estimated costs are included in the table below.




40.      Note that these actions are almost all one-time events under the loan. However, should
the Government decide to accept donated milk in 2005 it could save another US$4.5 million. If
a decision i s made to expand the School Attendance TAE program in 2005 this would require
additional spending on household surveys in poor areas to identify poor mothers with school-age
children, but this would not be a major amount.




                                                88

                               ANNEX 5:         EDUCATIONSECTOR


1.      The Dominican Government recently released its ten-year Strategic Plan for the
Development of Education, 2003-2012, with a focus on primary education access and quality.
While net enrollment at the primary level has increased from 63 percent in 1996-97 to 93 percent
in 2002-03 (124 percent gross enrolment), the Government has stated its firm commitment to
reach the Millennium Development Goal (MDG) of 100 percent net enrolment by 2015, for both
boys and girls (currently, there is little difference between enrolment at the basic education level
between boys and girls). To reach this goal the Government will need to allocate more financial
resources to basic education and implement key policy reforms.

 Figure 1: Net Enrollment in Basic Education (Source: Secretaria de Estado de Educacion)



      100%
       90O/O
       80%
       70%
       60%
       5096
       40%
       30%
       20%
       10%
        0%
                  1996-97              2002-03                2015




2.      Poverty and Education: Educational attainment is very closely correlated with poverty
and income distribution in the Dominican Republic. 85 percent of poor heads of households
have never completed primary education. Approximately 29 percent of all Dominicans live
below the poverty line, according to the World Bank's Poverty report of 2001. Most of these
poor live in rural areas, where the uneducated population i s 2.5 times greater than that of urban
areas. Many low-income children enter school underdeveloped and ill-prepared, in terms of
healthhutritional status and readiness to learn, which leads to poor academic performance and
higher repetition and dropout rates (compared to middle-income children). This leads to a cycle
of inherited poverty.

3.      Low and Inefficient EducationSpending: Overall education spending as a portion of
the country's GDP (average 2.1 percent, 1991-2003) has remained very low, approximately half
of the average for Latin America as a whole. Most of this spending (approximately 75 percent)
goes for staff compensation, leaving few resources for qualitative inputs such as books,
laboratory equipment, audiovisual aids, workshops and computers. Low educational quality
leads to relatively high repetition and dropout rates, which translate into low internal efficiency:
it takes nearly 12 years o f spending per student to produce a basic education (Grade 8) graduate,
50 percent more than it should..


                                                   89

               Figure 2: (Source: World Bank Public Expenditure Review. forthcoming)

                        Public Expenditure on Education as Percentage of
                                           GDP, 1990-2003

                    3.5
                      3
                  n 2.5
                  E   2
                  6 1.5
                  $   1
                    0.5
                      0




4.     Basic education receives less than 50 percent of total public spending on education,
which i s insufficient to meet the demand and the needs of poor children, particularly in rural
areas where many primary schools do not provide the full cycle of basic education. B y contrast,
higher education absorbs approximately 10 percent of total public spending on education and
benefits relatively few students (125,000 students at the Universidad Autdnoma de Santo
Domingo), the vast majority of whom are not poor.

               Figure 3: Source:World Bank Public Expenditure Review, forthcoming

                            Public Education Spending by Level, 1991-2001



                   80%                                              Training
                                                                    Central Administration
             8     60%
                   40%                                             0University Education
                   20%
                    0%                                             0Secondary Education

                          19 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001
                          91-                                       Basic Education
                                                                  ~




                          95
                                                                  ~0Pre-School
                                          Year




5.     As Figure 4 illustrates below, pro-poor education spending is concentrated at the pre-
school and basic education levels. At these levels, the percentage of education spending exceeds
the percentage of poor people.




                                                  90

                Figure 4: Public Expenditure on Education.Poor versus Non-Poor

                    100                                            ---
                         T------               --I


                     90
                 G   80

                 e   70

                 3   60
                     50                                                              I Non-Poor

                 5 40                                                              /.Poor               ~,
                 E
                 L   30
                 3 20
                 $? 10
                      0




                Source: World Bank Public Expenditure Review, forthcoming

6.     Low Internal Efficiency-High                rates of repetition, dropout and overage students
havelead to low internal efficiency of the basic education system. It takes almost 12 years of
schooling to produce one graduate of basic education (8th grade), 50 percent longer than it
should. While repetition and dropout rates have declined by more than 50 percent over the past
ten years, they remaina source of wastage and result in lower student learningoutcomes.

                Figure 5. Repetition and Dropout Rates, 1991-2001

                  25


                  20


                  15
                8                                                                 +Repetition                1
                                                                                                             1
                                                                                                                ~




                  10                                                             ,+Dropout                      '

                   5


                   0
                       1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001
                                                Years
             __ -
                                                                                             ~~    ~



        Source: Secretaria de Estado de Educacion, Oficina de Planificacion, 2003

7.      Poor Childhood Health and Nutrition;                Research around the world has repeatedly
shown that poor healthand inadequatenutrition before birth and during the first years of life can
seriously interfere with brain development and lead to learning disabilities and mental
retardation. An estimated 11 percent of all Dominican children under the age of five are
believed to suffer from chronic malnutrition, with the number increasing to 17-20 percent in
rural areas. The family is the primary source for nutritionaland preventive health interventions,
but poor families frequently lack the resources, support and information to adequatelyfulfill this
responsibility.



                                                    91

8.       Inequitable Access to Education: To be enrolled in the Dominican education system
students must have an official birth certificate.     For tens of thousands of poor Dominican
children and several hundred thousand children of Haitian descent, this criteria cannot be met.
Despite significant controversy, the Secretaria de Estado de Educacion (SEE) implemented in
2002 a process for non-documentedchildrento enroll in school. This process requiredparentsto
provide key information to the local Electoral Councils (which issue birth certificates) and
enabled an estimated 63,000 additional students to attend school, a major improvement.
However, many parentsof undocumentedchildren were either unaware of this initiative or afraid
of deportation to Haiti and did not respond.

9.       Urban-Rural Inequalities; The richest 25 percent of the urban population has average
years of completed schooling of 10.4 years, while the poorest 25 percent of the rural population
only has 3.3 years of schooling. The poorest 25 percent of the urban population has more years
of schoolingthat the richest 25 percent of the rural population. Many rural communities are too
small in terms of population to have a "complete" school, with all eight grades, which prevents
them from offering all grade-levels or requires multi-grade classes (the latter can be of excellent
quality, as demonstratedby the Escuela Nueva Model in Colombia which is also being supported
on a small scale by UNICEF in the Dominican Republic, but they require special training,
equipment and materials.) In fact, morethan 50 percent of basic education schools only offer the
first five grades or less.




Source: Secretaria de Estado de Education, 1999

10.      Centralized Education System:          Despite a 1997 General Education Law which
mandates decentralization of the education system, the         SEE remains highly centralized.
Regional offices are weak and poorly integrated into the SEE'Smanagement system, lacking
significant budget authority to enablethem to respondto local needs, particularly in rural areas.

11.      Short-term Crisis Response Priorities The supply of basic education services (both
quantity and quality) and the demand for the same are at risk of deterioration as a result of the
current economic crisis facing the country. Within this context, a short-term response priority is
to ensure that the poor benefit from improved access to basic education services, and from
school-based counter-cyclical poverty reduction programs (such as school feeding and cash
transfers to poor mothers based on children's school attendance).




                                                92

12.     The extremely tight 2004 budget constraints put social program spending, including
education, injeopardy. The first priority i s thus to ensure budget protection of those educational
programs which are most important for the poor. The second priority i s to explore ways to
reduce the costs of those programs while maintainingdesired levels of coverage.

13.     Medium Term Reform Priorities. Longer term sectoral reform priorities include: (a)
increased spending and attention on qualitative investments which can improve student learning
and reduce both repetition and dropout rates (which sustain investments made under the recently-
completed World Bank Basic Education Improvement Project); (b) improved cost-effectiveness
and targeting of compensatory educational programs; (c) sustained efforts to decentralize basic
functions of the education system, particularly at the primary level, and to increase community
involvement in school management; and (c) improved efficiency and equity of public education
spending, resulting in increased spending at lower educational levels and on those educational
services which most benefit the poor.

B. EducationalReformsto be Addressed inthe Loan

14.     The proposed operation would support: (a) full government funding for the school
nutrition ("programa de alimentos escolares") and school attendance ("tarjeta de asistencia
escolar") programs; (b) sustained government resources for educational materials and
maintenance for primary schools; (c) improved targeting and policies for compensatory
educational programs; (d) educational opportunities for undocumented children living in the
Dominican Republic; and (e) decentralization of certain aspects of educational management to
school levels.

15.       Programasde AlimentosEscolares,PAE. The school feeding program is universal in
scope, covering all children enrolled in Grades 1-8. Three different programs are offered, the
largest by far reaching 1.5 million students with a glass of milk and a fortified biscuidmuffin
every school day. This program i s executed through negotiated direct contracting with seven
private sector suppliers.       Approximately 50 percent of the milk i s locally produced and
purchased (UHT, long-life milk), which creates a significant incentive for increasing national
milk production. The rest of the milk i s imported in powder form and then mixed with water.
All of the wheat flour used in biscuit production is imported. While this program has attained
remarkable levels of coverage there are important issues related to the costs, nutritional value
and impact of this program, particularly at the higher grade levels (where students' need and
desire for milk i s far less, leading to wastage).

16.     Two other smaller school feeding programs supported by the World Food Program and
USAID, respectively, reach another estimated 100,000 students. These programs offer a variety
of foods, require upfront investment in kitchen and cooking supplies and increased community
involvement in meal preparation, and (where possible) take advantage of locally produced crops
in rural areas. Initial studies of cost-effectiveness and nutritional value suggest that these smaller
programs offer lessons which might be incorporated into the larger national program.

17.     The loan would support full government funding of the school feeding program in 2004,
enabling it to reach all basic education students in the country (1.6 million students, equivalent to



                                                 93

18 percent of the total population), including those previously supported through a World Food
Program-sponsoredprogram.

18.     Second, the loan would support efforts to reduce the costs of this program (estimated at
US$46 million in its current form in 2004) by (i) insisting on open bidding of school feeding
programs and (ii) allowing the importation of donated milk powder. This latter step would
reduce costs by approximately 12 percent (savings of US$4.5 million), while the former would
almost surely lower costs through open competition.

19.     Third, the loan would support a comprehensive 6-month global evaluation of the
country's three school feeding programs, including comparative educational impact, nutritional
benefits, cost-effectiveness and community participation. This evaluation would lead to the
development and issuance of a new national policy with respect to school feeding programs,
including coverage, targeting, decentralization, contracting, verification, nutritional quality, and
educationa1 impact.

20.     Programa de Tarjeta de Asistencia Escolar, TAE. The TAE program currently
provides the equivalent of US$20 every two months to 100,000 poor mothers as an incentive to
send their children to school. The national poverty map was used to identify schools in rural
areas with over 70 percent of poor householdsand schools in urban areas with over 40 percent of
poor households. Initial efforts to work with the School Management Committees to identify
needy mothers within those schools failed and a decision was taken to support all mothers
(possessingnational identification cards) in those schools. This has resulted in many non-poor
mothersreceiving financial support, with very little institutional capacity to verify whether or not
children are actually attending school.      There are no permanent staff administering this
operation, and the systems of payment are cumbersomeand improvisational (mothers get paid as
if they were on the payroll of the SEE). In addition, the Government has proposed expanding
this program to reach additional mothers in 2004 despite clear administrative, institutional and
financial weaknesses in the current system.

21.     First, the loan would ensure a minimum level of government funding in 2004 for this
conditional cash transfer (CCT) program, sufficient to support school attendance by children of
at least 100,000 poor mothers, and ensure that the first bi-monthly payment of the 2003-04
school year was paid to participating mothers.

22.     Second, the loan would support a major effort to improve administration of this
conditional cash transfer program, including improved targeting, verification of beneficiaries,
efficiency of payment systems, and monitoring and evaluation. Technical assistance would be
provided to preparea new operational manual for this program, which would be approved by the
SEE.

23.     Third, the loan would support the creation of a formal operational unit to manage the
program, thus replacingthe ad hoc arrangements currently in place, and the SEE would provide
personnelin charge with the necessary institutional and administrative support.




                                             94

24.     Fourth, the loan would encourage a baseline impact evaluation of this program,
specifically regarding school attendance, student dropout and academic performanceof students.
The evaluation would include comparison between program beneficiaries and control groups,
and measure differential programimpact betweenrural and urban mothers.

25.     Fifth, the loan would support the selection of participating mothers as of Jan. 1, 2004
using the proxy means test devised by ONAPLAN, thus replacing the current school based
system with a householdtargeting system.

26.     Program to Support Enrollment of Undocumented Children. The SEE'S 2002
initiative to support the enrollment of undocumented children in primary education would be
continued and strengthened in 2004.             Specific quantitative targets for enrollment of
undocumented children for the 2004/2005 school year are at least 7000 new students, and this
will require the SEE to conduct expanded informational campaigns targeting the parents of
undocumentedchildren in rural and marginalizedurban areas. This would be followed up with
the issuance of 11,000 birth certificates to undocumentedchildren enrolled in school, through a
joint program of SEE and the Central Electoral Council.

27.     To ensure the political viability of this effort, efforts would initially target undocumented
Dominican children and would not require additional national-level legislation of any kind. It is
hoped this process would reinforce the precedent set in 2002 for enrolling undocumented
children, and generate     valuable experience which could be used to address the issue of
undocumentedHaitian children.

28.     Qualitative Basic Education Inputs. The loan would support minimum government
spending levels in 2004 on qualitative inputs such as textbooks, educational materials,
library/audiovisual resourcesand school maintenance. Levels would be determined to maintain
2003 spending in real terms, adjusted for inflation and the depreciation of the Dominican peso.
These levels would also be used in the Inter-American Development Bank's Social Protection
Reform loan.

29.     School Decentralization.The loan would support direct budget transfers from the SEE
to school managementcommittees("juntas escolares"), for the purpose of ensuringminor school
repairsand maintenance.




                                                95

                                 ANNEX 6:     HEALTHSECTOR


A.      The Sectoral Context

1. Low but Improving Health Status. The Dominican Republic, with 8.4 million people in
1999 growing at a projected average annual rate of 1.7 percent, is one of the more densely
populated countries in the Americas. Health indicators do not compare favorably with countries
of similar per capita income (US$2,320 in 2002). Infant mortality has decreased from the period
1990-95 to 41 deaths per 1,000 live births for the period 1995-2000. The 2002 ENDESA survey
puts the infant mortality rate (IMR) at 31. This average LMR i s still too high compared to Chile
(I0),CostaRica(12)orJamaicaandPanama(bothat20)andhidesthelargevariationbetween
urban and rural areas and betweenincome levels. The IMR for the poorest quintile i s 67 whereas
the IMR for the richestquintile is 23.

2. The decrease in infant mortality should be applauded as a positive event. However, when
taking a historical perspective in an international context, the apparent positive event turns
negative.During the five-year period 1960-65, the IMR for the Domincan Republic was 118 per
1,000 live births and the reducible gap with other Latin American and Caribbean countries was
49 percent. The IMR of 41 for the five-year period 1995-00 is a sharp reduction compared to
118 in 1960-65 but the reducible gap with other Latin American and Caribbean countries
increasedto 75 percent leaving the DR farther behind in a comparisonwith other countries.

3. The death of a newborn during the first year of life can occur during the first 28 days after
birth (neonatal death) or between the 29thday and the first birthday (post-neonatal death). The
distinction is important. Neonatal deaths tend to be due to immaturity or certain inherent
congenital conditions of birth, while post-neonatal deaths tend to result from deficiencies in
nutrition or from infectious diseases. The ratio of neonatal deaths to post-neonatal deaths in the
Dominican Republic's         infant mortality has improved significantly in the past decade.
Internationally, this ratio i s about 75/25 and the Dominican Republic i s approaching this ratio
with 70/30. The decrease in the post-neonatal death rate indicates more favorable environmental
conditions for the infants but the neonatal death rate has remained stable at 22 for the past
decade. Reducingthe IMR therefore requires initiatives to reduce the neonatal death rate and to
manage its close clinical relationshipwith the high maternalmortality ratio (see below).

4. The under-five mortality rate in 1999 was 47 deaths per 1,000 children under five, which is
double the rate of Jamaica and Panama, three times the rate of Costa Rica and four times the rate
of Chile. The ENDESA 2002 survey reports a lower figure: 38 deaths for children aged 0 - 4 or
disaggregated31 for IMR and 7 for the 1 to 4 age group. Life expectancy at birth is 71 years
(1999), but still lower than the four comparator countriesused here where rates range from 74 in
Panama to 77 in CostaRica. The illiteracy rate in the population aged more than 15 years is high
at I7%, contributing to poor health status and levels of extreme poverty.

5. Preventable Maternal Mortality. The ratio of maternal deaths (MMR) per 100,000 live
births as reported by SESPAS was 122 in 1999 and PAHONHO lists the most recent reported
MMR statistic as 80. In either case the MMR is unacceptably high as it is ten to fifteen times



                                              96

higher than ratios in developed countries. The total fertility rate (TFR) in 1999 was 2.8 births
per woman, which is close to the TFR for the four-comparator countries. However 1996 data
show a variation in the TFR from 5.1 in the poorest quintile to 2.1 in the richest quintile. The
MMR for Chile and Costa Rica was one third of the figure for the Dominican Republic (33 and
35 respectively) but the MMR of the DR was close to the one in Panama (100) and in Jamaica
(120). A retrospective study of obstetrical deaths in the DR concluded that 93 percent of these
deaths were preventable". These are surprising results given that internationally the Dominican
Republic is positioned very well in terms of prenatal care (99 percent of all deliveries), giving
birth in a health establishment (95 percent) and births attended by skilled health staff (97
percent). Risk factors documented in the study are the quality of obstetrical care in public
hospitals, the behavior of attending personnel, and multiparity. The leading cause of maternal
death is toxemia (43 percent in 1997), a manageable condition during the last trimester of
pregnancy. Design and implementationof incentivesto change the behavior of providers must be
a key strategy in the success of reducingunnecessary maternal deaths.

6. Slowly Decreasing Poverty. The World Bank 2001 Poverty Assessment report states that
29 percent of the population lives below the poverty line, and a decreasingtrend since the 1980s.
Social indicators of poverty in the 1996 ENDESA survey showed an inequitable variation
betweenthe lowest and highest income quintiles for infant mortality rates by a factor of three, for
child immunization rates by a factor of two, and for the prevalence of child malnutrition by a
factor of thirteen.

7. Still, protecting the poorest from financial loss due to illhealth i s an unfulfilled promise in
the country. A large segment of the population does not have any type of health insurance, and
out of pocket expenditures represent more than one half of total spending in health. The richer
contribute as a percentageof their total income much less than the poor to health care financing
and a high proportionof families get poorer when they have to get care.

8. The Health Care Organization Today. The Dominican Republic's health system consists
of multiple public and private providers operating with loose guidelines, minimum regulations,
overlapping functions and with scarce coordination to guarantee universal access to quality and
efficient health services. With the promulgation of the health sector reform laws in early 2001,
the Secretariat of Public Health and Social Assistance (SESPAS) in its stewardship role is
responsible for setting health policies, enforcing the separation of provision from financing
public health care, and ensuring quality and effective health care. Existing financing and
resource allocation mechanismsare being modified with support of ongoing projects financed by
the World Bank, IDB, USAID, EU, among others, following criteria and mechanisms to channel
funds according to health needs and other socio-economic variables.

9. Several entities finance and provide health services in the public sector: SESPAS, the
Dominican Social Security Institute (IDSS 1, the Social Security Institutes for the Armed Forces
and the National Police, and other decentralizedinstitutions and NGOs receiving state subsidies.
SESPAS' mandate is to provide health care to meet the health needs of the poor and the




I4Dr.Roberto CerdaTorres: "Realidad de la Mortalidad Materna en Republica Dominicana". 2001


                                                  97

indigents.The IDSS provides health services to 530,000 regular beneficiaries and to about
100,000 temporary workers or at most to 7.5 percent of the population.

10.Most private hospitals tend to be small. About 80 percent of the private hospitals have
fewer than 20 beds. Almost all private sector activity i s concentrated in the two largest cities:
Santo Domingo and Santiago.           No statistical data are available on the number, size, and
composition of the private sector, which i s largely unregulated and unsupervised.            Non-
Governmental Organizations (NGOs) have grown throughout the country and are active in health
promotion and reproductive health services. The current and the past two governments have
been very much aware of the inequitable access to health services by all Dominicans, the
inefficiency and the low quality in the health sector, the dissatisfaction of the population with
public services, and therefore prepared a vast health sector reform program.

11. The Health Sector Reform Laws of 2001 and the Country's Vision. The executive and
legislative work spanning a ten year time period culminated in 2001 with the approval by
Congress and the Presidential signature of two laws that reshape the financing, the organization,
the management and the delivery of health services in the Dominican Republic.. The first one is
the General Health Law approved in March 2001 that authorizes, inter alia, deconcentrating and
decentralizing the management of health care services from the central SESPAS level to local
administrative units (regional, provincial) and to health care institutions. SESPAS would transfer
technical, managerial and administrative tasks to local levels and to SESPAS health facilities
within ten years. The General Health Law also defines seven fundamental principles:
universality, solidarity, equity, efficiency, efficacy, comprehensiveness, and cooperation (art.1l),
and creates the National Health Council (NHC) as the institution responsible for formulating,
follow up, and evaluation of health policy.

12. The second Law that created the Dominican Social Security System, was approved by
Congress and signed by the President in May 2001. This law mandates specifically to:

        a) Separate the functions o f (i)stewardship of the health sector, (ii)financing services,
           and (iii) service provision. Stewardship would be the responsibility of SESPAS.
           Health care would be financed through a family insurance system consisting of an
           autonomous national agency for the public sector (SENASA) and for the private
           sector (Health Risk Administrators or ARS).        Health care provision would be the
           responsibility of regional health network providers contracting with SENASA and
           ARS to provide the basic health plan. The Superintendence of Health and Labor Risks
           (SISARIL) is the regulatory body of the new systems;

        b)   Define a basic health plan (benefits plan for the insured population);

        c) Set up private (ARS) and public insurance companies (SENASA);

        d) Gradually move from a supply-driven health care delivery system to a demand-driven
           system;




                                                 98

       e) Organize Health Service Providers (PSS). Regional Health Service Management
          Units (SRS) would be created to manage the regional health networks and their
          respective hospitals, diagnostic centers, health centers, rural clinics and Primary
          Health Care Units. Regulations would define management and delivery models
          including the role and functions of governing bodies and organizational structures
          within a framework of decentralizeddecision-makingand management agreements.It
          i s expected that within a ten-year period a number of PSS would be accredited as
          Autonomous Regional Health Network Providers integrating autonomous hospitals
          and health centers. Asset ownership, labor contracts and payroll, and pension benefits
          and liabilities would have been transferred to these Autonomous Regional Provider
          Networks;

       f) Change the remuneration of individual service providers from a salary to a
          combination of a basic salary and payments for results and performance while
          ensuringsatisfactionof human resources;

       g) Promote social participation; and

       h) Assure quality of care by introducing accreditation and licensing public and private
          providers, blood banks and transfusion services, and clinical laboratories.
          Accreditation and licensure would be granted by SESPAS and would be a
          requirementto contract as a PSS.

13. The Social Security Law classifies the population into three groups:

       a) The first group consists of workers in the public and formal private sectors;
          employersand workers would pay contributions.

       b) The second group is semi-subsidized and includes all independent technical and
          professional workers as well as those self-employed who earn more than the
          minimum wage.        It is expected to be financed by workers and by government
          subsidies.

       c) The third group i s independentworkers who earn irregular wages below the minimum
          wage and include the poor, the unemployed and the handicapped. The government
          would pay their contribution.

14. As of October 2003 several sets of norms and regulations to implement the General Health
Law and the Social Security Law have been approved. They are:

       For the General Health Law:
       a) Stewardshipand separationof functions in the health system
       b) Licensingof healthfacilities
       c) Healthprovision networks: affiliation and delivery of services
       d) Humanresourcesregulations (in the final review stage)




                                             99

        For the Social Security System:
        a) Family health insuranceand basic healthplan
        b) Control of medicines in the basic healthplan
        c) Organization and regulationof Health Risks Administrators (ARS)

B.      ShortTerm CrisisResponse andLongerTerm ReformPriorities

15. In the health sector, the main objective of the proposed loan i s to respond to the urgent health
care needs of the poor (including the undocumented population currently excluded from access
to social services), particularly women in reproductive ages and children, while simultaneously
assistingthe government in implementingthe health reform program as mandatedby the General
Health and Health Insurance Laws of 2001. The proposed support under the SCRAL would
build upon and complement the ongoing Provincial Health Services Project, HIV/AIDS
Prevention and Control Project, and the recently approved and signed Health Reform Support
APL.

16. As such, the proposed operation would help the Government to simultaneously respond to
the urgent needs of the poor, while assistingin laying the groundwork for a shift in health care
organization, financing, and delivery in the public and private sectors as mandated in the 2001
reform laws.

17. To achievethese objectives a number of efforts would be supportedunder the project to:

        Ensure adequate levels of financing to improve the quality of maternal and child services,
        including the national immunization program, to help reducethe infant mortality rate, the
        under five mortality rate and the maternal mortality ratio, and to prevent and control
        HIV/AIDS, TB, malariaand dengue;

        Reducethe impoverishmenteffects of illhealth and disability by ensuringadequate levels
        of financing for drugs and other medical supplies included in the basic drugs and supplies
        list:

        Supporting the affiliation of the poor to the health insurance system' subsidized scheme
        by helping to develop instruments and methodologies for identifying, registering,
        categorizing, and affiliating the poor population, and supporting specific efforts to
        include the large number of undocumented Dominicans whose lack of identity
        documentationdeprivesthem of access to basic public health services;

        Supporting the development and implementation of decentralized and integrated health
        delivery networks as mandated by law, particularly in Region IV, V and VI, the pilot
        regions for health reform, for coordinating and supervising service delivery as a means to
        reachuniversal coverage of primary health care services;

        Assist in deconcentratingand decentralizing technical and management decision making
        to lower levels of governmentand to service delivery institutions; and,




                                              100

    f) Develop the requiredregulationsto improve the managementof health sector personnel,
        introducing flexibility in employment practices and new remuneration modalities for
        physicians linking paymentsto performance.

18. Regulations prepared and approved to operationalize the health sector reform laws. As
mandatedby the GeneralHealth Law (No. 42-01), and in accordancewith the existent legislation
in the country, once the National Health Council approves the different norms and regulations
needed to operationalize the provisions of the law, they should be promulgated through a
PresidentialDecree and published in the official gazette or a newspaper of national circulation to
become effective. Among the recent regulations of the General Health Law that were approved
by the National Health Council and submitted to the Office of the President for their
promulgation and publication are:

        Reglamentosobre Habilitacidn de 10s Establecimientosy Servicios de Salud.
        Reglamentode Provisidn de las Redes de 10s ServiciosP6blicosde Salud.
        Reglamentode Habilitacidn de Bancosde Sangre y Servicios de Transfusidn.
        Reglamentode Registro de ReactivosparaDiagndstico Clinico.
        Reglamentode Habilitacidn de LaboratoriosClinicos.
        Reglamentode RecursosHumanosdel Sistema Nacional de Salud.

19.The above regulations were approved by the National Health Council on a priority basis as
they would allow the Health Secretariat (SESPAS) to improve the allocation of resources to
health care providers and guarantee their efficient use in accordance with the rationalization,
deconcentration and decentralization provisions of the General Health Law. Tthe promulgation
of the regulations by the Presidentwould faciliate SESPAS'role to guarantee the implementation
of the National Health Plan and the equitable access to quality health services for the Dominican
population

20. In particular, it i s now critical that the Reglamento sobre 10s Regimenes de Contratacidn de
la SESPASpara la Provision de 10s Servicios de Salud Pciblica, which was promulgatedthrough
Presidential Decree No. 738-03 of August 7, 2003, and published on August 9, 2003, be
complemented with the promulgation of the Reglamento de Provisidn de las Redes de 10s
Servicios Pu'blicos de Salud, as this latter regulation would define and guide the structuring of
deconcentratedand decentralizedhealth care delivery networks at the regional and local levels.
It is expected that these two regulations would lead in the medium term to improved
accountability in the utilization of financial resources in the health system, and increased
autonomy in the organization and delivery of health services.

21. The Reglamento General de Habilitacidn de 10s Establecimientos y Servicios de Salud;
Reglamento de Habilitacidn de Bancos de Sangre y Servicios de Transfusidn; Reglamento de
Registro de Reactivos para diagndstico Clinico, and Reglamento de Habilitacidn de
Laboratorios Clinicos, define the minimum quality of care standards that have to be met by
health care providers in order to be certified by SESPAS and allowed to operate in the health
system.




                                                 101

22. The promulgation of the Reglameiito de Recursos Humaizos del Sistema Nacioiial de Salud i s
also critical as it would provide the framework to improve the management of health personnel
in the system, including training, alternative contracting and remuneration mechanisms, and
incentive arrangements to raise performance and quality of care. As expenditures for health
personnel account for about 80% of the total health expenditures in health care facilities, the
application of this regulation would introduce flexible labor arrangements that would facilitate
the deconcetration and decentralization of health care organization and delivery creating a more
autonomous environmentfor managingthe regional and local health services networks.

23. As noted above, the promulgation of the above regulations through Presidential Decrees, as
envisioned in the proposed SAL, would help accelerate the implementation of the health sector
reform process and pave the way for the development of additional reform measures to be
supportedunder the recently approvedHealth Reform Support APL.


C. The Matrix Content

24. In the health sector, under the first and the social floating tranches, the proposed operation
would:

            (i1       Protect the budget of basic priority programs and services with proven
                      records of reaching and benefiting the poor and vulnerable, in the 2004
                      budget law. The list of the priority programs to be protected was agreed
                      with the IDB and are part of the IDB Social Protection Reform adjustment
                      loan. These include: maternal and child services, including the national
                      immunization program; the national HIV/AIDS, TB, and malaria and
                      dengue prevention and control programs; and the basic drugs and supplies
                      program. Required levels of resources would be allocated and disbursed
                      under the 2004 Budget Law.

            (ii)      Improve the identification, registration, categorization, and affiliation
                      instruments and methodologies for affiliating the poor population to the
                      subsidized scheme of the national health insurance program. This would
                      entail the design and implementationof a formula using proxy means test to
                      categorize the potential beneficiary population of the subsidized health
                      insurance scheme, based on methodologies and registration work already
                      developedand initiated by the CNSS; (ii) identify and issue I.D.Cards and
                      upgrade the birth registration system so that a larger number of poor
                      Dominicans can be affiliated to the subsidized scheme of the national
                      health insurance program.      The guidelines for the operation of the
                      community committeeswould also be developed.

            (iii)     The Program would assist in implementing the mandatesof the reform laws
                      by supporting the development of innovative decentralized health care
                      organization and delivery approaches in Regions IV, V, and VI, the pilot
                      regions for startup implementation of the health sector reform program



                                              102

                     through the presidential enactment of five important health reform
                     regulations, as well in the enactment of the long stalled, but crucial
                     regulation for improving the management of health sector personnel and
                      other importantregulations.

            (iv)      Support the enrollment, affiliation and registration (cumetizucion) to the
                      subsidized health insurance scheme of 70,000 persons in Regions IV, V,
                      and VI.


D. Relationof the ProposedProjectto OngoingWorld Bank HealthSector Projects.

25. The proposedSAL builds upon and would complement the recently closedProvincial Health
ServicesProject (Ln. 4272-D0), HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Project (Ln. 7065-DO), and
the recently approvedHealth Reform Support APL. Since 1997, the ProvincialHealth Services
Project, in conjunction with parallel operations supportedby the IADB, USAID and the EU, has
supportedsignificant advances in policy and institutionalreforms,developed reforminstruments,
trained personnel, and improvedphysical and technological infrastructure in the poorest regions
of the country, particularly with a major redistributiveimpact in the border areas with Haiti. The
project's mid-termreview of October 2001 documentedthe accomplishments in helping put in
place a new legal framework for reforminghealthcare organization and financingby supporting
the preparation, consensus building, and approval of the General Health and Social Security
Laws. The provincial subprojects have supported the development of new health care
organizations, financing and managerialmodels to create provincial integrated delivery systems
and signing management agreements betweenprovincial agencies and health care providers (for
example, the Region IV's Jaime Mota Hospital has entered into a management performance
agreement with SESPAS for financing health services delivery). The project has also supported
the development of a multi-moduleinformationsystem for improvingmanagement at the central
and provinciallevels and hospitals.

26. The HIV/AIDS Prevention and Control Project is supporting the implementation of a
comprehensive and multisectoral strategy with broad participation of different segments of the
society to reducethe spread of the HIV/AIDS/TB/STI epidemic.

27. The Health Reform Support APL, expected to become effective in early 2004, i s geared to
help achieve by the year 2015 the three MDGs of reducing child mortality, improving maternal
health, and contributing to the eradication of extreme poverty by protecting the poorest from
financial loss due to ill health and disability; and supporting the implementation of the health
sector reform legislation that provides the legal, financial, organizational and managerial
enablingenvironmentto achievethe MDGs. The APL, over a 12-yearperiod, would support the
Government's incremental approach to the reform of the health sector, while developing the
long-termpolitical and institutionalcommitment to the reformprocess. The health sector reform
effort in the Dominican Republic is one of the more ambitious and far reaching in the LAC
Region.




                                              103

28.     The proposed SCRAL will accelerate the reform process through the actions of the
President, long delayed, on key regulations that have been ready for presidential promulgation.
In particular the Human Resources Regulation has been sensitive due to its provisions affecting
managementof public health personnel. The SCRAL thus adds to the reform agenda and effort
through the Presidentialaction on the regulations, through the acceleratedenrollment of the poor
into the subsidized health insurance program, and new initiatives to deal with undocumented
families that are otherwisebarredfrom enrollment in the subsidized scheme.




                                             I04

                              ANNEX 7:      SOCIAL ASSISTANCE


1.    Over the years, various government administrations in the Dominican Republic have
created a diversity of entities and programs-either under the law or by decree-in        order to
provide for the poor population. Due to largely discretionary budgeting, each of the Presidents
then in office have launched many initiatives, without regard for planning structures such as
ONAPLAN. With each change of the administration, some entities and programs created by the
previous government languished, while new entities were in turn established. According to the
Social Cabinet (Gabinete Social), the country has around 70 safety net programsdirectedtoward
the poor with well over 100sub-programs.

A. SocialAssistance Reforms

2.    At the onset of the current Government, in 2000, the aggregate social assistance effort in
the Dominican Republic showed evident problems that can be summarized as follows: (a) lack
of a national policy or strategy in the struggle against poverty; (b) entities and programs
performing similar activities in the same geographic areas; (c) entities and programs carrying
into effect isolated initiatives having no clear objectives and based only on general guidelines;
(d) absence of clearly focused        beneficiary selection mechanisms; and, (e) non-existent
monitoring and assessment mechanisms for virtually all programs. Under these circumstances
and given the characteristicsprevailing in the social assistance sector, the current Administration
of President Hip6lito Mejia, with the support of the Inter-American Development Bank, put in
place a consolidation and organization process for this sector. To this end, the Social Cabinet
was createdfor the purpose of consolidating and organising these programs. The creation of the
Social Cabinetl was made possible through the IDB financial support, as formalised by Decree
466-01, of April 19, 2001.

3.    In 2002, the Social Cabinet commissioned the consulting firm SEGOCAR Outsourcing &
Consultoria Gerencial, to perform a diagnosis of 25 institutions and programs under the
president's office budget category and those with own budget line within the social welfare
sector. An inventory and institutional assesment was first made of all entities and programs.
Some programdentities-although legally existing-no        longer work for practical ends and have
retainedonly minimal budgets and human resources. The last few government administrations
haveavoided use of these entities and have ratherpreferred to create their own programsthrough
a decree, for the same type of interventions.Those they no longer wanted to use were stripped of
their implementingability by down-sizing or eliminating their budget.

4.    During the course of the external assesment, it was found that 25 such entities and
programs, including 5 programs created by this Government, had about 86 subprograms. Also,
out of the 25 entities and programs, 12 were created via decree, 10 via law and 3 lack any legal
basis. The institutional analysis done by the Social Cabinet for these 25 entities and programs
showed a great deal of duplication. Table 1 shows the repetitiveness in lines of action by the
distinct entities and programs when they are rearrangedinto 18 different programcategories.


                                              105

N o   PROGRAM                       INSTITUTIONS/ UNITS/ PROGRAMS/ SUBPROGRAMS
      CATEGORY


    construction &
            I           Desarrollo Provincial: (4) Desarrollo Bamal: (5) Comunidad Digna; (6) Programa dej6venes a
    rehabilitation (6)  la integracih Laboral (PROJIL)
2   Road const. &       (1) Desarrollo Fronterizo: (2) Desarrollo Bamal
    rehabilitation (2)
3    Solid waste        (1) Voluntariado Social: (2) Direccih General de Embellecimiento

4   Environmental       (1) Plan Presidencialde Lucha Contra la Pobreza; (2) Desarrollo Fronterizo: (3) Desaiollo
    sanitation (8)      Provincial; (4) Desarrollo Barrial: (5) Comunidad Digna: (6) Direcci6n General de Desarrollo
                        de la Comunidad: (7) Voluntariado Social: (8) Direcci6n General de Embellecimiento

-
5    Social Assistance (1) Programa de Asistencia Social Inmediata; (2) Desarrollo Provincial; (3) Desarrollo
    (9)                 Barrial; (4) Plan Presidencial De Lucha Contra la Pobreza; (5) Comedores
                        Economicos; (6) Comunidad Digna; (7) Fondo Especial para el Desarrollo
                       Agropecuario; (8) Consejo Nacional de Discapacitados; (9) Direccion General de
                        Embellecimiento
6   Training (1 1)      (1) Organism0Rector del Sistemade Proteccidn a Nifioslas y Adolescentes; (2) Voluntariado
                        Social; (3) Direcci6n General de Desarrollo de la Comunidad: (4) Programa de Promoci6n y
                        Apoyo a la Micro, Mediana y Pequefia Empresa: (5) Instituto de Desarrollo y CrCdito
                       Cooperativo; (6) Comunidad Digna: (7)Programas de J6venes a la Integraci6n Laboral; (8)
                        ProgramaNacional de Reducci6nde Apagones: (9) DesarrolloBamal; (10) ConsejoNacional




   I do'naiion                                                                  -
              (5)     I Inmediata:  (3) Comunidad Digna: (4) Desarrollo Provincial: (5) Voluntariado Social
FOODAND AGRICULTURE (6)
17   Food provision     (1) Plan Presidencialde Lucha Contra la Pobreza; (2) Fondo de Preinversibn: (3) Comedores
     (5)               Econ6micos; (4) Instituto de Desarrollo y CrCdito Cooperativo; (5) ConsejoNacional de
                        Fronteras(Via INESPRE)
18   Sheep Raising      (1) Fondo Especialpara el Desarrollo Agropecuario




                                                            106

5.     The Social Cabinet recently launchedthe identification and analysis of the remaining social
programs and subprograms that are part of the current actions of line ministries and other public
entities. Up to now, 26 of those public entities have been identified (see table 2) with well over
30 programs. It is expectedthese programs do not have a legal basis by themselves, but the line
ministry or public entity does. In summary, according to the Social Cabinetl, the total number
of social assistance programsor actions financed with public funds in the country are around70,
which in turn have well over 100 subprograms. In addition, the Social Cabinetl has a study
underway to identify all NGOs that receive public funds (there are more than 1,000) so as to
recommend policy actions to reorganize the distribution and use of the funds and to better
monitor their work. There have been reports of many "ghost" NGOs which nonetheless are
receiving public funds. Overall, social assistance expenditure in Dominican Republic represents
a little over 1 percent of the GDP in 2002, down from higher levels in previous years.




    24   DIGENOR                             Programa social
    25   IDECOP                             Programa social
    26   PREl                                Fondosocial


6.     Given the inefficiencies and the duplications shown above, the Social Cabinet committed
itself to consolidate and reorder the social programs following a step by step strategy starting in
2002. The first step was to complete the institutional assessments of the 25 existing main
schemes before defining the restructuring process for the social welfare sector. The findings
arising from the first study included a proposal for the establishment of the National Social
DevelopmentInstitute or of aMinistry of Social Welfare. Also recommendedwas the issuance of
a decree that would prevent Secretariats of State and autonomous/semi-autonomous institutions
under the Government from launching without authorization social welfare programs, clearly
stating that any issue in that regardmust be channelled through the Social Cabinet or through this
new institution. A recommendation, as an immediate measure, was that those programs that


                                               107

were not shown as specific budget categories and fell within the discretionary budget under the
President's Office, shouldbe transferredto a unified budgetcategory under the Social Cabinet..

7.    In July 2002 by means of the Decree 517-02, the President of the Republic established the
Social Policies Coordination and Follow-up Unit, and directed the Social Cabinet to introduce
budget allotments for the various Programs under the creation of Sub-program 02: "Support to
the Social Welfare Sector". Also establishedwas the Chairman for the Board of Directors of the
Social Cabinet.

8.    As part of the sector reform strategy, the Social Cabinet,jointly with ONAPLAN, launched
in 2001-after its creation-the task of preparingthe Strategy aimed at ReducingPoverty (ERP),
with the technical and financial support of the IDB. This ERP includes poverty issues within the
Dominican Republic, guidelines and strategic actions, the action plan and follow-up and
evaluation of the strategy. This document was made official as Government policy through
Presidential Decree 566-03, of June 16, 2003, and will serve as framework for development
activities. This decree also charges ONAPLAN with fulfilling the duties of the Social Policies
Follow-up Unit in regard to follow-up, enforcement and evaluationof the Strategy.

9.    Immediately thereafter, Presidential Decree 623-03 dated June 20, 2003, instructed
immediate restructuring of the public social assistance sector based on a two-stage plan:                   (a)
establishment of a 2004 Budget Program under the name of "Social Protection;" and, (b)
attaching new institutionalisation to the social assistance sector thus enabling decentralizationof
responsibilities and consolidation of a social policies co-ordination organization. In this sense, a
social assistance program has been budgetedthrough the Social Cabinet. This budget line item is
subdividedinto 5 subgroups comprising programdentities (see table 3).

        Table 3: New progr n arrangement under the Social Cabinet.
         I                                                      PROGRAMS

          Coordination       Executive Unit
          Social Welfare     (I)Direcci6n GeneraldeComunidad Digna; (2) PlanPresidencialde Lucha
                             contra la Pobreza; (3) Direcci6n Generalde ComedoresEcon6mico: (4)
                             Programa de Asistencia Social Inmediata(PASI); (5) Operativos; (6)
                             Voluntariado Social; (7) Asistencia Directa; (8) Boticas Comunitarias
                             Descentralizadas.
          Community          ( 1 ) Fondo de Promoci6n a las Iniciativas Comunitarias (PROCOMUNIDAD):
          Development(5)     (2) Direcci6n Generalde Desarrollo de la Comunidad (DGDC): (3) Comision
                             Presidencialde Desarrollo Provincial; (4) Comisi6n Presidencialde Desarrollo
                             Barrial; (5) Direcci6n General de Embellecimiento y CruzadaCivica
          Development of     ( 1 ) Direcci6n Generalde Desarrollo Fronterizo; (2) Consejo Nacional de
          specialterritories Fronteras;(3) Consejode Desarrollo de Coordinaci6n Zona Especialde
                             Desarrollo Fronterizo; (4) Direcci6n Generalde Comunidades de Desarrollo
                             Fronterizo
          Integratorsand     ( 1 ) Tarjeta de Asistencia Escolar (TAE); (2) Cambios de pisos de tierra por
          special projects   pisos de cemento; (3) Programadej6venes a la integraci6n laboral (PROJIL):
                             (4) Progama de reduccidnde apagones (PRA); (5) Programade creaci6n de
                             empresas alternativas(PROCREA); (6) Consejo Nacional de Discapacidad
                             (CONADIS); (7) Consejo Presidencialcontra el SIDA (COPRESIDA); (8)
                             Progamade educaci6na mototaxistas;(9)Titulares de solares




                                                      108

B. Challengesfor Improving Social Assistance Programs

10. Although the Government has achieved some progress on issues related to the integration
of social policies, as described above, it is also the case that it has followed in the footsteps of
previous governments. First the President's Office and later the Social Cabinet1continued to
create new programs to replace previous ones, such as the Me`rcados Mdbiles (Mobil Markets),
Farmacias Populares (Popular Pharmacies) y Jdvenes para la Zntegracidn Laboral y Asistencia
Social Znmediata (Youth for Labor Force Integrationa and Social Assistance). Coverageof these
programs i s limited and short term in focus. For instance, INESPRE (with Social Cabinet
resources) implementedin July 2003 the Mobil Markets program consistingof trucks that carried
basic products (milk, eggs, meat, etc.) to marginal urban neighbourhoodsin Santo Domingo and
Santiago, which were sold at subsidised prices. Justification behind this action was to avoid
violent outbreaks in the population stemmingfrom higher prices during the second quarter of this
year.

II. Thegreatmajorityofexistingandoperatingorganizations/programsworkatmidcapacity,
and the same number of staff could do much more work if resources were made available.
Throughout the year 2003, all programs have experienced delays in the delivery of budgeted
resourcesby the Government well beyond90 days. Common problems include not being able to
meet goals established due to inflation; also because of that, suppliers continue to exert pressure
to increasetheir contractsaccordingto inflation levels.

12. The country lacks a public works scheme per se, what it does have is several labor-related
training programs. The National Institute for Technical and Professional Training (INFOTEP)
trains the largest number of participants per year (175,000) and has national coverage. This
institution has no specific schemes oriented toward the poorest segments of the population.
Admittance requirements such as basic education and I.D. cards preclude the participation of
youngsters coming from the poorest strata.       The IDB-financed Juventud y Empleo program
intends to better centre its action around poor youngsters; but again, admission requirements
leave out possibly the poorest. Finally, PROJIL-albeit         the fact that it is recognised as a
program-operates     as a special educational unit providing basic education to poor, at-risk
youngsters. To date, it works at full capacity (1,650 students coming from the poorest
neighbourhoods of Santo Domingo). This initiative has met success; the targeted approach
ensures participation of these high-risk youngsters, but given its special characteristics this
project would be difficult to replicate or expand in the short term. In the context of the crisis,
the country's labor training programsare best seen as longer term interventions. Given the as yet
modest unemployment impacts of the new crisis, another newly created program i s not at this
time recommended.

13.   Food assistance programs continue to be important. Notwithstanding the fact that the
Presidential Plan to Fight Poverty stopped delivering large bulks of free foodstuffs,            the
Governmenthas expandedits efforts to provide food at below-market prices through the Institute
for Stabilization of Prices (INESPRE) and its "mercados populares"

14. INESPRE was established in 1969. Initially, it responded to a price stabilization model
developed by USAID. During the 80's more emphasis was placed on providing support to



                                              109

producers through technical assistance programs.            During the previous Government
administration (1996-2000), INESPREfocused on selling products for the basic food basket, at
subsidized prices through state-owned supermarkets (Ahento para Todos). The current
administrationclosed down this scheme, due-according to the current directors-to corruption
and losses sustained by the institution. Instead, INESPRE established a scheme of "popular
marketplaces" to: (a) provide support to small producers, by serving as intermediary wholesaler
which assumes all handling, packaging and distribution costs, and (b) sell products in poor
barriosat lower costs than those found in supermarketsor formal markets.

15. INESPRE organizes about 3,000 popular marketplaces each year across the country.
Community associations or municipal governments, together with INESPRE, decide on the
market day, location and frequency (Le., once a week). Marketplaces are open to everyone and
the locationis agreed with community groups and local authorities.

16. INESPRE also provides support to the small and intermediateproducer, while loweringthe
prices by eliminating intermediaries. Prices of products at these marketplaces benefit from
subsidised transportation, packagingand storage of produce. Also, INESPRE has continued to
subsidise basic products such as rice, milk, cassava, potatoes and others, although at lesser levels
with respect to other government administrations. This is now done only when shortage for a
productexists and continuously accordingto season, ensuringthat productscorrespondto "lesser
quality" in order to avoid distorting the price in the market and targeting same to the poorest
segments. INESPREhas no evaluation system in placeand it is not clear whether or not the poor
are actually being benefited from marketplaces and subsidies, or if higher income household
derive most of the benefits of the program. For example, INESPRE typically sells rice in bulk
quantities (large sacks), which require disposable income poor families often lack. Instead,
owners of local markets purchase these sacks at INESPRE's reducedprices and then sell the rice
to the poor in small quantities at full retail prices. A first effort to re-organize INESPRE to
better respondto the crisis is now underway, with technical support provided during preparation
of the SCRAL.

17. The other large food assistance program i s the Comedores Econdmicos (Economical
Kitchens), which last year prepared 23 million rations of food (lunch), and which has been
operating for over 50 years. Apparently, the cost of rations is reasonably low and benefits the
householdsfor the elderly and handicapped,jails, schools, among other. The rest of rations are
sold at a subsidised cost in marginal urban neighbourhoods. This program is the only one
capable of providing immediate response during natural disasters and is ready to produce and
distributefood rationsnationwide.

18.   Programs aimed at community development and infrastructure are numerous in the
country. The most important are: PROCOMUNIDAD and the Direccidn de Desarrollo
Fronterizo (Office of Border Development). The first one operates similarly to other social
funds established and financed by multilateralbanks. An IDB final evaluation for the last loan
points out that implementationtimes have been considerably expedited, that quality of the work
they carry into effect is good and that the community strengthening processes have improved.
On the other hand, PROCOMUNIDAD does not work in a coordinated manner with the rest of
the entities involved in building community infrastructure. Each one of them independently



                                              110

states that it works with the community and respond to their needs, but none show clear
consultation schemes and more likely seem to be ad-hoc efforts. The Frontier Development
Office i s also devoted to maintenance work for public infrastructure within the borderline
provinces, but has no schemes or initiatives in place for transferring and strengtheningmunicipal
governments. Other minor programs exist, such as the Plan Presidencial de Lucha contra la
Pobreza, Programa de Asistencia Social Inmediata and Comunidad Digna, all of them carrying
into effect isolated projects using ad-hoc targeting criteria. In the contex of the crisis, these
programsare not attractive candidatesfor strengtheningor for counter cyclical budget protection,
as these benefits are more in investmentsthan social assistance.

19. The above described situation for the main programs shows that consolidation process
needs to be accompaniedby a serious institutional strengtheningprocess. The Social Cabinet has
recognized the need to immediately initiate programs assessments in terms of their operational
efficiency and impact effectiveness. For example, in the case of INESPRE and the other food
programs, the evaluations must determine where action should be concentratedand if such areas
actually correspondto the poorest segments. Also, net benefits need to be measuredin order to
attach priority to expenditures. Analysis and monitoring of current policies need to be made in
order to determine whether or not the subsidy is sensible or can be eliminated altogether. The
Government decided to start with the evaluation of the supplementary support to education
programs (Desayuno Escolar and Tarjeta de Asistencia Escolar), which are expected to be
completed in 2004 (see Annex 5).

C. SCRAL SupportedReforms

20. Currently, the goal of the Social Cabinet i s to submit to the President's office both decree
and law proposals that would consolidatethe social sector programs, including the elimination of
at least 5 programs.The first major step to consolidatesocial assistance programs(submission of
the external report on social programs and a Government proposal for consolidation and
elimination of ineffective programs) is crucial and is a key prior action for the SCRAL. The
President will sign the relevant decree and law eliminating at least five such programsduring the
first half of 2004. Because of this, the Social Gabinete also will start the operational assessment
of the surviving programs very soon, so as to unify the consolidation process with a real
improvementin their operation and in the effectivenessof their actions.

21. Another urgent matter is to improve eligibility criteria and targeting of all social programs.
The updated poverty map with census information of 2002 and the household qualification
system with the use of econometric techniques to help measurelevels of poverty are expected to
be completed in the first semester of 2004 by ONAPLAN. These instruments must be utilized
and applied by the programs aimed at the poor. Also, the Social Cabinet must make better efforts
in coordinating programs' targeting efforts and facilitate the guidance of ONAPLAN. In this
respect, the CNSS and TAE will implement the household qualification system in 2004, as part
of the SCRAL.

22. Given the current economic crisis and INESPRE's capacity to provide subsidized food to
the poor, the loan will support the implementation of a targeted popular marketplace program
(Programafocalizado de Subsidio Alimentario). The most vulnerable and poorest segments of



                                              111

the population will be targeted for subsidized food sales, through concentration of activities in
provinces with the highest percentages of households living under the poverty line: Elias Piiia
(78 percent), El Seybo (88 percent), Bahoruco (87 percent), Monte Plata (84 percent), y SamanA
(84 percent). In addition, it will offer the Program in the Capital and province of Santo
Domingo, but only in those places with large concentrations of urban poverty. With the help of
ONAPLAN, local and community authorities, specific geographic areas with large number of
very poor and vulnerable families will be identified for market location, following strict selection
guidelines. This action is in accordance with the reform objectives pursuedby the Government's
Social Cabinet. No new resourcesare being budgeted for this program, as INESPRE has agreed
to reorient its current operations with available budget.

23. In addition, INESPRE will modify its operational structure to ease program execution and
institutional coordination, enhance civil society participation in both execution and monitoring,
and adjust its public campaign to better target the very poor and increase the number of
interventions in the neediest areas. The expected results of this targeted program are the
following: (a) food expenditures in nominal terms of poor households will remain unchanged,
despite inflation; and (b) institutional capacity to respond quickly and efficiently to emergency
and/or crisis situations will be enhanced.

24. Initially the Program will have a reprogrammed budget of US$ 2 million to benefit 11
barrios in the National District, 5 municipalities in Santo Domingo and 26 municipalities in the
other 5 provinces. It i s expected to reach approximately 500,000 people. Later, the Program will
expand to other provinces after its operational structure and targeting process is proved and
functioning.

25. With SCRAL support, INESPREwill develop an operation manualin coordination with the
Social Cabinet, and with the assistance of ONAPLAN for the targeting process, and implement
the program in 2004. All operational procedures will be thoroughly described, most importantly:
(a) the targeting process; (b) operational procedures for the different operational modalities of
marketplaces; (c) coordination with other entities and civil society; (d) monitoring and evaluation
processes; (e) institutional rearrangements.

26. The supported improvements to the education compensatory programs (Tarjetas Escolar
and School Breakfasts)are described in Annex 5.




                                               112

                                ANNEX 8:      POWER SECTOR



A. Evolution of the Sector

1.      Backgroundto reform. During the 1980s and early 1990s, the Dominican Republic had
substandardelectricity service, marked by frequent power cuts (apagones). The responsibility
for this rested on the Government's integrated power company (Corporacidn Dominicanu de
Electricidad, CDE), whose performance was characterized by large energy losses, poor
collection, and deficient operation and maintenance (many plants were either unavailable or
operated below their rated output). The poor service led to a vicious cycle, in which a culture of
non-payment of power bills flourished, leaving CDE with insufficient funds to make the
necessary investments (especially in generation) to improve power availability.

2.      Introduction of IPPs in mid-1990s. In the mid-l990s, the Government sought to address
the generation shortages by encouraging independent power producers (IPPs), who entered into
power purchase agreements (PPAs) to supply CDE as a single buyer of energy. This resulted in
considerable new capacity, and significantly reducedthe problem of power shortage and outages.
However, as in other countries, the IPPPPA approach led to its own set of problems, mainly in
terms of high electricity prices. Where the deals were worked out through negotiations (only one
was tendered through competitive bidding), this was linked to issues of transparency.
Furthermore, the PPAs with CDE became inconsistent with the revised sector structure (see
below), and had to be renegotiated.

3.      Sector restructuring of 1997-1999. The first regulator was appointed in 1997, as part of
the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, rather than as an independent entity. There was no
comprehensive regulatory framework, and the entire sector was either in the hands of the
Government, or consistedof IPPs regulatedby their PPAs and other Governmentcontracts.

4.      Starting with the Public Sector Enterprise Reform Law of June 1998, the Government
began a major sector restructuring. CDE's thermal plants were grouped into two generation
companies ("GenCos"), Itabo and Haina, and its distribution facilities were divided into three
distribution companies ("DisCos"), Empresa Distribuidora de Electricidad del Norte (Edenorte),
Empresa Distribuidora de Electricidad del Sur (Edesur), and Empresa Distribuidora de
Electricidad de2 Este (Edeste). In 1999, the Government auctioned 50 percent of the shares,
along with managementcontrol, in these five entities, to the private sector, for a combined price
of US$641 million, divided almost equally amongthe generationand distribution companies.

5.      Electricity Law of 2001. The Electricity Law of July 2001 (and supporting regulations
one year later) corrected weaknesses in the legal framework and established a number of
regulatory entities. The Law was based on the general principle that private enterprise should be
responsible for electricity production and distribution, and the Government for policy and
regulation. However, transmission and hydroelectric production were to continue under public
ownership, the former because of its natural monopoly nature and the need to maintain an
impartial position within the market, and the latter because of environmental and water
avai1abi1ity concerns.



                                             113

6.      Under the Law, the Government's operational presence in the sector would be through:
(a) the National Power Company (Corporacidiz Dominicam de Electricidad, CDE), which kept
contracts with the IPPs; (b) a transmission enterprise, Empresa de Transmisidii Ele`ctrica
Dominicana (ETED); and (c) a hydro generation company, Empresa de Generacidn
Hidroele`ctrica Dominicana (EGEHID). A new holding company, Compafiia Dominicana de
Empresas Elktricas Estatales (CDEEE) was establishedto own ETED and EGEHID, which had
been part of CDE. The Government planned to phase out CDE and to transfer its obligations
regarding IPP contracts to CDEEE. Finally, the Government's 50 percent holdings in the
privatized firms were assignedto another new entity, the Fondo Patrimonial.

7.      The National Energy Commission (Comisidrt NacionaZ de Energia, CNE), composed of
the Secretaryof Industry and Commerce, the Secretary of Finance, the Technical Secretaryof the
Presidency, the Director of the Central Bank, the Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of
Environmental Affairs, and the Director of the Telecommunications Institute, was put in charge
of energy policy. The Electricity Superintendency (Superintendencia de Electricidad, SIE),
headed by a council of three members, one of whom is the Superintendent, appointed by the
President and ratified by Congress, became the sector regulator. A Consumer Protection Office
(Ofcina de Proteccidn a1 Consumidor, PROTECOM) was locatedunder SIE. The Coordinating
Body (Organismo Coordinador, OC), whose directors are the Superintendent (whose vote i s
called upon as a tie-breaker) and four others from EGEHID, ETED, private generators and the
distribution companies, was placedin charge of dispatch.

8.      The crisis of 2002. Soon after the restructuring, the international increase in fuel prices
of 2000-2001 struck the country. Retail tariffs required a substantial increase; instead, the
Government froze retail prices at February 2000 levels. During the tariff freeze, the Government
sought to alleviate the financial consequences for the distribution companies through lower-
priced sales of hydro-electricity from CDE-owned plants. The Government had also taken on the
responsibility of compensating for the fuel increase, Consumer Price Index (CPI) and foreign
exchange components of the tariff for all consumers-this       became known as the generalized
subsidy. The continuing increases in fuel prices obliged the Government to inject up to US$20
millionper month into the sector; this quickly became unsustainable.

9.      The Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs) imposed a financial drain on CDE, which was
unable to draw sufficiently upon the limited fiscal resources of the central government. In 2001 it
renegotiated the PPAs and assigned some of them to the Discos or to the wholesale market
(currently five PPAs remain with CDE). In this way, the Government significantly reduced its
role as a single buyer. IPPs were to be compensated for the ensuing "stranded costs" resulting
from negotiated prices below the original PPAs. The contract renegotiations were carried out
without damaging the climate for private investments. As part of the negotiation, PPAs were
hedgedby fuel adjustment clauses. The additional costs (or savings) from changes in fuel prices,
and therefore changes in generation costs, were to be passed through by the Discos to the final
consumer's tariff.




                                              114

10.     However, the Government lacked the funds to compensate the PPs, and its accumulated
debt with them had reached US179 million by September 2002. The privatized Discos
improved somewhat the situation they inheritedfrom CDE, but continued to show large technical
and non-technical losses, and poor collection ratios. Despite Government subsidies, the increase
in fuel prices eroded the Discos' income, which led them to cut power in predominantly poor
neighborhoods where losses were more acute, and suspend payments to energy suppliers. These
power cuts also allowed the Discos to reduce their peak demand and, hence, their payments for
capacity charges. Non-payment by both the Government and Discos led the IPPs to suspend
production.

11.     The result was the worst crisis ever to strike the power sector. From mid-2002, power
cuts curtailed supplies by over 20 hours per day in vast areas, particularly the poor
neighborhoods. B y September 13, 2002, over 50 percent of all circuits of Edesur were out o f
service. The resulting riots claimed 15 lives.

12.     September 2002 reforms. On September 17, 2002 the Government announced urgent
measures to deal with the crisis and to seek a structural and permanent solution to the sector's
problems. The measures included:
        0   Payment of arrears to IPPs owed from the renegotiation of PPA contracts.

        0   Elimination of the generalized subsidy, while maintaining focused subsidies for the
            urban poor.
            Payment of the Government's electricity bills.

        0   An effort to fight electricity theft, through the establishment of the anti-fraud unit
            (Programa de Apoyo a la Eliminacidn del Fraude Ele`ctrico, PAEF).
13.     These measures were taken despite their high political cost, and were successful insofar
as they provided a brief respite from the constant drain on treasury resources. They also
eliminated a regressive subsidy that benefited well-off consumers at public expense. However,
their effects were short-lived, and the sector once more plunged into disarray in 2003.

14.     The crises of 2003. Under Resolution 31 o f 2002, which set electricity prices for
October 2002, together with a methodology for updating them, tariffs were to be adjusted to
follow variations in fuel costs as given in "Platt's oilgram" for No. 6 Fuel Oil 3.0 percent
Sulphur U.S. Gulf Coast Waterborne Price Quotation, the DR$/US$ exchange rate, and the U S
consumer price index. Until early 2003, these parameters were fairly stable; for example, the fuel
price applicable to October billings was US$22.80/bbl, and that for February 2003 was
US$22.50/bbl. However, due to the Iraq war, the fuel price applicable to March 2003 bills leapt
to US$29.73/bbl.

15.     In response, given the political sensitivity of electricity prices, and in a replay o f its
reaction to the 2000/2001 fuel price escalation, the Government, instead of reflecting this
increase fully in the March tariff, maintained the February level for residential customers' first
block (O-300kWh) and created a Stabilization Fund to cover the difference. The Fund, which
became, in effect, a record of the Government's debt to the Discos, was expected to decline
eventually, when fuel oil prices stabilized. Indeed, the fuel oil price parameter for May 2003



                                                 115

billings was already down to the October 2002 level, and it declined further to US$21.16/bblby
July.

16.      Meanwhile, however, a second element intruded, as the banking crisis led to
macroeconomicdislocations that increasedthe exchange rate from DR$lSAJS$l in January 2003
to DR$26AJS$l in May and DRS35/US$l by late July. The Government used the Stabilization
Fund to avoid the sudden price hike this would produce. But while the tariff for the first block
has remainedfrozen at February levels, in May the Government began raisingthe levels of other
categories, by 3% per month. This has limited the growth of the Stabilization Fund, but has
weakened the link betweenthe actual tariff and the efficiency tariff calculatedby SIE.

17.      The Discos supported these measures because (a) sharp increases in prices would have
hurt their collection rates, and (b) the Government was obligated to reimburse them, from the
StabilizationFund,the difference betweenthe efficiency price and the actual price.Nevertheless,
the Discos have been badly hurt financially. First, even under the efficiency-price formula there
i s a two-month lag before changes in an underlying parameter are to be reflected in the tariffs;
for example, the prices to be applied to October bills, which correspond to September
consumption, are based on August parameters. This lag works against the Discos when prices
are rising, as they must pay the GenCos the higher prices immediately. While oil prices may
tend to fluctuate, so that the gains and losses offset each other, the depreciation of the Dominican
peso has been a secular trend that has hurt the Discos badly. In addition, the Stabilization Fund
has in essence been a forced loan from just the Discos to the Government.Finally, and because
the Fund is denominated in DR$, the DR$ depreciation sharply reduced the value of the Fund
(i.e. future Governmentreimbursements)in US$, by over 30 percentjust between May and July
2003.

18.      As a consequence, the "financial blackouts" which led to the September 2002 crisis
reappeared, as GenCos declared themselves unable to finance fuel purchases because Discos
were lagging in their payments. As of early August 2003, out of 3,000MW installed, only
1,500MW were available to supply a peak demand of some 1,750MW. In October 2003, total
power generation was about 20 per cent below estimateddemand, and likely to fall even further
because many of the generators' fuel supplies (which they imported in bulk) were running low,
and they had insufficient funds to replenishthem. The situation suffered a further major setback
in September, 2003 with the withdrawal of Union Fenosa, the strategic investor in Edenorteand
Edesur, from the sector; Union Fenosa sold its interests to the Government, which is now the
sole owner of two-thirds of the distribution business. The power sector is now at a crossroads,
and the sector requires an injection of resources to recover its financial equilibrium. Support for
the Governmentto confront this crisis and to implementmeasures for a long-termrecovery is the
essence of the proposedBank programand this loan.

 B. Lessonsfrom the DominicanRepublic'sExperience

 19.     The Dominican Republic made major progress in privatization, expansion of generating
capacity, legal reform, creation of a functioning spot market and establishment of both an
independentregulatory agency and a policy-makingcommission. It attracted from abroad about
US$] billion for the power sector, in IPPs, privatization of generation and distribution and



                                                116

further investment in the privatized firms. Potentially, this set the stage for the elimination of
shortages in the very near term.

20.     Nevertheless, the major crises of September 2002 and 2003, and the significant issues
still facing the sector, suggest that the reform process was far from optimal. Broadly consistent
with the lessons from other countries, the main shortcomings of the process were:

21.     Private sector participation, first through IPPs and then through privatization, was invited
before a proper legal and regulatory framework was established; this has left the Government to
play "catch up," and has contributed to a strained relationship between the Government and the
private sector companies;

22.     Strengthening of the transmission network was not given adequate priority; the result has
been both blackouts and reduction in the scope for competition;

23.     There was little broad constituency building for the reforms, or stakeholder participation
in the key decisions; this left the regulatory agency in a politically weak position and left the
Government vulnerable to pressure to deviate from its tariff policy. It also made it more difficult
for the Discos to improve collections;

24.     Government agencies continued the practice of not paying their electricity bills, which set
a poor example for other consumers; and

25.     Because of a lack of familiarity with the concept of regulation, and perhaps also due to
the reluctance of the Government to lose control over such important matters as tariff setting and
quality standards, SIE was not provided with the authority, autonomy or prior policy guidance
essential for good regulation.

26.     In October 2003 an InternationalPanel of Experts, jointly financed by the Bank, the IMF,
and the IDB, was appointed to examine the issues and sustainability prospects of the power
sector, in the context of the re-purchase of the two distribution companies. Its recommendations
included, among others, (a) tariff increases required to bring back electricity prices to levels
which prevailed before the depreciation of the Dominican peso (i.e. around 15US@/kWh),(b)
targeting subsidies towards lower income users, (c) an agreement to normalize payments from
distribution companies to generators, (d) the implementation of institutional reforms to correct
weaknesses of the existing setup, which should culminate with (e) incorporating new private
participation in Edenorte and Edesur. It called for urgent negotiation of a "national pact" among
the political parties and the private sector, as a means for making such policy changes politically
feasible and helping ensure that they would not be reversed by future administrations.

 C. Government Response to the Crisis

27.     In September 2002, the Government took a set of urgent measures in response to the
sector crisis and resultant riots, and succeeded in improving the situation substantially. Now,
over a year later, it i s confronting a similar situation but under far worse economic conditions.
The overall sector strategy in the crisis consists of urgently restoring service and preventing a



                                                117

worseningof the blackoutsstemmingfrom an absence of financial liquidity, while ensuring that
these measures are consistent with what would need to be done over the longer term to address
the structural problems of the sector. To this end, the Government has designed a six-pronged
approach:


               0  work with the distributors, especially through continuation of the anti-fraud
                  PAEFprogram,toward reducinglosses and increasingthe collections rate; In
                  particular, it will seek to ensure that collections ratios remain at least at the
                  same levels as before the purchaseof UnionFenosa's distributioncompanies;


               0  modify the tariff regulations to reimburse distributors for the impact of the
                  two-month lag in the application of the indexed "efficiency tariff' (it takes
                  two months to calculate and apply indexationof exchange rate and fuel price
                  changes to the distribution tariff, whereas the distributors have to pay the
                  higher pricesto the generators immediately);


               0  continue the implementationof the PRA (BlackoutReductionProgram)in the
                  poor barrios, and seek ways to make this program more efficient and
                  financially sustainable;

               0  reduce gradually the subsidizationof the larger consumers, while continuing
                  to protect consumers usingless than 200kWh/mo; and continuingwith the
                  programof tariff adjustmentfor those consumingabove 200 kWh/mo as
                  announced-by the Government in December2003;

               0  makethe obligatedpaymentsto the distributors from the StabilizationFund
                  (which was establishedin early 2003 to smooth out the tariff changes resulting
                  from abrupt fluctuations in internationaloil prices, but has subsequently also
                  been usedto make moregradual the impact on tariffs of the depreciation of
                  the DR$),to cover the remainingsubsidies; these are estimatedto be around
                  US$lOO million in 2004. As a first step in this direction, it will shortly issue
                  the operatingrules for the Fund;


               0  in accordance with this Social Crisis Response Adjustment Loan, provide at
                  least US$lOO million to the distributors in 2004, in proportion to the
                  electricity sales, in the form of fuel import coupons, with which they would
                  pay the generators (directly or through CDE, which is party to some of the
                  power purchase agreements), who in turn would import the fuel needed for
                  their plants. These funds could be provided as loans or as capital injections,
                  depending upon the financial situation of the distributors. Fuel coupons
                  would be used instead of cash to ensure that the resources were used for the
                  fuel purchases necessary to maintainand increasepower generation during the
                  current shortage.

28.    In order to achieve the above objectives, the authorities have committed to transfer the
equivalent of about US$240million from the central governmentto the power sector in 2004.



                                              118

D. Longer-TermGovernment Strategy

29.      Inputs to be used. For the longer term, especially to prevent the recurrence of such
crises, a more comprehensive and profound review of the sector is required. Govemment intends
to begin now the review process, utilizing inputs from:

            A broad sector dialogue within the country, which it has already begun, with the goal
            of reachinga "political pact" on the future of the sector.
            Other Panel recommendations,e.g. regardingprivate sector participation in the power
            sector and review of the electricity law;
            The analyses by the USAID-financed consultants, on urgent sector issues;
            A preliminary power sector environmentalassessment;
         0  Preliminary work towards articulation of a policy on rural electrification;
            The initial studies and consultanciesunder the proposedPower Sector Technical
            Assistance loan from the World Bank -these are described in the documentationfor
            that loan.

30.      Upgrading the sector's institutional capacity. Creation of the SIE, CNE and OC was a
significant accomplishment of the Electricity Law. Now that these institutions have been
functioning for about two years, the Governmentintendsto:

31.      Carry out a comprehensive, independent review of SIE's role and capabilities. A
strong, autonomous SIE is critical to the operation of the new sector model. While SIE has made
significant progress, there are a number of areas of concern, including: (i)the tendency of sector
companies to try to bypass SIE and deal directly with political authorities on regulatory issues;
(ii) the lack of public understandingand support for SIE; (iii)SIE's inability, to date, to establish
incentives for auxiliary services; and (iv) excessive discretion granted to SIE in some areas (e.g.
formulas to reflect general inflation or fuel price changes), and inadequate authority in others
(e.g. quality of service in the barrios).

32.      Strengthen CNE as a policy-making body. CNE exercises a role normally located in a
ministry of energy or its equivalent. For the Dominican arrangement to work well, CNE should
improve staffing, and the relevant ministries need to support CNE's authority.

33.      Maintain the managerial strength of the OC. The OC has been the best functioning of
the new institutions, and, although managerialchanges may be inevitable, the Government gives
high priority to ensuring that the OC retains capable leadership. The Government will also
reexamine the appropriateness of having the head of SIE serve ex ofsicio as the chairman of the
oc.

34.      Separating Government's different roles: CNE and SIE. The establishment of
boundariesbetweenthese agencies requires the greatest attention:


         0  SIE must be recognized as a fully functioning regulatory agency, and interference
            with its independenceshouldend. Sector playersmust learnto use the SIE processes.
            Recourse to the Office of the President or other political agencies to change



                                               119

            unpopular decisions must be discouraged, and those agencies should stop being
            receptive to such appeals.


        0    CNE's "supervisory" role over SIE should be eliminated, thereby strengthening
             SIE's independence and freeing CNE's to function as a policy and planning agency.
            The issues include CNE's authority to review SIE decisions, and CNE's superior
            rulemaking authority relative to SIE's authority to issue resolutions. SIE should
            derive rulemaking authority directly from the statute. The authority for appeal o f SIE
            decisions should be transferred from CNE to the judicial system or to arbitration.

35.     Separating the roles of the Government as shareholder and policymaker. Four years
after privatization, the Government's shares in the sector remain in CDE. This creates a conflict
of interest that does not benefit the sector. The proposed course o f action i s to:


                 0  Transfer the Government's 49 percent share in the five privatized companies
                    from CDE to FONPER. This would result in the Government's treating these
                    shares like an investment, rather than having the temptation to try to influence
                    the companies for political reasons. Indue course, the Government will seek
                    ways to sell these shares, as a way of broadening public ownership and
                    reducing its own exposure in this sector.

                    Establish ETED and EGEHIDas legally autonomous companies. Although
                    the Electricity Law requires that these entities be kept in the public sector, it
                    permits them to become separate public companies, operated along
                    commercial lines. This i s needed to improve their management, help ensure
                    their financial sustainability (the Government has, in fact, damaged this to
                    some extent in order to achieve other sector goals, such as subsidized energy
                    to the poor and renegotiation of the PPAs), and promote a level playing field
                    for sector companies.

                    After the financial sustainability of the distribution companies has been
                    restored, re-introduce private capital and control into Edenorte and Edesur

36.     Extending and improving service to the rural and urban poor. While the overall
electricity coverage levels in the Dominican Republic are reasonable for the region, the
Government i s committed to expanding coverage further as part of its anti-poverty strategy.
However, given the stringent fiscal constraints, this requires both improving efficiency and
increasing collections from the beneficiaries:

                    0   The Government's previous rural electrification strategy, the PER, lacked
                        good economic and financial criteria, and was for grid expansion only.
                        Phase 1 of the National Rural Electrification Plan, has recently been
                        published.Based on the Phase 1 report, the Government will articulate its
                        rural electrification policy.

                    0   The Blackout Reduction Program (PRA) for the urban barrios has had
                        reasonable success in extending the hours of service, increasingthe



                                                 120

                       number of legal collections and hence the cash recovery index, and
                       developing local agencies. However, it gives some perverse incentives to
                       both the Discos and the customers, and will become increasingly fiscally
                       unsustainable as it is expanded to the remaining barrios. Also, while it
                       was intended as only a two-year program, any abrupt termination could
                       undo the benefits achieved. Accordingly, the Government will carry out a
                       comprehensive review and redesign of the PRA.


37.    Strengthening the transmission network. Transmission investment has been inhibited
by several factors, resulting in a network that i s increasingly liable to becoming overloaded, with
resultant blackouts the most visible and expensive outcome. Creating ETED is an important step
towards correcting the problem, but the Government intends to consider several additional steps:
                   Findingways to permitprivate investment in transmission, within the legal requirement
                   that the network be owned by the public sector;
                   Pressing the legislature to approve pending loans for transmission investment;

               0   Seeking to change the now anachronistic requirement that all loans for
                   transmission investment be individually approved by the legislature; and

               0   Ensuringthat the transmission tariffs are adequate (for the financial
                   sustainability of ETED) and economically efficient (so as to encourage optimal
                   use of the network).

38.    Protecting the environment. The Government has completed a preliminary
environmental assessment for the power sector, to identify the areas for further attention. This
will be followed by a strategic environmental assessment, which looks in more depth and for
each relevant investment, at all of the important concerns. Based on that, new sector
'environmental guidelines will be developed and promulgated, consistent with local conditions.




                                               121

                                     -p
                                     h m
                                       c"!




0
Y           0       2 2cc
                    IC,


            N
            cc      N -
                    IC, -




..    Y

o\    cc
      0




                  C            S
                  e,
                 .n
                  e,
                        3
                  !A
                 em      w
                        L



            .-e,>       -nm w
            h           .-Qah
                    .--0    3

            .a
             c)  cc m
           4     0 a    3   -u,
                             C ri
                    2          0

                                  DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
                                   STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                  Heldand DisbursedPortfolio
                                      As of 11/30/2003
                                       (In $USMillions)




1995         Smith-Enron           12.07    0.00  3.95 10.61 12.07  0.00 3.95  10.61
1998         FlamencoBavaro        3.54     0.00  7.70 12.21   3.54 0.00 7.70  12.21
2000         Hospiten               1.86    0.00  0.00  1.80   1.86 0.00 0.00   1.80
2000         Rica                  10.00    0.00  3.00  0.00 10.00  0.00 3.00  0.00
2002         Caucedo Port          30.00    0.00  0.00  0.00 23.80  0.00 0.00  0.00
2002         Orange Dominicana     35.00    0.00 15.00 50.00  32.53 0.00 15.00 46.47
2003         Banco BHD             10.00    0.00 10.00  0.00   0.00 0.00 10.00  0.00




               Approvals PendingCommitment


     2003ADOPEM               2.00       1S O     0.00      0.00
     2004GrupoM              20.00       0.00     0.00      0.00

Total PendingCommitment:     22.00       1.50     0.00      0.00
Source: IFC




                                            123

                                              ANNEX 10: DR AT A GLANCE
                                                                                                               Dominican Republ,

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                                  1982     1992        2001    2002
Domestic prices                                                                          Inflation(%)
("A change)
Consumerprices                                     7.5     53.9          8.9     5.2
Implicit GDP deflator                              7.9      8.3          8.4     6.4
Government finance
PA of GDP, includescurrent grants)
Current revenue                                            15.0         16.5    16.7
Current budgetbalance                                       8.3          3.9     4.6
Overall sumlusideficit                                      1.2         -1.9    -2.2

TRADE
                                                  1982    1992         2001    2002                                                    -
(US$ millms)                                                                                       Exporl and import kveis ( U S miii.)

Total exports (Merchandise)                               1,105        2,486   2,338
  Raw sugar                                                  96           65
  Raw cocoa                                                  32           38
  Manufactures                                              678        1,691
Total imports (Merchandise)                               2,785        5,937   6,237
  Food                                                       11          356
  Fuel and energy                                           507        1,240
  Capital goods                                             497        1,285


BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                                 1982     1992         2001    2002
(US$millions)
Exportsof goods and services                     1,142                                           Current Account Balanceto GDP (%)
                                                          2,354        5,485   5,183    1
Imports of goodsand services                     1,535    3,401        7,232   7,521
Resourcebalance                                   -393   -1,048       -1,747  -2,338
Net income                                        -254     -432       -1.119  -1,209
Net currenttransfers                               205      898        2.114   2,330
Currentaccountbalance                             -442     -582        -752    -807
Financingitems (net)                               295      608        1,271     282
Changes in net reserves                            147      -26        -519      584
Memo:
Reservesincludinggold (US5 millions)                        490        1,341     632
Conversionrate (DEC, local/US5)                    1.o     12.8         16.9    18.6

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                                 1982     1992         2001    2002
(US$ millions)                                                                            :omposition of 2001 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstandingand disbursed              2,521    4,613       5,093   5,693
  IBRD                                             116      255         317     350
  IDA                                               22                                                            317
                                                             19           13      13                                     13

Total debt service                                 396      346          621     914
  IBRD                                              10       44           46      46
  IDA                                                0        1            1       1
Compositionof net resourceflows
  Official grants                                    9       23          44        0
  Official creditors                              288        -9          -55   -84.9
  Pnvatecreditors                                  -12      -19         530     463
  Foreigndirect investment                          -1      180        1,079     961
  Portfolioequity                                   0         0          113      10


World Bank program
  Commitments                                       25       79          25       42     A . IBRD                                E Bilateral
                                                                                                                                   -
  Disbursements                                    25        35          49      57      B. IDA      D - Other multilateral      F. Prlvate
  Pnncipalrepayments                                2        25          24      24                                              G .Short-terr
  Net flows                                        23        10          25      33
  Interestpayments                                  8        19          23      22
  Net transfers                                     14      -10            2      11


Note:This table was producedfrom the Development Economicscentral database.                                                             8120103




                                                                       124

