Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 14072-CHA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
ERTAN II HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
JULY 7, 1995
Industry and Energy Operations Division
China and Mongolia Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of March 1, 1995)
Currency       Yuan (Y)
Y 1. 1    0=   100fen
$1.00   =  Y 8.5
Y 1.00       $0.12
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
km          Kilometer (= 0.62 miles)
kWh         Kilowatt hour (= 860.42 kcal)
GWh  =      Gigawatt hour (1,000,000 kilowatt hours)
TWh  =      Terawatt hour (1,000.000,000 kilowatt hours)
kW    =     Kilowatt (1,000 watts)
MW   =      Megawatt (1,000 kilowatts)
GW    =     Gigawatt (1 million kilowatts)
kV    =     Kilovolt (1,000 volts)
kVA         Kilovolt-ampere (1,000 volt-amperes)
MVA         Megavolt-ampere (1,000 kilovolt-amperes)l
mg    =     Milligram
m-    =     Cubic meter
tce    =    tons of standard coal equivalent
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
BERIWREP - Beijing Economic Research Institute for Water Resources and Electric
Power
CHIDI       - Chengdu H:ydroelectric Investigation and Design Institute
CNPC        - China National Petroleum Corporation
DRB         - Disputes Review Board
EAR         - Environmental Assessment Report
EEC         - Ertan Engineering Company
EHDC        - Ertan Hydropower Development Company, Ltd
EMP         - Environmental Management Program
ERP         - Environment and Resettlement Panel
GEF         - Global Environment Facility
GNP         - Gross National Product
HIPDC       - Huaneng International Power Development Corporation
MOEP        - Ministry of Electric Power
MOF         - Ministry of Finance
RB/SPG      - Resettlement Bureau, Sichuan Provincial Government
SAA         - State Audit Administration
SBC         - Special Board of Consultants
SDB         - State Development Bank
SDIC        - State Development Investment Company
SEDC        - Sunblast Energy Development Company
SEPC        - Sichuan Electric Power Company
SIC         - Sichuan Investment Company
SOEs        - State-Owned Enterprises
SPC         - State Planning Commission
SPG         - Sichuan Power Grid
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



CHINA
ERTAN II HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
LoAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                    People's Republic of China
Beneficiary:                 Ertan Hydropower Development Company, Ltd. (EHDC)
Poverty Category:            Not applicable.
Amount:                      $400.0 million equivalent. A guarantee operation is also
proposed to support commercial financing of $150
million equivalent.
Terms:                       Twenty years, including a five-year grace period, at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Commitment Fee:              0.75 percent on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60
days after signing, less any waiver.
Onlending Terms:             The proceeds of the loan would be onlent from the
Borrower to Sichuan Province for onlending to the
Beneficiary, each under a subsidiary loan agreement on
the same terms and conditions as the Bank loan, with the
Beneficiary bearing the foreign exchange risk.
Financing Plan:              See Table 5.2.
Economic Rate of Return:    16 percent
Map:                        IBRD 26552
Project ID Number:           CN-PA-3507






CONTENTS
1    The Energy Sector  .................................                                            1
A.    Overview  ....................................                                           1
B.    Energy Sector Issues  .............................                                      2
C.    Energy Sector Strategy   ...........................                                     5
D.    Bank Role in the Energy Sector  .......  .               .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  6
2    The Power Subsector ................................                                            8
A.    Background   ..................................                                          8
B.    Power Subsector Reform   ..........................                                      9
C.    Power Pricing  .................................                                        12
D.    Electricity Conservation and Environmental Protection   ..... .                 .     .  14
E.    Power System  Planning and Technology Transfer  ..... .                   .  .  .  .     .  15
F.    Role of the Bank in the Power Subsector ......  .                .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  15
3    The Beneficiary  ...................................                                          20
A.    Legal Status and Organization   .......  .             .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  20
B.    EHDC's Reform  Implementation Plan .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                21
C.    Staffing and Training   ............................                                    22
D.    Planning, Budgeting and Control  .......  .                .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  23
E.    Accounting ...................................                                         23
F.    Audit  ......................................                                           25
G.    Power Sales to SEPC   ............................                                      25
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited China in March
1995. The report was prepared by V. Mastilovic (Senior Engineer), E. Sun (Senior
Financial Analyst), N. Berrah (Senior Economist), B. Trembath (Senior Engineer),
S. Kataoka (Senior Engineer), R. Goodland (Environmental Advisor), W. Partridge
(Principal Resettlement Specialist), T. Matsukawa (Financial Officer) and K.C. Ling
(Consultant). Peer reviewers comprised: W. Cao (technical), M. Layec (economic), and
S. Shum (institutional and financial). The Division Chief is Richard S. Newfarmer, and
the Department Director is Nicholas C. Hope.



- i -
4    The Power Market and Program   ........................                                                                      27
A.       The  Sichuan  Power Grid    ..........................                                                            27
B.       Load  Forecast  .................................                                                                 28
C.       Power Development Program                        .......................                                          28
D.       Electricity  Conservation                 ..........................                                              29
5      The  Project  ......................................                                                                        31
A.       Project Background  and  Objectives   ....................                                                        31
B.       Project Description   ..............................                                                              31
C.       Cost Estimate   .................................                                                                 35
D.       Financing  Plan    ................................                                                               35
E.       Procurement  ..................................                                                                   38
F.       Project Implementation  and  Operation    ..................                                                      40
G.       Disbursement   .................................                                                                  40
H.       Environmental Considerations    .......................                                                           42
l.       Resettlement Aspects  .............................                                                               44
J.       Project Risks    .................................                                                                45
K.       Monitoring  and  Reporting  ..........................                                                            46
6      Financial Aspects   ..................................                                                                      48
A.       Introduction    ..................................                                                                48
B.    EHDC's Past and Present Financial Performance ....                                               ........            49
C.       Financial Performance  Targets   .......................                                                          49
D.       Future  Finances  ................................                                                                50
7      Economic Justification   ...............................                                                                    53
A.       Role of the Project in  Sichuan  Province    .................                                                    53
B.       Least-Cost Studies    ..............................                                                              53
C.       Environmental Benefits    ...........................                                                             54
D.       Economic  Rate  of Return   ..........................                                                            55
8    Agreements and Recommendation   .......................                                                                       56
TABLEs IN TExT
4.1   Load  Growth  of Sichuan  Power Grid  .......................                                                                28
4.2 Load Forecast for Sichuan Power Grid .29
5.1 Summary of Project Costs .............................    36
5.2 Financing Plan for the Project .37
5.3 Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements .39



- 111 -
5.4 Implementation Schedule: Estimated Annual Contractual
and Other Payments ...............................                                 41
6.1 Key Financial Indicators, 1995-2004  .......................                            51
7.1 Increases in Coal Consumption and Associated Emissions
in the Without Ertan Case  ....... .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  54
ANNEXES
1.1  Primary Energy Output in China (1949-93) .59
1.2    Total Production and Consumption of Energy vs. GNP Growth                            60
2.1    Installed Capacity, Electricity Generation, and Consumption
in the Power Subsector .61
2.2    Electricity Consumption by Sectors  ...... .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  62
2.3    Major Ongoing Power Projects with External Financing
Other than IBRD   ........  .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  63
2.4    Future Thermal Power Projects under BOT or BOO Arrangements  . . .                    64
2.5    Power Pricing in Sichuan Province ...... .            .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  65
3.1    EHDC's Reform  Implementation Plan ...... .              .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  72
3.2    Staffing of EHDC  ........  .          ..  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .    .  76
4.1    Installed Generating Capacity of Sichuan Power Grid   ..... .            .  .  .  .    .  77
4.2    Transmission Network of Sichuan Power Grid ..... .              .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  78
4.3    Energy Generation of Sichuan Power Grid  ......  .             .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  79
4.4    Energy Consumption by Category of Consumers in Sichuan Province . .                   80
4.5    Energy Forecast for Sichuan Power Grid  ...... .             .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  81
4.6    Sichuan Power Development Program  (1994-2003) ............ .                         82
4.7    System  Demand and Energy Balance of Sichuan Power Grid  ..... .                   .  84
5.1    Project Description  ................................                                 85
5.2    Consulting Services (Terms of Reference)  ......  .            .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  93
5.3    Organizational Restructuring and Financial Management Systems  . . .   .    103
5.4    Management Development and Training   ...... .               .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  109
5.5    Project Cost Estimate . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    115
5.6    IBRD Guarantee Operation   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    118
5.7    Procurement Schedule   ........  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  121
5.8    Key Dates of Project Implementation  ...... .            .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  122
5.9    Schedule of Disbursements   ....... .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  123
5.10   Environmental Management Program   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    124
5.11   Resettlement Action Plan .......  .          .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  134
5.12  Key Monitoring Indicators . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    144
5.13   Bank Supervision Input into Key Activities ......  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    146



- Iv -
6.1    Actual Financial Statements of EHDC (1992-94)  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    147
6.2    Forecast Financial Statements of EHDC (1995-2004) ..... .        .  .  .  .  .    .    149
6.3    Major Assumptions for Financial Projections . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    153
7.1  Economic Justification of the Project .155
8.1   Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File .157
CHARTS
1.   Organization Chart of the Ministry of Electric Power .159
2.   Organization Chart of the Ertan Hydroelectric Development Corporation        160
3.   Project Implementation Unit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    161
4. Sichuan Power System .162
5. Implementation Schedule .163
MAP
IBRD 26552  ........................................    165



1. THE ENERGY SECTOR
A. OVERVIEW
1.1       China has become the third largest producer of energy in the world. In 1993,
the country's primary commercial energy supply and consumption amounted to 1,117 and
1,122 million tons of standard coal equivalent (tce), respectively.  Coal is the most
important source of energy, accounting for about 74 percent, and oil for 19 percent of the
total production. Hydroelectric power (5 percent), natural gas (2 percent), and small
quantities of oil shale and geothermal power make up the balance. T'he largest consumer
of energy is the industrial sector (70 percent). followed by households (14 percent),
services (10 percent), and agriculture (5 percent). Details of the primary energy outputs
are given in Annex 1.1.
Energy Resources
1.2       The main primary energy resources in China are coal, hydroelectric potential,
crude oil and natural gas. In 1993, the country produced 1.14 billion tons of raw coal and
by the year 2000 aims to produce 1.4 billion tons of coal a year. However, insufficient
transport capacity makes it extremely difficult to move enough coal to the large consuming
centers. China is rich in water resources and has a long tradition of harnessing them for
energy and other uses, but only about 9 percent of these resources have been developed.
Most of the potential is located in the southwest (70 percent), about 1,500 km away from
the main demand centers. The long gestation period for hydroelectric projects has also
inhibited the rapid development and utilization of hydroelectric resources. The country
produced 144 million tons of crude oil in 1993, and the target output for the year 2000 is
200 million tons. In 1993, China produced 16.5 billion m3 of natural gas. About
44 percent of the current production is nonassociated gas, mostly fronm Sichuan Province.
The remaining gas production is associated with onshore crude oil production.
1.3       Known uranium reserves in China are sufficient to sustain 15,000 MW of
nuclear power capacity for 30 years. China commissioned its first commercial nuclear
power plant (300 MW) in 1992. In 1994, Daya Bay nuclear power plant (2x900 MW) was
commissioned; 70 percent of its output is intended for nearby Hong Kong.  The
construction of a few additional plants is planned to start before the year 2000, primarily
in regions that lack coal and hydroelectric resources. Other energy resources play a small
role in energy supply and are used mostly in remote areas. Geothermal energy has been
found in many locations covering nearly all the country. Although wind and solar energy
have promising prospects, they are not expected to affect the overall supply of energy
significantly in the near future. Oil shale deposits are large, but little is exploited because
of lack of viable technology.



- 2 -
1.4       Noncommercial biomass energy use currently amounts to about one-quarter
of total energy consumption in China. Fuelwood and agricultural residues are the chief
biomass fuels, and they are consumed almost entirely by rural households. China is
promoting a variety of measures to achieve environmentally sustainable biomass supply and
consumption levels, including more efficient use of biomass, tree planting, and substitution
of other fuels for traditional biomass fuels.
Institutions of the Energy Sector
1.5       The Ministry of Electric Power (MOEP) has primary responsibility within the
Central Government for policy, planning and regulations for the energy sector, along with
the Ministry of Coal and the China National Petroleum Corporation (CNPC). Chart 1
shows the organization of MOEP. The State Development Bank (SDB), established in
1994, is responsible for onlending funds for projects of national importance and
representing the Government in the joint financing of projects with other parties. The State
Planning Commission (SPC), on behalf of the State Council, has responsibility for review
and approval of the strategic plans, investment programs and general pricing policy of the
energy sector.
Energy Investments
1.6       Energy investments in the 1980s were planned based on an expected economic
growth rate of 7.5 percent a year. Actual economic growth rates exceeded this target by
a significant margin, which has exacerbated energy shortages already existing at the outset.
The Government has given high priority to developing the energy sector and also the
transport sector, a bottleneck in economic development.  In 1993, China dedicated
3.3 percent and 1.9 percent of its Gross National Product (GNP), respectively, to develop
infrastructure for energy production and transportation. It invested a total of Y 80.4
billion ($14 billion) in the energy sector, representing 27 percent of state capital
construction, as against 21 percent in the early 1980s. The power subsector accounted for
61 percent of the total. About 20 percent of the investment requirements of the Chinese
energy sector are met by foreign loans and direct investments.
B. ENERGY SECTOR ISSUES
1.7       In addition to the already noted shortages, the main energy sector issues in
China are: (a) the efficiency of energy supply and use; (b) the dominance of coal and
associated environmental problems; (c) scale and technology in energy industries;
(d) rationalization of energy pricing; and (e) institutional, regulatory and enterprise reform.
Efficiency of Energy Use
1.8       China's energy consumption per capita is low, but consumption per unit of
GNP is high compared with other countries. The high share of industrial output in GNP,
the structure of industry, the use of inefficient technology, and inadequate energy
management practices are major factors that contribute to this. Efforts to improve the



- 3 -
efficiency of energy use have been a cornerstone of China's energy policy. Particular
progress has been made in building a strong institutional framework for energy
conservation. During 1980-93, China's energy intensity per unit of GNP fell by about
30 percent in real terms (Annex 1.2). Nevertheless, further improvements in energy
efficiency are crucial. Energy supply targets for the 1990s imply that only about one-half
of the increased energy services required will come from new energy supplies, while the
other half should come from energy efficiency improvements. This will require major
progress in addressing structural and systemic issues as well as still stronger programs to
upgrade inefficient technology and strengthen energy management.
Dominance of Coal and Associated Environmental Problems
1.9       Many of China's air pollution problems are related to the heavy use of coal
and its dispersed, small-scale applications. Environmental problems occur at every stage
of the coal chain; mining and disposal of mine waste, coal washing, transport and
handling, processing and combustion, and ultimately ash disposal.  The ambient
concentration of particulates is the most serious problem; it is largely related to the
dominant small-scale use of coal, its high-ash content (20 to 30 percent), and the often
incomplete combustion. The average sulfur content of the coal is relatively low (about
1.1 percent), but because coal is used so extensively sulfur dioxide emissions are
increasing. The environmental implications of continued increases in coal use highlight
the need for the strict enforcement of environmental regulations and more investment to
conserve energy to mitigate the environmental effects of unnecessary coal consumption.
Incorporation of modern technology, achievement of suitable scale economies, and
elimination of backward small-scale capacity units is a key to improving coal utilization
in many subsectors such as thermal power generation. The scope for substituting cleaner
fuels remains limited.  The country has insufficient proven natural gas resources; its
production of oil is increasingly absorbed by transport and petrochemicals; and large
hydropower resources are located far away from major consuming centers.
Scale and Technology in Energy Industries
1.10      Coal Subsector. Over half of the coal produced in China comes from small-
scale mining operations. Exploitation of large coal reserves through uncoordinated small-
scale mining has often led to inefficiencies in production and a waste of coal resources.
In the larger mines, productivity and safety could be increased by making greater use of
mechanized systems and applying more efficient mining methods.
1.11      Power Subsector. Large-scale power development in China is beneficial from
the standpoint of both energy conservation and environmental protection. Modem thermal
power plants, with unit capacities of 600 MW, are far more efficient than smaller units
(para. 2.29). The boilers of the modern utilities also support better pollution control, thus
raising the efficiency of particulate removal.
1.12      Petroleum Subsector. In the petroleum subsector, there is a need to employ
more modern equipment and technology at all stages of exploration and development;



- 4 -
seismic survey and related data processing, exploratory drilling, and enhanced oil recovery
in order to increase production from  aging fields.  Improvements in operating and
maintenance practices are also needed to increase the efficiency of the subsector.
Energy Pricing
1.13       Energy price reform has proceeded steadily during recent years, resulting in
substantial increases in real energy prices. In the mid-1980s, dual-track energy pricing
was developed, whereby energy supplies allocated under the national plan were priced at
"in-plan" prices, at levels well below incremental production costs or border prices, while
higher, market-based prices were charged for energy supplied through the market ("outside
of the plan"). Over the years, in-plan prices increased in real terms, and the portion of
energy allocated at in-plan prices greatly declined. The Government has declared its
commitment to abolish low, in-plan prices for all the chief forms of energy by the end of
1995, with the exception of a few consumer categories (e.g., ammonia-based fertilizer
producers). The country is now in the process of completing this transition to market-
driven prices. In general, average consumer energy prices are now close to the economic
costs of supply in the principal demand centers. Distortions remain, however, in both the
structure of prices and inequitable treatment of different producers and consumers,
requiring further concerted action to complete the transition to a truly efficient pricing
system suitable for the emerging market economy.
1.14       In 1994, the Government completed implementation of full deregulation of coal
prices, so that all coal will be supplied at market-driven prices that are generally in line
with the economic costs of domestic production and distribution and are close to or above
international export price parity levels. The average retail price levels of major light
petroleum products now are equal to or exceed border prices. Average prices of crude oil
and heavy fuel oil, however, have been kept substantially lower. The Government has
indicated that crude oil prices would be increased to international levels by the end of
1995. In 1994, crude oil prices were sharply increased, closing the gap with international
prices in the case of second-class crude. As part of a gas pricing reform action plan under
the Sichuan Gas Development and Conservation Project (Loan 3716-CHA) natural gas well
head prices were increased by 80 percent in 1994. Producer prices for natural gas remain
distorted and the Project provides for continuing price reform to provide better incentives
to find and develop more resources.
1.15       Major progress has been made in increasing electricitv prices; in East China,
for example, average consumer prices now approximate the long-run marginal costs
(LRMC) of supply. Substantial improvements also have been made in producer prices in
1994. Although average levels still need to be increased to better reflect economic costs
in some areas, such as Sichuan Province, many of the remaining problems in the electricity
pricing system lie with its structure, unnecessary complexity, lack of transparency, and
continued inequitable treatment of different types of producers and consumers (para. 2.21).



- 5-
Economic System and Enterprise Reform
1.16      The process of transformation from a command economy to a market-based
economic system, initiated in the 1970s, has gained momentum in recent years, fueled by
past successes and the strong economic performance of the more liberalized sectors of the
economy. Considerable progress has been made in putting in place the appropriate
macroeconomic policy framework for the transition to a market economy, from trade to
price liberalization, to encouragement of foreign investment and nonstate enterprise
development, to decreased involvement of Government in the management and operations
of state enterprises. Since mid-1992, efforts to reform China's state-owned enterprises
(SOEs) have stepped up sharply, with the promulgation of new regulations granting greater
autonomy to enterprises and reducing the Government role in enterprise operations. A
wave of initiatives also has been launched to untie the social obligations that constrict SOEs
and provide a more market-oriented operating environment, through reformns in the
financial sector, fiscal system, pricing, housing, and the social security system. These
reform efforts are indicative of the Government's resolve to transform gradually the SOE
system into a structure of truly independent corporations. However, given the complexity
and multidimensional nature of the reform, it will take time to complete the process.
1.17      System reform in the energy sector has followed trends in other parts of the
economy. In the power subsector, the pace and depth of the reform program has increased
especially; the Government is proceeding with a far-reaching program to commercialize
the power companies, to revamp the regulatory and legal framework within which these
companies operate, and to develop more diversified sources of financing, including private
participation (para. 2.18). In the oil and gas sector, recent achievements include the
further opening of concessions to international oil companies, major price reforms, and the
introduction of competition among the various newly created subsidiaries of CNPC.
Emphasis is now being given to the commercialization and corporatization of CNPC, as
part of the drive towards greater market orientation (see China: Sichuan Gas Development
and Conservation Project). In the coal sector, progress in reform has been slower.
C. ENERGY SECTOR STRATEGY
1.18      Sector reform now plays a central role in China's energy development strategy.
To reduce the prevailing energy shortages in today's environment of rapid economic
growth will require further major improvements in the efficiency of the supply system, in
domestic and foreign capital mobilization, and in energy use. The Government is
committed to the reforms needed to make these improvements, including the
commercialization of enterprises, the achievement of greater autonomy with respect to the
government, regulatory and legal reforms to provide the framework for more market-
oriented enterprises, promotion of competition, completion of price reforms, and adoption
of a variety of new means to mobilize financing.
1.19      Efforts to improve the efficiency of energy use remain a cornerstone of
China's energy policy; it is well recognized that China's economic development goals
cannot be attained without further major efficiency gains. Focus on environmental issues



- 6 -
also has increased sharply in recent years. While heavy reliance on coal is an unescapable
necessity in China for the foreseeable future, improvements in the efficiency of coal use
and reduction of pollution from coal are recognized as critical. The Government's strategy
focuses on (a) strengthening environmental policy and regulations, (b) restructuring and
renovation of inefficient, polluting industrial capacity, (c) achievement of greater efficiency
and enhanced pollution control through development of large power and industrial plants
that properly capture scale economies, and (d) transfer and development of more efficient
and cleaner industrial and coal utilization technology.
D. BANK ROLE IN THE ENERGY SECTOR
1.20      The Bank has supported 16 projects in electric power development, 5 in
hydrocarbons (including 1 natural gas project), and 1 in coal. In these projects, particular
progress has been achieved in the Bank's support for transfer of modern technology,
development of efficient large-scale energy production facilities, promotion of modern
management practices, improvements in power system planning, rationalization of energy
pricing, and greater attention to environmental issues. With the Bank's assistance, the
Chinese have developed capabilities to assess properly the economic costs of power and
coal projects, and formulate their price reform strategies. In the case of power, a joint
effort to establish LRMC and pricing principles for East China has been followed up
through the development of provincial tariff refonn action plans under recent power
projects. A strengthening in environmental and resettlement policies and programs has
been achieved through Bank assistance to develop and apply new methodologies and
approaches for environmental impact assessments and resettlement planning, and adoption
of environmental and resettlement procedures in strict conformity with Bank and national
standards.
1.21      The Bank's assistance program for energy in China places special emphasis
on energy conservation, improved coal utilization and sector reform. Through sector
work, technical assistance and lending operations, the Bank is pursuing a program of
assistance to increase energy efficiency, improve coal utilization and reduce air pollution
stemming from coal use. A dialogue with the Government has been established through
three joint studies, Efficiency and Environmental Impact of Coal Use (Report No. 8915-
CHA, 1991), Environmental Strategy Paper (Report No. 9669-CHA, 1992), and the
Energy Conservation Study (Report No. 10813-CHA, 1993). Further technical assistance
and preinvestment work is under way with support from the Global Environment Facility
(GEF), including a joint study by Chinese agencies, the Bank and UNDP, to examine
options for greenhouse gas emission control (China: Issues and Options in Greenhouse
Gas Emissions Control, 1994). A program of new GEF investment projects is being
developed, including projects to promote the development and production of high efficiency
industrial boilers, encourage energy conservation investment in industrial enterprises, and
others. Because the issues involved concern energy use across the economy, investment
and policy support also will continue to be provided through industry and urban/
environment Bank lending operations, as well as those in the energy sector.



- 7 -
1.22      The Bank is actively involved in providing assistance for China's reform
efforts in the oil, gas sector and power subsectors. Following completion of a successful
joint workshop in China on petroleum sector reform, a major technical assistance effort
has been launched with Japan Grant Facility assistance to review (a) establishment of an
appropriate legal and regulatory framework for the oil and gas sector, (b) competition
policy and petroleum market development, and (c) institutional restructuring of CNPC.
The Bank's power sector assistance program includes sector work, technical assistance and
lending operations, at central, regional and provincial levels. At the central level, a 1993
study, ("Strategic Options in Power Sector Reform in China") supported by the
Institutional Development Fund (IDF), provided a vehicle for dialogue between the Bank
and key national and provincial representatives. Follow-up sector work culminated in a
recent sector report ("China Power Sector Reform: Towards Competition and Improved
Performance," Report 12929-CHA, 1994). The dialogue at regional and provincial levels
is being developed primarily through lending operations, which focus on implementation
of key aspects of power sector reform and extension of the reform program from advanced
coastal provinces to less-developed interior provinces.



- 8 -
2. THE POWER SUBSECTOR
A. BACKGROUND
2.1       China is the fourth largest producer of electricity in the world. By the end of
1993, China's total installed capacity reached 182.9 GW, with 75.6 percent based on
thermal power and 24.4 percent based on hydropower (Annex 2.1). China has 13 power
networks with capacities of 1 GW or more. They include five regional power grids (East
China, North China, Northeast China, Central China and Northwest China), which
coordinate the systems of several provinces together, and eight major separate provincial
grids. In 1993, the total length of extra high voltage (500 kV) transmission lines reached
10,231 km and the capacity of substations amounted to 35 GVA.
2.2        Total power generation in China reached 836 TWh in 1993, of which thermal
power accounted for 82 percent. The share of hydroelectric power has remained fairly
stable and the Government has maintained a strong commitment to hydropower
development, but the distance of major resources from load centers inhibits more rapid
development. In thermal power, coal-fired plants provide about 90 percent of generation.
The share of oil-fired generation, accounting for most of the balance, has declined sharply
since the early 1980s. Natural-gas-based generation is negligible and is expected to remain
so, barring unforeseen major natural gas discoveries. Including all aspects of the power
supply, regardless of ownership, transmission and distribution losses in China's power
system amount to about 16 percent of generation.
2.3       Although China's power development program emphasizes addition of 300 to
600 MW units, over one-half of China's thermal power capacity is still in units below
200 MW. Only about 15 percent is in units of 300 MW or more, compared to 60 to
80 percent in industrialized countries. The average gross conversion efficiency of thermal
units over 6 MW has improved slightly over the 1980s, reaching 31 to 32 percent in the
early 1990s. This efficiency level is not unreasonable given the small unit sizes, but is
substantially lower than the 36 to 37 percent typical of systems with larger units.
2.4       Industry continues to dominate electricity consumption in China, accounting
for 76.6 percent of electricity use in 1993; 6.3 percent was consumed by agriculture,
8.9 percent by residential users, 6.3 percent by municipal and commercial consumers, and
1.9 percent in transportation/communications (Annex 2.2). Although service is of uneven
quality, rural access to electricity is high; 96 percent of the nation's villages and about
80 percent of rural families now have access to electricity.
2.5        Between 1980 and 1993, total power generation in China grew at an average
rate of 8.0 percent a year. Growth was particularly robust during 1985-88. It tapered off



- 9 -
during 1989-90, when economic growth slowed, but picked up once again, with increases
in generation of 9 percent in 1991, and 11 percent in 1992 and 1993. Industrial demand
has continued to drive overall power demand; 74 percent of incremental electricity use
between 1985 and 1993 was in the industrial sector.
2.6       Despite the strong growth in electricity output, most areas of China continue
to suffer from severe power shortages. Since GNP grew by 9.3 percent a year during the
1980-93 period, the elasticity of electricity consumption growth relative to GNP growth
was only 0.86, an exceptionally low elasticity for any country over a sustained period, and
particularly for an industrializing country such as China. The Chinese estimate that there
is a shortfall between peak power demand and supply of 15 to 20 percent. Daily load
curves are relatively flat, as industries have had to respond to power shortages during the
peak daytime periods through rescheduling of work shifts. The minimum load factor in
the Sichuan power grid in 1993, for example, was 82 percent.
2.7       China's GNP is expected to grow by at least 8 to 9 percent a year during
1995-2000. This growth will put tremendous pressure on China's electric power industry
to avoid yet worse shortages. Building further upon the gains achieved over the last 10
years, the country's programs to increase the efficiency of electricity use must be greatly
intensified. Even so, China's electric power construction program for the 1990s will be
the world's largest.  Assuming that an aggressive conservation effort can enable an
electricity demand/GNP growth elasticity of 1.0 to be sustained, electricity demand could
be expected to continue to grow at average rates of 8 to 9 percent a year during 1994-
2000. This implies an increase in production from 621 TWh in 1990 to 1,380-1,480 TWh
in 2000, and a growth in installed capacity from 138 GW in 1990 to 300 GW in 2000.
To keep pace with this demand growth, China would need to add some 17 to 20 GW of
capacity a year, compared to the 14 GW added in 1991, 13 GW added in 1992 and 16 GW
in 1993.
2.8       The principal issues that must be addressed in order to meet successfully
China's development challenge in the power sector are discussed in the sections below.
B. POWER SECTOR REFORM
Achievements
2.9        General. Reforms in China's power sector during the 1980s involved a series
of incremental adjustments, largely responding to the need to mobilize additional
investment capital to finance rapid growth.  Taken together, these adjustments have
resulted in a sector structure that is largely unrecognizable from that of the previous three
decades. In 1980, the power sector was fully controlled, managed and funded by Central
Government departments. By the early 1990s, however, the sector had become much more
decentralized and less vertically integrated.  Particular progress has been made in
diversification of financing sources, institutional restructuring, and pricing reform.



- 10 -
2.10      Diversification of Financing Sources.  Following change in investment
funding from Government grants to loans in the early 1980s, the Government encouraged
the development of financing for new projects from additional sources including provincial
and local governments, independent corporations, and, in some cases, private foreign
partners. Since the mid-1980s, the Government has allowed power produced from power
plants financed through these nontraditional sources to be sold at prices that provide for
adequate debt servicing and reasonable profit. The share of Central Government financing
in power sector investment has fallen sharply, from 91 percent in 1980 to 30 percent in
1992. Empowered with rights to impose surcharges to accumulate funds for investment
in power construction, provincial and local governments have become a key source of
financing, providing about 44 percent of the investment funding in 1993.
2.11      Newly formed corporations also have become important players. The Huaneng
International Power Development Corporation (HIPDC) was formed in 1985 with the aim
of attracting foreign capital and technology for power plants located mainly in coastal
areas. HIPDC had a mandate to raise funds from the international financial market, and
it has tapped bilateral and suppliers' credits, and commercial bank loans. It is now seeking
foreign equity participation through issuance of marketable shares on international markets.
The recently established Sunburst Energy Development Corporation (SEDC) is another
window for the Government's investment in cofinancing with the local governments and
foreign sources in energy projects, with three large thermal power projects now under
implementation.
2.12      As an independent power producer, HIPDC operates its 15 plants (5,800 MW
total) under a build, own, and operate (BOO) framework. Build, own and transfer (BOT)
schemes also have been introduced in China, most notably the privately financed Shajiao
thermal power plants in Guangdong Province. Current Government policy encourages
greater foreign direct investment in the sector (para. 2.18, and Annexes 2.3 and 2.4).
2.13      Institutional Restructuring. Provincial power companies have become the
utilities in charge of management and operation of the bulk of the nation's power system.
MOEP is charged with overall sector coordination and policy guidance, and is no longer
involved in enterprise management.   Regional power entities are charged with
responsibilities for regional grid coordination and dispatching.
2.14      The nature of the provincial power companies varies substantially, but few
remain as monopolies of the power supply systems in their respective provinces. At the
distribution level, about one-third of the country's urban distribution companies and five-
sixths of the country's rural distribution utilities are separate economic entities. At the
generation level, semi-independent joint-investment plants and fully independent power
plants have been developed in many areas, selling power to the provincial power
companies.



- 11 -
The Current Reform Agenda
2.15       In line with stepped-up national reforms toward a market economy begun in
mid-1992, the Government recently initiated a broad program of sector reforms in the
electric power industry. The reform agenda includes: (a) further commercialization of
power companies, including provision of greater autonomy; (b) rationalization of power
tariffs; (c) realignment of the regulatory and legal framework for the sector, including the
promulgation of a National Electricity Law, and (d) strong encouragement for further
diversification in financing for power development, including private sector participation.
2.16       Commercialization and Corporatization. The goal is to develop the nation's
power companies into efficient, commercial, autonomous entities, fully responsive to
market forces. The most important steps toward this goal, which also will be supported
in Sichuan through this and other projects, are:
(a) Separation of government functions from power companies. To transform
companies into commercial entities, government regulatory functions must be
entrusted to agencies separate from the power companies, and the power
companies should be given the mandate to operate as business-oriented
enterprises.
(b)  Strengthening of power company autonomy. In particular, provincial power
companies need to be granted greater financial autonomy, including expanded
rights to undertake investments and to raise funds.
(c)  Adoption of modern, commercial accounting and financial reporting practices.
In line with the introduction of international accounting practices, efficient cost
accounting and financial reporting systems are necessary to enable power
company managers to control costs and accept financial accountability.
(d)  Clarification of asset ownership rights.
(e)  A narrowing in power company operations to core activities, and gradual
elimination of social welfare responsibilities, initiated through current efforts
to "spin off" peripheral operations, and deepened as reforms proceed in the
social security system, unemployment insurance, etc.
(f)  Incorporation of companies operating in the sector into limited-liability or
limited-shareholding companies.
2.17       Legal and Regulatory Reform. China is in the process of developing an
overall legal and regulatory framework for operations in the power industry. The existing
legal framework consists of a multitude of inconsistent regulations and rulings, developed
over many years. There is a need to establish both the principles and model contracts for
establishing more transparent and efficient economic relationships between the various
entities now involved in the sector, including different grids, semiautonomous joint-



- 12 -
investment power plants and independent power producers. To meet the needs of the new
market-oriented environment, the Government is preparing the National Electricity Law
for possible promulgation in 1995. This will provide the umbrella principles for the legal
and regulatory system. A series of more specific regulations, consistent with the principles
of the proposed Law is also being prepared. The emerging new regulatory system will
include different government regulatory functions at central and provincial levels, and will
include the separation of government oversight functions from power company
management. A major and innovative experiment is being carried out in Hainan Province
to make the transition to an unbundled sector structure with separate regulation. Actions
undertaken include: creation of a transmission and distribution shareholding company.
several generation companies, including a wholly foreign-owned one, and creation, on
June 1, 1995, of a separate agency to regulate the sector. Lessons learned from this
experiment will be taken into account in deepening the power sector reforms in other
provinces, including Sichuan Province.
2.18       Further Diversification of Financing Sources and Private Participation.
Financing of the power expansion program during the 1990s (para. 2.7) will require
aggressive efforts to mobilize increased resources through all potential financing channels.
The Government recognizes that domestic sources of financing and borrowings from
international multilateral and bilateral institutions will not be sufficient to meet the sector's
financing needs. Accordingly, the Government is encouraging direct foreign investment
in the power industry. Independent power production schemes that have already been
developed or are slated for future expansion include privately owned BOT schemes and
Chinese/foreign joint-venture BOO schemes.  Many other such schemes are in the
negotiation stages, but progress is slow because the Government has no clear regulatory
framework and policies to encourage competition at entry. Rapid expansion of this form
of foreign investment may also require Government acceptance of higher rates of return
to investors and acceptance of a greater share of risks, especially foreign exchange
convertibility and other policy-related risks. Competitive bidding for power projects would
be the best means of establishing the market rate of return to international investors.
C. POWER PRICING
2.19       Electricity price reform in China has involved a series of incremental changes
taken over the last 10 years. In the mid-1980s, multiple-track pricing was introduced for
both producers and for consumers, in line with the shift away from full vertical integration
in the industry (para. 2.13). This strategy was successful in increasing overall tariff levels
in most regions but, by the end of the decade, the power pricing system had become too
complex and difficult to manage. Recent reforms have therefore focused on simplification
and rationalization of the system.
2.20       Producer Prices. A full overhaul was completed during the summer of 1993
of the state catalog prices charged for power produced by plants financed by the Central
Government. Prices for the electricity produced from all new power plants are now set
by contract to cover financing and operating costs, on a plant-by-plant basis, and rolled
into the power tariff. Cost recovery through the tariff system for new investments is thus



- 13 -
ensured. The electricity tariff applied for plants built with grant financing before 1985 has
been revised and rationalized, and now includes an improved mechanism for automatic
adjustment in prices to reflect annual changes in fuel costs. Revision of producer prices
for old power plants to provide for an appropriate rate of return on revalued assets is
expected shortly.
2.21       Consumer Prices. Consumer electricity prices include summations of the state
catalog prices; the costs of the growing other sources of power supply not financed through
the Government; and a series of local fees and surcharges. While the situation varies
somewhat between regions, the nature of the existing pricing system is such that average
consumer prices can now be expected to approximate LRMC levels in areas with rapid
load growth, such as the coastal provinces. Prices in less-developed areas relying heavily
on hydroelectric power, such as Sichuan Province (Annex 2.5), may still be somewhat
below LRMC levels, but should gradually be brought into line with growth in new
capacity.
2.22       While tariffs are approaching satisfactory levels in most regions, the structure
of consumer prices remains too complex, lacks transparency, and is inequitable. In certain
areas, unfair "old" administered rates and "new" guidance rates continue to be applied to
different consumers. Some consumers are protected from high-cost electricity supply
charges and certain local surcharges because they still hold "in-plan" quota allocations, but
other new or small consumers must pay high prices well above actual supply costs.
2.23       Directions for Further Reform.  While the 1993 reforms brought major
improvements, further reforms are still necessary to increase tariff levels in the regions
where they still remain somewhat under the cost of economic supply, and to simplify and
rationalize the power tariff system. The proposed project will focus on rationalization of
wholesale prices and long-term power sales agreement to achieve economic dispatch and
increase potential for competition. Financial covenants on sale price will ensure a rate of
return on revalued fixed assets of at least 15 percent, after full commissioning of the power
plant (para. 6.11). Since the full cost of generation will be passed on to the consumers in
accordance with the "new plant/new price" policy, the project will, given its size,
contribute in bringing final consumer prices more in line with economic costs.
2.24       Furthermore, a package of tariff reforms to both increase the price level and
to simplify and rationalize the consumer tariff in Sichuan is supported under the recently
approved Sichuan Power Transmission Project (Loan 3848-CHA). The package includes
(a) adjustments in the level of tariffs applied to SEPC's own generating facilities, to reach
an average sale price (not including local add-ons) of 41.23 fen/kWh (equivalent to US
4.85) in 1998 and higher thereafter, to conform with the financial covenants of the Sichuan
Power Transmission Project; (b) implementation of time-of-day and seasonal tariffs for all
customers supplied at the 100 kVA level or above by the end of 1995, accounting for about
60 percent of power sales; (c) application of time-of-day and seasonal tariffs to the sales
of all power stations above 10 MW, between 1995 and 1997; (d) gradual implementation
of reforms to unify the two-track system of administered and guidance consumer prices
into one consumer tariff, with completion in all prefectures in the province in 1997; and



- 14 -
(e) development and implementation of improved power purchase agreements between
independent Power Producers (IPPs) and SEPC, beginning in 1995.
D. ELECTRICITY CONSERVATION AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
Electricity Conservation
2.25       The industrial sector is the key to more efficient use of electricity (para. 2.4).
At a macro level, the most important factors determining China's ability to produce more
economic output with less electricity are the share of industry in future growth and changes
in industrial structure. Other especially important issues include the rate of modernization
in industrial process technology and China's ability to produce and disseminate high
efficiency electricity-using equipment, such as transformers, motors, fans, purnps, and
cooling equipment.
2.26       China has over 10 years of experience in the active promotion of electricity
conservation, with a solid record of achievement. The strength of its program lies in the
well-developed institutional framework. Electricity conservation is handled by the network
of Three Electricity Offices, with offices at central, provincial, prefectural and county
levels throughout the country. These offices are under the leadership of local Economic
Commissions, and coordinate their work with provincial power companies. They monitor
electricity intensity and use patterns in all major enterprises, promote adoption of
conservation technologies and electricity management improvements, and assist, at times,
in organizing funding for efficiency improvements.
2.27       Continuous improvements in the efficiency of electricity use are imperative if
China is to realize its economic growth goals. Three areas receiving increased attention
are: (a) improvements in coordination between industrial planning and electricity demand
and supply planning at local levels; (b) expansion of programs to reduce losses in power
distribution systems; and (c) development, production and dissemination of high-efficiency
equipment, including variable-speed motors and modern appliances.
Environmental Protection
2.28       Thermal power production currently accounts for about one-quarter of China's
coal consumption, and this share is expected to increase gradually. Improvements in the
efficiency of coal use in this sector not only alleviate pressure on the coal production and
transportation system, but also have a major impact on particulate, and sulfur and carbon
dioxide emissions.
2.29       The achievement of economies of scale in thermal power production, through
expanded development of large generating units, is an issue of overriding importance.
Particularly disturbing is the recent rapid growth of small coal-fired power plants, in unit
sizes of 50 MW or less. While national policy emphasizes the addition of 300 MW and
600 MW units, new projects have lagged behind demand, largely due to difficulties in
mobilizing the necessary large investment resources. As a consequence, local governments



- 15 -
are continuing to invest in large numbers of new small plants. Compared with a state-of-
the-art plant, these plants consume over 60 percent more coal per unit of electricity
produced. This results in at least 60 percent higher sulfur dioxide emissions (depending
upon the coal used), and roughly 60 percent greater emissions of carbon dioxide.
Particulate emissions from the small plants are proportionally even higher, due to use of
inefficient particulate control technology. If a sufficient pipeline of large-scale projects
cannot be brought on stream in a timely fashion, there is little doubt that this problem will
worsen.
2.30       In terms of emission control in large- and medium-scale plants, China has
made substantial progress in particulate control, through deployment of high-efficiency
electrostatic precipitators. As the country has large reserves of low-sulfur coal, China is
just beginning to employ sulfur dioxide control devices in the power sector. Top priority
should be given to areas that must rely on local high-sulfur coal, such as in southwest
China. In these regions, thermal power plants often burn coal of over 4 percent sulfur
content (i.e., 5 to 10 times the level typical in most of north and east China), and
development of sulfur dioxide control strategies and corresponding investments are now
urgent in these areas.
E. POWER SYSTEM PLANNING AND TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER
2.31       Power System Planning. Support for strengthening China's capabilities in
least-cost generation planning in both east China and Sichuan was provided under previous
Bank loans. As provincial systems become more complex, increased emphasis is required
on transmission and distribution planning.
2.32       Modern Technology Transfer. For China to achieve its ambitious goals for
the power sector, the transfer of appropriate modern technologies will be crucial. This is
particularly important for thermal power plants, where increases in the steam parameters
and unit sizes can improve efficiency and reduce atmospheric emissions. Technology
transfer is also needed for large hydroelectric projects, particularly in connection with
project management to reduce construction times, generating equipment quality and
environmental assessments.
F. ROLE OF THE BANK IN THE POWER SUBSECTOR
2.33       The Bank has supported the Government's efforts to foster efficient and
sustainable development of the power sector through sector work, policy dialogue, and a
series of lending operations. In previous years, the Bank's participation in the power
sector in China has particularly focused on institution building, price reform, improvements
in system planning, and the transfer of appropriate modern technologies.
2.34       The Bank has helped to finance 16 large power generation, load management
and transmission projects (seven hydro, seven thermal, and two transmission). Through
these operations, the Bank has helped to introduce: (a) latest techniques in generation,
transmission and distribution planning, and system operations and control; (b) modem



- 16 -
equipment for generation, pollution abatement and control; (c) new methods of project
planning, design, construction management, and environmental impact assessment;
(d) improved level and structure of power tariffs; and (e) improved financial planning and
utility management.
2.35      All of the power projects financed by the Bank are being implemented in a
satisfactory manner, generally on schedule, and within budget. The first five projects,
Lubuge Hydroelectric (Loan 2382-CHA), the 500-kV Xuzhou-Shanghai Transmission
(Loan 2493-CHA), the Yantan Hydroelectric (Loan 2707-CHA), the Beilungang Thermal
(Loan 2706-CHA) and the Wujing Thermal (Loan 2852-CHA), have been successfully
completed. Several initial problems in the implementation of the Shuikou Hydroelectric
Project (Loan 2775-CHA and Loan 3515-CHA) were resolved and commissioning was
almost on schedule. The construction of the Ertan Hydroelectric Project (Loan 3387-
CHA), Daguangba Multipurpose Project (Loan 3412-CHA and Credit 2305-CHA) and
Tianhuangping Pumped-Storage Hydroelectric Project (Loan 3606-CHA) is progressing
well. The thermal power projects under construction, Beilungang Extension (Loan 2955-
CHA), Yanshi (Loan 3433-CHA), Zouxian (Loan 3462-CHA) and Yangzhou (Loan 3718-
CHA), are proceeding on schedule. The Sichuan Power Transmission Project (Loan 3848-
CHA) and the Zhejiang Power Development Project (Loan 3846-CHA) were approved in
February 1995.
Lessons Learned
2.36      Lessons learned from previous lending operations and from international
experience in power sector restructuring were taken into account in developing the Bank
power sector assistance in China and in designing the concept of the proposed project.
2.37      In power sector restructuring and reform  implementation, international
experience shows that even in countries with strong legal systems and open economies, the
time needed to build consensus on the reform directions, establish a new regulatory
framework, and implement structural changes can be very long. In the United Kingdom,
the pioneer country in implementing power sector reformns, it took: (a) about 10 years for
a government strongly committed to divesting and "demonopolizing" the utility sectors to
build consensus and put out the "White Paper" that laid out the reform options; (b) two
more years to draft the law and the licenses; and (c) another two years (for about 1,000
full-time specialists) to design the mechanisms to introduce competition. Currently, only
large customers can choose their supplier and full choice for customers has been delayed
until 1998. In the United States, where the power industry is mostly private, significant
development of the independent power business began to take place more than 10 years
after the enactment of the basic legal framework-which was intended to encourage
cogeneration and alternative generation technology, not the business of independent
merchant generation using medium- to large-scale conventional technologies. The first
important structure change, under discussion in California, is planned to go into effect after
1996. In Central and Eastern Europe countries, hopes for achieving quick progress in
economic regulation in all sectors have not materialized because of perceived weaknesses
in their legal systems and the lack of interest of governments in attracting large-scale



- 17 -
private investments because of overcapacities and slow growth of demand. Considering
China's 40-year history of a command and control economy, the progress achieved during
the last decade and especially during the early 1990s clearly indicates the government's
commitment to reform and to increasing the credibility of its macroeconomic policies, but
the process will take time and require tremendous efforts as the country is learning by
doing as well as from the experiences of other countries. As experience in Central and
Eastern Europe shows, the pursuit of transparency and accountability of energy and other
utilities is the best way to achieve progress in economic regulation. Along the same lines,
the Bank's two-pronged power assistance program in China focuses on (a) policy dialogue
at the central government level, to clarify the concepts of and stress the need for economic
regulation and an adequate legal framework through technical assistance activities; and
(b) requirement and implementation of adequate and reliable accounting and financial
systems, proper methods for financial control of state-owned enterprises, encouragement
of diversification of ownership, and adequate and binding contractual arrangements to
increase transparency and accountability through lending projects.
2.38       Problems identified in previous lending operations, particularly the Lubuge,
Yantan and Shuikou Hydroelectric Projects were specifically addressed in the preparation
of the first Ertan project, and are largely responsible for its successful execution to date.
Weaknesses in the International Competitive Bidding (ICB) process for civil works were
corrected, as a result of which strong joint ventures have been employed for Ertan.
Similarly, the ICB process for generating equipment was adjusted to ensure that technically
and financially qualified manufacturers take full responsibility for supply.  Local
procurement in previous projects has generally been efficient in terms of cost, quality and
completion time. Exceptions have been taken into account in the current project, in that
high voltage (500 kV) transformers are now internationally procured. The Chinese also
learned from the earlier projects the value of experienced foreign consultants and expert
review panels and, for the Ertan project, they have reinforced the experienced local
organizations with the best expertise available internationally. In the past, institutional
development studies have been slow to start.  Therefore, in the proposed project,
procurement of consultants for the organization and management study has already
commenced, and the supervision plan includes appropriate specialists to ensure that these
studies achieve their objectives.  Lessons learned from  earlier reservoir resettlement
projects in China in relation to resettlement budgeting, flexibility in resettlement planning
and monitoring arrangements, have been taken into account in the proposed project.
Although performance in environmental areas has been satisfactory in Chinese projects,
the emphasis given to environment in the first Ertan project and in the current project, is
much greater than for earlier projects.
The Current Bank Power Sector Assistance Program
2.39       In line with the Bankwide power policy (The World Bank's Role in the Electric
Power Sector, 1993), the Bank has developed a new power sector assistance program in
China that places central focus on reform. This is outlined in the Country Assistance
Strategy (CAS) presented to the Board of Executive Directors on June 1, 1995, and is
discussed in detail, together with complete analysis of the related issues, in the recently



- 18 -
issued report China Power Sector Reform.  Towards Comnpetition and Improved
Performance (Report 12929-CHA, 1994). At the central level, a strong dialogue on reform
was initiated through completion in 1993 of a study entitled Strategic Options in Power
Sector Reform in China, involving the Bank and key national agencies, with support from
IDF. Arising from this study was the above-mentioned report that outlined a strategy for
power sector reform. Specific follow-up was provided with a study aimed at identifying
options for mobilizing domestic and foreign savings in the power sector, and recently a
new initiative has been launched, again with IDF support. Technical assistance will be
provided to central authorities to develop an improved legal and regulatory framework for
the power industry.
2.40      The dialogue at the regional/provincial level is being developed primarily
through lending operations. While the focus of each operation varies, all new power sector
lending operations in China are being designed to implement key aspects of the overall
reform  program.  Some operations, such as the Yangzhou and Zhejiang Projects,
concentrate on deepening the reform program in relatively advanced provinces, and the
implementation of reform initiatives that can serve as models for other areas. The Sichuan
Power Transmission Project and the proposed project concentrate on extending the reform
program to less-advanced inland regions, in part through dissemination of experiences
gained elsewhere.
2.41      The June 1995 Country Assistance Strategy for China identified six main
points to provide the focus for Bank assistance:
(a)  commercialization and corporatization of operating companies and enterprises;
(b)  realignment of regulatory and legal frameworks;
(c)  introduction of competition and transparency;
(d)  ensuring adequacy of the tariff policy;
(e)  development of new sources and methods of financing; and
(f)  transfer of new technology and modem  operational and environmental
techniques.
2.42      The proposed project supports the Bank strategy in most of the above areas.
Commercialization and corporatization are achieved through the incorporation of EHDC
as a limited-liability company, and through its Reform Implementation Plan. Competition,
transparency and tariff reform are promoted through the establishment of EHDC as an
independent power producer with a fully commercial power sales agreement with SEPC,
which ensures an economic tariff level and structure.  Financing diversification is
supported through the use of the Bank-guaranteed commercial cofinancing. Transfer of
technology and modem environmental techniques are also encouraged through investment,
technical assistance and training components of the project. The power sector and tariff



- 19 -
reform measures of the proposed project complement those agreed to be implemented as
part of the recently approved Sichuan Power Transmission Project (Loan 3848-CHA). The
latter project targeted reform of the overall power sector in Sichuan, and particularly the
Sichuan Electric Power Company (SEPC). It provided for: (a) studies to define the
optimum structure of the power sector in Sichuan Province; (b) implementation of a
package of province-wide tariff reforms; and (c) separation of government functions from,
and incorporation of, SEPC. Taken together, the two projects provide for comprehensive
power sector reform at the provincial level.



- 20 -
3. THE BENEFICIARY
3.1       China is in the process of reforming its state enterprise system through
progressive development of a suitable corporate legal system. It has thus come a long way
from carrying out its economic agenda through state enterprises wholly owned, controlled
and operated by line departments and agencies of the Government. The Law of the
People's Republic of China on Industrial Enterprises Owned by the Whole People enacted
by the National People's Congress in 1988 has introduced the concept of semi-independent
management and allowed more operational autonomy. Following the promulgation of the
Company Law in late 1993 (effective from July 1, 1994), the Government is actively
promoting the transformation of state enterprises into shareholding or limited-liability
companies.
A. LEGAL STATUS AND ORGANIZATION
3.2       The Beneficiary of the proposed loan is the Ertan Hydropower Development
Company, Ltd. (EHDC), an independent enterprise created in 1988 with the aim to
accelerate the construction of large, economical hydroelectric projects in southwest China.
EHDC is responsible for the development of hydroelectric resources of the Yalong, Jinsha
and Dadu rivers in Sichuan Province, the first of such schemes being the Ertan
hydroelectric development. EHDC is a separate legal and accounting entity with sole
responsibility for procurement. A Charter of EHDC was issued in 1990. At that time,
however, EHIDC's activities were dominated by the construction of the Ertan hydroelectric
plant. As the commissioning of the plant approaches, EHDC is preparing for its future
role as the most important IPP in Sichuan Province. To ensure a smooth transition to this
role, governance, and to take into account the new laws and regulations enacted since its
creation, EHDC has recently revised its Charter.
3.3       The registered capital of EHDC is Y 4.6 billion. The new Charter (dated
February 9, 1995) empowers EHDC to obtain funds from various sources such as:
(a) investments from the state and the province; (b) loans from financial sources such as
banks and financial organizations both domestic and foreign; (c) electricity sales and
charges for specific power use; (d) stocks and bonds; and (e) joint ventures with foreign
companies. EHDC is also authorized to use its retained profits for investment purposes.
Although EHDC has the corporate powers to invest and issue bonds, these activities are
regulated and government approvals are required at various levels.
3.4        EHDC has been entrusted by central and provincial governments with the
management and administration of the Ertan hydroelectric project. The scope of EHDC's
business includes undertaking construction of power projects funded either by the state or
by local finance. Pursuant to the Charter, EHDC has the power to obtain loans from and



- 21 -
to enter into contracts with various organizations including foreign institutions (with the
permission of concerned government authorities).  EHDC therefore has the requisite
authority to receive the proceeds of the proposed Bank loan through the Central
Government, to carry out the proposed project, and to enter into a project agreement in
respect thereof with the World Bank.
3.5       The new Charter provides for the establishment of a Board of Directors to
represent the interests of the investors (owners) and supervise the management of the
company. Members of the Board are appointed by the State Development and Investment
Corporation (SDIC), Sichuan Investment Company (SIC) and Sichuan Electric Power
Company (SEPC). EHDC is headed by a General Manager appointed by MOEP (in
consultation with the Board of Directors) and assisted by three Deputy General Managers.
The organizational structure of EHDC is shown in Chart 2. Satisfactory results have been
achieved in establishing EHDC and recruiting its management and professional staff. The
organization of EHDC is suitable for managing major hydroelectric projects and appears
appropriate for the current institutional setup in China. Although EHDC has a capable and
experienced staff, further enhancements are needed in managing EHDC's affairs and
developing staff skills. Therefore, EHDC managerial staff will continue to broaden and
acquire the modern management knowledge and experience necessary not only for carrying
out large and complex hydroelectric projects in an effective and timely manner, but also
for operating efficiently and commercializing the output of the plant after its
commissioning. To this end, systematic management development and staff training will
be provided and supported by the proposed project. The exercise of managerial and
administrative powers (e.g., hiring and firing of staff and labor) is, however, controlled
by "relevant state rules and regulations." EHDC has pursuant to the Charter issued
various administrative rules and regulations including regulations on power plant
management.
B. EHDC's REFORM IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
3.6       A key objective of the proposed project is to assist EHDC's conversion into
the most independent (nonutility) power producer in Sichuan Province and increase its
commercial orientation and responsiveness to market signals. In consultation with the
Bank, EHDC has prepared a Reform Implementation Plan for the Commercialization of
EHDC (Annex 3.1), which consists of an integrated, time-bound package of reforms, many
of which would be implemented in China for the first time. The principal features of this
package include:
(a)  incorporation of EHDC into a limited liability company fully in accordance
with the Company Law, with autonomy in its own operations, accountability
in its own operations, accountability for its profits and losses, and self-
sufficiency in its development; this step has been completed;
(b)  development of internal regulations to promote adequate corporate governance;



- 22 -
(c) restructuring of EHDC's internal organization, improvement of its
management and control systems and development and implementation of
suitable financial management and accounting systems adapted to the
restructured internal organization; and
(d)  negotiation of an appropriate power sales agreement for the power and energy
generated by the Ertan plant, to protect its commercial interests and ensure the
most efficient use of its assets.
3.7        Working together with SEPC, beneficiary of the Sichuan Transmission Project
(Loan 3848-CHA) and other relevant agencies, EHDC will also prepare a detailed
evaluation of the option of direct access to large customers. EHDC's program has been
approved by the Board of Directors of EHDC, the Sichuan Provincial Government and
MOEP and its implementation has commenced.
3.8       The above plan complements the reform plan discussed and agreed at the
provincial level under the Sichuan Transmission Project. The Sichuan Reform Plan
includes: (a) a study to assess the structure for the power industry, identify the needs for
further structural reforrn, including entry and competition at the generation level, and
clearly demarcate an optimal role for SEPC as the province's core utility and manager of
the unified grid; and (b) a detailed plan to corporatize SEPC and fully separate government
functions, particularly regulation, from the company by 1998.
C. STAFFING AND TRAINING
3.9        Currently, EHDC has a total staff of 500, of which about 20 percent are
engineers and technical staff, 10 percent administrative staff, and 70 percent service
personnel and workers. EHDC has contracted construction management of Ertan to the
Ertan Engineering Corporation (EEC) headed by the EHDC's Deputy General Manager
and Chief Engineer (para. 5.23). Most of the personnel are experienced staff transferred
from other power agencies, including (a) Lubuge Project Construction Management
Bureau; (b) Chengdu Hydroelectric Investigation and Design Institute (CHIDI); (c) various
hydroelectric construction bureaus in China; and (d) other electricity supply bureaus. Of
the 500 total staff, 148 are regular staff and the balance are contract staff. EHDC has 14
functional divisions and offices.  The organization structure of EHDC and EEC is
presented in Chart 2 and Chart 3, respectively. Details of staffing for EHDC and EEC are
shown in Annex 3.2.
3.10      EHDC does not yet have staff training facilities. Currently, it is dependent
upon the training facilities of SEPC, which includes one technical school/training center
for skilled workers, and two electric power institutes for technicians. There are 1,503
teaching and administrative staff in all these training and educational centers, which have
a total enrollment of 6,742 students. This training capacity is sufficient to meet the long-
term needs of SEPC and EHDC. However, the skills of teaching staff and quality of
teaching facilities need to be upgraded and modernized. Training needs to be designed to
help senior managerial, financial and technical staff adapt to the new situations brought



- 23 -
about by a larger and more complex hydroelectric plant. The training component included
in the proposed project is designed to meet these needs. It also covers upgrading and
equipping of EHDC's training institutions and project-related training for technical staff
(paras. 5.10-5.11).
D. PLANNING, BUDGETING AND CONTROL
3.11      Power bureaus and companies are responsible for developing annual and five-
year production and investment plans that are integrated into the national plans and are
approved, through MOEP's and EHDC's auspices, by SPC. In the past, financial planning
was confined to attaching monetary values, predetermined by the former Ministry of
Energy, to the quantities being planned. Although a power entity's plan might be revised
to reflect changes, it would ordinarily not be revised to reflect differences between
estimated prices and actual prices.
3.12      However, with the economic changes in the 1980s, prices have begun to move
toward market levels and the Government has begun to finance more investments through
loans rather than grants. Centralized control is being relaxed and replaced by greater
financial autonomy and responsibilities for the power entities. To address these changes,
EHDC will need to incorporate modern financial and operational planning.
3.13      MOEP recognizes the importance of financial management in the power
subsector in China and are organizing a comprehensive training program for all the power
institutions under its control. Many of the power bureaus/companies have been equipped
with computers and software for planning, budgeting, and accounting functions.
Information from the bureaus/companies can be transferred to MOEP and consolidated into
regional and national data.
3.14      The new systems represent a good first generation of automated management
information; however, they still are not sufficiently flexible to take into account price
changes at the local level or those associated with large-scale debt service obligations.
Currently MOEP, with assistance from the Bank, manages a number of seminars in China
and overseas covering computer-based management information systems as well as tariffs,
cost control, project financing, comparative accounting systems, and the organization and
structure of financial management. After EHDC installs the new financing management
information system to be financed under the proposed project (para. 3.16), it will be able
to significantly upgrade its financial planning, budgeting and control capability.
E. ACCOUNTING
Enterprise Accounting
3.15      All the state-owned enterprises in China, including EHDC, follow a uniform
enterprise accounting system according to detailed regulations established by the Ministry
of Finance (MOF). The old accounting framework in effect before July 1, 1993 was
developed in the context of a highly centralized planned economy. With a view to



- 24 -
complementing China's move toward a market-oriented economy and strengthening
enterprises' financial management, MOF introduced new regulations covering accounting
rules and financial affairs on July 1, 1993. The revised accounting principles are generally
consistent with international accounting standards. Within this broad framework, specific
accounting standards are being developed with the assistance of the Bank under the
Financial Sector Technical Assistance Project (Credit 2423-CHA).
3.16       The main differences between traditional Chinese accounting practices and
international practices relate to: (a) the approach for determining and accounting for equity
and for separating those items now accounted for through special funds that relate to
liabilities, such as provision for payments to employees; (b) the need to include
construction in progress and related liabilities in the accounts, which are now only included
after construction has been completed; (c) the introduction of concepts for providing for
probable losses, such as a provision for doubtful debts and for stating inventories at the
lower of cost and net realizable assets; (d) the need to deduct general administrative
expenses allocated to products not sold from operating income during the year the expense
items incurred; (e) the need to treat overall costs as capital expenditures; and (f) the change
to record sales and costs on an accrual basis from a cash basis. These differences have
been generally addressed in the new regulations. It is essential for EHDC to implement
a new accounting and financial management system that will recognize commercial
practices in a market-oriented economy and provide transparent information for investors,
government lenders, and the public in general. Under the proposed project, training in
modern financial management, including international accounting practices, would be
provided to financial staff of EHDC.
3.17       The proposed project would include a technical assistance component to
support EHDC to make a speedy and smooth transition to the new accounting system,
based on the principles promulgated by MOF in 1993 and upgrading its financial
management system, including provision of software and hardware, as well as enhancement
of its staff skills (para. 5.9 and Annex 5.3). Training in modern financial management,
including international accounting practices, would also be provided to senior managers and
financial staff of EHDC (para. 5.10).
Revaluation of Fixed Assets
3.18       The Chinese traditional accounting system has not required revaluation of fixed
assets. In the past, the revaluation of assets probably would not have had a major impact
on enterprises' financial status because of low inflation and low foreign content in existing
assets. However, with recent inflation and the depreciation of the renminbi, the need to
revalue assets became more compelling and, following guidelines on asset revaluation
issued by the State Council in 1993, all power entities in China revalued their fixed assets.
This revaluation had no impact on EHDC because it had not completed any project by the
end of 1993.  Also, under the revised accounting principles, enterprises in certain
categories such as those who enter into joint ventures with foreign partners or merge with
other enterprises are required to revalue their assets prior to the restructuring.
Furthermore, regular revaluation of fixed assets is now recognized in China as being



- 25 -
essential for the future corporatization of power entities and for a better foundation for
managing state assets.
F. Al)DIT
3.19       Under the proposed project, EHDC's accounts will be audited by Sichuan
Provincial Audit Bureau under the supervision of the State Audit Administration (SAA).
This arrangement is satisfactory. Assurances were obtained from EHDC that they would:
(a) have audited EHDC financial statements and project accounts for each fiscal year bv
auditors acceptable to the Bank; and (b) furnish the Bank witli financial statements and
project accounts as so audited within six months of the end of each fiscal year.
Understandings were also reached that EHDC would require its auditors to: (a) include
in the audited financial statements a summary of any differences in the basis of accounts
due to the conversion to new accounting policies; (b) provide a management letter
summarizing any significant errors that may have been discovered during the audit, and
any major weaknesses in internal control; and (c) provide, on request, a copy of its audit
plan.
G. POWER SALES TO SEPC
3.20       The Ertan hydroelectric plant is being built by EHDC exclusively to serve the
Sichuan power market through the network owned by SEPC. The planned output will
provide 20 to 30 percent of SEPC's sales to consumers over years 2000-2010. A formal
sales contract between EHDC and SEPC will need to be entered into before the Ertan
hydroelectric plant begins operations in 1998. Under the previous loan, understandings
were reached with the Government and EHDC on the following principles governing the
sales contract:
(a)  the revenues generated by EHDC's sales would ensure its financial viability,
as measured by the agreed financial performance targets (para. 6.11);
(b)  the project output would be fully dispatchable under the instructions of SEPC's
control centers, according to the principles of the power sales agreement;
(c)  charges would be levied separately on a functional basis for peaking capability
(kW) and energy output (kWh); and
(d)  the above charges should not exceed SEPC's avoided costs defined as the fuel
and capacity costs that SEPC would have to incur in the long run if the project
output were not available.
Given the increasing independence of provincial power companies, before negotiations,
EHDC submitted a memorandum of understanding signed by SEPC and EHDC, which
confirmns that: (a) the future power sales contract will be based on the above principles;
and (b) the agreement will be finalized no later than June 30, 1997. Technical assistance
will be provided to EHDC under the project to assist EHDC in negotiation of an



- 26 -
appropriate power sales agreement. Assurances were obtained from the Borrower that it
will take all measures necessary to ensure that SEPC will enter into a power sales
agreement conforming to the above principles, not later than June 30, 1997, and from
EHDC that it will take all measures required on its part to enter into such an agreement
by that date. The date for finalization is one year later than provided for in the existing
loan agreement, but still well before the October 1998 commercial operation of the first
generating unit. It has been delayed as long as possible to ensure that latest developments
in accounting reform, possibly involving frequency and procedures for revaluation of
assets, are taken into account in the agreement.



- 27 -
4. THE POWER MARKET AND PROGRAM
A. THE SICHUAN POWER GRID
4.1        The proposed project would be located in Sichuan Province, which is
experiencing remarkable economic growth; its industrial output increased in 1993 about
21 percent in spite of acute power shortages. Many problems with power supply in the
area have so far been averted by improved power subsector performance, especially energy
conservation and load management measures. Also, increased capacity will be needed in
view of the Government's open-door policy and the consequent foreign investments and
private sector developments, which require an adequate supply of high-quality power.
Sichuan is expected to match the degree of market orientation that other provinces already
display.
4.2       In 1993, Sichuan Province had a total installed generating capacity of
10,527 MW; 5,968 MW thermal and 4,559 MW of hydropower (Annex 4.1). The major
generating facilities include 8 hydro and 12 thermal power plants owned by Sichuan
Electric Power Company (SEPC), 2 thermal power plants owned by HIPDC, and a number
of captive and other local plants. The captive power plants total about 1,015 MW in
installed capacity. Electricity generated in the province in 1993 amounted to 47,087 GWh,
of which 19,586 GWh was generated by hydro plants and 27,501 GWh by thermal power
plants. SEPC's operated power plants produced 27,145 GWh, about 58 percent of the
total. The composition of the power system in Sichuan Province is rather complicated.
It is explained in Chart 3 and the documents in the Project File (Annex 8.1).
4.3        The transmission system in Sichuan Province in 1993 consisted of 5,064 km
of 220 kV lines, and 9.257 km of 110 kV lines. SEPC owns and operates nearly all
220 kV, and 110 kV networks. The system also includes transformer substations, with a
total capacity of 6,356 MVA in 220 kV and 8,117 MVA in 110 kV (Annex 4.2).
4.4        The growth of energy generation and requirements in the Sichuan Power Grid
(SPG) between 1987 and 1993 is shown in Annex 4.3 and summarized in Table 4.1.
SPG's peak demand has increased more rapidly than energy requirements. The system has
a maximum daily load factor of about 93 percent and an annual load factor of 82 percent.
The peak load usually occurs in September/October.
4.5       In 1993, electricity consumption of the SPG amounted to 35,345 GWh, of
which industry accounted for 84 percent, agriculture 2.6 percent, residential 8 percent,
commercial and other municipal customers in the cities 3.4 percent, and transport/
telecommunications 2 percent (Annex 4.4).



- 28 -
Table 4.1: LOAD GROWrH OF SICHUAN POWER GRID
Year           Energy requirement (GWh) /a       Peak demand (MW)
1986                   21,035                          2,894
1987                   22,449                          3,088
1988                   24,418                          3,188
1989                   26,848                          3,488
1990                   28,229                          3,666
1991                    30,518                         3,926
1992                    33,051                         4,290
1993                   35,345                          4,874
Average annual growth    7.6%                           7.7%
/a Including generation and purchased energy.
B. LOAD FORECAST
4.6        Load forecasts for the years 1995 through 2005 have been developed as part
of the economic planning process carried out by SEPC and its consultants. The forecasts
were obtained by applying a combination of statistical methods and planning targets to
every major consumer category. In particular, industrial loads were estimated on the basis
of a market survey and the projected industrial output growth and electricity intensities for
different categories of industry. Rural loads were estimated based on past trends for
drainage and irrigation, rural industries loads, and lighting.  Municipal loads were
estimated based on market surveys of hotels, buildings, and government projects. Specific
demand management and energy conservation measures have been fully incorporated in the
load forecasts. Details of the energy forecasts for SPG are given in Annex 4.5 and
summarized in Table 4.2.
4.7        The load growth forecasts appear to be reasonable considering that: (a) power
shortages have been occurring for a long time, so there is likely to be a lot of suppressed
demand for electricity; and (b) Sichuan Province has been one of the fastest growth areas
in China. This load growth is expected to sustain a GNP growth of about 8 to 9 percent
in real terms up to the end of the century. Without further implementation of the
province's electricity conservation programs (para. 4.10), growth in demand would be yet
higher.
C. POWER DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
4.8        A study of the least-cost investment program  was made by the Beijing
Economic Research Institute for Water Resources and Electric Power (BERIWREP) in
1993 and revised in 1994. The study is based on an optimization of SPG's expansion
program for the period 1994-2010. The analysis shows that the development program for



- 29 -
Table 4.2: LoAD FORECAST FOR SICHUAN POWER GRID (SPG)
Year              Energy requirement (GWh)        Peak demand (MW)
1993 (actual)               35,345                       4,874
1994                        39,000                       6,180
1995                        42,300                       6,730
1996                        45,900                       7,330
1997                        49,800                       8,000
1998                        54,000                       8,700
1999                        58,000                       9,400
2000                         62,000                      10,000
2005                         87,000                      14,100
Average annual growth:
1994-2000                    8.3%                        10.8%
1994-2005                    7.2%                        8.5%
SPG should be based primarily on construction of the Ertan Hydroelectric plant, other
baseload coal-fired thermal power plants and related power transmission network
expansion. The study also confirms that there are no other alternatives better than the
proposed project (paras. 7.4 and 7.5) to meet the future power supply requirements.
4.9        A summary of the power development program (1994-2005) for the SPG
system is given in Annex 4.6. The balances between power demand and supply are
presented in Annex 4.7. They demonstrate that the power system will be short of energy
supply and capacity up to the year 1998. Only after the completion of the Ertan project,
the power system will have adequate reserve margin in energy and peaking capacity.
D. ELECTRICITY CONSERVATION
4.10       Similar to most other provinces in China, Sichuan operates a well-organized
program for electricity conservation (demand-side management). The program is jointly
implemented by the Provincial Economic Commission and SEPC, and their respective
subunits at prefecture and county levels. The program focuses primarily on (a) close
monitoring of unit electricity consumption levels in individual industrial enterprises, as part
of the power consumption quota system; (b) assisting enterprise managers to identify areas
for electricity savings; (c) implementation of electricity conservation measures in power
stations and the transmission and distribution network; and (d) promotion of new
electricity-saving technologies. Electricity conservation plans are prepared each year, and
results evaluated the following year, for overall improvement in the efficiency of electricity
use per unit of industrial output, electricity conservation within the electric power system,
reduction in unit electricity levels in specific enterprises, and adoption of electricity-saving
equipment and specific technical renovation measures by consumers.



- 30 -
4.11      During 1990-93, unit electricity consumption per unit of gross industrial output
in Sichuan Province fell by about 14 percent. Within the electric power system, electricity
conservation measures focused particularly on replacement of inefficient fans and pumps
in older power plants, distribution line upgrading and renovation, replacement of high-loss
transformers, and addition of capacitance for power factor correction. Electricity-saving
technologies for consumers specially promoted during the last few years have included
computerized energy management systems, more efficient fans and pumps, more efficient
lighting equipment, and a wide variety of specialized industrial process equipment. End-
use technical conservation initiatives monitored by SEPC yielded a total savings of about
550 GWh during 1990-93.



- 31 -
5. THE PROJECT
A. PROJECT BACKGROtND AND OBJECTIVES
5.1        Project Background. The Ertan Hydroelectric Scheme is located on the lower
reaches of the Yalong River in southwestern Sichuan Province. The Executive Directors
approved the first loan for the Ertan Hydroelectric Project in July 1991. The loan amount
of $380 million, requested by the Government, was relatively low in comparison to the
their estimated foreign cost of $1,155 million. The first loan was earmarked for financing
of the first five years of construction, and in consideration of the size of this large project
with a nine-year construction period, it was understood that the Bank would consider a
request for a second loan for the remaining period of the project.
5.2       Project Objectives.  The objectives of the Project are to assist in the
(i) alleviation of acute power shortages in Sichuan in a least-cost manner through the
completion of the Ertan Hydroelectric Scheme; (ii) further institutional development of
EHDC as an autonomous, financially sound and commercially-oriented entity; (iii)
promotion of competition through the development of market-oriented commercial
arrangements for the sale of power generated under the Project; (iv) diversification of
financing strategies for power development: and (v) transfer of modern technology for
hydroelectric power plants in the Borrower's territory.
B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
5.3        The proposed project would first provide for the completion of the Ertan
hydroelectric scheme, all components of which were covered under the first loan. There
are virtually no changes in the original description of the physical facilities of the project,
as detailed in Annex 3.1 and in the Staff Appraisal Report of June 11, 1991 (Report No.
8470). However, this second project will include a Reform Implementation Plan (para.
3.6) supported by technical assistance and training to incorporate EHDC as a limited-
liability company, in accordance with the new Company Law, and upgrade its management
systems and capabilities to undertake its operational and commercial functions after the
commissioning of the first unit in 1998.
5.4        The Ertan Hydroelectric Project consisted of:
(a)  preparatory works, including access roads and bridges, water and electricity
supply, communication links, and various construction plant and site facilities;
(b)  construction of a parabolic, double-curvature arch dam (240 m high with a
crest 775 m long) across the Yalong River, together with an underground



- 32 -
powerhouse complex, log conveyance system, and appurtenant works and
structures;
(c)  supply and installation of six 550-MW  generating units and associated
electrical equipment, including a 500-kV step-up substation;
(d)  resettlement of about 30,000 people affected by the project;
(e)  an environmental management program (EMP) and creation of a science
station for environmental monitoring and studies;
(f)  consulting services for engineering, procurement, management of construction,
and preparation of future power projects;
(g)  studies of (i) power pricing for Sichuan Province and optimal operation of the
power plant and reservoir, and (ii) investigations and tests related to safety of
structures, monitoring of energy-dissipation facilities, and powerhouse
ventilation; and
(h)  management and staff training, computers and application software, and
accessories.
The proposed project covers continuing work on all of the above components and an
expanded resettlement program for about another 5,000 persons (Annex 5.11). For
Technical Assistance components, the proposed project will contain (a) TA for Policy
Support (Reform plan and Financial MIS -- para. 5.9); (b) TA for Project Implementation
Support (Engineering and Construction Management -- para. 5.6 and Environmental
Protection Management -- para. 5.35); and (c) TA for Institutional Development
(Management Development and Training -- paras. 5.10 to 5.14). Allocated costs for those
TA components will be $37.7 million.
5.5       Construction of the Ertan Hydroelectric Project started in 1991 and is
progressing satisfactorily. The Yalong River was diverted in November 1993 as originally
scheduled. Concrete placement for the main dam commenced in September 1994, as
programmed. The excavation of the underground powerhouse complex is also proceeding
on schedule.
Consulting Services
5.6       Design of the Ertan development has been entrusted to Chengdu Hydroelectric
Investigation and Design Institute (CHIDI), while construction management and supervision
is the responsibility of EEC (para. 5.23). Due to the magnitude and complexity of the
project and the use of foreign construction contractors and equipment suppliers, as well as
foreign financing sources, EHDC has appointed experienced and qualified international
consultants who are now playing a key role in assisting CHIDI and EEC in design and
construction management.



- 33 -
5.7       The main consultancy contract, which was awarded to Harza Engineering of
the United States, covers assistance in contract administration, cost control, scheduling,
construction inspection and quality assurance, design engineering services, and construction
site administration during the entire implementation period. Terms of reference for these
services and details of the collaboration with EHDC and CHIDI are given in Annex 5.2.
Other contracts have been awarded to EDF of France for assistance in mechanical and
electrical design and specifications, and to the Advisory Group of Norway for advice in
underground excavations. In addition to the engineering consultants, there are three other
groups of specialists that are assisting EHDC for the successful completion of the project:
(a) Special Board of Consultants (SBC); (b) Disputes Review Board (DRB); and
(c) Environmental and Resettlement Panel (ERP). SBC has been active since early in the
preparation stage of the project. It is composed of international and Chinese experts and
has formally convened eight times to date. Contacts are maintained between formal
meetings. A mechanical and electrical branch of SBC also met to review bid documents
for the main equipment. DRB was set up for the civil works contracts to enable prompt
resolution of contract disputes and thereby enhance international competition, reduce bid
prices, and expedite construction of the works at lowest cost. The contractors and EHDC
each selected a member of the DRB and the third member, the chairman of DRB, was
selected by these two. The members of DRB are independent and, as required by their
rules, may not be from home countries of contractors or China. To date, they have met
five times. ERP is made up of prominent foreign and Chinese experts in the area of
environment and resettlement as set forth in OD 4.0, Annex B. The first meeting of ERP
was in June 1992, and they have met annually since then. Assurances were obtained that
EHDC will continue to employ: its Special Board of Consultants to undertake periodic
review of the darn during its construction to ensure its safety; and its Environmental and
Resettlement Panel to review periodically and advise on environmental aspects of the dam
construction and resettlement under the project.
5.8        The total cost of engineering services is estimated at about $80 million, of
which $32 million is in foreign exchange for about 1,450 staff-months of foreign
consultants. This would be financed under Loan 3387-CHA and the proposed loan.
Services borne by foreign grants from Norway and Technical Cooperation Credit funding
used to prepare the first project are not included in the above amounts.
Organization Improvements, and Management Information Systems
5.9        EHDC's activities are still dominated by the construction and implementation
of the Ertan hydroelectric plant. To ensure a smooth transition to its future role as the
most important independent power producer (IPP) in Sichuan Province, EHDC has revised
its Charter to take into account the new laws and regulations enacted since its creation and
set out the rules defining how the company would operate. Also, EHDC plans to introduce
modern management methods, and design and implement adequate financial and
information systems and procedures taking account of the new accounting regulations
introduced in China and best practices in other countries.  An organization and
management study under the proposed project is aimed to help develop EHDC's
operational and commercial capabilities. The objectives of the study are to: (a) review



- 34 -
the current organizational structure of EHDC, its accounting and financial management
practices, and the progress achieved in implementing the new accounting rules; (b)
examine staffing and employment policies; (c) recommend improvements in organization
and staffing needed to prepare EHDC for its operational and commercial functions; and
(d) develop accounting and financial management systems that prepares the transition of
EHDC to a financially autonomous and commercially-oriented company and facilitates
EHDC's access to domestic and foreign financial markets. The scope of the assistance to
develop the modem accounting and financial systems, together with the terms of reference,
is given in Annex 5.3. Assurances were obtained from EHDC that it would engage by
March 31, 1996 consultants to assist in the review of its organization and management
system, furnish the results and recommendations of such reviewvs to the Bank, and
implement the recommended organizational improvements and accounting and financial
management systems, taking into account Bank comments, not later than June 30, 1997.
Management Development and Training
5.10      To meet the long-term needs of EHDC's staffing requirements and to further
develop EHDC's management capability, a comprehensive training program is included
under the proposed project. It consists of the following: (a) training in institutional
development and enterprise reform matters; (b) training in utility management and financial
planning; (c) project-related training for technical and operational staff; and (d) upgrading
and equipping of EHDC's training facilities.
5.11      High-level management, planning and financial staff will receive training in
modem management and decision-making techniques, particularly in utility reform and
management, planning of investments, engineering economics, power pricing, financial
operations and management information systems. Engineering personnel will also receive
training in their specific fields, especially related to construction of large hydroelectric
plants, operation and maintenance, etc. Part of the training will be carried out in China
in the form of seminars, conducted by Chinese and foreign experts. This will then be
followed by study tours and overseas training through visits to a few selected utilities and
modern hydroelectric schemes.
5.12      Project-related training will include: (a) on-the-job training for the engineering
and construction management staff to be implemented by working together with the foreign
consultants; (b) training of engineering staff under the contract for major project
equipment; and (c) training of operation and maintenance staff at other similar power
companies in China and abroad. The foreign cost component of such training will be
included in the equipment contracts.
5.13      Comprehensive training on both environment and resettlement matters is
provided for under the project.  Environmental training will include local inservice
training, out of area inservice training (elsewhere in China and overseas), and academic
training. Environmental training activities actually commenced in 1993. In addition,
Sichuan Province has applied for an IDF grant to support continuing operations of the
Province's Resettlement and Development Center. The Center is already providing



- 35 -
training courses for village, county and city resettlement officials working on the Ertan
resettlement program.
5.14       About 91 staff members, with total staff-months of 169, will be trained abroad,
of which 21 staff-months are for senior management, 44 staff-months for legal, technical
and business management staff, 60 staff-months for financial staff, 8 staff-months for
environmental and resettlement staff, and 36 staff-months for power plant operations (see
Annex 5.4 for details). In addition, 46 people will receive technical training with a total
staff-months of 109 by foreign suppliers of goods and services. Training in China will
involve 300 staff, totaling 2,520 staff-months in the form of seminars in various fields,
school training, and power plant practice for operation and maintenance staff. Assurances
were obtained from EllDC that it would carry out its management development and
training program in accordance with a time-bound schedule acceptable to the Bank.
C. COST ESTIMATE
5.15       The total cost of the project is estimated at $2,200.2 million equivalent
excluding interest during construction (IDC), of which $930 million (42.3 percent)
represents the foreign exchange component. Annex 5.5 contains, in detail, the estimated
cost of the project, which is summarized in Table 5. 1. -he cost estimates reflect early
1995 prices and are based on the actual costs and signed contracts for civil works and
major equipment, and recent tendering information available for similar projects, including
contract prices for other equipment and control systems.  Physical contingencies are
calculated based on remaining works at 10 percent for preparatory, land acquisition, arch
dam,  engineering,  contract  administration,  technical  assistance,  environmental
management, studies and training; 20 percent for underground works; 15 percent for
resettlement; and 7 percent for the electromechanical equipment and control systems.
Price contingency allowances for foreign costs estimated in US dollars are calculated
according to anticipated international price increases of 2.2 percent a year on average for
the period 1995-2001.  The price escalation for costs expressed in local currency is
calculated according to projected domestic inflation rates of 14.0 percent for 1995, 10.5
percent for 1996, 8.5 percent for 1997, 7.0 percent for 1998; 6.5 percent for 1999; and
6.2 percent thereafter.
D. FINANCING PLAN
5.16       The total financing requirements (including IDC of $739.9 million equivalent),
are estimated at $2,940.1 million equivalent. The State Development Investment Company
(SDIC), the Sichuan Investment Company (SIC), and the Sichuan Electric Power Company
(SEPC), as shareholders of EHDC, would provide equity investment of Y 4,600 million
with 48, 48, and 4 percent of the amount, respectively. The balance of the total domestic
financing and IDC will be provided in the form of term loans by the State Development
Bank (SDB), SIC, PCBC, and other local banks. The loans are expected to have a
variable interest rate (currently about 14.76 percent a year) and a maturity of 15 years,
including 5 years of grace. The local financial arrangements are acceptable to the Bank.



- 36 -
Table 5.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
Foreign
Description                Local   Foreign    Total    Local  Foreign   Total   as % of
--------- (Y million) ---------    -------- ($ million) --------    Total
Preparatory works            531.7       0.0    531.7   107.5        0.0   107.5    0.0
Land acquis. & reset.       1,282.9      0.0   1,282.9   168.2       0.0   168.2    0.0
Civil Works                3,092.7   4,606.2   7,698.9   413.3   639.9  1,053.2   60.8
Administration & other works   953.0    22.8    975.7    145.9       2.7   148.6      1.8
Electromechanical eqpt.      913.8   1,239.6   2,153.4   109.3   146.7   256.0   57.3
Power transformers            51.1     187.4    238.5       6.1    22.2    28.2   78.7
Gates/hoists, etc.           307.0      29.6    336.6    36.5        3.5    40.0      8.8
Engineering & constr. mgmt.   302.3    220.3    522.6    44.4    28.2    72.6   38.8
Environmental protection      47.1       3.9      51.0      6.8      0.5      7.3    6.8
Reform plan & fin. MIS         4.5      16.9      21.4      0.5      2.0      2.5   80.0
Training                      25.9      25.4      51.3      3.1      3.0      6.1    50.0
Total Base Cost          7,512.0   6,352.0  13.864.0  1,041.5   848.6  1,890.1   44.9
Contingencies:
Physical                    579.9    526.0   1,105.9    68.6    62.3   130.9   47.6
Price                     1,153.1    881.7   2,034.8    27.4    19.1    46.5   41.1
Taxes and duties            1,120.9      0.0   1,120.9   132.7       0.0    132.7    0.0
Total Proiect Cost      10.365.9   7,759.7  18,125.6  1,270.2   930.0  2,200.2   42.3
Interest During Const.     3,879.1   2,370.5   6,249.6   459.3   280.6   739.9   37.9
Total Financing
Required               14,245.0  10,130.2  24,375.2  1,729.5  1,210.6  2,940.1   41.2
Notes:  1. Base costs are at early 1995 prices and prevailing exchange rate of $1/Y 8.5.
2. Interest during construction (IDC) is based on onlending rates for projected disbursements
of loan proceeds. The foreign currency portion of IDC is based on the Bank's variable loan
rate, and on respective rates for guaranteed commercial financing tranches.
5.17        The proposed Bank loan of $400.0 million plus the commercial funding of
$150 million covered by the Bank's guarantee would cover the project's remaining foreign
costs, excluding IDC. Details of the financing plan are summarized in Table 5.2. The
Bank loan will be used to finance the following project items:
(a)   major civil construction works for the dam and underground powerhouse;
(b)   electromechanical equipment, goods and materials;
(c)   construction and maintenance equipment;



- 37 -
Table 5.2: FINANCING PLAN
($ million)
Local         Foreign         Total
Loan 3387-CHA                                      0.0          380.0         380.0
IBRD loan                                          0.0          400.0         400.0
SDIC (equity)                                    261.6            0.0         261.6
SDB (loan)                                       490.7          103.4         594.1
Construction Bank (central)                       77.5           31.3          108.8
SIC (equity)                                     261.6            0.0         261.6
SIC (loan)                                       566.8          134.7         701.5
Construction Bank (province)                       1.4            0.0           1.4
SEPC (equity)                                     21.8            0.0          21.8
Local bank                                        48.1           11.2          59.3
Guarantee financing                                0.0          150.0         150.0
Total Financing Reguired                 1 729.5        1,210.6       2 940.1
Note:   IBRD loan + guarantee financing = $550 million. TCC and Norwegian grant financing not
included.
(d)  consulting services for engineering and construction management;
(e)   environmental management program;
(f)   consulting services for its organization and management study and for
development of accounting and financial management systems; and
(g)   management development and staff training.
5.18       The proposed Bank loan will be made to the People's Republic of China at the
Bank's standard variable interest rate for a 20-year term, including 5 years' grace.
Proceeds of the loan would be onlent from the Government through Sichuan Province to
EHDC with terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Assurances were obtained from
the Government that it would onlend the proceeds of the proposed Bank loan to Sichuan
Province for onlending to EHDC, each under a subsidiary loan agreement with a term of
20 years, including a 5-year grace period, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
EHDC will bear the foreign exchange risk. Execution of the subsidiary loan agreements
between the Government and Sichuan Province, and between Sichuan Province and EHDC
will be a condition of effectiveness for the loan.
5.19       The proposed guaranteed commercial financing in the amount of $150 million
will meet one of the key objectives of the project: encouraging alternative financing
strategies for power development. Under the Bank guarantee program, the People's
Republic of China will borrow long-term commercial funds with a maturity of 15 years



- 38 -
including a grace period of 5 years, and the funds will be onlent to EHDC. The Bank will
provide a partial credit guarantee of principal payment due under the commercial
financing. The transaction will be in two tranches, one in US dollars ($100 million) and
the other in German marks ($50 million equivalent). The framework of the guarantee
transaction is summarized in Annex 5.6. The Bank's exposure represented by the present
value of the guarantee under the planned structure would initially be about $20 million or
14 percent of the total loan amount mobilized by the guarantee.
E. PROCUREMENT
5.20      In the past, the main issues in connection with procurement of works and
goods in the power subsector in China included reluctance to use consulting services,
delays in the procurement process and in domestic contract approval, lack of coordination
and clarity of responsibility among agencies involved in the procurement process, and very
often inappropriate contract packaging. However, significant improvements have been
made in the sphere of procurement over the period of Bank involvement and these are
continuing. During the execution of the first project, involvement of expatriate engineering
consultants in the procurement process and the use of Model Bidding Documents
contributed to efficient procurement. The project's preparatory works and some local
goods (not financed by the Bank) have been procured through National Competitive
Bidding (NCB). Project circumstances justified the use of NCB for these works and
goods, since foreign bidders were not expected to be interested in these small, labor-
intensive contracts in which Chinese contractors are well-experienced and very competitive.
5.21      Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 5.3, and the related
procurement schedules for various packages are given in Annex 5.7. Main civil works and
major electromechanical equipment have already been procured through ICB under Loan
3387-CHA made in 1991; consulting services have been obtained following the Bank's
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants. Disbursements against those existing contracts will
continue under the proposed loan. All new procurement for works (if any) and goods to
be financed by the Bank would be through ICB, except that some specialized equipment,
estimated to cost less than $300,000 per contract up to an aggregate amount of $2 million
will be procured through limited international bidding (LIB) and instruments, survey
equipment, laboratory equipment, computer software and similar goods and equipment,
estimated to cost less than $300,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount of $3.0
million, by international or national shopping for ICB procurement. Goods manufactured
in China and national contractors for works would be eligible for domestic preference in
bid evaluation in accordance with Bank Procurement Guidelines. The Standard Bidding
Documents for Procurement under ICB and NCB in The People's Republic of China would
be used for all Bank-financed procurement. The Dispute Review Board (para. 5.7) set up
for the two main civil contracts will continue to operate. The procurement procedures for
non-Bank-financed components will not adversely affect the execution of the project in
terms of cost, quality or completion time.
5.22      All procurement documents pertaining to bidding packages for goods and
works financed by the Bank and estimated to cost more than $5.0 million equivalent will



- 39 -
Table 5.3: SUMMARY OF PROPOSED PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
($ million)
Total
Proposed Method /a            project
Project item                            ICB         Other/b       NBF /c       costs
Civil and Other Works
Preparatory works                         -           -            109.1       109.1
Resettlement                              -           -            175.4       175.4
Land requisition                          -           -             12.3        12.3
Arch dam (Lot I)                        661.5         -              -         661.5
(369.8)                                (369.8)
Powerhouse (Lot II)                     561.2         -              -         561.2
(269.2)                                (269.2)
Administration and other                  -           3.2          151.4       154.6
works                                               (3.2)                      (3.2)
Goods
Electromechanical equipment             335.3         5.0            -         340.3
(87.4)       (5.0)                     (92.4)
Power transformers                       42.0         -              -          42.0
(7.1)                                  (7.1)
Gates/hoists                              3.9         -            42.7         46.6
(0.6)                                  (0.6)
Consultancies /d
Engineering and construction              -          79.5            -          79.5
management                                         (31.5)                     (31.5)
Environmental protection                  -           7.8            -           7.8
(0.5)                      (0.5)
Reform plan and financial MIS             -           3.0            -           3.0
(2.3)                      (2.3)
Training                                  -           6.9            -           6.9
(3.4)                      (3.4)
Total                                1.604.9        104.4         490.9      2.200.2
IBRD Loan                            (363.3)      (36.7)                    (400.0)
Loan 3387-CHA                        (370.8)       (9.2)                    (380.0)
Guarantee Financing                   150.0                                  150.0
/a Amounts include taxes and duties of $132.7 million. Figures in parentheses are the respective
amounts to be financed under the prospective Bank loan.
/b Consultants employed in accordance with Bank guidelines. Equipment purchased by LIB or
shopping.
/c NBF = Not Bank-financed.
/d For details, see Annexes 5.2, 5.3 and 5.4.
be subject to the Bank's prior review procedures (about 91 percent of Bank funded
purchases). All new consultants' contracts costing $100,000 equivalent or more for firms
and $50,000 equivalent for individuals, would be subject to the Bank's prior review.
Extensions to existing contracts raising their value above these thresholds would also be
subject to prior review.



- 40 -
F. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND OPERATION
5.23       EHDC will be responsible for the implementation and operation of the project.
For the implementation phase, it has assigned design responsibility to CHIDI, and
construction supervision and management responsibility to EEC. CHIDI is one of the most
experienced design institutes in China and has been responsible for the design of several
large hydroelectric projects. It has over 2,000 professional staff and is equipped with
modem facilities and laboratories. EEC is a subsidiary of EHDC, specially established for
the Ertan project.  Its organizational structure is shown in Chart 3.  Since the
commencement of the first project, both CHIDI and EEC have been assisted by
international consultants and by three expert panels: the Special Board of Consultants
(SBC), a Disputes Review Board (DRB) and an Environmental and Resettlement Panel
(ERP) (para. 5.7).
5.24       As noted in para. 5.5, construction of the Ertan Hydroelectric Project started
in 1991 and is progressing satisfactorily. Procurement of the remaining equipment and
systems is under way. The first generating unit is expected to enter commercial operation
in October 1998, and the last unit in June 2000. The project completion date would be
December 31, 2001 and the closing date of the Bank loan would be December 31, 2001.
Chart 5 presents the implementation schedule for the various components of the project.
Key dates of project implementation are given in Annex 5.8, and estimated annual
payments are summarized Table 5.4.
5.25       Prior to completion of the dam, dam safety aspects are reviewed by the SBC
(para. 5.7). After completion of the dam, Chinese procedures for inspecting, maintaining
and monitoring high dams, which generally follow international practice, will be put into
place. At negotiations, EHDC confirmed its assurance that it will prepare, by June 30,
1998, a program of annual maintenance of the project works, satisfactory to the Bank,
undertake periodic inspections of the dam and associated works using independent experts
whose qualifications and experience are acceptable to the Bank, and to take all necessary
actions pursuant to their recommendations.
G. DISBURSEMENT
5.26       The Bank loan will be disbursed against:  (a) 100 percent of foreign
expenditures for civil works; (b) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for directly imported
equipment and materials quoted on a c.i.f. basis; (c) 100 percent of local expenditures ex-
factory for locally manufactured items, and 75 percent of local expenditures for other items
procured locally; and (d) 100 percent of the expenditure for consulting services and
training. For expenditures pertaining to (a) training; (b) contracts for goods and works
valued at less than $5 million equivalent; and (c) contracts for consultants valued at less
than $100,000 equivalent for firms and $50,000 equivalent for individuals, reimbursement
will be made on the basis of Statements of Expenditures. Documentation supporting such
expenditures would be retained in the EHDC offices and made available for review by the
Bank's supervision mission. To facilitate disbursements under this project, a Special
Account will be established with an authorized allocation of $25 million, representing



Table 5.4: IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE: ESTIMATED ANNUAL CONTRACTUAL AND OTHER PAYMENTS
($ million equivalent)
Project Year /a                            Total
Project element                             1994        1995     1996      1997   1998    1999    2000   payments  Remarks
& before
Works
Preparatory works                          96.5        4.3       3.1      2.5    2.9       0.0     0.0      109.1     NCB
Land acquisition & resettlement            59.0       56.9      52.5     17.9    1.5       0.0     0.0      187.7     NBF
Civil works                               468.6      180.0    211.7    190.2  105.3    32.2    34.8    1,222.7    ICB
(307.1)    (103.0)    (77.5)    (74.7)  (46.5)   (14.2)   (16.0)    (639.0)
Administration & other works               111.4       7.0       7.8     14.9    4.4       4.0      5.2     154.7     NBF
(0.1)    (0.2)     (0.2)   (0.9)    (0.9)    (0.9)    (3.2)    &other
Goods
Electromechanical equipment                 16.0       5.2      66.6    125.3   76.3    42.8        8.2     340.3    ICB
(8.0)     (1.5)    (19.0)    (36.8)  (11.9)   (12.2)    (3.0)   (92.4)
Power transformer                           0.0        0.3       3.5     12.3   12.7       9.2     4.0       42.0    ICB
(4.8)    (2.4)     (7.1)
Gates/hoist, etc.                           0.4        3.4      10.8      18.0   13.5      0.5      0.0      46.6    ICB
(0.6)                                                  (0.6)
Services
Engineering & construction management      31.9        8.5       8.2      9.1    8.6       8.8      4.4      79.5     Other
(9.2)     (4.0)     (3.1)    (4.0)   (3.8)    (3.9)    (3.4)    (31.5)
Environmental protection                    4.0        0.9       0.8      0.7    0.6       0.5      0.2       7.8     Other
(0.2)    (0.2)     (0.1)                               (0.5)
Reform plan & financial MIS                 0.0        0.3       0.8      0.8    0.3       0.4      0.3       3.0     Other
(0.2)    (0.7)     (0.7)   (0.2)    (0.3)    (0.3)    (2.3)
Training                                    0.0        1.8       2.6       1.9    0.4      0.3     0.1        6.9     Other
(0.8)    (1.0)     (1.2)   (0.2)    (0.2)             (3.4)
Total                                   787.8      268.5    368.3    393.3  226.4    98.7    57.2    2,200.2
IBRD loan                                         (54.7)   (101.7)   (117.8)  (63.4)   (36.4)   (26.0)    (400.0)
Loan 3387-CHA                         (324.3)     (55.7)                                                (380.0)
/a   Based on calendar year.
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by the proposed Bank loan and Loan 3387-CHA.



- 42 -
approximately  four months of average project disbursements.   Applications for
replenishment will be submitted monthly or when the amounts withdrawn equal 50 percent
of the initial deposit, whichever comes sooner. Retroactive financing in an aggregate
amount of $30 million, or 7.5 percent of the loan, would be provided for expenditures
before the date of the signing of the loan but after March 30, 1995 for expenditures on
ongoing contracts for works, goods or consultancy services, which were commenced under
the first loan. Annex 5.9 presents the disbursement schedule for the proposed Bank loan
as well as a standard profile of disbursements for all sectors in China. The disbursements
are expected to be completed in six years, very close to the standard disbursement profile
for China. The last year is for payment of retention money.
1I. ENVIRONMENTAL CONSIDERATIONS
5.27      In accordance with OD 4.01 (Environmental Assessment), the project is
designated as Category A. It is considered that all environmental aspects of the project are
satisfactorily addressed and in compliance with all environmental policies and procedures.
The project has been (lesigned and will be carried out in accordance with current
technological practices and it is expected to cause minimum disturbance to the
environment.
5.28      The EAR and EA Summary were prepared by the Beneficiary with the
assistance of international consultants. Both were completed in February 1995 and the EA
Summary was distributed to the Executive Directors on February 17, 1995. The EAR
complied with both national and Bank policies (OD 4.01, Environmental Assessment;
OD 4.0, Annex B, Environmental Aspects of Dam and Reservoir Projects; OMS 2.36,
Biodiversity OD of 1995).
5.29      Biodiversitv. The main impact arises due to inundation of land and water
resources by the reservoir. The reservoir will be 140 km long (on the main or Yalong
River stem) with a maximum surface area of 101 kM2. The average width of the reservoir
on the main stem near the dam will be in the order of 400 m while in the Ganyu River arm
(a major side branch) it will be up to 1,000 m across. Overall, the average width will be
in the order of 550 m which, for a dam 240 meters high and installed capacity of
330 MW, is remarkably low. The biodiversity impacts will be registered on terrestrial
ecosystems, due to inundation, and on aquatic systems, due to the conversion of a riverine
environment to a lacustrine environment.
5.30      Most of the terrestrial vegetation to be inundated is of neither conservation
nor economic value. The total area of forest to be inundated is about 3,000 ha, of which
2,000 ha is regularly harvested fuelwood forest and 1,000 ha is broadleaf evergreen forest
of the type that once used to dominate the area. These resources are comprised of
numerous small plots 50 to 200 ha in area, which are essentially scattered remnants. Even
though they are individually of limited conservation significance, lowland broadleafed
evergreen forest has been so severely depleted throughout the subtropical and tropical
zones that the value of any remnants is increased. To compensate for these losses, EHDC
will assume management responsibility for a 100 m (vertical elevation) buffer zone above



- 43 -
the maximum operational water surface elevation along the entire periphery of the reservoir
and implement active management plans for the preservation and enhancement of remnant
tracts of native broadleaf forest.
5.31      Regarding impacts on fish and other aquatic organisms, potential impacts
arise due to the conversion of 140 km of riverine habitat into a lake-like habitat and the
physical barrier to migratory fish posed by the dam. Surveys showed that some 50 species
of fish are present in the river downstream of the site, reducing to 40 species within the
reservoir section and 30 species upstream of the limit of the backwater. None of the
species is anadromous (migratory) although it is possible that some species may move into
the lower Yalong from upstream areas for spawning. However, the populations are
relatively small and the species are widely distributed within the Jinsha and Yalong River
Basins. Species requiring high-velocity flow conditions and feeding primarily on benthic
(bottom-dwelling) organisms will not survive in the reservoir area although they will be
replaced either naturally, or through stocking programs, by other, better-adapted species.
5.32      Public Health.  Malaria was eradicated in the area in 1991 and special
precautions are being financed under the project to ensure that this situation is maintained.
The Ganyu River is a known endemic area for schistosomiasis; however, following
implementation of a concerted control program it was believed that the disease had been
eradicated by the late 1980s.  In recent years the Oncomelania snail, which is an
intermediate host for the disease, has been detected in the area although no new cases of
the disease have been reported. The reservoir will contain more flowing than stagnant
water (the latter favors the snail) and hence is not expected to contribute to spread of the
vector.  Nevertheless, the environmental management plan includes several specific
subcomponents directed at eliminating any residual risks. In addition. WHO's Chief of
Schistosomiasis is a member of the expert panel on environment and resettlement, which
has been advising EHDC since 1991.
5.33      Other Impacts. Induced seismicity, sedimentation, water quality, cultural
property, water weed control, reservoir biomass removal and other impacts were assessed,
specific precautions formulated and are being implemented.
5.34      Monitoring and Training.  A comprehensive environmental and social
monitoring and training program was started in 1993 and is being accelerated in the form
of a major institute financed out of loan proceeds (para. 5.13).
5.35      Environmental Management. All the recommendations of the EAR have
been integrated into the EMP and the overall budget and schedule of the project, and
implementation of many components has already commenced. Details of the plan are set
out in Annex 5.10. Assurances were obtained from EHDC that it would carry out the
environmental management program in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.



- 44 -
I. RESETTLEMENT ASPECTS
5.36       Resettlement of people and reconstruction of structures being displaced by the
reservoir and the construction site areas is being carried out by the Resettlement Bureau
of Sichuan Provincial Government (RB/SPG). The Resettlement Plan being implemented
was developed in the period 1984-89 by RB/SPG, CHIDI and EHDC, and appraised by
the Bank in connection with the first Ertan loan (Loan 3387-CHA). Overall, the original
plan has proven viable in implementation and has achieved satisfactory results. However,
in preparation for the proposed project, RB/SPG and EHDC have presented a revised
Resettlement Plan 1/ based on experience to date.  The revised plan provides for
replacement of housing, agricultural land, infrastructure, services, industries and other
socioeconomic resources affected by the project. The affected people, both directly and
through their village, towns or county leaders, have been consulted and involved in the
design and implementation of the Resettlement Plan. Indeed, all resettlement receiving
areas have been jointly identified and evaluated by the affected people and the resettlement
planners. and several of the resettlement technical solutions to reestablishing economic
productivity have been suggested by the affected people themselves. Some resettlement
sites suggested by planners were rejected by resettlers, and alternative sites identified by
them are now included in the plan. The consent of host populations, those already living
in or near receiving areas, is obtained through direct negotiations among the hosts, the
proposed resettlers and the RB/SPG, resulting in a written agreement signed by all parties.
5.37       The Ertan Project entails the resettlement of approximately 35,000 people
living in 31 villages (24,000 rural people) and one town (11,000 urban people) in five
counties of Sichuan Prov:ince. The 101 km2, 140 km long reservoir transverses a steep,
sparsely populated mountain valley. The affected area lies in Miyi and Yanbian Counties
of Panzhihua Municipality, and Yanyuan, Dechang and Xichang Counties of Liangshan
Autonomous Prefecture of the Yi National Ethnic Minority. No Yi National Ethnic
Minority people will be displaced by the project, since they occupy higher-altitude slopes
of the valley. Those affected by the project are from the Chinese majority people who
occupy the lower-altitude alluvial soils along the banks of the Yalong River and its
tributaries (Akeni, Anning, Ganyu, Tengqiao, Shuwa and Pingchuan rivers).
5.38       The Resettlement Plan agreed with the Bank for the first phase of the Ertan
project based on 1984 census data has been updated through a 1992 census conducted by
resettlement officials when the physical survey and demarcation of the reservoir boundary
was completed. Based upon these updated surveys, a revised Resettlement Plan was
prepared (see Annex 5. 11 for a detailed description). Approximately 5,500 rural people
were resettled in the first phase to higher elevations in their own villages or to newly
reclaimed agricultural lands in new  irrigation zones.  Lessons learned during that
operation; such as the need for timely compensation, extensive community participation,
and adequate record keepiing, have been incorporated into the revised Resettlement Plan
1/  Ertan Hydroelectric Project Phase I: Resettlement (Final Report), dated May 15, 1995. Chengdu,
Sichuan, People's Republjic of China: Sichuan Provincial Resettlement Bureau and Harza Engineering
Company International.



- 45 -
appraised by the Bank in preparation of the proposed Ertan II loan which is under
implementation. During the second phase of the Ertan project an additional 19,000 people
must be resettled from rural areas. The 11,000 urban people must also be resettled from
the old to the new Yanbian Town. While the revised resettlement plan was only recently
completed, actions necessary to achieve resettlement of the remaining population have been
under way for some time. The revised Resettlement Plan meets all requirements of the
Bank's resettlement policy guidelines (OD 4.30 Involuntary Resettlement). Assurances
were obtained that the Borrower would ensure that persons affected by the project are
resettled in accordance with the agreed resettlement plan.
J. PROJECT RISKS
5.39       The main risks generally associated with hydroelectric projects are related to
potential cost and schedule overruns due to geological and hydrological uncertainties, and
contractor and construction supervision inadequacies. For the current project, foundations
and all riverbed work are completed, cofferdams are designed to survive overtopping, dam
concreting has commenced, underground works are of an advanced stage and the first
generating unit is on schedule for commissioning in July 1998. The risk of major cost or
time overruns due to unforeseen natural conditions is very low.
5.40       Design quality has been assured by the reinforcement of the very experienced
design institute with foreign consultants, and through the periodic reviews by SBC
composed of world-renowned Chinese and foreign experts. Construction quality is assured
by the award of civil works contracts to very well qualified foreign/local joint ventures.
Risks associated with the quality of the generating equipment have been minimized by the
employment of well-qualified foreign manufacturers for all key equipment, and strict pre-
or post-qualification criteria in all other cases.  Guarantees are also backed up with
performance bonds.
5.41       There is a risk of delay due to nonavailability of local funds (mainly from
provincial sources). This is a generic problem in China under current macroeconomic
control measures. Therefore, this issue was examined in detail by Bank staff at appraisal,
and has also been given increased emphasis by national authorities in their project approval
process.  EHDC was able to demonstrate that, to date, funds availability has not
constrained project execution, and because of the high priority of the project, such
constraint is unlikely in the future.
5.42       The most critical risk regarding environmental management would be failure
to implement the public health management components with direct human morbidity and
mortality implications. However, all of the management and control components are more
or less standard practice on large infrastructure development projects in China, and the
record on recent projects has been very good. The risk that the resettlement plan will not
achieve its objectives appears to be small, given the advanced stage of the process, and the
demonstrated responsiveness of the responsible authorities to views of the affected people.
The independent monitoring program also addresses that risk.



- 46 -
5.43      The market risk relating to power sales is minimal, given current power
shortages, the continuation of strong demand growth even under macroeconomic
constraints, and the projected low price of the power in comparison to alternative sources.
Nevertheless, risks have been further reduced by obtaining the assurances of the
Government, the owner of the SEPC, on the principles of the power sales agreement.
These have been elaborated in a memorandum of understanding, between SEPC and
EHDC. Elimination of market risk, and the explicit inclusion of financial performance
minimums in the principles of the power sales agreement, also ensure that financial risks
are of a very low level.
5.44      Bank experience in other major hydroelectr. projects is that, in the Chinese
context, operation and maintenance risks are relatively low. Operation and maintenance
procedures are institutionalized, very experienced staff are selected for key positions, and
training of other staff is commenced long before commissioning. For the proposed project,
these procedures have been reinforced through Bank support to training programs, and
covenants relating to inspection and maintenance procedures. Economic risks are judged
to be minimal.
K. MONITORING AND REPORTING
5.45      During Project Implementation.  Since the project will be owned and
operated by a new entity, monitoring and reporting up until the commissioning of the first
generating unit in mid-1998 will mainly be in relation to cost, schedule and quality of the
Ertan Hydroelectric Schemne and its related resettlement plans, together with the activities
required during construction and prior to reservoir impoundment in accordance with the
environmental management plan. Activities relating to the establishment of EHDC and its
commercial arrangements will also be monitored.
5.46      With regard to the construction of the Ertan dam  and power station,
monitoring of costs, quality and schedule is the main function of the construction manager,
EEC, and their consultants.  Detailed procedures for cost and schedule control,
construction inspection and quality assurance are set out in Annex 5.2. The Bank will
monitor procurement progress in accordance with the procurement schedule of Annex 5.7,
and construction progress in accordance with the schedule of Chart 5 and key dates in the
three main contracts (arch dam, underground works, generating equipment), of which
major milestones are set out in Annex 5.8. Overall costs will be monitored in accordance
with Annex 5.5 and Table 5.1. Since there are no quantitative indicators of quality at the
macro level, the Bank will rely on construction manager reports in this area. The
responsibility for environmental monitoring is comprehensively presented in Annex 5.10,
together with the monitoring activities and frequency.  The monitoring system for
resettlement is described in detail in Annex 5. 11. Key data for the establishment of EHDC
as a fully commercial entity establishing its power sales agreement are included in Annex
3.1. The key dates for its organizational and management study are included in Annex
5.3, and the anticipated timning of training is included in Tables 1 and 2 of Annex 5.4.



- 47 -
5.47      Initial Operation and Key Indicators. After initial operation in mid-1998,
and before closing of the loan by December 31, 2001, key financial indicators will be
monitored against projections in Table 6.1 and Annex 6.2. At project completion, the
EIRR will be recomputed for comparison with the calculations of Annex 7.1. The post-
impoundment environmental monitoring activities and frequency are set out in Annex 5.10.
The Bank supervision plan attached in Annex 5.12 will focus on the core activities of the
project implementation. These include physical construction, environmental management,
the resettlement action plan (including compensation), institutional development, and the
above referred financial covenants. The key monitoring indicators are summarized in
Annex 5.13.
5.48      Reporting. Understandings were reached that EHDC will continue to provide
quarterly reports following the current format. In addition, assurances were obtained that
EHDC would prepare annual reports on or about April 30 in each calendar year,
integrating the results of the monitoring activities, carried out in the previous year. Both
the Beneficiary and the Bank will prepare Implementation Completion Reports in
accordance with Bank procedures.
5.49      The enviromnental management plan makes comprehensive provision for data
collection and analysis and the results of these will be incorporated into the routine
progress reports outlined in the previous paragraph. An additional monitoring tool will be
available through the panel of experts commissioned by EHDC to provide technical advice,
which should also be able to provide the Bank with impartial assessments of progress and
the effectiveness of the program.



- 48 -
6. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
A. INTRODUCTION
6.1        As a new corporation, EHDC's activities over the next few years will continue
to be dominated by the construction and initial operation of the project. EHDC's operation
and finances are interrelated with those of SEPC; all the power generated by EHDC would
be sold in bulk to SEPC. As state-owned enterprises, EHDC and SEPC are bound by the
financial regulations established by the Government. These regulations have gradually
evolved over the last decade from a system in which all investment funds were provided
by the Government and all surpluses remitted to it, to one that provides some autonomy
and incentives for efficiency.
6.2        Established in 1988 as an independent power producer, EHDC is allowed to
retain its surplus funds to finance its future investments and build up the corporation's
equity base, while most provincial entities still have to rely on tax exemptions and lax debt
repayment schedules to maintain their operations and only retain partial net income for
future expansion programs.
6.3        The new accounting principles and financial rules effective on July 1, 1993
will also have far-reaching impacts on the sector. First, they require power entities to
clarify and separate debt from equity. This is an important step for power entities moving
toward limited-liability companies and eventually shareholding companies. Diversification
of ownership is critical to mobilizing more resources for the sector. Second, under the
new profit allocation system specified in the new financial rules issued by MOF, the
adjustment tax and special fund allocations have been abolished. The management of
power entities are given greater autonomy in making decisions on profit distribution.
Third, enterprises are pennitted to design their own internal accounting and financial
management system based on the business needs. Overall, the new financial rules together
with other reforms, such as state assets management, fiscal and financial sector reforms,
will lead the Government gradually to play a more limited and indirect role in the
management of power entities. With new autonomy and increased accountability power
entities will also have to improve their budgetary and cost controls as well as cash
management in order to stay competitive in a market-oriented environment.
6.4        The Government promulgated a series of important new tax laws at the end
of 1993. From 1994, the contract responsibility system was replaced with a transparent
and simplified tax system. A corporate income tax rate of 33 percent is now applied to
all domestic enterprises. The Government only collects income tax from enterprises based
on a unified rate. Dividend distribution for Government equity contribution in enterprises
is decided by the manageiment in consultation with various owners on the Board of



- 49 -
Directors. The old sales taxes (25 percent) levied for power generation and distribution
were also consolidated into a new value-added tax (VAT) of 17 percent. The new tax
policy does not necessarily reduce the tax and remittance burden for power entities.
However, it eliminates the lengthy and complicated negotiations between enterprises and
the Government. More importantly, it is conducive to strengthening the planning and
financial management functions of power companies.
6.5       As many critical reforms, such as property rights, investment, fiscal, financial,
trade, are gradually being laid out by the Government, improving financial management
is critical for EHDC to stay financially viable in a market-oriented economy. Toward this
end, the proposed project would continue the process of institution building already
initiated under previous Bank-financed projects, including (a) a component to develop
EHDC's accounting and financial management systems (para. 5.9); (b) training in financial
management for EHDC (para. 5.10); and (c) agreements with EHDC on financial
performance targets that would provide a framework for financial discipline (para. 6. 11).
B. EHDC's PAST AND PRESENT FiNANCIAL PERFORMANCE
6.6        The first two units financed under Ertan Hydroelectric Project are scheduled
to be commissioned in 1998. As there is no revenue generation for EHDC before 1998,
only balance sheets and fund flow statements for the period 1992-94 for EHDC were
prepared and set out in Annex 6. 1.
6.7       During the period 1992-94, EHDC's main activities were construction of the
first phase of the proposed project, which was slightly ahead of the planned schedule.
Sixty percent of the local construction costs are financed by borrowings and the balance
by equity contribution. In general, availability of local funds has not been a problem.
Occasionally, EHDC needs to resort to postponement of payments or short-term loans with
higher interest rates to fill the gap. In spite of this, EHDC maintained its debt/equity ratio
at a satisfactory level and met the first Bank loan's financial covenants.
C. FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE TARGETS
6.8       Under the first project, a self-financing target was used to monitor EHDC's
financial performance. However, this indicator is no longer considered appropriate. First,
as an independent power producer, EHDC's investments are not regular. While it has a
mandate for developing the water resources of the Yalong River, implementation of other
projects after Ertan will depend on several factors including availability of financing, and
its next investment may not occur for some time. In this context, the self-financing ratio
is not a satisfactory indicator of financial performance. Second, one of the power sector
reform objectives is to mobilize finance from different sources, particularly from domestic
and foreign markets. The rate of return target is a more commonly recognized financial
performance indicator in the markets and is being used widely by the power industry.
EHDC's use of a rate of return target, following market practices, could be conducive to
raising funds from commercial sources in the future. Third, as a new company, EHDC's
accounts are simple and are easily rearranged according to the new accounting rules



- 50 -
effective since July 1, 1993. Taking all these factors into account, the existing self-
financing target will be replaced with a rate of return covenant. Since current cost
accounting is not required by Chinese accounting rules, pro formna accounts that reflect
annual revaluation of assets based on the price index published by the State Statistical
Bureau will be prepared to calculate the rate of return.
6.9        The current values of the assets for the base year, established as the first full
year after commissioning of all units, shall be established upon the completion of the
project and certified by the Government. Once the current values for the base year have
been determined, annual adjustments shall be made based on the price changes specific to
the type of goods and works published by the National Statistical Bureau for the previous
year. Interim arrangements for years prior to the base year will be established based on
the above principles and included in the power sales agreement.
6.10       EHDC was reincorporated into a limited liability company under the new
Company Law in February 1995. During the process, EHDC's capital structure as well
as ownership have been changed as described in Chapter 3.  In line with the new
investment agreement, the existing debt/equity ratio targets have been modified marginally.
6.11       With a view to promoting prudent financial management, assurances were
obtained from EHDC that it would:
(a)  take all necessary measures, including but not limited to tariff adjustments, to
ensure that its annual rate of return is not less than 12 percent of EHDC's
average pro formna net revalued fixed assets in operation in 1999 and
15 percent thereafter;
(b)  maintain a debt service coverage ratio of no less than 1.3 times in 1999 and
1.5 tines thereafter;
(c) not incur additional debt unless a reasonable forecast shows it would maintain
a debt/equity ratio of no more than 85/15 in 1995-972/, 80/20 in 1998-2000,
and 70/30 thereafter; and
(d)  by April 30 of each year, furnish to the Bank a rolling eight-year financial
plan containing projected income statements, statements of sources and uses
of funds, and balance sheets.
D. FUTuRE FINANCES
6.12       The projections of EHDC's finances for 1995-2004 are presented in Annex
6.2, and the salient features of these finances are highlighted below in Table 6.1. The
projections are based on the assumptions contained in Annex 6.3, including electricity tariff
2/   This represents a slight change to the first Ertan project, reflecting current practice in China.



- 51 -
setting which would allow EHDC to achieve the above financial performance targets. The
final tariff level will be determined by the ongoing tariff study, which is expected to be
completed before 1998. Principles for pricing of the output of the power plant have been
agreed between the parties involved.
Table 6.1: KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS, 1995-2004
(Million Yuan)
Year Ended December 31          1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000   2001    2002  2003   2004
Energy Sales (100 GWh)            0      0       0      29    106    145    145       145   145    156
Average Price (fen/kWh)           0      0       0    35.4   38.6   46.3   56.7    55.7  54.4   57.9
Operating Revenue                 0      0       0   1,024   4,087   6,734  8,241   8,104  7,909   9,060
Operating Income                  0      0       0    756   2,849   4,773  6,096   5,878  5,592   6,380
Annual Capital Expenditure     4,476  4,359   4.960   3.788   2,412   2,038  1,504   2,143  3,087   2,870
Long-term Debt                 9,072 12,420  16.370  18,848  20,635  20,203  18,778  17,643 17,550  16,971
Debt Service                      0      0       0    426   1,852   2,834  3,775   3,588  3,421   3,500
Cash in Banks                    134   203    200    278    436   1,109  1,583   1,469  1,284   1,158
Rate of Retum
Historically Valued Assets(%)    0      0       0     8.2   20.0   18.2   19.6   24.5  19.1   19.8
Revalued Assets(%)               0      0       0     8.0   20.0   17.0   17.5    16.3  15.0   15.0
Self Financing Ratio (%)          0      0       0       0    27.5   82.9  104.0    81.9  58.2   60.3
Operating Ratio (%)               0      0       0    26.2   30.3   30.6   26.0    27.5  29.3   29.6
Long-term Debt/(LT Debt & Equity)  85.0   83.0   82.0   79.0   77.0   71.0   63.0    56.0  52.0   47.0
Debt Service Coverage             0      0       0     1.5    1.5    1.6    1.5       1.5   1.5    1.7
6.13          Revenue Position.  The first two units of the project are scheduled to be
commissioned in 1998, and the remaining four units would become fully operational by
the year 2000. The estimated minimum average tariff level of 49.3 fen/kWh (28.6 fen/
kWh in 1994 prices) during 1998-2004 required to meet the above financial performance
targets, is below SEPC's avoided cost of power generation.
6.14          As is typical of hydro projects, Ertan hydropower plant is expected to have
relatively low operating expenses. Thus, EHDC is expected to have a robust revenue
position, with a low operating ratio estimated to be no more than 31 percent during its first
seven years of operation (1998-2004). Its average rate of return on historically valued and
revalued net fixed assets are projected to be 18.6 and 15.6 percent a year, respectively,
during the same period, which is satisfactory. However, debt service requirements would
be substantial, and are expected to account for about 63 percent of projected cash
generation. The projected minimum tariff levels are determined more by the debt service
coverage requirements than the rate of return targets.
6.15          Funds Flow. During the project implementation period up to the year 2000,
EHDC's financing plan would be dominated by the project. After commissioning of the
project, EHDC is expected to generate substantial internal cash. This is attributable not
only to its highly profitable position, but also to its cost structure that is dominated by
depreciation, a noncash expense. As SEPC would be the sole customer and is expected



- 52 -
to maintain a sound liquidity position, no difficulties are envisaged in collection of
receivables. Debt service requirements are forecast to account for some 50 percent of its
total use of funds during its first six years of operation.
6.16       Capital Structure. During the project implementation period, compliance
with the agreed debt/equity ratio target would be achieved through equity contributions by
SDIC and SIC. Within the first seven years of project operations, EHDC is expected to
improve its capital structure considerably through retention of after-tax profits. During the
forecast period (1995-2004), its debt/equity ratio is forecast to be reduced from a peak of
91/9 in 1994 to 47/53 in the year 2004.



- 53 -
7. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
A. ROLE OF THE PROJECT IN SICHUAN PROVINCE
7.1       The proposed project is an essential component of the electric power
development program i:n Sichuan Province, and is expected to provide over one quarter of
the electrical energy needs in year 2000, and to play a major role in system peak
regulation, especially by providing about 2,400 MW of peaking capabilities during the dry
season. The project has been designed to promote sustainable power sector development
in an economically efficient and environmentally sound manner and to initiate institutional
changes that will lead to more openness and gradual introduction of competition in the
power industry.
7.2        The project is superior to all competing generation alternatives, and its size
and timing are economically justified, even without accounting for its environmental
benefits (cf. para. 7.7). Without completion of the Ertan project, Sichuan province would
continue to experience severe power shortages even after year 2000 and would have to
develop less attractive hydropower projects and coal-fired power plants because prospects
for the use of natural gas for power generation are very limited, and even nonexistent, in
the near future. The already severe environmental problems in the province, especially
in the two main load centers supplied by the project, would therefore worsen.
B. LEAST-COST STUDIES
7.3       Complementary studies were carried out to update the least-cost studies of the
first phase of the project (SAR No. 8470-CHA) and the Sichuan Transmission Project
(SAR No. 13468-CHA). Benefits and costs were evaluated using constant end-1994
economic prices, net of taxes and subsidies, and a discount rate of 12 percent. Tradable
commodities were valued at border prices with the prevailing exchange rate at the time of
the study (Y 8.7/$1.0). Nontradable commodities were valued at shadow prices, using
a mix of standard and specific conversion factors. Methodology and presentation of
shadow prices are detailed in the reports prepared by SEPC and EHDC with the assistance
of BERIWREP: Economic Evaluation of the Sichuan Transmission Project and Economic
Evaluation of Ertan (II) Hydropower Project.
7.4        The complementary studies focused on determining the least-cost development
programs in two cases: with Ertan and without Ertan. For the economic decisions under
consideration, only the incremental cost of the project must be considered in the first case
and sunk costs must be added to the total cost in the second case. However, to reconfirm
the original decision made several years earlier to proceed with the Ertan project, the full
cost of the project was considered in the with Ertan case and sunk costs were not taken



- 54 -
into account in the without Ertan case. The results reconfirmed the economic viability of
the original decision and the very high economic attractiveness of now completing the
project.
7.5       The proposed project remains the first and most economic investment of the
least-cost expansion program for Sichuan Province. Phased commissioning of Ertan in
1998, 1999, and 2000, the earliest dates now feasible, is preferred to all other alternatives
under a variety of assumptions, and even in case of a slower demand growth due to more
dramatic than expected gains in the efficiency of electricity use or slower than projected
growth of electricity consumption. The present (1994) value of the total cost of the
without Ertan program is 3 percent (Y 4.5 billion) higher than the with Ertan program.
The equalizing discount rate of the programs, about 5 percent higher than the discount rate,
indicates the robustness of the with Ertan program.
7.6       If sunk costs are considered in the least-cost studies, the present (1994) value
of the cost of the without Ertan program is 13 percent (Y 18.5 billion) higher than the
present value of the cost of the with Ertan program.
C. ENVIRONMENTAL BENEFITS
7.7        The constniction of the project also provides major environmental benefits
from a reduced rate of increase in coal consumption. Coal consumption and pollutants
emissions were estimated based on detailed simulations of the operation of the two systems
(with and without Ertan), taking into account the average characteristics of the coal used
in Sichuan province (5,050 kcal/kg, 2.27 percent of sulphur content, and 33.78 percent of
ash content). Table 7. 1 below presents the increase in coal consumption and associated
emissions in the without Ertan case.
Table 7.1: INCREASE IN COAL CONSUMTrION AND ASSOCIATED
EMISSIONS IN THE WITHouT ERTAN CASE
('000 tons per year)
Year                          1998          2000            2005        2010
Coal consumption             280.0        6,500.0        5,450.0      6,940.0
Ash                           94.6        2,195.7        1,841.0      2,344.3
CO2 emissions                222.1        5,155.2        4,322.4      5,504.1
SO2 emissions                 10.2          236.5          198.3        252.5



- 55 -
D. ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
7.8        The internal economic rate of return (IERR) for the project was calculated
using the estimated economic costs of the project and associated investments in
transmission to the main load centers (Annex 7.1). An economic price of 37 fen/kWh,
equivalent to the price paid by the system at the consumer level for electricity purchased
from joint investment and independent power producers in 1994, was used as a minimum
proxy for the economic value of electricity. On this basis and using updated project cost
and benefit estimates, the IERR of the project is about 16 percent. Simulations of the
system operation under various hydrological conditions indicate that Ertan will displace or
minimize the use of the most costly units and therefore its benefits would be higher than
existing joint investment or independent power plants. Moreover, industrial consumers,
which account for more than three quarters of the total consumption in the province, are
willing to pay higher prices (42 fen/kWh or higher) for an adequate supply, especially
during the dry season. Using the current average guidance price that many consumers paid
in 1994 in Sichuan (42 fen1kWh) as a somewhat less conservative estimate of the economic
value of electricity, the IERR increases to about 18 percent (Annex 7.1).
7.9       In a more accurate reflection of the returns of economic decisions now under
consideration, the IERR on the incremental costs to complete the Ertan project and its
associated transmission is estimated at 23 percent, with an economic price of 37 fen/kWh,
and an IERR 26 percent, with an economic price of 42 fen/kWh. The minimum tariff to
meet the financial perfonnance targets is 28.6 fen (para. 6.12), well below willingness to
pay. EIRR with this tariff is 13 percent.
7.10       The IERR of the project remains higher than the discount rate when subjected
to a variety of sensitivity tests:
Base case:                           16 percent
Cost overrun (15 percent)            15 percent
Delay in commissioning (1 year)      14 percent
7.11       Sensitivity studies were also carried out on the important test variables. The
IERR would be reduced to the 12 percent discount rate if:
(a)  the full cost of the project (including sunk costs) is taken into account, and:
(i) the project were to experience total cost overruns of 70 percent; (ii) the
commissioning of the first unit were delayed 3 years; and (iii) the plant output
were reduced by 30 percent or sold at 26 fen/kWh, 30 percent lower than the
base case economic price.
(b)  only incremental investments costs are considered, and: (i) the project were
to experience incremental cost overruns of 200 percent; (ii) the commissioning
of the first unit were delayed 6 years; and (iii) the plant output were reduced
by 50 percent or sold at 18 fen/kWh, 50 percent lower than the base economic
price.



- 56 -
8. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
8.1       The following assurances were obtained at negotiations:
(a)  From the Borrower that it would:
(i) take necessary steps to ensure that SEPC shall enter into a power sales
contract with EHDC by June 30, 1997 (para. 3.20);
(ii) onlend the proceeds of the proposed Bank loan through Sichuan
Province to EHDC on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 5.18); and
(iii) take all measures necessary to ensure that resettlement under the project
is carried out in accordance with an agreed resettlement program (para.
5.38).
(b)  From EHDC that it would:
(i) furnish the Bank with the audited project accounts, statements of
expenditures, and financial statements within six months of the end of
each ifiscal year (para. 3.19);
(ii) take all measures required on its part to enter into the power sales
contract with SEPC satisfactory to the Bank not later than June 30, 1997
(para. 3.20);
(iii) continue to employ its Special Board of Consultants and Environmental
and Resettlement Panel (para. 5.7);
(iv) carry out implementation of its organizational improvements, and the
development of improved accounting and financial management systems
as agreed with the Bank (para. 5.9);
(v) carry out the management development and training program as agreed
with the Bank (para. 5.14);
(vi) prepare, by June 30, 1998 completion of the dam, a program of annual
maintenance of the project works, satisfactory to the Bank, undertake
perio(lic inspections of the dam and associated works using independent
experts whose qualifications and experience are acceptable to the Bank,
and to take all necessary actions pursuant to their recommendations
(para. 5.25);



- 57 -
(vii)  carry out the environmental management program  in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank (para. 5.35);
(viii)  carry out relocation of persons affected by the project in accordance
with a resettlement plan acceptable to the Bank (para. 5.38);
(ix)  prepare annual reports on or about April 30 of each calendar year,
integrating the results of monitoring activities carried out in the previous
year (para. 5.48);
(x)  take all necessary measures, including but not limited to tariff
adjustments, to ensure that its rate of return is not less than 12 percent
of EHDC's average net revalued fixed assets in operation during 1999
and ]1 5 percent thereafter [para. 6. 11(a)];
(xi)  maintain a debt service coverage ratio of no less than 1.3 times in 1999,
and no less than 1.5 times thereafter [para. 6.11(b)];
(xii)  not incur any debt unless it can maintain a debt/equity ratio of no more
than 85/15 in 1995-97, 80/20 in 1998-2000, and 70/30 thereafter [para.
6.11(c)]; and
(xiii) furnish to the Bank, by April 30 of each year, a rolling eight-year
financial plan containing projected income statements, statements of
sources and uses of funds, and balance sheets [para. 6.11(d)].
8.2        Execution of subsidiary loan agreements between the Borrower and Sichuan,
and Sichuan and EHDC would be a condition of effectiveness of the loan (para. 5.18).
8.3        Subject to the above agreements, the proposed project would be suitable for
a Bank loan of $400 million to the People's Republic of China. The loan would be for a
term of 20 years, including a 5-year grace period, at the Bank's standard variable interest
rate. Retroactive financing, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $30 million, is required
for anticipated contractual payments between August 1, 1995 (expected date of full
disbursement of the first loan) and the expected date of signing of the proposed loan
(around end of September 1995). The Executive Directors are also requested to authorize
the Bank to negotiate the guarantee provision for the proposed $150 million syndicated
loans for China, substantially in accordance with the terms described in this report.






- 58 -
ANNEXES






- 59 -                      ANNEX 1.1
PRIMARY ENERGY OUTPUT IN CIUNA (1949-93)
Year           Raw        Crude      Natural           Electricity
coal       oil        gas         Total       of which:
(106t)    (106t)     (108m3)      output    Hydropower
(TWh)         (TWh)
1949            32.0       0.12        0.07         4.3         0.7
1955            98.0       0.97        0.17        12.3         2.4
1960           397.0       5.20       10.40        59.4         7.4
1965           232.0      11.31       11.00        67.6        10.4
1970           354.0      30.65       28.70       115.9       20.5
1975          482.0       77.06       88.50       195.8       47.6
1980          620.0      105.95      142.70       300.6       58.2
1981          622.0      101.22      127.40       309.3       65.5
1982           666.3     102.12      119.30       327.7       74.4
1983           714.5     106.07      122.10       351.4       86.4
1984          789.2      114.61      124.20       377.0       86.8
1985           872.3     124.89      129.30       410.7       92.4
1986           894.0     130.69      137.60       449.5       94.5
1987          928.1      134.14      138.94       497.3       100.2
1988          979.9      137.05      142.64       545.2       109.1
1989         1,054.2     137.65      150.49       584.7       118.4
1990    .    1,079.9     138.31      152.98       621.3       126.4
1991         1,087.4     140.99      153.96       677.5       124.7
1992         1,115.0     142.10      157.90       754.2       131.5
1993         1,141.0     144.00      165.60       836.4       150.7
Source: MOEP.



TOTAL PRODUCTION AND CONSUMPTION OF ENERGY VS. GNP GROWTH
1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993
Production
(million tons of standard
coal equivalent)            628    646    637    632    668    713    779    855    881    913    958  1,016   1,039   1,048  1,073   1,117
Proportion (%)
Coal                         70.3   70.2   69.4   70.2   71.3   71.6  7714   72.A          72.4   72.6   73. 1   7A.1   'A74.2  '74.1   743A  7 .A2
Crude oil                    23.7   23.5   23.8   22.9   21.8   21.3   21.0   20.9   21.2   21.0   20.4   19.3   19.0   19.2   18.9   18.5
Natural gas                   2.9    3.0    3.0    2.7    2.4    2.3    2.1    2.0    2.1    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0    2.0
Hydropower                    3.1    3.3    3.8    4.2    4.5    4.8    4.5    4.3    4.3    4.4    4.5    4.6    4.8    4.7    4.8    5.3
Consumption
(million tons of standard
coal equivalent)            571    586    603    594    621    660    709    767    809    866    930    969    980   1,038  1,087   1,122
Proportion (%)
Coal                         70.7   71.3   72.2   72.7   73.7   74.2   75.3   75.8   75.8   76.2   76.2   76.0   75.6   76.1   76.1   73.2
Crude oil                    22.7   21.8   20.7   20.0   18.9   18.1   17.4   17.1   17.2   17.0   17.0   17.1   17.0   17.1   17.1   19.4                   0
Natural gas                   3.2    3.3    3.1    2.8    2.5    2.4    2.4    2.2    2.3    2.1    2.1    2.0    2.1    2.0    1.9    2.0
Hydropower                    3.4    3.6    4.0    4.5    4.9    5.3    4.9    4.9    4.7    4.7    4.7    4.9    5.3    4.8    4.9    5.4
GDP Index
(constant prices)           100.0  107.6  116.0  121.2  131.8  145.4  166.9  188.2  203.5  225.7  251.2  262.1  272.7  295.0  333.4  379.0
Energy Intensity Index
(consumption/GNP)           100.0   95.4   91.0   85.8   82.5   75.9   74.5   71.5   69.7   67.2   65.0   65.1   62.6   61.6   57.3   51.9
Notes:  (1)  Excluding bio-energy, solar, geothermal and nuclear energy.
(2)  All fuels are converted into standard coal with thermal equivalent of 7,000 kilocalorie per kilogram. The conversion factors are:
I kg of coal (5,000 kcal) =0.714 kg of standard coal
I kg of crude oil (10,000 kcal) = 1.43 kg of standard coal
1 cubic meter of natural gas (9,310 kcal) =1.33 kg of standard coal
(3)  The conversion of hydropower is based on the specific consumption of standard coal for thermal power generation of the year.
Source: China Statistical Yearbook 1991.1.                                                                                                                   Z
I.



- 61-                                ANNEX 2.1
INSTALLED CAPACITY, ELECTRICITY GENERATION AND
CONSUMPTION IN THE POWER SUBSECTOR
Installed                           Electricity                 Electricity
Capacity (MW) /a                    Generation (GWh) /a           Consumption lb
Year  Hydro       Thermal        Total      Hydro       Thermal       Total         (GWh)
1949      163        1,686       1,849         710        3,600       4,310           3,460
1952      188        1,776)      1,964        1,260       6,001       7,261           6,277
1957    1,019        3,616       4,635       4,820       14,515      19,335          16,407
1962    2,379       10,686      13,065       9,042       36,753      45,795            n.a.
1965    3,020       12,056      15,076       10,414      57,190      67,604          56,802
1970    6,235       17,535      23,770      20,450       95,420     115,870            n.a.
1971    7,804       18,478      26,282      25,060      113,300     138,360         101,274
1972    8,700       20,801      29,501      28,820      123,630     152,450         123,600
1973   10,299      23,626       33,925      38,900      127,860     166,760         135,106
1974   11,817      26,291       38,108      41,440      127,410     168,850         135,708
1975   13,428       29,978      43,406      47,630      148,210     195,840         156,969
1976   14,655      32,492       47,147      45,640      157,490     203,130         164,698
1977   15,765       35,686      51,451      47,670      175,740     223,410         181,691
1978   17,277      39,845       57,122      44,630      211,920     256,550         210,239
1979   19,110      43,906       63,016      50,120      231,827     281,947         233,577
1980   20,318      45,551       65,869      58,211      242,416     300,627         251,639
1981   21,933      47,069       69,002      65,546      243,723     309,269         258,976
1982   22,959      49,401       72,360      74,399      253,279     327,678         275,299
1983   24,160      52,280       76,440      86,450      264,990     351,440         297,126
1984   25,547      54,373       79,920      86,780      290,207     376,987         319,600
1985   26,120       60,373      86,493      92,374      318,315     410,689         348,353
1986   27,542       66,276      93,818      94,480      355,091     449,571         357,057
1987   30,193      72,704      102,897      100,229     397,092     497,321         420,019
1988   32,698       82,799     115,497      109,177     435,888     545,065         464,013
1989   34,570       92,060     126,637     118,475      466,200     584,675         495,135
1990   36,050      101,844     137,894      126,350     494,986     621,318         527,154
1991   37,884      113,589     151,473      124,845     552,649     677,494         575,219
1992   40,681      125,852     166,533      131,466     622,723     754,189         644,696
1993   44,593      138,318     182,911      150,743     685,686     836,429         698,255
/a On a countrywide basis.
/b Energy consumption riot including uses by stations and line losses.
Source: MOEP.



- 62 -                      ANNEX 2.2
ELECTRICITY CONSUMPTION BY SECTORS /a
Total          Industry       Agri-  Resi-  Trans-  Municipal
consumption                Sub-   cul-  den-   porta-      and
Year    (TWh)      Heavy Light  total  tural  tial    tion   commercial
1985     411.7    63.8  15.9  79.7   7.7   5.4   1.5             5.7
1986     456.7    64.9  15.8  80.7   7.1   5.5    1.5           5.2
1987     498.5    64.0  16.4  80.4   7.2   5.7   1.5            5.2
1988     546.7    62.8   17.0  79.8   6.9   6.3    1.6           5.4
1989     586.5    63.0  16.2  79.2   7.0   6.7    1.7            5.4
1990     623.0    62.2  16.0  78.2   6.9   7.7    1.7           5.5
1991     680.4     61.2  16.2  77.4   7.1   8.0    1.7           5.8
1992     745.5    (51.2  15.9  77.1   6.8   8.5    1.8          5.8
1993     820.1     61.2  15.4  76.6   6.3   8.9    1.9          6.3
/a On a countrywide basis, including station uses and line losses for power industry.
Source: MOEP.



- 63 -                                   ANNEX 2.3
MAJOR ONGOING POWER PROJECTS
WITH EXTERNAL FINANCING OTHER THAN IBRD
Installed                     Construc-                          Loan
capacity                       tion                            amount
(Unit x MW)   Location         period       Source of finance   ($ min)
A. HYDRO POWER
East China
Mianhuatan                      4 x 150         Fujian          1995-2002    ADB                  200.0
North China
Shisanling pumped storage       4 x 200         Hebei           1990-96      OECF                 100.0
Zhangjiawan                     4 x 250         Hebei           1996-2001    ADB                  250.0
Central China
Wuqiangqi hydro                  5 x 240         Hunan           1988-95      OECF                200.0
Lingjintan                       8 x 300         Hunan          1994-99       ADB                  100.0
Geheyan                          6 x 200         Hubei          1988-95       Canada
Southwest China
Tienshengqiao (11) hydro         4 x 220         Guizhou         1988-96      OECF                 478.5
Tienshengqiao (I) hydro          4 x 300         Guizhou        1991-2002    OECF                  160.0
Hongjiadu hydro                  3 x 180         Guizhou        1995-2001    ADB                  200.0
South China
Guangzhou Pumped Storage (1)    4 x 300          Guangdong       1988-94      France              200.0
Guangzhou Pumped Storage (11)   4 x 300          Guangdong      1994-98       ADB                 290.0
Joint financing      71.1
Other Part
Huanggou                         4 x 300         Heilongjiang    1999-2004    OECF
Gongbuoxia                       S x 300         Qinghai        1997-2005    OECF
Jilintai                         4 x 115         Xinjiang       1997-2002    OECF
Subtotal                          15,820                                                         2049.6
B. THERMAL POWER
North China
Sanhe                           2 x 300/350    Hebei            1994-98      OECF                 250.0
Hejin                           2 x 300/350    Shanxi           1994-98      OECF                 250.0
Central China
Ezhou                           2 x 300         Hubei           1992-97      OECF                 250.0
Jiujiang                        2 x 300/350    Jiangxi          1994-98      OECF                 250.0
Subtotal                         2,700                                                           1,000.0
C. TRANSMISSION & SUBSTATION
Tienshengqiao (I)-Guangdong       1,200 km       -               1994-98       OECF                 140.0
(DC)
Subtotal                                                                                           140.0
Total                            14,620 MW in generating capacity
1,200 km for 500-kV transmission line                         3,189.6
Source: MOEP.



- 64 -                        ANNEX 2.4
FUTURE THERMAL POWER PROJECTS UNDER
BOT OR BOO ARRANGEMENTS /a
Installed
capacity     Construction
Projects                      (No. x MW)         period           Location
Waigaoqiao (phase 2)            2x800 or        1997-2002        Shanghai
2x1,000
Jiaxing (phase 2)               4x600           1996-2002         Zhejiang
Ligang (phase 3)                2x600            1995-98          Jiangsu
Yangcheng                       6x350           1995-2001         Shanxi
Tuoketuo No. 2                  4x600           1999-2005     Inner Mongolia
Daihai                          4x600           1997-2001     Inner Mongolia
Datong No. 2                    2x600          1998-2002          Shanxi
Shalingzi (phase 2)             2x600          1996-2000           Hebei
Shuangyashan                    2x600           1997-2001       Heilongjiang
Zhuhai                          2x660           1995-2000       Guangdong
Beihai                          2x350           1996-2000         Guangxi
Shenzhen East                   4x660           1997-2003       Guangdong
Rizhao                          2x350            1995-98         Shandong
Shiliquan                       2x300           1997-2000        Shandong
Laicheng                        2x600            1995-98         Shandong
Shiheng (phase 2)               2x300            1996-99         Shandong
Hanfeng                         2x600           1996-2000          Hebei
Meizhouwan                      2x600            1993-97           Fujian
Songyu                          2x350            1993-97           Fujian
Hanchuan (phase 2)              2x300           1998-2003          Hubei
Gaobeidian                      2x145            1995-99          Beijing
2x180
Dalian (phase 2)                2x350            1995-98         Liaoning
Dandong                         2x350            1995-98           Jilin
Nantong (phase 2)               2x350            1996-98          Jiangsu
Fuzhou (phase 2)                4x660            1995-98           Fujian
Yueyang (phase 2)               2x350            1996-99           Hunan
Luohuang (phase 2)              2x350           1996-2000         Sichuan
Shantou (phase 2)               2x350           1997-2000       Guangdong
Yingkou (phase 2)               2x600           1997-2000         Liaoning
Shajiao C                       3x660            1994-96        Guangdong
Yahekou                         2x350            1994-97           Henan
Huanggang                       2x600           1997-2001          Hubei
/a    BOT: Build-Own (Operate)-Transfer
BOO: Build-Own-Operate
Source: MOEP.



- 65 -                        ANNEX 2.5
POWER PRICING IN SICHUAN PROVINCE
Overview of the Power Pricing System
1.          As in other provinces, the power pricing system for electricity supplied
through the Sichuan Power Grid includes three components:
(a)   State Catalog Prices. These are the prices charged for electricity generated
by capacity financed by the Central Government and managed by provincial
power companies such as SEPC. This capacity includes (i) virtually all
power plants constructed before 1985, primarily with grant funding, and (ii)
plants, or shares of plants, constructed with loan funds allocated by the
Central Government since 1985. The state catalog prices provide the basis
for the revenue of SEPC and other provincial power companies. Since the
1993 reform in state catalog prices, prices built into the state catalog price
tables for electricity from capacity constructed since 1985 should allow for
full repayment of loans and interest, plus a small profit margin. State
catalog price tables are reviewed, revised and reissued every year by
MOEP, in consultation with provincial governments.
(b)   Prices for Purchased Power. Prices for power purchased by provincial
power cornpanies such as SEPC from capacity not financed by the Central
Government are determined on a plant-by-plant basis, at levels allowing full
repayment of loans and interest, usually over a period of 10 years, plus a
reasonable profit margin. These types of plants include joint-investment
plants (financed through a combination of central, provincial and local
government funding sources), plants of independent power producers such
as the Huaneng Corporation, and plants owned by local governments or
industries that sell surplus power to the grid.
(c)   Additional Fees and Surcharges. A variety of surcharges are levied on the
various consumer categories, primarily for different types of investment
funds for the power sector. The most common and important include
provincial and local government power investment surcharges, surcharges
to raise funds for special projects (e.g., the Three Gorges Project), and local
fees to raise funds for distribution system investment.
2.           In most parts of China two types of consumer tariffs remain. Administered
prices, or "in-plan prices," include the state catalog prices plus the additional fees and
surcharges. These prices are charged for electricity supplied to enterprises under in-plan
quotas, generally set at 1985 consumption levels. Guidance prices include state catalog



- 66 -                         ANNEX 2.5
prices, markups for the higher cost of purchased power, plus the additional fees and
surcharges.
Power Pricing in Sichuan Compared to Other Provinces
3.           Complexity. While the power pricing system in China is complicated in
general, the current system  in Sichuan is particularly complex.  One factor is the
interaction between the Sichuan Power Grid and the province's numerous semiautonomous
or autonomous local plants and systems. SEPC's power purchasing arrangements number
in the hundreds. Especially in the countryside, there are ever-changing combinations of
different categories of grid and local supply, priced in different ways for different
consumers.
4.           During the 1980s, Prefectural and County Power Supply Bureaus allocated
new sources of supply, under the guidance price system, separately to individual
consumers, with different prices for each supply source. By the early 1990s, this system
had become unmanageable. The province is reforming the system, to pool all of the
sources of supply subject to guidance prices together, and charge consumers a weighted
average price, as is now common in most other parts of China. Because the reform will
result in some enterprises paying more, and some paying less, than before, the reform is
being pursued over several years, prefecture-by-prefecture. The unreformed guidance
price system remained in force in 5 of the province's 14 prefectures in July 1994. In
Deyang Prefecture, where the reform has not yet been implemented, there are 14 separate
sources of "out-of-plan" supply, each priced and allocated to consumers separately.
5.           Low Price Levels. Electricity prices in Sichuan are among the lowest in
China. Both the average unit revenue level accruing to SEPC from the state catalog prices
and the average consumer price levels in Sichuan are only some 65-75 percent of the levels
in the coastal provinces of Jiangsu and Zhejiang. Consumer prices are significantly below
the long-run average incremental costs of supply (see below). Recently, however, prices
levels in Sichuan have been increasing more sharply, so that the gap compared to other
provinces is narrowing somewhat. Based on increases in the state catalog price, SEPC's
unit revenue levels are projected to rise by 21 percent in 1994, compared to 1993. In
Zhejiang, by comparison, the average state catalog price was increased by about 8 percent
between 1993 and 1994.
6.           One reason for the relatively low state catalog prices in Sichuan is the
relatively high share of hydroelectric generation. During the late 1980s and early 1990s,
the driving factor behind the increases in catalog prices throughout China was the
increasing costs of coal supply and delivery, which directly resulted in increased operating
costs. There has been greater resistance to increases in prices for power from existing
hydroelectric facilities, which were financed on a grant basis prior to the mid-1980s, to
levels approaching the incremental costs of new capacity. State catalog prices also are
relatively low in other provinces with a concentration of hydropower, such as Fujian.



- 67 -                        ANNEX 2.5
7.           Another factor is that the certain types of industries which are eligible for
subsidized electricity prices according to national policy, such as the chemical fertilizer
industry, account for a larger share of the overall load than in most other provinces. Sales
based on the special subsidized prices accounted for about 9 percent of SEPC's total sales
in 1993.
8.           Factors contributing to the low levels of consumer prices compared with the
coastal provinces, in addition to the low state catalog prices, include the facts that
(a) power supplied at the at the catalog prices (as opposed to power purchased from
independent or quasi-independent producers) accounts for a higher share of total sales, and
(b) price levels for power purchased from other sources by SEPC are somewhat lower.
In Sichuan, sales at administered prices account for about 60 percent of SEPC's sales,
while sales at guidance prices based on power purchased from outside of SEPC account
for about 40 percent. In the fast-growing coastal provinces, sales at administered prices
account for one half or less of total sales. In Sichuan, average guidance price levels also
are lower than on the coast, in part due to a high portion of power from small hydro plants
in the total amount of purchased power. Prices for power from small hydro plants tend
to be relatively low, as much of the power is supplied during the wet season when its value
to the overall system is less.
9.           Time-of-I)ay and Seasonal Tariffs. Compared with other areas, Sichuan
Province is particularly advanced in implementation of time-of-day and seasonal tariffs.
Beginning in 1993, the province has been implementing a program to apply both daily peak
and off-peak rates, and wet, dry and shoulder season rates for major consumers. By 1995,
these tariff schedules will apply to about 60 percent of SEPC's total sales. (See also Table
2 and para. 16 below.)
The Electricity Price Buildup in Sichuan
10.         State Catalog Prices. The state catalog prices for Sichuan Province in 1994
are shown in Table 1. Prices are highest for commercial sector use, followed by industry.
Large industrial consumers face both an energy charge and a demand charge; the demand
charge amounts to an average of 2-4 f/kWh for most consumers. Consumer categories
provided with special subsidized rates include certain metals and chemicals, chemical
fertilizers, and irrigation in poor counties. The 1994 prices for regular and large industry
increased by 11 percent and 14 percent, respectively, compared to 1993. With projected
shifts in the composition of the load and other adjustments, SEPC's average revenue, based
on these prices, is expected to reach about 20 f/kWh (US2.3/kWh) in 1994, up from
16.54 f/kWh in 1993.
11.         Purchased Power. Key sources of purchased power include several large
joint-investment or independent plants, including two owned by Huaneng Corporation, and
a large number of small hydro and captive thermal plants. Supply sources and their prices
vary in different parts of the province. In the case of Chengdu Prefecture, power from
three large plants supply accounts for about one half of the purchased power, with selling
prices to the grid of 21.7 f/kWh (Chengdu Power Plant), 25.2 f/kWh (Jiangyou Power



- 68 -                         ANNEX 2.5
Plant), and 27.8 f/kWh (Luohuang Power Plant), and retail prices set 3-5 f/kWh higher,
plus the additional surcharges and fees. The other one half of purchased supply comes
from small hydro plants, with selling prices to the grid of 13.0-18.5 f/kWh, and small
thernal plants, with selling prices onto the grid of 27.5 f/kWh.
12.         Consumer Prices. As in other parts of China, surcharges added to the state
catalog prices in Sichuan to form the retail administered price schedule include (a) a local
surcharge for urban grid construction-levied, in this case, at 10 percent of the catalog
price for residential and commercial consumers, and 8 percent of the catalog price for
industrial consumers; (b) the national 0.4 f/kWh levy for mobilization of funds for the
Three Gorges Project; and (c) a surcharge to mobilize funds for provincial government
investment in power, amounting to 2.5 f/kWh in the case of Sichuan. Additional levies
in this case also include (a) a 5.5 f/kWh surcharge to pay for the higher cost of power
supplied by two particular large plants, (b) a 0.13 f/kWh fee to support small hydro plant
development, and (c) a 1.0 f/kWh surcharge to raise funds for Sichuan's Ertan
Hydroelectric Project.
13.         In Chengdu City, "out-of-plan" sources of purchased power are pooled
together and charged to consumers at one weighted average price of 28 f/kWh. Adding
in a 2 f/kWh fee for the Ertan project, guidance prices in 1994 were 30 f/kWh. In
Chengdu, the guidance prices were applied to 32 percent of total sales, and administered
prices were applied to the remaining 68 percent.
14.         Considering current load characteristics, the average consumer price in
Chengdu in mid-1994 is estimated at about 30 f/kWh (US3.4/kWh). Consumer prices
in the neighboring Deyang Prefecture also were reviewed in detail, yielding about the same
average price.
15.         The administered and guidance price levels are now relatively close (adding
in the demand charge, typically amounting to 2-4 f/kWh, in the administered price for
large industry). In the case of Sichuan, a number of the surcharges that other provinces
often apply only in guidance prices are levied in the administered prices, whereas the
surcharges on guidance prices are relatively small.
16.         Table 2 shows the tariff for industrial consumers in use in Deyang Prefecture
in 1994. Rates are sharply differentiated according to season and time-of-day. During the
wet season, average prices are 10 percent below the catalog price, and during the dry
season, they are 20 percent higher: During each season, then, peak and off-peak time-of-
day rates apply. Addecl together, therefore, the price of peak load energy during the dry
season is four times the price of off-peak energy during the wet season. This tariff is
relatively advanced compared with those used in other parts of China. It provides a much
improved signal to consumers as to the actual costs of supply at different times-costs that
vary dramatically in Sichuan's system-and provides a good incentives framework for
proper load management.



- 69 -                        ANNEX 2.5
Comparison of Consumer Prices and the Economic Cost of Supply
17.         Average consumer prices in Sichuan in 1994, represented by the cases of
Chengdu and Deyang, were about 70-80 percent of the estimated long-run average
incremental cost (LRAIC) of supply, calculated in economic shadow prices. This gap
between average consumer prices and the estimated economic cost of supply contrasts with
the situation in the coastal provinces, where average consumer prices are very close to, or
exceed the LRAIC of supply.
18.         As part of the economic analysis for this project, BERIWREP estimated the
LRAIC of the least-cost expansion program for the Sichuan Provincial Grid during 1994-
2010 at 40.5 f/kWh (US4.7/kWh). Incremental supply costs in Sichuan are low because
of (a) the availability of inexpensive hydropower (the investment costs for most of the
projects in Sichuan's hydropower expansion program are less than $1,000/kW); (b) the
availability of low-cost coal (shadow-priced at about $31/ton of 6,000 kcal/kg coal
delivered), and; (c) relatively low costs for development of new thermal power capacity,
as in other parts of China. Incremental distribution system investment and operating costs
in BERIWREP's calculations include only those costs incurred by SEPC or its
subdivisions, amounting to only about 10 percent of total incremental costs. Actual
distribution system costs are substantially higher, but much of the cost is paid for by
consumers, through their own investment, connection fees and other means not included
in the average consumer price.  Hence, BERIWREP's estimate may be the most
appropriate calculation to compare with the estimated consumer price levels.
19.         Compared with the weighted average price levels for different consumer
categories in Chengdu City, commercial sector prices are close to the economic cost of
supply, while industrial prices are on the order of 75-80 percent of supply cost. Prices for
residential, agricultural and industries with special subsidies are the furthest from the cost
of supply.



- 70 -                              ANNEX 2.5
Table 1: STATE CATALOG PRICES IN SICHUAN PROVINCE, 1994
Demand charge
Energv charge (f/kWh)        Maximum       Substation
Low                   35 kVA        load        capacity
Consumer categories              voltage     1-10 kVA   & above   (Y/kW/mo)
(Y/kVA/mo)
Residences                        22.0         21.0
Commercial sector                 30.6         29.8
Regular industry                  21.1         20.6       19.8
Large industry                                 14.2       13.5        13.5           9.0
Special subsidies
Certain metals & chemicals                  13.2       12.5         13.5          9.0
Calcium carbide                             12.2       11.5         13.5          9.0
Chemical fertilizer /a                       6.1        5.8         13.5          9.0
Agricultural production           16.6         16.1       15.3
Irrigation in poor counties        7.6          7.4        7.1
/a Small- and medium-scale chemical fertilizer plants are charged 12.2 f/kWh for 1-10 kVA supply and
11.7 f/kWh for supply at 35 kVA and above.
Source: SEPC.



- 71-                       ANNEX 2
Table 2: ELECTRIcrrY PRICES FOR INDUSTRnAL CONSUMERS,
DEYANG PREFECrURE, SICHUAN PROVINcE, 1994
(f/kWh)
Regular industra       Large indust=r /a
LV      1-10 kV   235 kV    1-10 kV  235 kV
Catalog price              21.10     20.60    19.80      14.20    13.50
Wet-season average price
(decreased 10%)           18.99    18.54     17.82      12.78    12.15
Dry-season average price
(increased 20%)          25.32     24.72     23.76      17.04    16.20
Base Tariff
Wet season
Peak                    28.49     27.81    26.73      19.17    18.23
Off-peak                 9.50      9.27      8.91      6.39     6.08
Shoulder season
Peak                    31.65     30.90    29.70      21.13    20.25
Off-peak                10.55     10.30     9.90       7.10     6.75
Dry season
Peak                    37.98     37.08    35.64      25.50    24.30
Off-peak                12.66     12.36     11.88      8.52     8.10
Surcharges
Small hydro fee           0.13      0.13      0.13      0.13     0.13
Three Gorges fee          0.40      0.40      0.40      0.40     0.40
Two-plant fee              5.50     5.50      5.50       5.50    5.50
Ertan fee                  1.00     1.00      1.00       1.00    1.00
/a Energy charge only.
Source: Deyang Prefecture Power Supply Bureau.






- 72 -                       ANNEX 3.1
ERTAN HYDROPOWER DEVELOPMENT COMPANY
REFORM IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
1.          The Chinese Government has undertaken in the recent years a far-reaching
reform  program  to:  (a) improve the power sector efficiency, gradually introduce
competition and encourage further diversification in financing power development,
including private sector participation; and (b) establish a modem enterprise system
characterized by clear definition of property rights, autonomous management, commercial
orientation, financial independence, and the separation of government ownership and
regulation from enterprise management. In addition, the Sichuan Electric Power Company
(SEPC) and Sichuan Electric Power Administration (SEPA) have worked out an action
plan, approved by the Ministry of Electric Power on September 19, 1994, that focuses,
among other objectives, on improving the efficiency of the power industry in Sichuan
Province, paying special attention to the establishment of fair power purchase and sales
agreements and introducing competition. The Ertan Hydropower Development Company
(EHDC) supports these principles and is committed to cooperate with all other operators
in the sector to implement them.
2.          Accordingly, EHDC has worked out the following reform implementation
plan for corporatization of EHDC, commercialization of its operation and introduction of
adequate contractual arrangements to protect EHDC's commercial interests and result in
the most efficient use of power sector assets in Sichuan Province. This plan takes account
of the Government's "Decision on Several Problems in Establishing the Socialist Market
Economy," the "Company Law of the People's Republic of China," the "Regulations for
Transfer of the Operating Mechanism of Enterprises Owned by the Whole People," and
the conclusions of the joint Chinese Government/World Bank report on power sector
reform in China.
Objectives of the Reform
3.          EHDC, by law, a self-operated legal entity with independent accounting and
responsibility for its owii profits and losses, will be in the near future one of the major
power generators in Sichuan Province.  Based on the requirements of the modern
enterprise system, EHDC will be restructured into an independent power producer (IPP)
through the following actions:
(a)   incorporation of EHDC into a limited liability company fully in accordance
with the Company Law with increased autonomy and accountability of
management;



- 73 -                        ANNEX 3.1
(b)   restructuring its internal organization, improvement of its management and
control systems and development and implementation of suitable financial
management and accounting systems adapted to restructured internal
organization;
(c)   negotiation of appropriate power sales agreement to protect its commercial
interests and ensure the most efficient use of its assets.
Corporatization of EHDC
4.          Consistent with government policy and regulations, EHDC  is being
incorporated as a limited liability company under the new Company Law. EPH prepared,
with the assistance of corporate lawyers, Articles of Association, consistent with the
Company Law. The Articles of Association were discussed and approved by the Board
of Directors on Februaiy 8, 1995. The name of the company has been changed to
conform with Article 18 of the Company Law to Ertan Hydropower Development Limited
Liability Company. The Articles of Association were approved by the three promoters of
the EHDC, which are authorized by the State to make investments.
5.          As required by law and administrative regulations, EHDC submitted a
request to the State Administration of Industry and Commerce to register the limited
liability company and obtain a company business license, in accordance with Article 21 of
the Company Law. The company was registered and a business license issued in February
1995.
6.          EHDC will prepare, within six months of the registration of the limited
liability company, transitional internal regulations that will govern the relationship between
the Board of Directors and the managers of the company. The internal regulations will
include management reporting requirements and procedures, the transitional organization
of the enterprise, and the rights and responsibilities of senior management positions. The
temporary internal regulations will be revised and finalized within six months of the
completion of the Organizational and Financial Management Systems Study (cf. para. 7
below).
Restructuring of Internal Organization and Implementation of
Adequate Accounting and Financial Systems
7.          To make a successful transition towards a business and profit oriented
independent power proclucer and potential developer, EHDC will implement an
organizational structure a,nd management systems and procedures more adapted to its
corporate objectives and conducive to effective management and increased accountability
of managers at high and intermediary levels. EHDC will undertake the following actions:
(a)   a diagnostic review of the internal organization, operating and administrative
procedures with particular attention to the responsibilities of the existing
business units and their functional relations, excessive centralization of



- 74 -                         ANNEX 3.1
decisionmaking and organizational deficiencies. Particular attention will be
given to: (i) the noncore businesses and social activities carried out by
EHDC, (ii) the engineering and construction unit after the completion of the
ongoing project, and (iii) the needed organizational changes to prepare
EHDC for its operational and commercial functions;
(b)   development of a new organizational structure more adapted to EHDC's
new role and with the objective of improving operational efficiency,
avoiding excessive centralization of decisionmaking, establishing the social
functions as cost centers to be separated from the company once the
Government establishes the proper institutions and mechanisms to carry
them out, and increasing accountability of managers at all levels;
(c)   assessment of accounting procedures, documentation, reporting formats and
nature of financial transactions between various departments and critical
assessment of cost accounting, financial planning, and internal audit
procedures; and
(d)   design and implementation of adequate accounting, financial, control and
reporting systems that address the weaknesses identified during the first
phase, satisfy EHDC's long-term corporate objectives and increase the
managers' cost consciousness.
8.           Terms of reference of the above study have been prepared by EHDC and
the procurement process for employment of consultants has commenced. The international
consultants to perform aind assist in the study and implementation activities will be financed
through the technical assistance component for power sector reform to be included int he
proposed project.
9.           The study will be completed by end-1996 and full implementation of the
revised organizational structure and proposed accounting, financial, budgeting and control
system will be completed by June 30, 1997.
Power Sales Agreement
10.         A carefully designed power sales agreement is essential to ensure a long-
term business relationship between EHDC and SEPC, protect their respective commercial
interests and ensure efficient dispatch and use of power assets at the provincial level. To
successfully achieve a successful transition to a fully independent power producer, EHDC
will undertake the following actions:
(a)   completion of the ongoing study on bulk power sales carried out in
cooperation with SEPC with the assistance of the Beijing Economic
Research Institute for Water Resources and Electric Power and a foreign
consultant prior to end-1995. A preliminary report has been provided to the
World Bank.



- 75 -                       ANNEX 3.1
(b)   preparation, negotiation and signature of a Memorandum of Understanding
(MOU) with SEPC identifying the principles that will govern the power
sales agreement between the two companies, the major topics to be included
in the agreement and committing both parties to finalize the negotiations and
sign the agreement no later than June 30, 1997. EHDC will finance needed
technical assistance and legal advice with available funds earmarked for this
purpose in the first phase of the project; and
(c)   completion of the reservoir optimization study, based on the terms of
reference prepared during the first stage of the project, and any other
needed technical or economic studies to prepare the power sales agreement
no later than June 30, 1995.
11.         EHDC will discuss with SEPC to include, subject to the approval of higher
authorities, in the power reform study to be carried out under the World Bank's Sichuan
Transmission Project, a full evaluation of the option of direct sales of power, generated
by the Ertan power plant and/or future projects promoted by EHDC, to large customers
or other provincial utilities.
Organization Measure for Reform
12.         EHDC will set up a joint reform executive team prior to April 30, 1995 in
charge of planning and implementing the above-mentioned reforms. The reform will also
be periodically reviewed by the Board of Directors.



- 76 -                       ANNEX 3.2
STAFFING OF EHDC
Classification                               Number                  Percentage
EHDC Headquarters:
Engineers and economists                       70                       14
Accountants                                    28                        6
Administrators                                 51                       10
Service personnel (including warehouses
and material handling)                       351                        70
Subtotal                                   500                       100
Site Management (EEC):
Supervising engineers                         194                       61
Contract engineers                             43                       14
Financial personnel                             7                        2
Administrative personnel                       20                        6
Service personnel                              53                       17
Subtotal                                   317                       100
Total                                      817
/a Excludes short-termL contract labor.
/b Hydrological, meteorological and seismic observation operations will be subcontracted
to specialized institutions.
/c Excludes staff for c,peration of the project when completed.
Source: EHDC.






- 77 -                                       ANNEX 4.1
INSTALLED GENERATING CAPACITY OF
SICHUAN POWER GRID
(as of end-1993)
No. of
Installed         units        Commissioning       Dependable    Annual
Name of plant                            capacity         & sizes              date           capacity      output
(MW)           (MW)                                  (MW)        (GWh)
A.   SEPC
Hydro
1.   Changshou                      132              13 (1-15)         1954/64            120           625
2.  Gongzui                         700               7 x 100          1971/77            700          3,690
3.  Yinxiuwan                       135                3 x 45          1971172             59            713
4.  Mofanggou                        37.5             3 x 12.5         1971/73             10            210
5.  Yuzixi                          320                8 x 40          1972/87            320          1,760
6.  Nanyahe                         120                3 x 40          1983/84             31            650
7.  Tongjezhi                       450               3 x 150          1992/93            450          3.210
8.  Longchi                          10.5        5 (1.85 - 2.5)        1957/59              0             45
9.  Others                           48.7
Subtotal                            1,953.7
Thermal
1.  Chongqing                       600                4 x 50          1960/69            600
2 x 200          1986/87
2.  Huayingshan                     300                2 x 50          1978/79            300
2 x 100          1980/82
3.  Wanyuan                          24                2 x 12          1971/74             24
4.  Chengdu                         325                5 x 25          1958/65            325
1 x 200            1990
5.  Jiangyou                        860                4 x 50          1966/71            860
2 x 330             1991
6.  Wutonqiao                       112                 1 x 12            1977            112
2 x 50          1979/87
7.  Yibin                           500                2 x 50             1970            500
2 x 100            1974
1 x 200            1993
8.  Baima (Neijiang)                400               2 x 200          1988/89            400
9.  Panzhihua                        36                3 x 12          1966/67             36
10. Hemenkou                        200                4 x 25          1966/70            200
2 x 50         1972/85
11. Xinzhuang                       100                2 x 50          1975/77            100
12. Baihe (Kaixian)                 100                2 x 50          1991/92            100
13. Others                          136
Subtotal                            3.693.0
Total                            5.646.7
B.   Huaneng Plants                       828.3
C.   Local Plants                       3,037.3
D.   Captive Plants                     1,014.8
GRAND TOTAL (MW)                10,527.1
Source: SEPC.



- 78 -                        ANNEX 4.2
TRANSMISSION NETWORK OF SICHUAN POWER GRID
(As of end 1993)
Province as a whole        Owned by SEPC
Number of      Circuit   Number of        Circuit
lines      length        lines        length
(km)                      (km)
A. Transmission Lines
220 kV                     114         5,064.1       106         4,795.0
110 kV                     397         9,257.4       324         7,379.2
35 kV                    1,425        20,410.5       408         4,862.3
Total                     1,936       34.736.0       838         16.996.5
Province as a whole         Owned by SEPC
Number of    Capacity     Number of    Capacity
substations   (MVA)       substations    (MVA)
& transformers            & transformers
B. Substations
220 kV                 33/55         6,356.0       33/55        6,356.0
110 kV                186/307        8,116.7      162/273       7,361.4
35 kV                 613/967        3,967.7      208/332       1,881.2
Total                 832/1,329      18440.4      403/660       15,598.6
Source: SEPC.



-79-                               ANNEX 4.3
ENERGY GENERATION OF SICHUAN POWER GRID
(Above 0.5 MW Only - Unit: GWh)
Name of plant                 1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993
GRAND TOTAL              26,287   29,402  32.695  43,565   37.957  41.940   47,087
Hydro              11.604   13,152   14.684  14,854  15,505   16.830   19586
Thermal            14,683   16.250   18,011   19,711  22,452   25,110   27,501
A.  SEPC Plants            1,9696.0 21.751.0 23,284.0 24017..0  5 .0 24,708.0 27,145.0
1. Changshou Hydro      518.8   500.5   692.7   580.4   514.7   542.3   597.8
2. Gongzui Hydro      3,268.2  3,404.0  3,448.8  3,298.1  3,215.8  3,172.6  2,997.5
3.  Yinxiuwan Hydro   1,999.3  2,357.3  2,356.7  2,343.1  2,387.1  2,326.3  2,220.1
4. Mofanggou Hydro      190.2   179.8   190.7   214.4   196.1   154.2   148.1
5.  Nanyahe Hydro       522.9   568.3   614.7   644.8   560.4   630.0   583.8
6. Tongiezhi Hydro          -        -       -        -        -       -  1,211.4
7. Chungqing Thermal  3,171.7  4,178.6  4,203.6  4,290.9  4,210.9  3,200.1  3,721.8
8. Huayingshan Thermal 2,158.3  2,204.9  2,208.6  2,118.5  2,208.8  1,959.5  1,923.6
9. Wanyuan Thermal    181.7   159.0   169.8   168.8   170.6   164.0   165.2
10. Chengdu Cogenerationl,092.9  1,027.6  1,032.2  1,463.4  2,137.1  2,050.5  2,086.6
11. Jianyou Thermal    1,492.2  1,346.2  1,303.8  1,285.1  1,759.3  3,157.2  3,834.2
12. Wutongqiao Thermal   34.8     7.5      4.0    78.0    79.4    83.1    89.4
13. Douba Thermal     2,012.4  2,202.1  2,076.3  1,915.9  2,009.1  1,855.7  1,812.6
14. Baima Thermal       725.8  1,049.2  2,444.1  3,071.7  3,240.9  2,834.4  2,083.4
15. Panzhihua Thermal    191.5   232.9   208.5   223.9   226.6   233.5   225.2
16. Hemenkou Thermal  1,242.8  1,416.1  1,463.1  1,402.4  1,438.9  1,447.6  1,378.9
17. Xinzhuang           630.6   656.5   661.5   709.8   657.3   624.0   681.2
18. Baihe                   -        -       -        -    52.3   199.1   420.2
B.   Huaneng Plants              -        -    27.0   119.0   770.0  2,301.0  3.151.3
C.   Local Plants           5.003.0  6,138.0  7,471.0  8363.0  7,206.0  8,859.0 13,255.7
D.  CaDtive Plants          1.550.   1,493.0      0   1.959.0  2479.0  3470.0  3,534.2
E.   Others                   38.0    20.0    30.0    35.6  2.294.0  2,602.0         -
Source: SEPC.



- 80 -                                 ANNEX 4.4
ENERGY CONSUMPTION BY CATEGORY OF
CONSUMERS IN SICHUAN PROVINCE /a
(Unit: GWh)
Category of users                1987     1988      1989     1990      1991     1992      1993
A.   Agriculture                  436      370       364      394       579      626       919
1.  Irrigation              174       102       90      120       137      110       155
2.  Forestry                  5         2        2        2         3        2         3
3.  Cattling                  6         8        8        10       13        15       19
4.  Others                  251       258      264      262       426      499       742
B.   Industry                  19,506   21,106   23,292   24.177   25,833   27.750   29,524
1.  Heavy                16,058   17,520   19,611   20,257   21,912   23,736   24,810
2.  Light                 3,448    3,586    3,681    3,920    3,921    4,014    4,714
C.   Transportation               554      593       593      591       619      659       732
D.   Cormmercial                   70       90       100      107       165      201       264
E.   Residential                1,232    1.528    1,736    2,117    2,162    2.610    2:721
1.  Municipal               936    1,175    1,317    1,632    1,635    2,010    2,061
2.  Rural                   296       353      419      485       527      600       660
F.   Others                       651      731       763      843    1.160    1.205    1185
Total                      22 449   24,418   26.848   28,229   30 518   33.051   35.345
/a Including generation and purchased energy.
Source: SEPC.



- 81 -                            ANNEX 4.5
ENERGY FORECAST FOR SICHUAN POWER GRID
19,94    1995    1996    1997    1998    1999    2000   2005
A.  Enernv Reauirement (GWh)
Agriculture    546.6   571.6   593.3   615.7   638.5   655.8   670.3   855.5
Industry    27,593.2 29,653.2 32,050.8 34,633.3 37,432.9 39,994.0 42,562.0 56,877.4
Transport    1,043.7  1,154.6  1,267.8  1,391.9  1,526.9  1,659.0  1,793.7  2,888.8
Building       282.0   314.6   348.5   386.0   427.1   468.2   510.7   829.0
Tertiary     1,613.4  1,849.6  2,086.4  2,352.9  2,651.6  2,959.5  3,287.0  5,792.8
Residential    2,515.6  2,834.4  3,125.5  3,445.5  3,796.1  4,141.3  4,496.3  7,576.5
Line loss &
station use  5,405.3  5,922.0  6,427.7  6,974.7  7,526.9  8,122.2  8,680.0 12,180.0
Total           39.000   42300  45.900  49.800  54Q000  58Q000  62,000  87,000
B.   Peak Load (MW) 6.180    6730   7.330   8,000   8.700   9,400  10,000  14.100
Utilization hours of
maximum load6,311    6,285   6,262   6,225   6,207   6,170   6,200   6,170
Source: SEPC.



- 82 -                          ANNEX 4.6
SEPC'S POWER DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (1994-2003)
A. GENERATION PROJECTS
Construction    Scheduled
Installed  No. of   Unit    starting    commissioning
Name of plant            capacity   units    size      date           date
(MW)             (MW)
A.  Hydro
Tongjiezi              150      1        150      1991          1994
Baozhushi              700      4        175      1994          1994/96
Zhilanba               102      3         68      1994          1994/95
Taipingyi              260      2        130      1994          1995/96
Yaoheba                120      1        120      1994          1996
Ertan                3,300      6        550      1991          1998-2000
Yele                   220      2        110      1995          1999/2001
Lizipin                120      3         40      1998          2000/02
Pubugou              3,300      6        550      1997          2003/05
Tongzilin              400      4        100      1995          2000/02
Jinping              3,000      6        500      2000          2010/12
Pengshui             1,080      6        180      1998          2007/10
B.  Thermal
Jiangyou             1,200      2        600      1998          2002/03
Baima                  200      1        200      1993          1995
Chungqing              200      1        200      1993          1995
Luohuang Extension    700       2        350      1994          1997
Huangjiachuang II      600      2        300      1997          2000/01
Guangan                600      2        300      1994          1997/98



- 83 -                       ANNEX 4.6
B. 500-KV TRANSMISSION NETWORK
Transmission lines                 Lenh (Ian)            Commissioning date
Ertan - Zigong                       3 x 470             1998, 1999, 2000
Zigong - Chongqing                   2 x 162             1994, 1998
Zigong - Chengdu                     2 x 190             1999, 2000
Chongqing - Changshou                100                 2000
Ertan - Panzhihua                    46                  1999
Pubugou - Xingjin                    2 x 200             2003, 2005
Xingjin - Longwang                   1 x 65              2003
Longwang - Deyang                    1 x 65              2004
Pubugou - Ziyang                     2 x 235             2004
Hongxian - Zigong                    1 x 90              2004
Luohuang - Changshou                 1 x 95              1999
Hongxian - Luzhou                    1 x 95              2004
Luzhou - Qijiang                     1 x 129             2005
Qijiang - Luohuang                   1 x 60              2001
Qijiang - Chengjiaqiao               1 x 70              2001
Substations                      Capacity (MVA)          Commissioning date
Zhaojue Switching Station                                1993
Honggou (Zigong)                     1 x 750             1998
Chengjiaqiao (Chongqing)             2 x 750             1998
Longwang (Chengdu)                   2 x 750             1999
Changshou                            1 x 750             2000
Panzhihua                            1 x 750             1999
Xingjin                              2 x 750             2003, 2005
Deyang                               I x 750             2004
Gucheng                              1 x 750             2003
Ziyang                               I x 500             2004
Hongxian                             1 x 500             2004
Luzhou                               1 x 500             2004
Qijiang                              1 x 500             2001
Source: SEPC.



SYSTEM DEMAND AND ENERGY BALANCE OF
SICHUAN POWER GRID
1994              1995              1996              1997                 1998                1999                2000              2005
Wet     Dry      Wtc       Dry      Wet      Dry      we!      Dry       Wet        Drv       Wet       Dry       Wet       Dry      Wet       Dry
I. System Demand
(a)  Peak load (MW)       6,180    5,750    6,730    6,270    7,330    6,820    8.000    7.450      8,700     8,100     9.400     8,750    10,000     9,310   14.100   13,120
(b)  Energy (GWh)             39,000             42,300            45,900             49.800              54,000              58,000               62,000            87,000
2. Installed Capacity (MW)    6,510.3  6,925.3  7,093.3  7,758.3  8,039.3  8,664.3  9,202.3  9,593.3  10,077.3  10,411.3  12,116.3  12,116.3  13,411.3  13,766.3   18.750   20,000
Hydro               1,913.0  2,128.0  2,368.0  2,433.0  2,714.0  2,889.0  3,139.0  3,180.0   3,764.0   3,798.0   5,503.0   5,503.0   6,798.0   6,853.0   10.250   10,500
Thermal             4,597.3  4,797.3  4,725.3  5,325.3  5,325.3  5,775.3  6,063.3  6,413.3   6,313.3   6,613.3   6,613.3   6,613.3   6,613.3   6,913.3    8.500    9,500
3. Available Hydro
Capability (MW)          1,738    1,650    2,103    1,950    2,408    2,150    2,864    2,750     3,705      3,350     4,873     4.000     5,728     4,800   10,200    7,150             CO
Working capacity     1,650    1,350    2,000    1,450    2,290    1,550    2,624    2,100      3,440     2,500     4,593      3,000     5,400     3,600    9,800    5,150
Reserve capacity        88     300       103      500      118      600      240      650        265       850       280      1,000      328      1,200      400    1,400
4. Available Thermal
Capability (MW)        4,497.3  4,497.3  4,725.3  4,725.3  5,325.3  5,325.3  5,775.3  5,775.3   6,313.3   6,313.3   6,613.3   6,613.3   6,613.3   6,613.3    7.650    8,330
Working capacity     3,560  3,840.0    3,730    4,250    4,140    4,720    4,676    4,870      4.760     5,120     4,807      5,750     4,300     5,710    4,300    7,370
Reserve capacity     937.3   657.3    995.3    475.3  1,185.3    605.3  1,099.3    905.3   1,553.3   1,193.3   1,806.3        863.3   2,313.3     903.3    3,350      960
5. Purchased power
(a)  Capacity (MW)          950     560    1,000      570       900      550      700      480       700       480        150       100         -          -        -        -
(b)  Energy (GWh)                5,240            5,200              3,820             2,340               2,340                  563.8
6. Power Balance (MW)
(3) + (4) + (5) - (I)a  1,005.3   957.3  1,098.3    975.3  1,303.3  1,205.3  1,339.3  1,555.3   2,018.3   2,043.3   2,236.3   1,963.3   2,341.3   2,103.3    3,750    2,360
7. Reserve Margin (%)        16.26    16.65    16.32    15.56    17.78    17.67    16.74    20.87      23.20     25.22     23.80      22.4      23.41     22.50     26.5     18.0
8. Energy Generating
Capability (GWh)             33,516.2          37,252.2           41,578.2          46,403.2            49,817.2            57,437.0             65,387.8           88,423              >
9. Energy Balance (GWh)                                                                                                                                                                     4Z
(8) + (5)b- (I)b                -243.8             152.2             -501.8          -1,056.8             -1,842.8                  -              3,387.8             1,423
Source: SEPC.



- 85 -                         ANNEX 5.1
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
1.           The proposed project consists of the Ertan Hydroelectric Station, resettlement
of about 35,000 people, an environmental management program and a science station,
technical assistance and consulting services, studies and staff training, with an objective to
provide a reliable supply of electric power to consumers in Southwest China.
Ertan Hydroelectric Station
2.           The Ertan hydroelectric power station will be a major project in a series of
power stations to be built on the Yalong river. With an installed capacity of 3,300 MW and
an annual production of 17 TWh, the main purpose of the project is power generation. The
power station will include a 240 m high concrete arch dam, two tunnel spillways, an overflow
spillway, mid- and low-level outlet works, a plunge pool and a tunnel for conveying logs
around the dam. The underground power complex consists of an intake structure, water
conductors, a power chamber, a transformer chamber, a tailrace surge chamber, and two tail
race tunnels. Power will be transmitted through four 500 kV transmission lines to the
Sichuan provincial grid.
3.           Project Location and Geology. The project is located in the south west of
Sichuan Province, 33 krm upstream from the river mouth near Panzhihua City, an important
iron and steel industrial base. The damsite is 730 km by railroad south of Chengdu, the
capital of Sichuan. The 1'ongzilin railroad station on the Chengdu-Kunming railway is 28 km
downstream from the damsite. In an area of high mountains and deep canyons, the Ertan
gorge is composed of Permian basalt with large intrusions of syenite, a granite-like rock. The
damsite is formed by a deep, narrow gorge with the mountains on both sides rising to heights
of 300 to 400 meters. The Yalong River has a width of 80 to 100 meters during the dry
season. Overburden in the river bed at the damsite is generally 20 to 30 m thick. Local
geologic mapping started in 1972. A large amount of geologic exploration and investigation
was accomplished with 571 boreholes totaling 30,450 m, and 8,130 m of adits with four
shafts adding another 200 meters. Numerous tests have been conducted to determine rock
mechanics parameters f:r design and stability analyses. The site is in an area with an
earthquake potential of 7 MM.
4.            Climate and Hydrology. The climate of the river basin shows distinct dry
and wet seasons. It is dry from November to April. From May to October, the southwest
monsoon prevails and the weather is warm and humid. Temperatures range from OC to
40.8C, with an average of 19.7C. River water temperatures vary from 6.0 to 22.5C with
a mean of 14.6C. The Yalong River has a length of 1,500 km with a drainage area of



- 86 -                         ANNEX 5.1
130,000 km2. Over its down stream length of 350 km, the river has a hydraulic head of
990 m and an estimated exploitable potential of 11,000 MW, making it one of China's ten
principal hydro power bases.  Ertan will be the first project for the initial stage of
development on this stretch of the river. A gaging network was established in 1953. The
closest station near Ertan at Xiaodeshi, 12 km downstream from the damsite, has collected
streamflow data continuously since 1953. The long-term average streamflow at the damsite
is 1,570 m3/s and the mean annual runoff there amounts to 52.7 billion m3. The reservoir has
a total capacity of 5.8 billion m3 and an effective capacity of 3.37 billion m3. With a normal
pool level at the dam at E.l. 1,200 the reservoir will extend 145 km upstream. Based on the
available data it is considered that the reservoir will be secure and safe from leakages and
disruptive land slides. T'he maximum flood recorded at the damsite was 11,100 m3/s on
August 1, 1965. The minimum flow of 353 m3/s occurred on March 15, 1984. The design
flood (1,000 year) has been established at 20,500 m3/s, check flood (5,000 year) at
23,850 m3/s.  Since the 1970s, the sediment load in the river has increased due to
deforestation for land reclamation and road construction. Mean annual suspended load at
Xiaodeshi is 28.4 million tons.
5.           Arch Dam. The double-curvature arch dam will have a maximum height of
240 m, a crest length of 775 m, and a concrete volume of 4.20 million in3. Maximum
thickness at the base of the crown is 55.7 m, base thickness to height ratio is 0.23, and the
span to height ratio is 2.82. The static analysis of the arch dam was carried out with a trial-
load type program and its results were verified by finite element analysis and structural model
tests. Dynamic analyses were also carried out by the trial-load method. Stresses were
computed for normal, unusual, and extreme loading conditions. Normal Loading (N.L.) is
normal reservoir elevation plus dead load, design temperature drop, and silt loading. Unusual
Loading (U.L.) is normal load with maximum reservoir level due to flood passing. Extreme
Loading (E.L.) is normal loading plus seismic loading. The maximum stresses are shown
below:
Maximum Stresses in kg/cm2
Allowable                  Computed
Normal       Extreme         Normal    Extreme
Compressive:
Downstream face                 80            105            86            99
Tensile:
Upstream face                   10             15            11            17
Downstream face                 15            20              3             4



- 87 -                           ANNEX 5.1
These stresses were obtained using the trial load method. The results of the finite element
analysis show a similar stress distribution for both static and dynamic loading conditions.
Local stress concentrations occur in the vicinity of the openings, but the overall stress
distribution and the structuiral behavior of the dam are not affected. The dead weight stresses
during construction are within the allowable stresses.
6.            Concrete Placement. In view of the location of the dam in a narrow valley,
concrete placement will be achieved by means of two sets of high-speed cableways located
at different levels. These cableways will also handle the heavy parts of the metal structures
for gates and outlet works. Concrete in the dam will be placed in 1.5 and 3 m lifts in 39
blocks separated by contraction joints spaced at about 30 m. There is no longitudinal joint.
Extensive tests have been performed to deternnine concrete properties. Three zones of
concrete strength will be used. A large number of instruments will be embedded in the
concrete of the dam, including direct and inverted plumb lines. A network of observation
posts and targets for geocletic measurements surround the damsite. Instruments will monitor
temperatures during construction and check the structural behavior of the arch dam during and
after construction.
7.            Dam  Foundation.  Parametric analyses were performed to evaluate the
stability of the abutmenits of the dam against sliding failures of rock wedges. Detailed
investigations were carried out for the two most critical wedges on both abutments. The
results of the analyses inclicate that joint sets with low dips downstream and towards the river
are the critical planes for stability. The semi-radial foundation of the arch dam will be
excavated generally to slightly weathered rock. Lightly to moderately weathered rock will
be adequate after consolidation grouting. A grout curtain and a drainage curtain are provided
to minimize and control seepage flow around and underneath the dam. On the left abutment,
this curtain is continuous with a similar curtain upstream of the powerhouse chamber.
Drainage adits and drainage curtains are arranged downstream of the main curtain at a
distance of about 10 meters. Foundation galleries in the dam, and grouting and drainage adits
in the abutments are provided to facilitate drilling and grouting operations. These will serve
also if remedial work in the future is necessary.
8.            Energy Dissipation. Because of the relatively small size of the reservoir,
limited flood storage capacity, and a narrow gorge downstream, floods have to be released
frequently and energy dissipation problems are potentially serious. In order to provide a safe
spillway operation, an arrangement with three spillways was adopted. This will enable
discharge of floods up to about 13,000 m3/s (30-year flood) over two spillways in the event
the third is not available. The three impact zones are separate, and each spillway can operate
independently of the other two. The overflow spillway on the dam consists of seven 11 m-
wide openings controlled by radial gates (11 x 11.5 m). The openings are provided with
differential flip buckets and dental sills to spread the impact pattern and reduce impact
pressures on the base slab of the 300 m-long plunge pool. The thickness of the slab varies
from five meters at the upstream end to three meters over most of its length to the
downstream auxiliary dam.



- 88 -                         ANNEX 5.1
9.           The tunnel spillway in the rignt abutment consists of an intake structure and
two concrete lined tunnels 887.0, and 1,150.8 m-long with a modified horseshoe section. The
intake structure contains two operating radial gates (13 x 15 m) and two emergency closure
gates (13 x 17 m). The flow velocities reach a maximum value of about 45 m/s at the exit.
Aeration grooves are provided to mitigate against cavitation damage. The flip buckets are
designed to spread the impact zone in the river. The mid-level outlets consist of six steel-
lined openings through the dam, controlled by 6 x 5 m radial gates at the downstream face.
Different exit angles spread the area of impact in the plunge pool. The emergency gates at
the upstream face are normally closed and will be opened only during the flood releasing
periods. Four low-level outlet works with inverts at El. 1,080 are provided for lowering the
reservoir. The steel-lined. openings are controlled by 3.0 x 5.0 m slide gates and hydraulic
hoists at the downstream end. The gates are designed for operation with a head of 80 m.
Each opening also has a 3.0 x 8.5 m emergency wheel gate at the upstream end, which is
normally closed.
10.          Underground Powerhouse. The power complex, located some 200 to 350 m
underground, in the left abutment, consists of three large chambers for power generation,
transformers and tailrace surge action. The six 550 MW turbine generators are each fed by
separate 9.00 m internal diameter concrete lined water conduits. The 85 m-high intake
structure will be provided with a set of trashracks, 7 x 9 m slide gates with hydraulic cylinder
hoists, and 7.32 x 9.30 m bulkhead gates operated by a gantry crane. The water conduits are
steel lined along the lower elbows and the lower horizontal section immediately upstream of
the power chamber. The excavated dimensions of the power chamber are 191.9 m-long,
25.5 m-wide and 65.0 m-high. The total length of power chamber plus erection and service
bays will be 280.29 m. The axis of the power chamber is oriented to bisect the angle with
the two predominant sets of joints, which facilitates efficient layout of all hydraulic features
of the power generation system. The rock in the area of the three underground chambers is
mainly syenite with some altered basalt. The compressive strength ranges from 1,500-
2,600 kg/cm2. A maximum insitu stress of 200-300 kg/cm2 has been measured. Two- and
three-dimensional finite element analyses have been performed to study stresses due to
construction. These demonstrated that the rock is stable with appropriate measures of rock
bolting and shotcreting during construction. Prestressed rock anchors will be provided for
permanent stability of the high walls in the power chamber.
11.          Transformer Chamber. The six main transformers and the SF6 equipment
are located in the transformer chamber, which is 214.9 m-long, 18.3 m-wide and 19.5 m-
high. The power chamber and transformer chamber are connected by six bushbar galleries
and both are connected to the access road on the left abutment by a 1,340 m-long access
tunnel, 10 m-wide and 8 m-high. Service and emergency access to the power chamber are
also provided by means of an elevator in the service bay which connects with the access road
to the crest of the dam. A. bus tunnel leads from the transformer chamber to the outgoing
trans mission line yard near the top of the left abutment of the arch dam.
12.          Surge Chamber.  The tailrace surge chamber is downstream  of the
transformer chamber at a distance of 30 meters. This chamber has a length of 203.0 m, a
width of 19.8 m, and varies in height from 71.3 m to 66.0 m. Below El. 1,027, the surge



- 89 -                         ANNEX 5.1
chamber is divided into two parts by means of a concrete wall. Draft tube gates are provided
for each unit and are operated from a movable hoist in the surge chamber.
13.          Log-Passing Facilities. The Yalong River Basin is rich in forest reserves
which are economically inmportant to Sichuan Province. Every year from June to September
a large number of logs drift down the river from the felling area to Panzhihua and
downstream cities on the Yangtze. The log-passing facility will have a design capacity of 1.1
million cubic meters of timber during a three-month period. The overall length of the system
will be 2,394 m and will include a tunnel section 819 m-long, with a height of 7.0 and a
width of 15.0 m.
14.          River Diversion. The diversion scheme consists of one concrete-lined tunnel
on each abutment 17 m-wiide and 23 m-high. Intake and outlet structures are provided for
each, with closure gates at each intake. The downstream portion of the left bank tunnel will
be utilized as the downstream  part of tailrace tunnel No. 2.  Non-overflow, fill-type
cofferdams complete the dliversion scheme. The design capacity of the scheme is 13,500 m3/s
for a 30-year flood. A risk-based optimization study was carried out to determine the height
of the upstream cofferdam. This included identification of events that led to overtopping and
an evaluation of their likelihood of occurrence, followed by a determination of the
consequences of overtopping, calculation of risk costs and, finally a comparison of these costs
with the cost of construction to determine the least overall project cost. Four 4 x 8 m
temporary sluice ways, equipped with closure gates and hoists, will be provided in the lower
central portion of the arch dam to be used after closure of the diversion tunnel. The openings
will be sized for a maximum dry season discharge of 1,500 m3/s during the period from mid-
November to the end of May.
15.          Main Data. The main particulars of the Ertan Hydroelectric Station are given
below:
Hydrology
Catchment area above damsite                              116,400 sq km
Flow records used in design                               1953-82
Maximum recorded flow                                      11,100 m3/s
Average annual discharge                                  1,670
Maximum flood expected (10,000 years)                     25,200  "
Designed flood discharge (p = 0.1 %)                      20,600  "
Check flood discharge (5000 year flood)                   23,600  "
Mean annual silt discharge                                27.2 million t
Reservoir
Normal pool level                                         1,200 masl
Dead water level                                          1,155 "
Reservoir area (at normal pool level)                     101 sq km
Total reservoir volume                                    5.8 cu km
Effective reservoir capacity                              3.4  "



- 90 -                         ANNEX 5.1
Diversion Works
Upstream cofferdam:
Maximum height                                          56 m
Crest elevation                                         1,062 masl
Length of crest                                         260 m
Width of crest                                          15 m
Downstream cofferdami:
Maximum height                                          30 m
Crest elevation                                         1,030 masl
Width of crest                                          10 m
Dimensions of diversion tunnels (width x height)           17.5 x 23.0 m
Design flood                                               13,5090 m3/s
Left diversion tunnel length                               1,090 m
Right diversion tunnel length                              1,189 m
Arch Dam
Crest elevation                                            1,205 masl
Maximum height                                             240 m
Crest length                                               775 m
Maximum thickness of arch end                              58.5 m
Base thickness of the crown cantilever                     55.7 m
Thickness of the top arch                                  11.0 m
Concrete volume of the dam                                 3.9 million cu m
Spillways
Overflow spillway, number and size                         7 - 11 x 11.5 m
Overflow spillway discharge                                6,659 m3/s
Middle level spillway, number and size                     6 - 6 x 5.0 m
Middle level spillway discharge                            6,293 m3/s
Spillway tunnels, number and size                          2 - 13 x 13 m
Spillway tunnels discharge                                 7,400 m3/s
Length of tunnel No. 1                                     941 m
Length of tunnel No. 2                                     1,281 m
Eimptving Outlet
Number and size                                            4 - 3 x 5 m
Design flow discharge                                      2,000 cu m/s
Penstocks
Number                                                     6
Length                                                     300 m
of which steel liner length                                101 m
Inside diameter                                            9 m
Thickness of steel                                         30 mm



-91-                           ANNEX 5.1
Underground Powerhouse
Underground rock excavation                               1.5 million cu m
Dimensions (Length x Width x Height)                      280 x 26.5 x 65.3 m
Number of generating units                                6
Unit capacity                                             550 MW
Turbines
Type                                                      Francis
Maximum head                                              189.2 m
Minimum head                                              135.0 m
Design head                                               165.0 m
Rated head                                                165.0 m
Rated output                                              560.0 MW
Specific speed                                            158.0 M-kW
Rated specific speed                                      125 rpm
Generators
Rated output                                              550 MW
Rated voltage                                             18 kV
Power factor                                              0.9
Main Transformers
Type                                                      single phase
Rated capacity                                            3 x 204 MVA
Rated voltage range                                       550/18 kV/kV
Station Supply Transformiers
Type                                                      single phase
Number                                                    18
Rated capacity                                             1,050 kVA
Rated voltage range                                       18/6 kV/kV
Switchgear
Type of circuit breakers                                  GIS
Number of 500-kV circuit breakers                         17
Rated current                                             3,250 A
Rated breaking current                                    40 kA
Annual Output
Total energy output                                       17,035 TWh
Firm energy                                               8,760 TWh
Firm power                                                1,000 MW



- 92 -                         ANNEX 5.1
Quantities of Works
Open cut earth and rock excavation                        6.2 million m3
Underground excavation                                    3.1 s
Earth and rock fill                                       1.2
Total volume of concrete                                  5.3
Reinforcement bar                                         33,938 tons
Steel                                                     7,502 tons
Metal structures                                          13,766 tons
Peak labor force                                          6,000
Log Transport
Annual amount of logs                                     1.1 million m'



- 93 -                         ANNEX 5.2
CONSULTING SERVICES
(TERMS OF REFERENCE)
A. DESCRIPTION OF PROJECT
1.           The multipurpose Ertan Hydroelectric Project is one of a series of power
stations on the Yalong River and it will be developed mainly for power generation with a total
installed capacity of 3,300 MW. The dam site is located on the lower reaches of the Yalong
River at a distance approximately 46 km from Panzhihua City. The dam site is accessible by
highway from Panzhihua via Tongzilin which is 17 km downstream from the dam site.
Tongzilin is a railway station on the Chengdu-Kunming Railway 727 km from Chengdu and
373 km from Kunming. The closer airports to the project site are Chengdu airport and
Kunming airport. Regular direct flights to and from Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou and Hong
Kong are available at both the aforesaid airports. The detailed description of the project will
be made available to the selected consultant.
B. GENERAL
2.           The overall responsibility for the development and construction of the Ertan
Hydroelectric Project has been assigned to the Ertan Hydroelectric Development Corporation
(EHDC) and its engineering branch the Ertan Engineering Corporation (EEC), who is the
designated project engineer.
3.           Due to the magnitude and complexity of the project and because of the
intended use of foreign construction contractors and foreign equipment suppliers, international
type contractual arrangements, and foreign financing sources, EHDC would appoint an
international consultant to assist in construction management and work closely with EEC and
Chengdu Hydroelectric Investigation and Design Institute (CHIDI).
4.           These d.raft terms of reference have been prepared as an outline of the scope
of work required. The consultant should elaborate on his proposed scope of work and may
modify the required activities based on his own findings, specifying any reasons for the
modifications. The TORs should be amended before sending them to the consultants to
specify clearly responsibilities and roles of foreign and local consultants, as well as
consultants who will be selected to assist in the finalization of bidding documents for elec-
tromechanical equipment. The scope of work will include the following basic tasks:
(a)   Management Requirements During Construction;
(b)   Contract Administration;



- 94 -                          ANNEX 5.2
(c)   Construction Inspection and Quality Assurance
(d)   Design Engineering Services; and
(e)   Construction Site Administration.
These above tasks are described in more detail in the ensuing paragraphs.
C. MANAGEMENT REQUIREMENTS DURING CONSTRUCTION
5.            The consultant and EEC will form  an organization for managing and
coordinating all aspects of the design and construction of the works. This organization will
be designated as the Construction Manager (CM) which will report to EHDC. However, the
CM should be independent in its professional activities. The foreign consultant will be the
lead firm and as such will be responsible for carrying out the policies established by EHDC,
and for the "day to day" running of the project. The goal of the CM will be to build a safe,
reliable project on schedule and within the planned budget.
6.            The principal management responsibilities of the CM organization are:
*     Contract administration, including control of costs, schedule monitoring and
coordination, change control, communication and document control, and the
establishment of corresponding procedures.
*     Construction  inspection  and  quality  assurance,  including  site  survey,
construction inspection, and inspection in manufacturers' facilities to confirm the
compliance with the drawings and specifications.
*      )Design engineering services, including preparation of material and equipment
specifications, construction drawings, incorporation of design changes, review
of contractor and manufacturer submittals, record drawings and review board
support.
*     Site administration services, including safety, camp management, inventory
control, office services, project services, etc.
EHDC will arrange for land acquisition, reservoir clearance, relocations and resettlement and
power transmission.
D. CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION
7.            Timely completion of construction of the Ertan Hydroelectric Project will
require the satisfactory performance and completion of each part of the works by a number
of contractors and suppliers. It will be the responsibility of the CM to coordinate and
administer the work of each of these parties to bring about successful completion of the
works. The CM organization will therefore be structured to enable a safe and reliable project



- 95 -                           ANNEX 5.2
to be constructed within budget and on schedule. This is the primary aimn of the organization
for project construction. Checks and safeguards will be set up to monitor the technical
adequacy, quality, costs and progress of each contractor, and to provide management with
information for early corrective action if required.
8.            The main responsibilities of CM  in the area of Contract Administration
include the following:
(a)    Control of Costs. Under the various contracts, the CM is responsible for measuring
and certifying the works for the purpose of making interim and final payments to the
contractors and suppliers. Inspection, testing, and approval of the contractor's mate-
rials and workmanship will be required prior to certification.
At the construction site, the physical dimensions of the various parts of the structures
will be measured or verified by the CM inspection staff as part of their routine
checks for compliance with the designs and specifications. Reports of concrete
placement, reinforcement steel and formwork check-outs for each placement, and
other construction items must be compiled daily by the inspectors in the field. This
daily information must be made accessible to the con tract administrators in order for
them to check the interim accounts submitted by the construction contractors, to
agree with contractors on interim measurements, and to issue interim payment
certificates.
Computation for the final measurement of excavation, structure or section will be
undertaken by staff on site as soon as all the necessary information is available.
Each contractor will almost certainly undertake his own independent measurements,
and the CM contract administrators must investigate and reconcile any discrepancies
and arrive at an agreed final measurement. Progress payments for the various supply
contracts will be certified after the CM confirms the percentage of each unit
completed by the manufacturer, or on the basis of defined milestones in the
manufacturing or testing program.
Completion, maintenance and final payment certificates will be required for the
various contracts.  Rigorous tests will be under taken before final acceptance
certificates are issued for mechanical and electrical plants, and each final payment
will not be certified until the CM is satisfied that the contractor has met his
obligations. These obligations include completion of all tasks such as certification,
record drawings, reports and data submittals.
(b)   Schedule Monitoring and Coordination. Once a contract has been awarded for any
of the construction or supply contracts, the contractor will prepare a detailed
construction schedule. Each contract will have defined dates by which the various
critical stages of the project must be completed, and each contractor will have the
freedom to prepare his own schedule for approval within these defined dates. This
schedule may or may not be the construction schedule that has been used for pre-
tender planning purposes, or the construction schedule submitted with the



- 96 -                          ANNEX 5.2
contractor's tender. However, once this schedule is reviewed and approved by the
CM, it will form the basis on which the contractor's performance will be monitored.
The CM also will be responsible for ensuring that the schedule for each part of the
work performed by each contractor meshes with the schedule for other parts of the
work performed by other contractors.  Each contractor's incentive to keep on
schedule may be affected by interference and delays which the contractor may con-
sider attributable to others. The management role of the CM therefore will include
checking of all interfaces between the various contractors and monitoring the
progress of each of the contracts very closely.
The key to managing the schedule of a fast moving construction project is to have
accurate and up-to-date information in a form that will enable any factors that could
delay progress to be identified early, so that measures can be taken to avoid or
overcome the delays.
(c)   Change Control. The organization must be equipped to facilitate settlement of
disputes and clairns within the terms of the contract, since the contractors will
inevitably argue that in a number of instances extra payment or an extension of time
for completion is justified. A detailed analysis must be made for every such claim
that is formally submitted which evaluates its merits in accordance with the Contract;
this analysis must be made available to the Disputes Review Board.
(d)   Communication  and  Document Control.   Crucial to  effective  contract
administration will be the flow and control of correspondence to and from the
contractors. This correspondence will include certifications, schedules, material
deliveries, submittals and contractual correspondence. Computers will be used to
record and process all the data rapidly so that it can be used for daily planning and
for rapid evaluation of disputes with the contractors.
(e)   Corresponding Establishment of Procedures. The performance of these duties will
require a set of procedures to be established to effectively exercise control of the
project without introducing avoidable costs or delays.  These procedures will
encompass all aspects of contract administration including measurement and payment,
schedule control, cost control, certifications, management of correspondence,
preparation and issuance of change orders, inspection, testing, information for
decision making, site administration services, compliance with drawings and
specifications, and handling of claims formally submitted by the contractors.
E. CONSTRUCTION INSPECTION AND QUALITY ASSURANCE
9.            The CM organization will be responsible for developing and executing the
inspection and testing progra.m to ensure that each item which forms a part of the permanent
works has been constructed in accordance with the design and construction specifications.
This program should include inspection of materials and equipment produced off-site in
various suppliers' shops as wvell as inspection of on-site work.



- 97 -                          ANNEX 5.2
(a)   Site Surveys. The CM will provide survey teams to check the contractors' basic
layouts and to establish and maintain a permanent network of monuments and
markers for precise measurement of deformations. The survey teams will also spot
check local survey controls established by the contractors for setting formwork, etc.
(b)   Construction Inspection. At the construction site, inspection services must be
maintained whenever work is in progress. For much of the construction period, full
coverage will be required for 24 hours per day and six days per week.
Backfills will be controlled by moisture content and density tests, and concrete by
aggregate gradation, slump, air content, temperature and compression tests. These
laboratory procedures will be supplemented by field procedures such as nuclear
density gauges and Swiss Hammer tests as well as inspections of the placement of
reinforcing steel, embedments, and form location and accuracy. In addition, welds
will be inspected and tested with the latest radiographic equipment and techniques.
This program should be based upon routine quality control measurements which,
after processing, will provide a record of trends and enable early adjustments and
corrections to be made if necessary. The program must measure and record what
is done and process this data so that the design parameters can be checked and usable
records developed for future safety appraisals.
(c)   Inspection in Manufacturers' Facilities. The quality assurance pro gram will also
incorporate audits of manufacturers' facilities to confirm compliance with national
and international standards with respect to design, manufacture and testing. The
inspection engineers will visit manufacturers' facilities not only to audit the facilities
but also to check the various stages of the manufacturing progress, to examine
materials and test certificates, to witness tests and, if appropriate, to arrange for
independent tests.  Manufacturing may be undertaken in a number of widely
separated locations within and out side China and the CM will arrange for routine
inspection visits to be made by a local resident staff of an approved inspection
agency. In other cases, the CM will arrange for inspecting engineers to temporarily
reside at the manufacturers' shops when this is justified by the inspection work load.
An additional important function of inspection visits to the various manufacturers'
facilities will be to check on progress in manufacture, testing and preparation for
shipment. With the tight construction schedule planned for this project and its
remote location, it is imperative that all the employer-furnished plant and equipment
is delivered on time and in good condition. Thus, the inspection staff must monitor
all stages of the manufacture of the equipment from award of contract to delivery,
and recommend to management any measures needed to expedite matters.
(d)   Start-up and Commuissioning of the Works. The start-up and testing of large
hydroelectric units requires a team approach. This team will be composed of
personnel from the CM, the construction and installation contractors, and the
equipment manufacturers, each entity being responsible for fulfilling its contractual
obligations during the equipment check-outs, start-ups and testing. A team leader,



- 98 -                          ANNEX 5.2
experienced in start-up procedures, will be assigned by the CM to direct the day-to-
day activities of the start-up team.
Start-up and test procedures are complex and exacting, and inevitably, the results of
the tests form the basis for recommendations which may modify the future operating
procedures and which the CM must incorporate in the project operation and
maintenance procedures manual.
The objectives of' the CM in the area of start-up and commissioning are as follows:
*     To coordinate the performance of tests with the various manufacturers'
engineers and other entities involved in the commissioning and start-up.
*     To assist with the development of accurate and safe start-up and test
procedures.
*     To assist in performing tests and evaluating test results.
*     To ccordinate the preparation of final start-up and test reports and
formulate recommendations for future operating procedures and manuals.
F. DESIGN ENGINEERING SERVICES
10.           The CM  will utilize the services of the CHIDI as the nominated project
designer for the preparation of specifications, final designs and construction drawings.
During the construction peiriod the CM will be responsible for the following activities:
*     Preparing spec ifications and control documents for Employer-supplied permanent
materials and equipment.
*     Preparing detailed construction drawings which incorporate final design
computations, results of tests and studies which continue into the construction
period, and details of mechanical and electrical equipment.
*     Incorporating design changes to meet unanticipated conditions encountered
during construction.
*     Ensuring the designs and drawings prepared by the construction con tractors are
completed in accordance with the requirements of the contract documents.
*     Ensuring that the design and drawings prepared by the equipment sup pliers are
completed in accordance with the requirements of the con tract documents and
are compatible with the other designs.
*     Producing permanent record drawings showing actual dimensions and details of
the finished work.



- 99 -                          ANNEX 5.2
Providing support for meetings with review boards.
These duties are explained more fully in the following sections:
(a)   Permanent Material/Equipment Specifications. It will be the responsibility of the
CM (utilizing CHIDI) to produce technical specifications and related special contract
conditions (testing and warranty clauses, etc.) for all permanent equipment and mate-
rials. For equipment and materials purchased from international sources, this work
will include a technical analysis of bids received.
(b)   Construction Drawings. During the construction process, the CM (utilizing CHIDI)
will continue to amplify the details of the tender drawings, to provide final
verification of design computations, to make revisions to final design taking into
account the results of the tests and studies that will continue into the construction
period, and to prepare details when the manufacturers' designs for mechanical and
electrical equipment are available.
The CM, with assistance from CHIDI, will supply the following information to the
contractor on supplementary drawings approved for construction:
D     The exact locations for major structures such as the powerhouse, intake
structure, spillways and log-passing tunnel.
D     Detailed dimensions of all member outlines, openings, projections, pads
and locations of embedments (such as anchor bolts and welding pads),
waterstops, construction joints and control joints.
D     Reinforcement showing location, size, and spacing of all reinforcing
bars.
*     Details of miscellaneous metalwork.
*     Mechanical construction details showing the general equipment layout as
well as the size and approximate physical location of pipes, ducts, valves
and other piping components. The drawings should include generic
component designations which will be used to identify additional require-
ments contained in the specifications such as material type, rating, etc.
Detailed information on Employer furnished equipment will need to be
provided to the contractor in order for it to be incorporated as necessary
on the contractors' drawings.
*     SchemLatic and interconnection diagrams for electric power and control
cables.
*     Layouts of power and control cable routes, conduits, and trays and
location of grounding cables and grounding inserts.



- 100 -                         ANNEX 5.2
*     Lighting fixture layouts and circuiting information.
*     Schedules for conduits and cables required.
This information must be provided to the contractor in a timely manner as
required by the construction plan and schedule.
(c)   Design Changes. Although thorough investigations have been under taken at the site
over a number of years, and the subsurface conditions can be predicted with a fair
degree of confidence, it is inevitable that the major excavations will reveal
foundation conditions in some locations that are not the same as those previously
inferred. The differences may not be significant, but it is possible that in some areas
it will be necessary to modify the designs. In this regard, the flow of information
and data from the site should enable timely design modifications to meet unan-
ticipated conditions with the minimum delay and cost.
The CM must, however, take care to avoid introducting of design modifications to
effect marginal changes if there is any risk that such changes could disrupt the
contractor's construction plan and schedule. However, modifications should be made
when necessary for project safety, and when it is judged that substantial
improvements or savings will result for the project as a whole.
(d)   Design Checks (Construction Contractor Drawings). The construction contractors
will have their ownI design offices on site to design temporary works, formwork and
reinforcing details, and to prepare concrete lift or other placement drawings. These
designs and drawings must be checked by the CM to ensure that they are in
accordance with the requirements of the contract documents.
(e)   Design Checks (Manufacturers' Drawings). The manufacturers of mechanical and
electrical equipment will prepare and submit designs and drawings to the CM for
review and approval. All such designs and drawings must be checked to ensure that
they meet the contract requirements and are compatible with the other designs. This
may necessitate several revisions of the drawings, but it is an important part of
coordinating the design and must be carried out expeditiously if manufacturing delays
are to be avoided. Such delays might affect the overall project schedule.
(f)    Permanent Recordls. Many of the permanent records of the project will be in the
form of drawings including construction drawings, the con tractors' lift and
reinforcement drawings, manufacturers' shop drawings, geological maps of
foundations and survey plots. It is the responsibility of the CM to compile a
complete set of these permanent records. A final design report will be prepared by
the CM which will document the final design as modified during construction.
The CM will also compile a set of "Record" drawings which record actual
measurements of all features of the project. The data on which these drawings are
developed will be compiled by the inspection staff, and once a structure is



- 101 -                         ANNEX 5.2
completed, the CM will incorporate this data in the construction drawings to provide
a permanent record of actual construction of each project feature.
(g)   Review Board Support. EHDC will continue to employ the Special Board of
Consultants (comprising both national and international experts) to review all major
questions regarding design and the impact of construction methods and field
conditions on the design shown on the drawings. This Board will meet at periodic
intervals throughout the construction period. Therefore, the CM will have the
responsibility for preparing materials for these meetings and implementing the
decisions made during these meetings which will be a continuing process throughout
the construction period and the first filling of the reservoir.
G. SITE ADMINISTRATION
it.          The CM  organization will be responsible for all matters pertaining to
administration of site services and project lands, as follows:
*     Safety, including monitoring of the contractors' safety programs.
*     Inventory control including purchasing and warehouse management.
*     Project services including accounting and auditing.
H. CONSTRUCTION MANAGER ORGANIZATION
12.          The following are guidelines to be used in preparing the proposed CM
organization:
(a)   The international consultant will be required to enter into an agreement with EEC for
performing the construction management services. The CM will be responsible for
the "day-to-day" management and administration of the project.
(b)   The international consultant will be designated as the lead firm  of the CM
organization.
(c)   The construction contractors and equipment supply contractors will be officially
advised by EHDC of the role of the CM.
(d)   The CM  will be a fully integrated team of personnel from both EEC and the
consultant.
(e)   The consultant will develop a functional organization chart clearly indicating his
proposed concepts for managing the project. The consultant will also present his
proposed staffing requirements for the duration of the project together with an
organization chart.



- 102 -                          ANNEX 5.2
(f)    All positions assigned to the consultant staff will have an EEC counterpart who will
be trained to assume that position at the earliest practical opportunity.
(g)   CHIDI, who prepared the basic project tender documents and drawings, will be
retained by the CM as the nominated project designer for services related to the final
detailed design and construction drawings. CHIDI will be fully responsible for this
work. However, it is intended that CM will appoint several design engineers to
CHIDI to coordinate and monitor design activities.



- 103 -                        ANNEX 5.3
ERTAN HYDROELECTRIC DEVELOPMENT COMPANY
TERMS OF REFERENCE
ORGANI]ZATIONAL RESTRUCTURING AND
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
Background
1.           Ertan Hydropower Development Company (EHDC) has undertaken major
changes to meet requirements of power sector reforms by the Chinese government and to
meet its future operational changes and challenges of its transformation into a limited-liability
company under the new company law and an independent producer by clear definition of
property rights, autonomous management, commercial orientation and financial independence.
2.           Like most state-owned enterprises, EHDC is still facing the following
problems:  (a) government interference in management, administrative and operational
decisions reflecting the former planning of the economy; (b) lack of full accountability of
managers stemming from an inadequate, highly decision-making and nonavailability of timely
and accurate financial information at different activity levels; and (c) lack of transparency
in that the financial statements that are prepared based on the new accounting regulation, still
do not provide full disclosure of EHDC's financial portion. In addition, EHDC is still
focused on construction of the Ertan Hydropower Plant and not fully prepared to undertake
its future operational and commercial functions.
3.           The proposed study is designed to address the above-mentioned issues and
problems, improve management practices and operational and financial efficiency of EHDC.
It focuses on the needed changes to the internal organization to prepare EHDC to its new role
as one of the major independent power producers in Sichuan Province, improvement of
management practices, and the introduction of appropriate accounting, budgeting and financial
management systems. The project not only requires consulting services from consultants, but
also training to EHDC staff, both in China and overseas, so as to ensure the project can be
implemented in future EHDC's operation. To achieve the full benefits of organizational
reform and improved financial reporting and monitoring systems, it is proposed to carry out
the project in three distinct but fully integrated phases:
(a)   a comprehensivc diagnostic review  of the current organizational structure,
management practices and financial/accounting practices and reporting systems, with
particular attention to division of responsibilities, flow of information and quality of
reporting, and budgeting and accounting systems and procedures;



- 104 -                         ANNEX 5.3
(b)   development of an improved organizational structure, design of the required
accounting and financial and budgeting system to meet the needs of efficient
management and clecentralized decision-making, and preparation of a detailed plan
for implementation; and
(c)   implementation of the organizational structure and systems approved by EHDC,
including computer software and training needs.
Scope of Work
4.            The project will include, but not necessarily be limited to, the following tasks.
Phase 1:    Diagnostic Review and Analysis
5.            During the first phase, the consultants are required to carry out a detailed
assessment of the current organizational structure and financial management practices. The
scope of this review will include:
(a)   Review  and assessment of EHDC's internal organization and operating and
administrative procedures with particular attention to the responsibilities and their
functional relations, overlap in lines of responsibility, excessive centralization of
decision-making and organizational deficiencies.
(b)   Review of EHDC's Articles of Association and Internal Regulations.
(c)   Review and analysis of accounting procedures, documentation, reporting formats and
the nature of financial transactions between the various departments, power
generation and supply entities, and service subsidiaries.
(d)   Critical assessment of cost accounting, financial planning, budgeting, and internal
audit systems and procedures.  Special attention will be given to the existing
organization of accounting units and reporting requirements.
(e)   Evaluation of performance monitoring system, establishment of performance targets
and indicators, methods of communicating, controlling and monitoring them.
Phase 2:    Master Plan for Internal Reorganization and Financial Management
Systems
6.            During the second phase, the consultants will, jointly with EHDC, develop
an organizational structure and related management, accounting, financial, control and
reporting systems that address the deficiencies and weaknesses identified during the first
phase, satisfy EHDC's long-term corporate objectives and increase its cost consciousness and
business orientation. The work of this phase is organized in three subactivities.



- 105 -                         ANNEX 5.3
Organizational and Management Structure
(a)   Redefinition of the functional boundaries and responsibilities of the different
departments, work units and subsidiaries. Special attention should be given to
EHDC's new operational and commercial functions and financial operations at the
headquarters and operational unit levels. The recommended organization should also
prepare EHDC to its role of major Independent Power Producer in a more
competitive power sector.
(b)   Recommendations of changes to be made to the Articles of Association and internal
regulations, especially clear relationship between the Board of Directors and the
managers of the company and the rights and limited responsibility of senior
management personnel.
(c)   Definition of interorganizational relationships, communication and reporting channels
between the different units.
(d)   Assistance in thie preparation of an Operational Manual that describes the
organizational structure, functional boundaries, job descriptions, communication and
reporting channels, limits of authority, etc. Special attention should be given to
accounting and financial units.
(e)   Recommendation of optimal staffing and preparation of job description and
qualification requirements for all posts of reasonable importance in the recommended
organizational structure.
Accounting Systems and Practices
(f)    Redefinition of accounting units and activities clearly identifying cost and profit
centers, reporting requirements, formats for information flow and frequency of
information exchange. This task will develop a basic design for the new financial
and accounting information system. It is of crucial importance that this basic design
of the financial and accounting management information system be totally consistent
with the proposed reorganization of business processes and procedures.
(g)   Development of a Standard Financial Accounting System and general accounts
classification detailing balance sheets, income statements, and cash flow statements.
This should include policies and system procedures, recommended principles for
accounting classification, and follow-up methods. The system should develop and
provide for the timely collection of accounts receivable and settlement of accounts
payable. It should also contain standards for depreciation for fixed asset accounting.
(h)   Assistance in the preparation of an Accounting Manual setting forth a coded chart of
accounts, income accounts, functional and department accounts, cost/profit centers,
objective accounts, policies, standard procedure instructions, report formats
(including an inventory of reports describing their purpose and method of



- 106 -                         ANNEX 5.3
preparation, assigning responsibilities for preparation, timetable, frequency and
distinguishing capital items and items charged directly to expense).
(i)   Improvement of the Internal Control and Audit System through approval and audit
procedures, internal review systems-especially for purchasing, inventory and stores,
handling of cash, and payroll.
Budgeting and Performance-Based Management Information Systems
(j)    Redefinition of the process of setting performance targets, and the systems for
controlling and monitoring them in practice. This would include policies and
procedures, related analytical techniques, and mechanical tools to ensure project
planning, formulation, justification, management and control of budgets, including
analysis of budget variances.
(k)   Procedures to integrate MIS with the cost accounting system so that it can generate
information for assigning responsibility, measure labor and input productivity against
standards, analyze and control cost variances (i.e., input and labor price and
quantity, efficiency, overheads, and capacity variances) from standards. This should
facilitate the determination of the level of profitability of EHDC so that pricing
decisions can be taken with the full knowledge of costs.
(1)    Development of a Financial Planning System, including the introduction of
operational objectives and planned allocation of resources in the form of Operating
Expense Budgets and Capital Expenditure Budgeting System should be coordinated
with the financial accounts in order to reconcile budget variances with financial
figures.
(m)   Improvement of the planning and control of operational support functions or central
service functions, such as maintenance and work planning/preparation, materials
management, procurement, quality control, transportation, personnel management,
etc.
(n)   The consultant will prepare a detailed scope of tasks and a clearly defined
implementation strategy for a smooth transition from the current organizational
structure to the recommended one and progressive replacement of existing systems
by the newly designed ones. The implementation strategy will be divided into
actions and targets with a timetable and should identify the priorities of and sequence
in organizational change and systems development.
Phase 3:    Implementation
7.            During this phase, the consultant will assist EHDC in implementing the
recommended changes in organizational structure, business practices, financial management
and reporting, and reporting system. The work will include:



- 107 -                         ANNEX 5.3
(a)   Assistance in implementing the new organizational structure and organizing work
sessions/seminars/training programs to help managers and financial/accounting staff
fully understand the proposed changes.
(b)   Assistance in selecting and installing suitable hardware and software, especially a
new general ledger package and appropriate centralized/distributed computer systems
to be linked to desktop terminals.
(c)   Identification of staffing and skills required to implement the new  financial/
accounting systems and appropriate inhouse and/or external training programs, and
assistance in preparation of training manuals.
Approach, Reporting, Outputs and Time Schedule
8.            The international consultants will submit a proposal to cover all three phases
of the work.  The proposal will detail:  (a) the proposed work plan, approach and
organization of the consultant's project team; (b) the tasks to be undertaken by each member
of the team; and (c) his/her assignment. Apart from providing a full complement of skills to
undertake this task, the consultants will be required to demonstrate work experience on similar
assignments and good knowledge of the power utility industry.
9.            The task will be supervised and coordinated by a Steering Committee of senior
management and department directors to ensure that decisions are made in a timely manner,
especially at the end of the first and second phases. The Committee will designate a high-
level project manager and a multidisciplinary working group to work with the consultants and
to ensure timely availability of data and full cooperation of staff at various levels of the
company; the international consultant will report problems and difficulties in carrying out his
assignment to the project manager and Steering Committee, and make recommendations to
address them  and ensure smooth and timely progress of the assignment.  The foreign
consultant's assignment and the working group will work as a joint team to carry out the
project in the above-mentioned three phases; however, the foreign consultant will remain
responsible for the quality of the work and for the recommendations presented to the Steering
Committee at the end of each phase of the process.
10.           Reporting. The Consultant will prepare interim reports for each phase of
work to be submitted to the Steering Committee for review and decisions. The report should,
in addition to the Consultant's conclusions and recommendations, clearly identify:
(a) outstanding issues and/or problems encountered; and (b) decisions that need to be made
by the Steering Committee and/or EHDC management. All reporting will be in English. The
Consultant will provide ten (10) copies of all interim and final reports.



- 108 -                        ANNEX 5.3
11.          Time Schedule and Outputs
1995
Jul 15        Deadline for submission of proposals
Aug          Evaluation of bids
Sep          Award and negotiation of contract
Dec          Presentation of diagnostic review findings to EHDC and World Bank.
Submission of report on Phase 1.
1996
Mar          Delivery of interim master plan report (Phase 2) and recommendations
May          Deadline for EPH and World Bank comments on review and changes
Jul          Submission of draft final report (Phase 2) and implementation strategy
Aug          Submission of final report and implementation strategy (Phase 2)
Sep          Begin implementation (Phase 3)
1997
Jan-Dec      Implementation (Phase 3) continues
1998
Mar          Implementation completed.   Consultant transfers systems to EHDC
counterpart



- 109 -                        ANNEX 5.4
MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING
A. OBJECTIVES
1.          The management development and staff training program is designed to
enhance EHDC's managerial, technical, and financial capabilities. EHDC is still in a
formative stage, recruiting its staff from other entities, such as the Lubuge Project
Construction Management Bureau, Yangtze Valley Planning Office (Three Gorges Project),
CHIDI, construction companies experienced in large hydroelectric projects, and research
institutions. Ertan is a very challenging and attractive project and no problems have been
experienced so far in employing high caliber managerial and technical staff. The main
objectives of the program are:
(a)   to enable EHDC to function as an autonomous specialized entity in the
efficient and accelerated development of hydropower resources on the
Yalong River, able to manage large hydropower projects, and later on to
operate them optimally;
(b)   to staff EHDC with professionally skilled personnel capable of handling
development planning, financial planning, construction, management, and
business operations.
2.          The training program will consist of the following four main categories:
(a)   Training in institutional development and enterprise reform matters;
(b)   Training in utility management and financial planning;
(c)   Project-related training for technical staff by working together with
consultants and those financed under vendors' contracts;
(d)   School training and practical training for plant operators; and
(e)   Equipping of EHDC's management information system  and training
facilities.



- 110 -                        ANNEX 5.4
B. ORGANIZATION OF TRAINING
3.          EHDC will be responsible for planning and organizing the training program
with the approval and support of MOEP. The training program will be conducted both
abroad and in China. Initial training activities would aim at providing a general overview
of the selected topics by a series of training seminars in China. Both local and foreign
experts will be invited to give lectures on these specific topics. Study tours and overseas
training will then be followed for senior management and financial and technical staff.
C. IMPLEMENTATION
4.          An implementation plan for the management development and staff training
program is presented below:
(a)   Domestic Training.  About 300 staff of various fields, totaling 2,520
staffmonths will be trained in China (Table 1) including training by seminars
and training in schools and power plants; 20 staffmonths of foreign experts
will be required for lectures in China.
(b)   Overseas Training. Study tours and overseas training will be conducted in
1995-97 for 91 staff, totaling 169 staffmonths. The number of trainees,
duration of training, staff-months and timing of different specialties of
personnel are show in Table 1.
(c)   Project-Related Training for Technical Staff. A total of 46 trainees with
a total staff-months of 109 will be trained in manufacturers' offices and
factories.
(d)   Training Facilities and Equipment. Training facilities and equipment to
be procured under the proposed project is given in Table 4.
(e)   Estimated Training Cost. The total training cost will be Y 3.0 million
equivalent in local currency and $3.0 million in foreign currency (Table 5).



- 111 -                                   ANNEX 5.4
Table 1: DoMEsTIc TRAINING
Experts
Duration of         required         Estimated
No. of    training    Staff-    (staff-           cost
trainees   (months)  months   months)  Timing  (S'000)
A.  Training by seminars
Modern power utility management             25        2          50       2    1995/96        50
Cost estimating and control                 25        2          50       2    1995/96        50
Engineering and evaluation                  25        2          50       2    1995/96        50
Financial management and planning           25        2          50       4    1995/96       100
Power sales contract                        15        2          30       2    1995/96        50
Environment and resettlement                15        2          30       2    1995/96        50
Operation and management of large
hydro stations                           50         2         100       6    1996/97       150
Total                                  180                   360      20                 500
B.  Training for Operators
Training in school:
for high school graduates                 60        12         720             1995/96
for college graduates                     60        12         720             1995/96
Practical training in power plants         120        6         720             1996/97
Total                                  120                 2.160



- 112 -                                   ANNEX 5.4
Table 2: OVERSEAS TRAINING
Field                                                                  Estimated
to be                  No. of       Duration       Staff                  cost
Specialty of Staff   trained                Trainees       (months)    (months)     Timing     ($'000)
Senior Management:
(1) Modern utility management               8               1            8       1995/96
(2) Cascade development of a
river basin                             8               1            8       1996/97
(3) Power sales contracting and
management policy                       5               1            5       1996/97
Subtotal                               21                          21                       250
Technical and business staff:
(1) Utility management                      12              1           12       1995/96
(2) Construction supervision and
contract management                     5               2           10       1995/96
(3) Construction safety for dam and
underground works                        4              2            8       1995/96
(4) Reservoir operation
optimization                            4               2            8       1995/97
(5) Claims and dispute settlement           3               2            6       1995/97
Subtotal                               28                           44                      520
Financial staff:
(1) Engineering economics                   4               2            8       1996/97
(2) Engineer's cost estimate and control    4               2            8       1996/97
(3) Power pricing                           2               2            4       1995/96
(4) Financial management                    5               4          20        1995/96
(5) Management information system           5               4          20        1995/96
Subtotal                               20                           60                      750
Environmental and resettlement:
(I) Overall planning on environ-
mental aspects of the river basin       2               2            4       1996/97
(2) Biological investigation and
protection                              2               2            4       1996/97
Subtotal                                 4                           8                      100
Power station:
(1) Plant operation and maintenance         10              2           20       1996/97
(2) Dam and reservoir maintenance           4               2            8       1996/97
(3) Safety monitoring and data acquisition  4               2            8       1996/97
Subtotal                                18                          36                      450
Total                             91                         169                     1.840



- 113 -                        ANNEX 5.4
Table 3: PROJECT-RELATED TRAINING PROGRAM FOR TECHNICAL STAFF/a
Contract of                              Training                  Estimated
Equipment                   No. of        Period          Staff        cost
and Studies                 Trainees     (months)      (months)      ($'000)
Turbine and generator          12           4              48         320
Computer control                3           4              12          80
500 kV GIS                      4           2               8          56
500 kV cable                    5           1               5          35
Circuit breaker                 4           1               4          28
Transformer                     4           1               4          28
Technical studies              14           2              28          186
Total                      46                         109          743
/a    Not including a total of 58.8 staff-months for the design coordinate meetings and
81 staff-months for shop inspection and testing financed under the various contracts.
Table 4: TRAINING FACILITIES
Quantity   Unit    Estimated
Item                                             (Set/Lot)  Price    ($ '000)
MIS including mainframe computer, terminals
and FMIS system                                    1       460       460
Facilities for environmental monitoring center      1       100        100
Facilities for the training center                  1       100        100
Total                                                              660



- 114 -                        ANNEX 5.4
Table 5: SUMMARY OF TRAINING COST
Duration of         Estimated
No. of      training             foreign cost
Trainees    (staff-months)       ($ '000)
Staff training in China            180              360                500
Training abroad                     91              167               1,840
Project-related training            46              109                (743)/a
Training facilities and
equipment                           -                -                660
Domestic training for
operators                         120            2,160
Total                           437           2.520               3,000
/a  To be financed under the vendors' and technical assistance contracts.



-115 -                       ANNEX 5.5
PROJECT COST ESTIMATE
Description                              Local       Foreign        Total
---------------- ($ million) ---------------
1.   Preparator Works
Base cost                         107.5           0.0       107.5
Physical contingencies              1.1           0.0         1.1
Price contingencies                 0.5           0.0         0.5
Taxes and duties                    0.0           0.0         0.0
Total                            109.1           0.0       109.1
2.   Land Acquisition & Resettlement
Base cost                         168.2           0.0       168.2
Physical contingencies             16.2           0.0        16.2
Price contingencies                 3.4           0.0         3.4
Taxes and duties                    0.0           0.0         0.0
Total                            187.7           0.0       187.7
3.   Civil Works
Base cost                         413.3         639.9      1,053.2
Physical contingencies             35.0          48.0        83.1
Price contingencies                13.8          17.1        30.9
Taxes and duties                   55.6           0.0        55.6
Total                            517.7         705.0     1.222.7
4.   Electromechanical Equipment
Base cost                         109.3         146.7       256.0
Physical contingencies              7.1           9.7        16.8
Price contingencies                 3.2           0.0         3.2
Taxes and duties                   64.3           0.0        64.3
Total                            183.9         156.4       340.3



- 116 -                       ANNEX 5.5
Description                                Local       Foreign        Total
---------------- ($ million) ----------
5.   Transformers
Base cost                            6.1           22.2        28.2
Physical contingencies               0.4            1.6         2.0
Price contingencies                  0.5            0.0         0.5
Taxes and duties                    11.3            0.0        11.3
Total                              18.3          23.7         42.0
6.   Gates & Hoists
Base cost                           36.5            3.5        40.0
Physical contingencies               2.6            0.3         2.8
Price contingencies                  2.2            0.1         2.3
Taxes and duties                      1.5           0.0         1.5
Total                              42.7           3.9         46.6
7.   Engineering & Construction Mgmt.
Base cost                           44.4           28.2        72.6
Physical contingencies               2.2            1.9         4.1
Price contingencies                  1.4            1.4         2.8
Taxes and duties                     0.0            0.0         0.0
Total                              48.0          31.5         79.5
8.   Administration & Other Works
Base cost                          145.9            2.7       148.6
Physical contingencies               3.4            0.3         3.7
Price contingencies                  2.1            0.2         2.4
Taxes and duties                     0.0            0.0         0.0
Total                             151.5           3.2        154.7
9.   Environmental Protection
Base cost                            6.8            0.5         7.3
Physical contingencies               0.3            0.0         0.3
Price contingencies                  0.2            0.0         0.2
Taxes and duties                     0.0            0.0         0.0
Total                               7.3           0.5          7.8



-117-                        ANNEX5.5
Description                              Local       Foreign        Total
---------($ million) --------
10. Reform Plan & Financial MIS
Base cost                           0.5           2.0         2.5
Physical contingencies              0.1           0.2         0.3
Price contingencies                 0.1           0.1         0.2
Taxes and duties                    0.0           0.0         0.0
Total                                0.7           2.3         3.0
11.  Training
Base cost                           3.1           3.0         6.1
Physical contingencies              0.3           0.3         0.6
Price contingencies                 0.1           0.1         0.2
Taxes and duties                    0.0           0.0         0.0
Total                              3.5           3.4         6.9
12.  Total Project Costs
Base cost                        1,041.5        848.6      1,890.1
Physical contingencies             68.6          62.3       130.9
Price contingencies                27.4          19.1        46.5
Taxes and duties                  132.7           0.0       132.7
GRAND TOTAL                    1,270.2        930.0     2.200.2



-118-                        ANNEX5.6
IBRD GUARANTEE OPERATION
1.          Background. China has been interested in the use of the guarantee program
to cofinance some of the Bank infrastructure projects, and the Bank has also been
encouraging diversification of financing sources and mobilization of private funds. The
first guarantee transaction of the Bank for China (under the ECO program) to cofinance
the Yangzhou Thermal Power Project was in the amount of $120 million equivalent and
approved by the Board in March 1994 and closed in May 1994. The Board approved the
second guarantee operation for the Zhejiang Power Development Project (also a thermal
power project) in the amount of $150 million equivalent in February 1995 and the
financing was closed in March 1995.  The proposed project was identified as an
appropriate candidate for the third guarantee operation for China both by the Bank and
Chinese authorities, and the possibility of utilizing the guarantee program has been
pursued.
2.          Financing Framework. The amount of the prospective Bank-guaranteed
financing will be approximately $150 million equivalent, utilized to help cofinance the
project along with a direct Bank loan of $400 million. The Bank guarantees will be partial
credit guarantees of principal payment due under the commercial financing. People's
Republic of China represented by MOF will be the borrower of the commercial funds
supported by the Bank guarantee, and the funds will be onlent to EHDC.
3.          MOF and EHDC have decided to pursue a two-tranche financing in US
dollars and German mairks (DM). Following the endorsement of the Guarantee Review
Committee of the proposed guarantee operation in May 1995, the MOF conducted
competitive bidding for the financing in June 1995 and awarded a conditional mandate to
a winning underwriting group. The summary terms are as below:
Borrower:            People's Republic of China (PRC) represented by MOF
Beneficiary:         EHDC
Guarantor:           World Bank
Amount:             (a) $100 million Eurodollar syndicated bank loan
(b) $50 million equivalent EuroDM syndicated
bank loan
Maturity:            15 years
Availability Period:    3 to 4 years
Grace Period:        5 years
Repayment:           Semiannual equal installments after the grace period
Bank Guarantees:     Principal amount outstanding on and after 12 years or
a later point of time on an accelerable basis starting
at that point



- 119 -                       ANNEX 5.6
Guarantee Release:    Lender's option to release the guarantees will
be included
Prepayment:          Borrower's option to prepay will be included
Interest Rate:       0.3 percent per annum over the relevant LIBOR, payable
semiannually in arrears.
4.          Leverage Effect.  The Bank guarantees would become callable on an
accelerable basis only from year 12. The guaranteed amount and the maximum exposure
of the Bank would be $50 million equivalent or 33 percent of the initial financing
mobilized guarantee.  The Bank's exposure represented by the present value of the
guaranteed amount would initially amount to $20 million or 14 percent of the total loan
amount.
5.          A guarantee release option of the lender similar to the one introduced in the
previous Zhejiang financing would be incorporated in the proposed transaction. Upon
release of the guarantee, the option would entitle the lender to receive additional loan
interest equivalent to the guarantee fee otherwise charged by the Bank to the borrower, for
the remaining life of the loan. Such an option would encourage the lender to reexamine
the borrower credit to take advantage of the higher loan spread and release the guarantee
when it is no longer needed. This is a feature which potentially enables the Bank to
further reduce its exposure to China over the life of the loan, while the total financial cost
to the borrower (including the Bank's guarantee fee) would remain unchanged by exercise
of the option.
6.          Availability of Long-Term Funds. The proposed guarantees will enable
China to mobilize foreign currency funds with maturity beyond current market terms.
Although Chinese sovereign entities have recently started issuing debt with long-term
maturities in the international capital markets, the final maturity currently available in the
loan market remains around 5 to 7 years for Chinese borrowers. The amount China can
raise in foreign commercial markets is still limited compared with its enormous funding
requirements to develop its infrastructure.  Its funding capability could be severely
influenced by market conditions, due to its ongoing yet insufficient macroeconomic
development and prevailing concerns on its future political situations perceived in the
market. The proposed guarantee is to enable China to achieve a reliable and diversified
source of long-term capital required for the completion of the project.
7.          Currency Flexibility. The guarantee operation would provide EHDC with
the flexibility of borrowing in currencies of its choice. EHDC preference for the US
dollar is based on the fact that its revenues are denominated in the local currency, RMB,
which is most closely linked to the US dollar. Its choice of DM borrowing is to meet civil
works contract payments in DM over time.
8.          Favorable Interest Rate. The mandated pricing of both loans is at an
interest rate for six-month LIBOR + 0.3 percent per annum and an up-front managementt
fee of 0.5 percent (i.e. an all-in cost of LIBOR + 0.35 percent on a simple yield basis).
This very favorable pricing for loans with a final maturity of 15 years is well below the



- 120 -                       ANNEX 5.6
average pricing of commercial bank borrowing (about LIBOR + 0. 5-0. 6 percent all-in) by
Chinese sovereign entities for a much shorter maturity of S to 7 years.



PROCUREMENT SCHEDULE
Turbines    Generators                  5OOkV      Generator                   Main        Gates.
&  Acces-    & Acces-    Computer!        Dry         Circuit       500kV       Trans-      Hoists,
a;uipment                               sories       sofies      SCADA          Cabie      Breakers         GIS       formers     Cranes
Begin preparation of tender documents   04/ /91      04/ /91      04/ /91      07/21/93    07/12/93      07/12/93    01/ /95     04/ /95
Approval by China Government            10/ /92      10/ /92      10/ /92      04/ /95     04/ /95       04/ /95     07/ /95
Review by the World Bank                10/ /92      10/ /92      10/ /92      06/ /95     06/ /95       06/ /95
Issue the tender documents             11/30/92      11/30/92     11/30/92     08/ /95     08/ /95       08/ /95     09/ /95     10/ /95             L
Prebid conference                      02/14/93     02/1193     02/14/93            -            -            -
Bid opening                            05/14/93     05/14/93     05/14/93      10/ /95      10/ /95      10/ /95      11/ /95     11/ /95
Bid evaluation                         05/25/93     05/25/93     05/25/93      11/ /95      11/ /95      11/ /95
Approval by China Government           10/05/93      10/05/93     10/05/93     12/ /95      12/ /95      12/ /95
Confirmation by the World Bank         12/16/93      12/16/93     12/22/93     01/ /96      01/ /96      01/ /96
Issue letter of acceptance             01/17/94     01/17/94     01/17/94      01/ /96     01/ /96       01/ /96      12/ /96     12/ /96
Contract signing                       03/28/94     03/28/94      11/04/94     02/ /96      02/ /96      02/ /96     01/ /96     01/ /96
Source: EHDC.



- 122 -                        ANNEX 5.8
KEY DATES OF PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Completion date
Instruction to commence work                                 September 14, 1991
River diversion                                              November 26, 1993
Dam foundation excavation completion                            December 1994
Dam concrete starter                                             February 1995
Diversion tunnel closure                                           June 1, 1998
Completion of powerhouse draft tube liners:
Unit 6                                                        October 1, 1996
Unit 1                                                           June 1, 1998
Commercial operation:
Unit 6                                                        October 1, 1998
Unit 1                                                           June 1, 2000
More detailed key dates are included in three signed contracts:
Contract 1 - Arch Dam
Contract 2 - Underground works
Contract 3 - Generating units



- 123 -                     ANNEX 5.9
SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
($ million)
Bank FY and         Semester     Cumulative    Project     Bank profile /a
semester           -------- ($ million) ---------    --------------   --------------
1996
First              54.7           54.7        13.7               0
Second             50.0          104.7        26.2               6
1997
First              51.7          156.4        39.1              18
Second             58.9          215.3        53.8              26
1998
First              58.9          274.2        68.6              38
Second             31.7          305.9        76.5              50
1999
First              31.7          337.6        84.4              58
Second             18.2          355.8        89.0              66
2000
First              18.2          374.0        93.5              74
Second             13.0          387.0        96.8              78
2001
First              13.0         400.0        100.0              82
La Bankwide standard disbursement profile for the power sector in China (August 1993).



- 124 -                      ANNEX 5.10
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
Introduction
1.          Environmental Assessment (EA) of the Ertan Hydro project started in 1980.
The EA report was approved by Provincial and National Environmental regulatory
authorities in 1986, and revised and translated into English before the 1989 appraisal, thus
complying with the Bank's policies (e.g., OMS 2.36 of 5/84 and OPN 11.02 of 6/86) for
the first loan. Since then, China substantially strengthened its national EA procedures.
Also, in late 1989, the Bank adopted formal EA policies for the first time, and
strengthened them in 1991 (OD 4.00 of 1989 and OD 4.01 of 1991), as well as adopting
a specific policy on the environmental effects of dams and reservoirs (OD 4.AB3). For
these reasons, and as part of preparation for the current project, the Borrower prepared a
new EA, with the help of international EA consultants, to meet current national and
international standards. This was issued in February 1995. The EA Summary, which
outlines the main environmental issues associated with the project, was distributed to the
Executive Directors on February 17, 1995. Transmission lines were financed under a
separate loan and have their own already approved EA report. All resettlement and other
social impacts are covered in a separate social assessment report and SAR Annex 5.11.
Basis for Design of the Environmental Management Program
2.          The EA concluded that the main, unavoidable impacts of the project arise
due to its type and scale. The type of project dictates that the hydrologic regime in the
river will change significantly both downstream and within the reservoir itself. These
changes have physical, biological and water quality/quantity implications. Some of these
implications can be mitigated (e.g. impacts of increased dry season flows on physical
infrastructure) while others may be subject to management based on observed (monitored)
trends (e.g. sediment inflows to the reservoir). The scale of the project dictates the extent
of inundation of land aLnd water resources (total area of the reservoir is 10,100 ha.)
although the level of impact is mediated by topographical conditions (the river is deeply
incised into the surrounding landform so that the degree of inundation, given the installed
capacity, is comparatively low) and the significance of the impact is mediated by the
generally degraded conclition of the areas to be inundated (only about 10 percent of the
inundation area support subtropical broadleaf forest which once dominated the area).
3.          The Environmental Management Program was developed from the findings
and conclusions of the EA and has three objectives:  (a) to monitor environmental
conditions of the Yalong River as impacted by the project; (b) to monitor the effectiveness
of environmental protecition measures being implemented; and, (c) to expand the base of
information regarding the effects of large dams in Sichuan Province to assist in the



- 125 -                       ANNEX 5.10
evaluation of future projects. The plan comprises two main parts: the mitigation activities
to control, avoid or minimize potential adverse impacts; and, the monitoring activities
designed to assess the effectiveness of these actions.
Mitigation Activities
4.           Ten groups of mitigation activities are proposed and are fully described in
the EA. They cover: establishment of a conservation management zone around the
periphery of the reservoir; studies on reservoir fish resources related to the development
of commercial fisheries on the reservoir; reconstruction of Yuzha Ferry to counteract the
impacts of increased downstream flows; cultural property protection to recover artifacts
identified during the environmental studies program; vermin control to reduce public
health impacts due to movement of rats, etc. out of the inundation area during reservoir
filling; financial assistance for increased schistosomiasis prevention activities in villages
near the reservoir; installation of a downstream alarm system to provide warnings when
releases will be made from the dam; construction worker health inspections to avoid
possible importation of contagious diseases to the area; post construction landscaping for
erosion control and aesthetic improvement; and, reservoir clearing to reduce nutrient
release into the newly-filled reservoir and reduce algal growths.
Monitoring Activities
5.           The monitoring plan addresses seven major resource areas: hydrology,
sedimentation and climate; seismic activity; bankslope deformation; water quality and
biological monitoring; construction management; public health; and, short-term monitoring
programs. The activities proposed within each resource area are described in detail in
Chapter 7 of the EA report from which the following brief descriptions and the detailed
cost and other tables attached have been derived.
6.           Hydrology, Sedimentation and Climate. Eight hydrological monitoring
stations were established to provide baseline design data and these will continue to be
operated on a continuous basis for the life of the investment. Sediment loads are also
being monitored upstream and downstream of the site and in the Ganyu River. These
stations will continue to be monitored for the life of the project.  They will be
supplemented by an add itional 64 monitoring sections in the main reservoir and the Ganyu
Arm  at which sediment accumulation will be monitored.  Three meteorological
monitoring profiles with 18 observation sites will be established throughout the reservoir
area. The existing 15 precipitation stations and Xiaodeshi Climatic Station will continue
in operation and three additional stations will be established as part of the landslide
monitoring program.
7.           Seismic Monitoring. An earthquake monitoring station was established
prior to commencement of construction.  This station will continue to be operated
throughout the operational phase.



- 126 -                       ANNEX 5.10
8.           Bankslope Deformation. A landslide monitoring program has already been
established in the vicinity of areas having potential to become unstable due to partial
saturation as a result of reservoir filling. The program is presently gathering baseline data.
The frequency of surveys will be intensified as the reservoir is filled and will continue
indefinitely at an intensity determined on the basis of observed behavior of the monitored
areas.
9.           Water Quality and Biological Monitoring. Water quality is already being
monitored at eight locations in the reservoir and downstream areas with samples being
collected three times per year and analyzed for all parameters covered in the National
Water Quality regulations. This program will be continued. Aquatic Ecology surveys
will be undertaken both to optimize commercial fish harvests and document changes in
aquatic life due to reservoir creation. Samples of fish and invertebrates are being collected
at eight locations three times per year and this will continue for the first five years of
operations. Terrestrial fauna and vegetation are being monitored to detect changes in
the management area around the reservoir during both construction and operation.
Baseline studies are being undertaken to assist in development of management objectives
for the buffer and conservation zones.
10.         Protection and Rehabilitation of the Construction Area.  This is a
construction-phase activity which mainly requires supervision of contractors to ensure their
compliance with the environmental provisions in their contracts.
11.         Public Health. Monitoring of public health will be undertaken by the Public
Health Departments of the various counties affected with the focus being on the control of
malaria, schistosomiasis and other waterborne and water-related diseases which might
become established in the area.
12.         Temporary Monitoring Programs.  There are two programs presently
underway which will continue only until completion of the construction program. These
are: (a) inventory of the reservoir area to further evaluate biodiversity of the impoundment
and buffer zones; and, (b) inventory of natural and human resources in the impoundment
zone for planning and inmplementation of reservoir clearing operations. The biodiversity
work is being carried out with the assistance of the Chief Biodiversity Officer of the
International Union for the Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources (IUCN).
Management and Cooridination
13.         As shown in the attached tables, a feature of the plan is the degree to which
management and monitoring activities and responsibilities will be contracted out to eight
government agencies, design institutes and academic institutions, most of whom also
participated in the environmental studies program. This minimizes the degree to which
EHDC will have to develop in-house technical expertise and maximizes the use of existing
"installed" physical and technical capacity.



- 127 -                      ANNEX 5.10
14.         EHDC has entered into an agreement with the Department of Environmental
Sciences and Technolcigy of Sichuan Union University to serve as an independent
supervisor of the overall management and monitoring plan although ultimate responsibility
for effective implementaztion will continue to reside with EHDC through its Environmental
Monitoring Center, which has already been established.  In addition, a five person
Environmental Monitoring and Evaluation Panel has been established by EHDC to
provide overall advice on the program. Members will include Chinese and International
experts in both environmental science and resettlement. Two international experts who
have already indicated their willingness to participate are the Chief Biodiversity Officer of
the IUCN and WHO's Chief of Schistosomiasis.
Training
15.         The budget includes provision for three general types of technical training:
local inservice training; out of area inservice training; and, academic training. Training
activities commenced in 1993.
16.         Finance will also be provided through the project to support the continuing
operations of a Provinciial Environment and Social Training Institute (see Annex 5.11).
Budget and Schedules
17.         The attached tables summarize various aspects of the plan including:
implementation and reporting assignments; general elements of the plan; and, estimated
costs by project year.
Monitoring and Training
18.         EHDC was created specifically to construct Ertan, so this is its first project.
EHDC and others are contemplating up to 21 more hydro projects on the same river, and
other major hydro projects elsewhere in the same province. In addition, environmental
concerns are not yet as fully internalized as engineering and economic factors. For these
reasons, comprehensive environmental monitoring and training, which began in 1993, are
being strongly promoted under this loan. Monitoring and evaluation components with their
schedules and costs are shown in the attached tables.  The Government of Sichuan
Province is also applying for a grant for the Bank's Institutional Development Fund to
cover foreign exchange costs to strengthen the training programs. A standalone provincial
environmental and resettlement training center (para. 14) has already started operating.
Mitigation Plan, Budgiet and Schedule
19.         All the recommendations and findings of the EA  report have been
consolidated into a mitigation plan. The attached table summarizes such plans, shows who
is responsible, by when, together with costs disaggregated by year from 1993 through
2000. All such costs have been integrated into the overall project costs. Implementation
of many of the mitigation plan components has begun, some as early as 1993.



- 128 -                                      ANNEX 5.10
Environmental Mitigation and Monitoring Plan Summary
Persons and Agencies Responsible for Programs
EHDC Coordinator   Agency Contracted             Agency          Supervisory Agency         Supervisor
_   for Prograrm          Representativel
1. Mitigation Program            _       _|
Conservation           Cui Zijun            Sichuan Scientific    Yan Yu Po             Sichuan Union         Ding Sanglan
Management Zone                             Institute for                               University
Forestation
Reservoir Fish         Cui Zijun            Sichuan Scientfic     Zhang Yi Yun          Sichuan Union         Ding Sanglan
Resources Recovery                         Institute for Aquatic                        University
Products
Yuzhai Ferry           Cui Zijun            Panzhihua Road and    Cai Zue Ti            Sichuan Union         Ding Sanglan
Reconstruction                              Bridge Company                              University
Cultural Property      Li Reniun            Panzhihua Culture     Ran Guangjiu          Sichuan Union         Ding Sanglan
Protection                                  Bureau                                      University
Public Health          Cui Zijun            Panzhihua Health      Hu Shengzhong         Sichuan Union          Ding Sanglan
(Reservoir Area)                            Agency                                      University
Schistosomiasis        Cui Zijun            Panzhihua             Hu Shengzhong         Sichuan Union          Ding Sanglan
Treatment (Subsidies)                       Schistosomiasis                             University
Prevention Agency
Downstream Alarm       Cui Zijun            Sichuan Construction   You Shaoxiao         Sichuan Union         Ding Sanglan
System                                      Company for                                 University
_  Electricity
Public Health          Cui Zijun            Panzhihua Health                            Sichuan Union          Ding Sanglan
(Construction Area)                         Bureau                                      University
Post-Construction      Cui Zijun            Ertan Joint Venture,                        Sichuan Union          Ding Sanglan
Landscaping                                 Sino-Gemian Ertan                           University
Joint Venture
Reservoir Clearing     Liu Xiaopu           Sichuan Resettlement   Cheng Zongyi         Sichuan Union          Ding Sanglan
Office                                      University
2. Environmental Monitoring Systems
Sediment Monitoring    Cui Zijun            Chengdu Hydraulics    Li Yougui             Sichuan Union          Ding Sanglan
System                                      Investigation and                           University
Design Institute
Water Level/           Cui Zijun            Chengdu Hydraulics    Li Yougui             Sichuan Union          Ding Sanglan
Precipitation Monitoring                    Investigation and                           University
Design Institute
Climate/Ecological     Cui Zijun            Sichuan Meteorology   Zhang Yong            Sichuan Union          Ding Sanglan
Resources Monitoring                        Bureau                                      University
Houses & Buildings     Cui Zijun            Sichuan Construction   You Shaoxiao         Sichuan Union         Ding Sanglan
Company for                                 University
_ Electricity
Instruments &          Cui Zijun            Sichuan Construction   Zhang Yong           Sichuan Union         Ding Sanglan
Equipment                                   Company for                                 University
_ Electricity
Preparation Work &     Cui Zijun            Sichuan Construction                        Sichuan Union         Ding Sanglan
Others                                      Company for                                 University
_   Electricity
3. Environmental Monitoring During Construction
Operation &            Cheng Xiumei         EHDC                  Su Zhou               Sichuan Union        |Ding Sanglan
Management            l                                                                 University



- 129 -                                    ANNEX 5.10
| EHDC Coordinator | Agency Contracted           Agency          Supervisory Agency       Supervisor
________________   I _____ I  for Program     Representative   I
Aquatic Resources     Cheng Xiumei        Sichuan Normal        Yu Zhiwei            Sichuan Union         Ding Sanglan
Monitoring                                College                                    University
Water Quality         Cheng Xiumei        Panzhihua Institute of  Xiao Yong          Sichuan Union         Ding Sanglan
Monitoring                                Environmental                              University
Sciences
Public Health         Cheng Xiumei        Panzhihua Health      Hu Shengzhong        Sichuan Union         Ding Sanglan
Monitoring                                Bureau                                     University
Waste Water, Noise &   Cheng Guochar       EJV-SGEJV                                  Sichuan Union        Ding Sanglan
Air Quality                                                                          University
Terrestrial Wildlife &    Cheng Xiumei    Sichuan Normal        Yu Zhiwei            Sichuan Union         Ding Sanglan
Vegetation                                 College                                   University
Land Use Monitoring    Li Rehlun          Sichuan Resettlement   Cheng Zhongyi       Sichuan Union
Center                                     University
4. Staff Training and Study Tour
Meetings &             Liu Xiaopu          EHDC                 Cui Zijun            Sichuan Union         Ding Sanglan
Consultation                                                                         University
College Training      Liu Xiaopu           EHDC                 Cui Zijun            Sichuan Union         Ding Sanglan
University
Study Tour to Domestic  Liu Xiaopu        EHDC                  Cui Zijun            Sichuan Union
Hydro Projects                                                                       University
S. Scientific Research
Biodiversity Assessment Cheng Xiumei      Sichuan Normal        Yu Zhiwei            Sichuan Union         Ding Sanglan
of Reservoir Area                         College                                    University
Environmental Planning  Liu Xiaopu        CHIDI                 Hu Dunyu             Sichuan Union
for Yalong Catchment                                                                 University
6. Environmental Evaluation Panel
Panel                 Liu Xiaopu          Sichuan Union         Ding Sanglan
University



- 130 -                                    ANNEX 5.10
Environmental Mitigation and Monitoring Plan Summary
General Elements of Plans
Year                      IIType of
Program to   Sampling/Study  |                          Data Collection    Type of Data      Data
Start         Locations      Sampling Frequency          Methods          Co_ected      Analysis
1. Mitigation Program
Conservation Manage-         1995      Appropriate       Twice: pre- and post-   Observation         Descriptive,
ment Zone                              locations around    construction                              lists, densities
reservoir
Reservoir Fish               1997      Commercial fishing  Twice annually       Observation; net     Counts; yields  Statistical
Resources Recovery                     ports; river mouths;                     samples                             summaries
selected locations                                                           & analyses
Yuzha Ferry                  1997      30 km downstream   Once                  Engineering/constructi
Reconstruction                         from Jinjiang                            on
_____________________     ___________    Railway  Station
Cultural Property            1995      Ganyu Village     Pre-construction       Excavation, removal   Artifacts
Protection
Public Health                1995      Resettlement areas  Annual               Small habitat
(Reservoir Area)                       of inundation zone                       destruction
Schistosomiasis Treat-       1995      Yanbian, Yongxin   Annual                Chemical treatment
ment (Subsidies)                       Huimin, & other
villages
Downstream Alarm             1996      Dam to Jinsha to    Continuous           Construction of system
System                                 mouth of Yalong                         .
Public Health                1991      Jinlong Gully to    Continuous           Medical Examination   Medical
(Construction Area)                    Santan Gully                             of Workers           Samples
Post-Construction            1996      Jinlong Gully to  At end of construction   Regrading/seeding
Landscaping                            Santan Gully
Reservoir Clearing           1993      Inundation zone of  At end of construction   Removal of vegetation
reservoir                                                    l
2. Enviromnental Monitoring Systems
Sediment Monitoring          1994      14 cross sections in  As scheduled       Survey               Section        Statistics &
Systems                                reservoir                                                     profiles       summary
Water Level/Precipitation    1996      Jinlong Mountain   3 times per day       Automatic            Rainfall and    Statistics &
Monitoring                             & 18 rainfall                                                 reservoir level  summary
stations
Climate/Ecological           1995      19 stations       3 times pre day        Automatic            Temperature,   Statistics &
Resources Monitoring                                                                                 rainfall       summary
Houses & Buildings           1995                                               L
Instruments & Equipment      1995
Preparation Work &           1995
Others
3. Environmental Monitoring During Construction
Operation & Management       1995           .
Aquatic Resources            1995      Xiaodeshi and 8    3 times per day       Nets, traps, etc.    Number of fish Species &
Monitoring                             locations on                                                  & invertebrate  relative
reservoir                                                     species        abundances



- 131 -                                    ANNEX 5. 10
Year   JJType of
Program to   Sampling/Study                             Data Collection    Type of Data      Data
||       _Start    Locations      Sampling Frequency          Methods          Collected     Analysis
Water Quality Monitoring     1993      Xiaodeshi and 8    3 times per day       Grab samples,        Chemical       Reference
locations on                             laboratory analysis    analysis for 32  to State
reservoir                                                     parameters     standards
Public Health Monitoring     1993      Yongxin, Shengli                                              Diagnosis of
Jinhe, etc.                                                   diseases
Waste Water, Noise &         1994      Dam to powerhouse Random check           Sampling, analysis &   Chemical &   Reference
Air Quality                                                                     monitors             noise data     to standards
Terrestrial Wildlife &       1995      Ganyu to Yanbian   Twice annually        Sampling on section    Observation of Statistics &
Vegetation                                                                     lines                 plants &       charts
animals
Land Use Monitoring          1995      El 1200-1300 m    Prior to impoundment   Site observations    Determination  Charts &
around reservoir                                              of use of land  tables
4. Staff Training and Study Tour
Meetings & Consultation      1991                             To be arranged.
College Training             1996                             To be arranged.
Study Tour to Domestic       1993                             To be arranged.
Hydro Projects
5. Scientific Research
Biodiversity Assessment      1995      Ganyu to Yanbian   3 times per year      Point Check along line  Land Animals  Statistics &
of Reservoir Area                                                                                    Observed       charts
Environmental Planning       1996      Kala River End    Continuous
for Yalong Catchment
6. Enviromnenal Evaluation Panel
Panel                       :19:9:4:                           Not applicable.



- 132 -                                     ANNEX 5.10
Environmental Mitigation and Monitoring Plan Summary
Estimated Costs by Year (From Table 7.4 of EA)
(Given in Yuan X 103)
| Total Estimated   1993  | 1994 I   1995 | 1996 | 1997  [  1998  ]  1999  | 2000
l                 |    ~~~~~~~~Costs   lI                                     lll                          l
1.N Mitigation Program                                              ||
Conservation Management              1,933                      300      400     400        400       300     133
Zone
Reservoir Fish Resources              820                                        100        400       200     120
Recovery
Yuzhai Ferry Construction              100                                       100
Cultural Property Protection            30                      100      100     100
Public Health (Reservoir             1,299                      400      500     399
Area)
Schistosomiasis Treatment             889                       300      400     189
Subsidies
Downstream Alarm System               320                                160     160
Public Health (Construction          1,415              100     400      300     300        150       100      65
Area)
Post-Construction                     250                                                   100       100      50
Landscaping                 _                                                                              . -
Reservoir Clearing                      0                      Included as part of resettlement plan
Annual Total                -        7,326       01    100|  1,5001  1,860[  1,748[    1,050          700    368
2. Environmental Monitoring Systems
Sediment Monitoring System           1,171              165              500     506
Water Level/Precipitation             227                                100     127
Monitoring
Climate/Ecological                    610               250     360
Resources Monitonng
Houses & Buildings                   2,957              400   1,210                         700       647
Instruments & Equipment              2,585              150     250      150     150        900       800     185
Preparation Work & Others            1,412             200      680      350     100         50        32
Annual Total                         8,962       0  1,165   2,500   1,100        883      1,650      1,479    185
3. Environmental Monitoring During Construction
Wages                                1,754               50     260      260     260        330       330     264
Operation & Management               1,637                      270      270     270        270       270     286
Aquatic Resources                     200       80                        60      60
Monitoring
Water Quality Monitoring               95       35 |                      30      30                         E
Public Health Monitoring                0       Included in Reservoir Area Public Health
Mitigation
Waste Water, Noise & Air              717                70     120      120     120        120       120      47
Quality                         l_l_l l_l_
Terrestrial Wildlife &                 100                     t10
Vegetationl                                                l        l       lll



- 133 -                                  ANNEX 5.10
a  Total Estimatedl 1993   1994| 1995 I 1996     1997 11998  1  1999  | 200
Costs 
LandUseMonitoring                   120          _           60      60                  1
Annual Totals           |         4,622     1151    120     8101   800      7401      720       720    597
4. Staff Training and Study Tour
Meetings & Consultation              45                      45
College Training                    100                              30      40        30
Study Tour to Domestic               60                      30      30
Hydro Projects                                                  b
Annual Totals                       205       0       0      75              40        30         0       0
5. Scientific Research
Biodiversity Assessment of          256                      93     163
Reservoir Area
Environmental Planning for          205                             205
Yalong Catchment
Annual Totals                       461       0       0      93    368        0         0         01      0
6. Environmental Evaluation Panel
Panel                   |         2,020 |       |   100    320 1   3201   320 |       3201      320 [   320
Annual Totals                     2,020|      0 1   100 |   320|   3201   320 |       3201      320 | 320



- 134 -                      ANNEX 5.11
RESETTLEMENT ACTION PLAN
1.          Overview. The updated revised Resettlement Action Plan incorporating
lessons of experience from the first phase of the Ertan Hydroelectric Project was appraised
by a Bank mission in March 1995 and found satisfactory. Below is displayed the updated
information on the origins and destinations of the approximately 35,000 people who are
being resettled by the Ertan Hydroelectric Project in both phases.
Origins    J Number of people __Receiving Areas i     Comments
Yanbian        10,500 rural       Honnge, Pinshan,  New irrigated agricul-
County         dwellers           Yongquing,        ture villages, settlers
Xinjian           receiving 0.1 ha/capi-
ta, house, infrastruc-
ture
5,100 rural       "Moving up" in    New irrigated lands
dwellers          same village       reclaimed, settlers re-
ceiving 0.1 ha/capita,
house, infrastructure
1,700 rural       Covered to indus-  Children of farmers
dwellers          trial employment   who wish to leave
(silk factory,    agriculture
mining)                               11
300 rural dwellers  Converted to fish-  Farmers near future
ing               reservoir who wish to
change jobs
1,970 rural dwell-  Protected by dike  Farmers who re-
ers (not resettled)   in backwater area  quested protection by
dike rather than reset-
tlement
2,000 rural       Ertan Clay Mine   Current employees
dwellers                             who retain jobs but get
new housing site
97,000 urban      New Yanbian        Near railway station
dwellers          Town               and project site, retain
original employment
in relocated industries_



- 135 -                       ANNEX 5.11
l    Origins      Number of people l Receiving Areas         Comments
Miyi County    2,400 rural         Absorbed into      In agreement with host
dwellers           nearby villages    villagers, allocated 0. 1
ha/capita of reclaimed
irrigated agricultural
land, house, infra-
structure
Yanyuan         1,280 rural        880 "Moving up"   Provided 0.1 ha/capita
County          dwellers           in same village;   reclaimed irrigated
400 to new 34 ha  agricultural land,
site              house, infrastructure
Dehang County  430 rural dwellers  130 "Moving up"  Provided 0.1 ha/capita
in same village;   reclaimed irrigated
300 to new 29 ha  agricultural land,
site              house, infrastructure
TOTAL             35,380
Of total, those   5,500 rural dwell-  Pinshan irrigated   Provided 0.1 ha re-
resettled       ers from construc-  area; other vil-    claimed irrigated agri-
through March  tion site and coffer  lages of the     cultural land, house,
1995            dam inundation     Anning River      infrastructure
areas in Yanbian    Valley (tributary
and Miyi Counties  of Yalong)
2.           Lessons Learned in the First Phase. The importance of direct participation
of the affected population as well as the host population in the design and implementation
of the resettlement operations was underscored during the first phase. The resettlement
operations are jointly planned by the Resettlement Bureau of Sichuan Provincial
Government (RB/SPG), local government officials, resettlement officers at the township
and village levels (who are themselves affected) and the affected people themselves. The
process of consultant began as early as 1984 and has continued through the stages of
issuance of identify cards to each affected family listing all property and persons affected
signed by the family head and resettlement officer, through the process of resettlement site
selection, through the design work for new settlements and economic production systems,
into the mobilization and transfer phases. As a result of this process of participation,
numerous changes have been made in original resettlement plans that reflect the
suggestions of the affected people as well as the host populations among whom they are
moving. Some examples of the fruits of this participation follow.
3.           Yizhishan receiving area for rural families suggested by planners was
abandoned in 1993 because of the need to relocate numerous residents of the area to make
room for the relocated people. The affected families proposed two alternatives: moving
to other villages in the Anning River Valley where relatives lived and wasteland could be



- 136 -                       ANNEX 5.11
reclaimed in sufficient quantity to sustain them or moving to higher elevations in their
present villages and opening new lands to cultivation where sufficient land would remain
to accommodate them.  Resettlement officials accepted both suggestions and acted
accordingly. In another case, the proposed Jinhe resettlement area was abandoned in 1995
when affected families expressed preference for construction of a dike at the upper end of
the Ganyu Arm of the future reservoir. The suggestion was investigated and accepted by
planners, an alternative that enables 1,980 persons to remain in their existing homes and
farms. Similarly, in planning the new site for Yanbian Town, approximately 730 people
who live in the old town but farm adjacent lands expressed the desire to continue farming.
Since the new town site has no agricultural lands nearby, these families are being allocated
reclaimed irrigated farmland and new houses in villages near the old town where they have
relatives. Another 1,584) people in the old town were engaged in agriculture; many
comprise families who have children employed in shops and industries of the urban sector
while the parents continue in farming. They expressed their wish to change occupations
to urban ones, and they are included in plans for the new town. In summary, an important
lesson learned is flexibility to examine proposed plans with the affected people to ensure
that detailed designs address actual social and economic conditions effectively and
efficiently.
4.           The importance of prior consultation with host populations was another
important lesson learned in the first phase. This requirement occurs in those instances
where rural people are relocating to adjacent villages (for those "moving up" in the same
village, negotiations are entirely internal). Resettlement planners assist affected villagers
in preparing applications expressing interest in relocating to a certain village, which is
signed by all the affected families and the resettlement officer(s) resident in their village.
This is followed by visits to the receiving village and face-to-face negotiations. The
responses from host villagers to these applications are issued in writing and signed by
every family head of the receiving village as well as village authorities and resettlement
officers.
5.           Resettlement Planning, Organization and Institutional Responsibility.
Planning of the resettlement operation began in 1983 and continues to the present.
Baseline studies were conducted in 1984 and were updated in 1992 by RB/SPG, the Bureau
of City and County C'onstruction, Environment Protection Bureau and CHIDI.
Implementation is the responsibility of RB/SPG which employs 68 officials in the capital
city of Chengdu. Another 33 officials are posted at the level of county (prefecture), some
60 are posted to the town level and an additional 67 are placed in villages and townships
throughout the affected areas for a total of 228 staff. Affected families are in daily
communication with resettlement officials in their own communities. In the affected
communities, resettlement committees composed of affected families exist at the village,
township, county, city and provincial levels. Resettlement officials and members of
resettlement committees have been trained in the performance of their assigned tasks (see
below Training).
6.           Resettlement Policy and Legal Framework. Compensation and resettlement
is based on the "Land Administration Regulations" and "Statute for Land Requisition for



- 137 -                       ANNEX 5. 11
Construction Use by the State" issued by the People's Republic of China State Council,
the "Design Norms of Reservoir Submersion for Water Resources Projects" issued by the
Ministry of Water Resources and Electric Power (MWEP), and the "Provisional
Regulations for Land Management of the Sichuan Province" promulgated by the Sichuan
Provincial Government.   These statutes provide the major policy elements and
administrative procedures to be followed in resettlement operations.   Basically,
compensation amounts are determined on the basis of replacement value of assets which
are acquired by a project. Money paid as compensation to individual families for housing
is utilized by the families for reconstruction in a new location. Money paid to villages,
townships and counties is used to replace infrastructure (water supply, drainage, sanitation,
electricity, access and internal roads, communications systems) and to open up new
irrigated farmlands. Money paid to enterprises is utilized by the enterprise to reconstruct
facilities in a new location. The affected populations and properties are defined based on
1-in-20-year flood levels for structures and 1-in-5-year flood levels for agricultural and
other lands. The overall objective of these resettlement policies is to enable the affected
people to reconstruct their social and economic production systems to improved levels
compared to standards of living prior to the relocation.
7.           Receiving Areas. The bulk of the rural population is being resettled to new
irrigated settlements reclaimed from  wastelands.  The areas are Honnge, Pinshan,
Yongquin and Xinjian. Detailed site development plans and layouts have been developed
for the first three, and construction is under way. The last site is a standby area in the
event the demand for irrigated farmland is greater than anticipated. Of these, the Honnge
site is the largest, designed to accommodate about 8,000 rural people. The land selected
is 1,862 ha of abandoned plantation and wasteland, out of which about 400 ha are currently
planted seasonally to upland crops on a contract basis with farmers in neighboring
communities. To offset the loss of this use for neighboring communities, the project
allocates 78 ha of irrigated land to them and includes the costs of preparation and irrigation
of this section in the overall Honnge resettlement plan. A similar plan is in place for each
of the other rural population receiving areas.
8.           Detailed cropping patterns and schedules for economic development of the
sites he been prepared, evaluated and found satisfactory. Based on results of the first
phase, plans of this nature are realistic. Each plan includes arrangements for construction
of housing, irrigation systems and infrastructure by RB/SPG together with local
construction units from the county concerned. Distribution of water and the control of
quotas, inputs, crops, marketing and operation and maintenance of the systems is handled
by local institutions in each area. Fuel and fodder requirements are built into the plan.
Electricity to provide pumping of water to storage reservoirs or canals will eventually be
provided by Ertan Project, and in the interim is paid by the RB/SPG. Net benefit
calculations of the agricultural production systems introduced in these areas is based on an
allocation of 1.5 mu (1 ha = 15 mu) per capita, 1 mu of irrigated land and 0.5 mu of dry
land; an electricity price of Y 0.04 per kWh; a gravity irrigation system; and a dry year
with a 1-in-5-year return period. Income streams are calculated from paddy (irrigated
rice), upland crops such as corn and sweet potatoes, and livestock (principally pigs). Off-
farm and sideline occupations common throughout the villages are not taken into account,



- 138 -                      ANNEX 5.11
but represent a bonus on top of agricultural incomes. The net benefit from agricultural
production is projected to be Y 940 per capita per year compared to the present income
of about Y 450 per capita per year. This improvement is due in large part to an increase
in the per capita allocation of irrigated land (double the present distribution pattern in
affected communities).
9.          Site preparation of new Yanbian Town is completed, and construction is
scheduled to begin in June 1995. Detailed engineering designs and layouts were evaluated
for zoning, electrification, water supply, drainage, waste disposal, sanitation,
communications systems and access and internal roads. The following figures display the
occupational structure of the population of the town.
Total Population (1992) Yanbian Town            10,416
of which, farmers moving up                731
Population Moving to New Yanbian Town            9,685
Persons in Government Employ                     2,635
Persons Employed in Industry                     2,659
Persons Employed in Commerce, Trade              2,804
Part-time Farmers/Shopkeepers                    1.587
Total Moving to New Town                  9,685
10.         The industries being relocated are an Agricultural Machinery Factory,
Vegetable Oil Processing Plant, Agricultural Tools Factory, Paper Mill and Cement
Factory. The Cement Factory will be converted into the manufacture of steel doors and
windows to supply the construction industry. The new town site is close to Panzuihua City
(about 10 Iam), and market research conducted by the Cement Factory indicates an
abundance of cement and a shortage of steel doors and windows. The other industries will
continue as before, but will enjoy dramatically reduced transport costs for both raw
materials and finished products (all currently buy raw materials in Panzuihua City,
transport them by truck 24 hours to old Yanbian Town, and then must export back to
Panzuihua City). With regard to commerce and trade, these businesses are represented in
the main by two large stores: a cooperative selling general merchandise and a department
store providing consumer goods. Smaller family businesses such as market stalls, noodle
shops, tea rooms, bars and homes that rent lodging to travelers employ family members
in what are considered sideline or secondary occupations. Replacement of the market
function of old Yanbian Town serving the needs of surrounding villages are being
developed in Yumen Township and Ganyu Township located about 5 km and 3 km
respectively from the old Yanbian Town site. Incomes in the new town are expected to
improve due to lower production costs and economic growth. The location of the new
town along a major highway linking Panzuihua City and the rest of Sichuan Province is
expected to attract new investment. The new town is planned for an additional 5,000
people for a total population of 15,000 by the year 2000 in anticipation of this growth.
11.         Resettlement Cost Estimate. The reservoir will inundate 959 ha of
grassland, 1,165 ha of fuelwood forest, 937 ha of paddy field, 1,033 ha of dry agricultural



- 139 -                           ANNEX 5.11
land, 6,046,300 economic trees, 9 ha of fish ponds, 1,366 ha of wasteland, and other land
and assets that in property surveys include 1,481,800 m2 of houses, 146,000 m2 of other
buildings, 16 small hydropower stations (2.3 MW), 358 km of highways, 397 km of
communications lines, 648 km of electricity transmission and distribution lines, 819 km
of broadcast line in addition to large livestock populations which will be moved composed
of about 7,000 cattle and 30,000 pigs. Annual requirements for agricultural development,
transportation of portable assets (an estimated 42,000 truck trips), acquisition of steel,
cement and timber for construction, personnel salaries (calculated at over 542,000 person-
days), etc. have been calculated and checked against experience during phase one. The
following figures provides an overview of the cost estimate (in Million Yuan) by year.
The detailed resettlement budget, including unit costs for compensation, is provided in the
two tables attached to this annex.
|Item                        |TotalCost| 1989-93|  1994]  19951  1996[  19971 1998|
Rural Relocation                   198               7      80    100       10      1
Urban Relocation                   521      45      22    180    152    120        2
Industry Relocation                 77        7      2      25      33     10
Highway Relocation                 301      55      42    120       80      4
Communications Systems              80                      40      20     20
Electricity Lines                   40        1             25      14
Telecom System                      20                      15       5
Broadcast System                    15                      10      5
Cultural Property                    3                       2   _
Irrigation Systems                 101        1             60     40
Reservoir Clearing                   4                       2       2
Social Support Services             68        3             27     23       9      6
Admin. M&E                          41        3      1      16      14      5      2
Contingencies                       13        6      3       3       1
Clay Mine Comp.                     30       28              2
TOTALS                      |    1,5121    1491    771   6071   4901   178         11]
12.           Financing of Resettlement. The project owner is providing resettlement
finance is satisfactory amounts at the beginning of each year and official of RB/SPG have
expressed satisfaction with the arrangement. In was confirmed by the Bank that Y 300
million were allocated for resettlement operations at the beginning of 1995 and the
remainder of the approximately Y 607 million will be made available in the middle of the
fiscal year.



- 140 -                       ANNEX 5.11
13.         Monitoring System for Resettlement. EHLDC has signed a contract for
independent monitoring and evaluation of the resettlement programs in October 1994 with
the Resettlement and Development Center of Sichuan Province (the "Center"). The Center
is composed of four sections and has a staff of 25 professionals: an administrative unit,
a planning and supervision unit, a training unit, and a monitoring and evaluation unit.
14.         The methodology developed by the Center consists of measuring the
performance of key indicators in three subsamples of the affected population utilizing a
stratified cluster sampling technique in each subsample. Subsamples are (a) rural settlers,
(b) relocated administrative centers, and (c) urban settlers. In each case a 10 percent
sample of the universe will be maintained (increasing over time as number in each category
increase).  Each subsample is composed of families representing three strata of the
population based on baseline data collected in 1992: 30 percent of the sample drawn from
those classified as "better off"; 50 percent of the sample drawn from those classified as
"middle income"; and 20 percent of the sample drawn from those classified as "poorest."
Baseline data constitute the benchmarks against which performance of the resettlement
program will be evaluated. The baseline data for which key indicators are being followed
include: housing, land use, water supply, compensation received, how compensation was
invested, income before and after resettlement, public facilities and services available.
Data collected are analyzed and evaluated and recommendations are made for
improvements in reports to the project owner each 6 months. The first Center monitoring
report dated December 1994 was made available to the Bank in March 1995.
15.         Training. The Government of Sichuan Province is applying to the Bank's
Institutional Development Fund for a grant to cover the foreign exchange costs to
strengthen the training program of the Resettlement and Development Center of Sichuan
Province (the "Center") in the amount of $550,000. The provincial government will
provide about $430,000 for the domestic costs, and it is expected that the Ertan Project
will spend the equivalent of $200,000 for training services to the project. These three
amounts equal the total operations budget for two years of the Center's improved training
program. In the interim, the Center has provided training courses for village, county and
provincial resettlement officials and citizen leaders of the affected people associated with
the Ertan Project (March 17-30, April 10-24, and June 10-24 of 1995).
16.         The training program is directly linked to the monitoring function of the
Center (above paras. 13-14). The training curriculum provides students with information
on international and Chinese experience with involuntary resettlement operations.
Classroom instructors are members of the monitoring and evaluation unit of the Center
responsible for monitoring resettlement in the Ertan Project, and bring the results of data
collection and analysis conducted in connection with Ertan to bear upon classroom
instruction. In addition, approximately one-third of the curriculum entails fieldwork in the
impact area of the Ertan Project during which instructors and students verify information
provided in the classroom and gather additional information.



Table 1   COST EST7MATE FOR ERTAN PROJECT RESETTLEME.7T
(in 1995 plices)
tUnit                                           Yanblian County           M4l  Cuntv                  phango                  Yan an Countv 
Unit      Cost (Y)       Ouantity    Cost (1000 Y)         Ouantity         Cost    OuantitY         C8 ost                 Caouty        iu   ity      ost       duint.ty   Cost
Rural Migration
I .Land coampensation                                                                74250                       50740                      1190                     3960                       8110                     250
Cultivated land                      ha       40.000           1591.70           63670          1033.7      41350          260.57      10420           O6 5      3860           194.63    7760           6.15        255
Vgtbl.& constr. fund                 ha       40 000             27.25            1090            27.25       1090
Houseplots                           ha       40 000            237.28            9490           207.33       8300           19.34       770            2.47      100             8.07       320
2.Resettlement subsidization                                                                                     41350                     10420                     3860                       7790                     250
Cult.ivated land                     ha       40. 000          1591 70           m no70         1033.7      41350          260.5       104250           6 5      3860           104 7      7790          6.16        250
3 House reconstruction cost               s                                         140590                       86540                     23810                     3710                      26280                     350
Houses                                 mSilO                                                                   40840                       7600                      310                      3760
Brick-cement                       ml           171.5        5031.87             860         4731           810          300.87         50
Brick-wood                         ml           105         37070.52            3900        35160          3690         1283           140         429.18        50           197.64        20
Earth-wood                         m9            60       791042.00           47460        598817         35930        11801          7090       14228 8        850         59867.38    3590          28.1         1.7
Thatched cottages                  m             40        22068.40              880        10141           410         8040.61        320         233 62        10          3643 17       Io0
Appurtenant structures                                                           12920                       11370                       800                      140                        6.1
Grain drving areas                m'             15.15   496936                 7530       438331          6650        25088.2         380         5324.37       80         27692.12       420
Manure pits                        m             26.83      84879.40            2270        65357          1750        11204.2         300         1956.07       50          6362.01       170
Methane -generating pits           ml           100         11861.00            1180        01230          1120          586.45         60           42                         2.9
Surrounding walls                                1 04.6   133699                1940       126712          1850         4216.83         60          928.94       10          1526.48        20
Extended population                                                              74660                      34330                      15410                     2660                     21910                      350
4 Material removament cost                                                           19827                       12420                       2100                     2040                      3250                       10
Long-distance relocation                        1o500         1iOO               16650          7000         10500         1200         1800         1100        1650          1800         2700
Moving backward                                   300         10580               3177          6400          1920         1005          300         1302         391          1840          550        41            12
S9.ther subsidies                                                                      1302                        810                        130                      150                       220                        3
Work lost                                          20         21688                404         13400           270        2205            40         2402           50         3640           70         41             1
other                                              40         21688                868         13400           540        2200            90         2402          100         3640          150         40            2           1
6.Admsinistration                                       3%                            8990                        5760                       1430                      410                      1370                       30
I Tndirect costs                                      5s                             14990                        9590                      2380                       690                      2280                      40
Subtotal                                                                      323720                      207210                      51460                    14820                     49300                      930
Rural Enterprise and Services
.TAnd compensation                                                                     580                         3 00                       220                       40                        20
Cultivated land                      ha         40000              3.63            140             0.8          30            2.83       IID
Houseplots                           ha         40000             11.2             440             6.84        270            2.69       110             1.07       40             0.6        20
2.Resettlement subsidization                                                            140                         30                        110
Cultivated land                      ha         40000             3.63             140              0.8         30            2.83       110
3.Compensation for aco. trees                                                        34480                       20240                       3100                     2030                      7900                     1210
4.House reconstruction cost                                                           4730                        2350                       1580                      460                        320
Houses                              4m 4450                                                                   2220                      1480                       430                       320
Brick-cement                       m            171.5       4705.37              810         3000           620         1585.37        270                                    120           20
Brick-wood                         m            los         15364.10            1620          7675          800         5113.79        540          925.98      100          1649.33       170
Eath-wood                         m2            60        31925.50             1920        13776           830        10829           650         5322.65      320          1997.87       120
Thatched cottages                  m,            49            99                 10                                                                                            99          10
Animal sheds                       m             40           150                               90                         71
Latrines                           mIn           45          1971                 90          1339            60         503            20          129           10
Appurtenant structures                                                             260                         130                       100                        30
Grain drying areas                Ms'            15.05      13347                200          7790           120        4136            60         :421           20
Manure pits                       2s'            26.83        387                 20                                     197            10          190           10
Methane-generating pits             '           100            go 8o                            30                         50            10                                                                                    >
Surrouunding walls                               14.6        2000                 30           616            10        1137            20          247                                                                         Z
z
t11
La



unit                                            U (1an 0'        _         Mli  County                                        Yanvn Count             Ii"MM          t
anit   Cost (Y!         uAntity       co       1            ntty 0t                 uaMityM "ost              Oant  y         Iot        O ntty t       ot 
Rural Enterori,. and S7-vicas (cont'd)
Sibterial removement cost                             1500            717              1180           426          640          174           260         102          150            05         130
6.Subuidization for stowping pro-
duction lossas                                                                       310                                                   210                       100
Selaria. ellowanca                                                                  10                                                    10
Tax/lntAreSt allowance                                                             700                                                   200                      100
7.Other                                    person       50            660                30           531           30           97                         32
8 .Admlnitration(l-7)                                   34                             1240                        710                        160                       80                       250                      40
9.Tnvisibl  COXt(l-7)                                  5%                            2070                        1180                        270                      140                       420                      60
Subtotal (1-6)                                                               41450                       23590                      5480                      2780                      8370                    1210
Grand Total                                                                       44740                       25480                      5910                      3000                       940                    1310
Yanbian County Town Rehabilitation                                                  514810                      514810
Special Facilities                                                                   617120                     307050                     160400                    64940                     67800                   16930
I Traffic facility rec.                                                             379740                      162780                    100440                     95020                     44700                   16800
H9gh.ay3                              k7x      500000            596            298000           251       125500           140        70000           95       47500             00      40000         30         15000
Tractor roads                         km       300000            266.67           00000          120         36000          100        30000           25        7500             15.67    4700           6         10oo
Post roads                            km         6000            217              1740           160          1280           55          440            2           20
2 Comounic*tion lino rec.                  km        60496            330.6           20000           150.6       9110          117          7080            2         120            61        36-0
3.Broadcast line rec.                      km       26814             634             17000           15S         4160          479         12040
4.HIcro hydropow.,r  tlation               91         .1)            21089.,          14340          1101.(6       ,0 1?0. l0                               ..o           S, 330     526        1) 
SORur-l transmleuion linas rec.                                                       43130                      17650                      14980                     2930                      7570
In which   Hiigh voltage              km        12485.?          320.36          40000           121.2       15130          (10.93    14850            23.43    2930              s6.8      7090
Low voltage             1k          6137            509.27           3130           409.9        2520           21. 07      130                                      78.3       480
6.Porestry facility con.                                                               1600                         600                      loo
7.Ertan clay mine reloc.                                                              30000                      30000
80hrchaeological excavation cost                                                       2400                       1400                                                                           1000
9.Small Mine/factory cooenSation                                                        030                        320                        280                       30                       200
Water-powered rollers                 no0        5000             1i               100              9           So            4            20            2          10             3          20
Water mills                           nos        4000              39              160              2           10           28           110            S          20             4          20
oil mill                              no.       4000               3                10             2           10            1
Limekilna                             1509       5000              10              100              8           40            7            40                                      3          20
Brickkiln/tilkiln8                   nos        6000             40               250            21           130           13            80                                      6          40
Sll  Coal mine,                       nos       20000               5              100                                                                                             5         1a0
Sll iron mines                       nos       20000               3               60              2           40            1            20
Small copper mines                    noX       (5000               1               20              1           20
Small sugar refinery                  non         0000              3               30              2           20            1            10
I0.Res8rvoir clearing                      102      93410              86.5           800             42.2       3940           21 .7      2030             5.5       510            19.7      1470          1.4         130
I .Hydrolic engineerin9                                                             100000                       70000                      18000                     6000                      6000
-Research and Desian colt                                                              7360                       5180                       1070                      400                        l10                     100
lI.nvestigation and design                               0.3%                          4420                       3110                        640                      240                        370                      60
2.Research                                               0. 2                          2940                       2070                        430                       160 f40                                            40
Sub-total(excluding   )                                                       1473100                    1037310                     213530                    81440                     121820                   19000
Grand Total                                                                   1507750                    1059730                     218840                    83160                     126750                   1970
Source   EH13C
 ,    ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.



Table 2: SUMMARY OF COST ESTIMATE
(10, Y)
Item                                           Before 1994       1995        1996       1997       1998     Total
Rural migrant resettlement                            49040    100000      120000      40000       5680    323720
Yanbian County                                     24500      55000       78270      38000       5680    201450
Miyi County                                         13540     20000       15490       1000                50030
Liangshan Prefecture                               11000      25000       26240       1000                63240
Administration                                       3879      2000        2000       1000        121       9000
Rural enterprises and services relocation              9750     12000       15000       7990                 44740
Yanbian County                                      7500       6480        7000       4500                25480
Miyi County                                          1600      1510        1800       1000                  5910
Dechang County                                        550      1010        2250        500                  4310
Yanyuan County                                        lo0      3000        3950       1990                  9040
Yanbian County Town Rehabilitation                    39100    200000      150000      55000       2710    446810
Traffic Facility Reconstruction                       87100    200000       80000      12640                379740
Communication Lines Relocation                                    5000      15000                            20000                                  -
Broadcast Lines Reconstruction                                   10000       7000                            17000
Micro Hydropower Stations Compensation                 2200       8000       4140                            14340
Transmission Lines Relocation                         10100      20000      13030                            43130
Forestry Facilities Reconstruction                                1000        600                             1600
Ertan Clay Mine Reconstruction                        28401                  1599                            30000
Archaeological excavations                                        1400       1000                             2400
Small Mine/Factory Compensation                                    330        250        250                   830
Reservoir clearing                                                1080       3800       3200                  8080
Hydraulic Engineering                                            23600      36400       4000                100000
Research and Design Cost                                          3360       3000       1000                  7360
Others                                                 4080      17230      36260      10000        430      68000
Base costs
Physical contingency
Price contingency
Total                                          233650    605000       489079    171080        8941   1507750                                  l
Source:  EHDC.



- 144 -                        ANNEX 5.12
BANK SUPERVISION INPUT INTO KEY ACTIVITIES
Expected skill       Staff inputs
Approximate dates            Activity              requirements        (staff-weeks)
03/96                Supervision Mission      Engineering (site visit);     8.0
Project implementation    Financial Analysis; Pro-
startup                 curement; Environment;
Resettlement
03/97                Supervision Mission      Engineering; Environ-         6.0
Status of the Project   ment; Resettlement; Orga-
nization and Financial Sys-
tems Study; Power Sales
Agreement
11/97                Supervision Mission     Engineering; Economic/         8.0
Status of the Project   Financial Analysis; Envi-
ronment; Thorough review
of resettlement progress
11/98                Supervision Mission     Engineering; Financial         8.0
Status of the Project;  Analysis; Environment;
execution of the studies    Resettlement; Implementa-
tion of new organization
and financial systems
11/99                Supervision Mission     Engineering; Financial         8.0
Status of the Project   Analysis; Environment;
Survey of resettled
population
11/2000              Supervision Mission     Engineering; Financial         6.0
Status of the Project   Analysis; Environment;
Resettlement
11/2001              Supervision Mission     Engineering; Economic/         6.0
Status of Project       Financial Analysis;
completion and          Environment; Resettlement
preparation of ICR,
compliance with covenants
Note: Supervision missions will be coordinated with other Bank-financed power projects in China.



- 145 -                      ANNEX 5.13
KEY MONITORING INDICATORS
Indicators                                                        Target Dates
A. Physical Construction
Construction Progress
Diversion Tunnel Closure                              June 1, 1998
Completion of Powerhouse Draft Tube Liners
Unit 6                                               Oct. 1, 1996
Unit 1                                               June 1, 1998
Commercial Operation
Unit 6                                               Oct. 1, 1998
Unit 1                                               June 1, 2000
Procurement Progress                                         1995-1996
500 kV Dry Cable
Generator Circuit Breakers
500kV GIS
Main Transformers
Gates, Hoists, Granes
Overall Cost Control                                         1995-2000
B. Environmental Management Program
Mitigation Program                                       1991-1997
Environmental Monitoring System                          1994-1996
Environmental Monitoring during Construction             1993-2000
Staff Training and Study Tour                            1991-1998
Scientific Research                                      1995-1998
Environmental Evaluation Panel                           1994-1998
C. Resettlement Action Plan
Liangshan County (resetclement of 1,705 inhabitants)          1995
Yanbian County (resettlement of 19,574 inhabitants)      1995-1997
Miyi County (resettlement of 3,406 inhabitants)          1995-1997
Relocation of 12 Small Plants                            1995-1997
Road Construction                                        1995-1997
Telecommunication, Power Transmission Line               1995-1997
Fish Farm                                                1995-1997



- 146 -                      ANNEX 5.13
Indicators                                                       Target Dates
D. Institutional Development
Corporatization
Incorporate EHDC as a Limited Liability Company              1995
Establish a Board of Director                                1995
Commercialization
Study on Organizational Restructuring and Financial
Management System                                   1995-1996
Implementation of the New Organization Structure and
Financial Management System                              1997
Power Sales
Bulk Sales Study                                             1995
Memoradum of Understanding with SEPC                         1995
Reservoir Optimization Study                        June 30, 1995
Signing of the Power Sales Agreement with SEPC      June 30, 1997
Training Program
Senior Management                                       1995-1997
Technical and Business Staff                            1995-1997
Financial Staff                                         1995-1997
Environmental and Resettlement                          1996-1997
Power Station                                           1996-1997
E. Financial Indicators (in %)
1998   1999  2000  2001    2002   2003  2004
Rate of Return on
revalued assets               8.0  20.0   17.0  17.5    16.3   15.0  15.0
Long-term Debt
(LT Debt and equity)         79.0  77.0   71.0  63.0    56.0   52.0  47.0
Debt service coverage         1.5    1.5    1.6    1.5     1.5    1.5   1.7



- 147 -                           ANNEX 6.1
ACTUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF EHDC
(1992-94)
Table 1: BALANcE SHEET
(Y million)
As of December 31                            1992             1993            1994
Assets
Current Assets:
Cash                                         51              104              96
Inventories                                  0                 1               3
Accounts Receivable                         133              106             166
Total Current Assets                    184              212             264
Fixed Assets
Plant in Service                            23                24              24
Less: Accumulated Depreciation              (1)              (2)             (3)
Net Plant in Service                        23                22              21
Construction WIP                          2,420            3,726           6,144
Total Fixed Assets                    2.433            3.748           6.165
Total Assets                          2.627            3.960            6,429
Liabilities and Equity
Current Liabilities:
Accounts Payable                            163              122             264
Short-term Liabilities                       0                50               0
Total Current Liabilities               163              172             264
Long-term Liabilities                       1,904            3,228           5,605
Equity                                        560              560             560
Total Liabilities and Equity          2 627            3.960            6.429
Long-term Debt % as of LT Debt and Equity    77.3             85.2            90.9
Current Ratio                                1.13             1.23            1.00



- 148 -                           ANNEX 6.1
Table 2: FUNDS FLOW STATEMENT
(Y million)
Year Ended December 31                       1992             1993            1994
Sources of Funds
Internal Cash Generation:
Net Income                                   0                 0               0
Depreciation                                 0                 2               0
Total Internal Sources                    0                2               0
Borrowing                                       0            1,324           1,584
Equity Contribution                           560                0               0
Total Sources of Funds                  560             1.326           1,584
Applications of Funds
Capital Expenditure                             0            1,307           1,584
Changes in Working Capital                   (30)             (34)              12
Total Applications of Funds             (30)            1,274           1,596
In(de)creases in Cash                         590               53             (12)
Annual Debt Service Coverage (times)         N/A              N/A             N/A



FORECAST FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF EHDC (1995-2004)
Table 1: PROJECTED INCOME STATEMENT
(Y million)
Year Ended December 31               1995     1996      1997        1998       1999      2000       2001      2002      2003       2004
Sales Increase (%)                                                            265.5       37.4         0         0         0         7.6
Energy Sales (GWh)                                                 2,897    10.589    14,545    14,545    14,545    14,545        15,645
Average Price (fen/kWh)                                              35.4      38.6       46.3      56.7       55.7      54.4       57.9
Sales Revenue                                                    1,024     4,087      6,734     8,241     8.104     7,909      9,060
Operating Costs:
Operation and Maintenance                                         134        661      1,041      1,216     1,292     1,377      1,617
Administration                                                     14         16         18        21        23        26         58
Sales Tax                                                           14        53         76        82        85        88         100
Depreciation                                                      106        508       826        826       826       826        905
Total Operating Costs                                        268      1,238      1,961     2,145      2.226    2,317       2,680
Operating Income                                                  756      2,849      4,773     6.096     5,878     5,592       6.380
Interest Charged to Operations                                        126     1,325      1,834     2,331     2,164      1,997      1,975
Net Income Before Income Tax                                      630      1,525      2,839     3,766     3,715     3,597      4,405
Income Tax                                                           208        503        937      1,243     1,226     1,187      1,454        >
z
z
Net Income                                                        422      1,022      1,902     2,523     2,489     2,410       2,951        X
cr



Table 2: PROJECTED BALANCE SHEET
(Y million)
Year Ended December 31            1995    1996    1997         1998      1999      2000     2001      2002     2003      2004
Assets
Current Assets:
Cash                            134      203      200        278       436     1,109     1,583    1,469    1,284      1,158
Inventories                     140      113      116        154       110       149       151      212       195       212
Receivables                       0        0        0         37       256       346       362      341      351        312
Total Current Assets       274      316      316         469       802     1,604     2 096    2,022    1,830      1,682
Fixed Assets
Plant in Service                 24       24       24       6,838    16,380    26,630    26,630   26,630   26,630    31,786
(less) Accum. Depreciation        3        4        4         106      614      1,439    2,265    3,090    3,916      4,821
Net Plant in Service        21       20       20       6,732    15,766    25,190    24,365   23,539   2,2714    26,964
Construction WIP             10,621   14,975   19,918      16,862     9,729     1,569    3,072    5,215    8,302      6,016
Total Fixed Assets       10,642   14,995   19,938     23,594    25,495    26,759    27,437   28.754   31,016    32,980
Total Assets          10.916       15,311   20,254  24,063    26.297    28,363    29,533   30,776   32.846    34,662
Liabilities
Current Liabilities:
Short-term Loans                  0        0        4         52        15        54         4        3         3         0
Accounts Payable                274      311      290        441       334       418       454      510       563       335
L-T loans due in 12 months        0        0      300        527      1,000     1,418     1,418    1,418    1,517     1,617
Total Current Liabilities  264      311      594       1 020     1 349     1 890     1 876    1 931    2 083      1,952
Long-term Debt                   9,072   12,420   16,070      18,321    19,135    18,785    17,360   16,225   16,033    15,354
Equity:
Capital                        1,570    2,580    3,590      4,600     4,600     4,600    4,600    4,600    4,600      4,600
Earned Surplus                    0        0        0         122     1,063    2,614     4,032    5,440    6,858      8,375
z
Retained Earnings                 0        0        0           0       150      474      1,665    2,580    3,272     4,381        z
Total Liabilities & Eguitv   10,916   15.311   20,254  24.063    26.297    28,363    29,533   30,776   32.846    34,662



Table 3: PROJECTED FUNDS FLOW STATEMENT
(Y million)
Year Ended December 31                 1995      1996      1997         1998        1999       2000       2001      2002       2003        2004
Sources of Funds
Internal Sources of Funds:
Net Income Before Interest           (1)       (1)       (1)          548      2,347       3,736      4,854     4,653      4,407       4,926
Depreciation                           I         I         1          106        508        826         826       826        826        905
Total Internal Sources           0         0          0          654      2 855       4 562      5.680     5 479      5,233       5,831
Borrowings
Proposed Project - IBRD Loan         935       862     1,007          520        307        219           0         0          0           0
Proposed Project - ECO                 0       507       507          253          0          0           0         0          0           0
Proposed Project - Local Borrowing    2,531  1,980     2,436        2,004       1,507       847           0         0          0          0
Other Borrowing                        0         0         0            0          0          0           0       290      1,331         946
Total Borrowings              3 467     3 349     3 950        3.452       1,815      1.067         0        290      1,331        946
Equity Contribution                    1 010     1.010     1,010        1,010          0          0          0         0          0           0 
Total Sources of Funds        4 477     4 359     4 960        4.442      4 669       5,629      5.679     5 767      6.563       6.777
Application of Funds
Capital Expenditures:
Proposed Project                   3,639     3,120     3,325         1,912       834        483           0         0          0           0
Other Construction                     0         0         0            0        598         971      1,504      2,123     2,956       2,724
Interest During Construction         837     1,239     1,635         1,875       981         584          0        20        131         146
Total Capital Expenditure     4 476     4 359     4 960        3,788      2.412       2.038      1,504     2,143      3,087       2 870
Operational Requirements
Inc/dec in Working Capital          (38)      (69)         3          150        247          83       (53)        40       (62)          29
Debt Service                           0         0         0          426       1,852      2,834      3,755      3,588     3,421       3,500
Dividend Issuance                      0         0         0            0          0          0           0        111       302         505
Total Operational Requirement    (38)    (69)         3          576       2 099      2 917      3 702      3,739     3 661       4,034
Total Applications of Funds  4,438  4,290     4 963         4.364      4 511      4.956      5.206      5 882     6 748       6.904
Increase/Decrease in Cash                38        69        (3)          78         158        673        474      (114)      (185)      (126)         >
Annual Debt Service Coverage            0.0       0.0        0.0          1.5        1.5         1.6        1.5       1.5        1.5         1.7        z
X



Table 4: KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS
(Y million)
Year Ended December 31                 1995      1996      1997         1998       1999       2000       2001       2002       2003       2004
Energy Sales (100 GWh)                    0         0         0           29        106         145        145       145        145         156
Average Price (fen/kWh)                 0.0       0.0       0.0         35.4        38.6       46.3       56.7      55.7       54.4        57.9
Operating Revenue                         0         0         0         1,024      4,087      6,734      8,241      8,104     7,909       9,060
Operating Incomiie                        0         0         0          756       2,849      4,773      6,096     5.878      5,592       6,380
Annual Capital Expenditure            4,476     4,359     4,960        3,788       2,412      2,038      1,504      2,143     3,089       2,870
Long-term Debt                        9.072    12,420    16,370        18,848     20,635     20,203     18,778    17,643     17,550      16,971
Debt Service                              0         0         0          426       1,852      2,834      3,775      3.588     3,421       3,500
Cash in Banks                           134       203       200          278        436       1.109      1,583      1,469     1,284       1,158
Rate of Return
Historically Valued Assets (%)         0         0         0          8.2       20.0        18.2       19.6      24.5       19.1        19.8
Revalued Assets(%)                     0         0         0          8.0         20         17        17.5      16.3         15          15
Self-financing Ratio (%)                  0         0         0            0        27.5       82.9      104.0       81.9      58.2        60.3
Operating Ratio (%)                       0         0         0          26.2       30.3       30.6       26.0       27.5      29.3        29.6
LT Debt/(LT Debt & Equity) (%)           85        83        82           79         77         71          63        56         52          47
Debt Service Coverage                     0         0         0           1.5        1.5        1.6        1.5        1.5       1.5         1.7



- 153 -                        ANNEX 6.3
MAJOR ASSUMPTIONS FOR EHDC's
FINANCIAL PROJECTIONS
A. Income Statement
1.          Energy sales are based on EHDC's planning division's load forecast. Tariffs
are assumed to be adjusted so that the average revenues would be adequate for achieving
the minimum financial performance targets.
2.           Escalation rates used in this project are as follows:
1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003
Foreign           2.2  2.2  2.2  2.2  2.2  2.2  2.2  2.2  2.2
Local             14.0  10.5  8.5  7.0  6.5  6.2  6.2  6.2  6.2
3.          The impact of the foreign exchange rate has been taken into account in
project cost estimation based on the relative changes in the estimated foreign and local
escalation rates.
4.           In calculating debt service coverage ratio, internal cash generation is defined
as net income plus interest expenses and depreciation. While computing the rate of return
on fixed assets, net income before interest expenses is used.
5.          Operation and maintenance costs include material fees, wages, and
equipment/reservoir maintenance costs. Material costs are based on installed capacity and
assumed to escalate with local inflation rates. Wage is estimated by EHDC, having taken
into account wage adjustments along with inflation and increases in number of employees.
Maintenance costs are assumed to be based on both energy sales and the ending balance
of net fixed assets, and to escalate with the domestic inflation rates.
6.          Administration costs are based on 1994's level and to increase with local
inflation rates.
7.           Local tax includes urban construction fee and education surcharge, which
are to be levied on 5 percent and 2 percent of sales tax (or value-added tax, VAT) paid by
EHDC, respectively. VAT is estimated to be paid at 4 Yuan per kWh sale.
8.          Depreciation rate is assumed to be 3.3 percent of the sum of the beginning
fixed assets costs and half of the current year's fixed assets additions.



- 154 -                        ANNEX 6.3
9.          Interest expense on long-term debts is disclosed as an expense item on the
income statement as a plant or units financed by such borrowings are put into performance.
Current local interest rate is around 14.76 percent.  Interest rate of foreign loans is
assumed to be 7.5 percent.
10.         Income tax will be assessed at 33 percent of taxable income since 1994.
Taxable income is assumed to be equal to the income before income tax on income
statements.
11.          Dividend is assumed to be declared and paid at 15 percent of equity
contribution amount as long as there is adequate net income.
B. Balance Sheet
12.          Accounts receivable balance is expected to be 1.39 percent of total current
revenue, i.e. an average five-day collection period.
13.          Fixed assets additions include costs of work-in-progress completed during
the year. Total project costs include construction costs, commitment fees and other fees
related to foreign debts, capitalized interest expenses (or interest during construction,
IDC), and estimated foreign exchange loss capitalization.
14.          Accounts payable is assumed to be 30 days of the sum  of capital
expenditures and cash operating expenses.
15.          Long-term borrowing, including cumulative IDC, is assumed to be equally
repaid over 10 or 11 years after commission. IDC and commitment fees on IBRD loan
and Bank guaranteed financing will not be accumulated into the principal; they will be
repaid annually and are assumed to be locally financed.
16.          Capital is to increase according to the estimated equity contributions to the
proposed and future projects.
17.          Earned surplus is assumed to increase by yearly allocation of employee
welfare fund and development fund from 20 percent of net income.



- 155 -                                ANNEX 7.1
ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION OF THE PROJECT
Table la: (Base, full cost, 37 fen/kWh): Internal Economic Rate of Return
(Million Yuan)
Generation    Transmission    Fuel    O&M         Total                Benefits           Net
Year             Cost           Cost       Cost      Cost        Cost           GWh        Yuan        Benefit
1994           7,000.04        26.00       0.00      0.00     7,026.04          0.00        0.00    -7,026.04
1995           1,873.66       786.00       0.00      0.00     2,659.66          0.00        0.00    -2,659.66
1996           2,387.28      1,825.00      0.00      0.00     4,212.28          0.00        0.00    -4,212.28
1997           2,669.19      1,804.00      0.00      0.00     4.473.19          0.00        0.00    -4,473.19
1998           1,972.71      1,432.00      0.00    217.76     3,622.47      1,198.00      443.26    -3,179.21
1999            757.85        701.00       0.00    232.35      1,691.20    10,032.00    3,711.84     2.020.64
2000             399.88       632.00       0.00    242.67      1,274.55     15,273.00    5,651.01    4,376.46
2001               0.00       766.00       0.00    250.33      1,016.33     15,878.00    5,874.86    4,858.53
2002               0.00       512.00       0.00    255.45       767.45      16,094.00    5,954.78    5,187.33
2003               0.00        57.00       0.00    256.02       313.02      15,897.00    5,881.89    5,568.87
2004               0.00         0.00       0.00    251.30       251.30      15,885.70    5,877.71    5,626.41
2005               0.00         0.00       0.00    251.30       251.30      16,071.00    5,946.27    5,694.97
2006               0.00         0.00       0.00    251.30       251.30      15,990.90    5,916.63    5,665.33
2007               0.00         0.00       0.00    251.30       251.30      16,531.00    6,116.47    5,865.17
2008               0.00         0.00       0.00    251.30       251.30      16,574.10    6,132.42    5,881.12
2009               0.00         0.00       0.00    251.30       251.30      16,124.60    5,966.10    5,714.80
2010               0.00         0.00       0.00    251.30       251.30      17,559.60    6,497.05    6,245.75
2011               0.00         0.00       0.00    251.30       251.30      17,559.60    6,497.05    6,245.75
2012               0.00         0.00       0.00    251.30       251.30      17,559.60    6,497.05    6,245.75
2013               0.00         0.00       0.00    251.30       251.30      17,559.60    6,497.05    6,245.75
2014               0.00         0.00       0.00    251.30       251.30      17,559.60    6,497.05    6,245.75
2015               0.00         0.00       0.00    251.30       251.30      17,559.60    6,497.05    6,245.75
2016               0.00         0.00       0.00    251.30       251.30      17,559.60    6,497.05    6,245.75
2017               0.00         0.00       0.00    251.30       251.30      17,559.60    6,497.05    6,245.75
2018               0.00         0.00       0.00    251.30       251.30      17,559.60    6,497.05    6,245.75
2019               0.00         0.00       0.00    251.30       251.30      17,559.60    6,497.05    6,245.75
2020               0.00         0.00       0.00    251.30       251.30      17,559.60    6,497.05    6,245.75
2021               0.00         0.00       0.00    251.30       251.30      17,559.60    6,497.05    6,245.75
2022               0.00         0.00       0.00    251.30       251.30      17,559.60    6,497.05    6,245.75
2023               0.00         0.00       0.00    251.30       251.30      17,559.60    6,497.05    6,245.75
2024               0.00         0.00       0.00    251.30       251.30      17,559.60    6,497.05    6,245.75
2025               0.00         0.00       0.00    251.30       251.13      17,559.60    6,497.05    6,245.75
2026               0.00         0.00       0.00    251.30       251.30      17,559.60    6,497.05    6,245.75
2027               0.00         0.00       0.00    251.30       251.30      17,559.60    6,497.05    6,245.75
2028               0.00         0.00       0.00    251.30       251.30      17,559.60    6,497.05    6,245.75
2029               0.00         0.00       0.00    251.30       251.30      17,559.60    6,497.05    6,245.75
2030               0.00         0.00       0.00    251.30       251.30      17,559.60    6,497.05    6,245.75
Total     17.060.61     8,541.00       0.00  8,239.68    33841.29    540.300.90  199.911.33   166.070.04
Assumptions:                                                         Results:
Official exchange rate (Y/$):      8.72                              Economic IRR (%):                    16%
Shadow exchange rate (Y/$):        8.72                              PV of investment costs (Y):     12,823.45
Standard conversion factor:        1.00                              PV of total costs (Y):          19,154.03
PV of benefits (GWh):          73,063.54
Shadow electricity value (Y/kWh):    0.370                           PV of benefits (Y):             27,033.51
Shadow AIC (Y/kWh):                 0.26
Breakeven tariff (Y/kWh):           0.26



-156-                              ANNEX7.1
Table lb: Internal Economic Rate of Return: (Full cost, 42 fen/kWh)
(million yuan)
Generation  Transmission    Fuel    O&M     Total             Benefits          Net
Year             Cost       Cost      Cost     Cost       Cost         GWh        Yuan      Benefit
0.00
1994          7,000.04     26.00       0.00     0.00    7,026.04        0.00       0.00   -7,026.04
1995          1,873.66    786.00       0.00     0.00    2,659.66        0.00       0.00   -2.659.66
1996          2,387.28    1,825.00     0.00     0.00    4,212.28        0.00       0.00   -4,212.28
1997          2,669.19    1,804.00    0.00      0.00    4,473.19        0.00     503.16   -4,473.19
1998          1,972.71    1,432.00     0.00   217.76    3,622.47     1,198.00   4,213.44   -3,119.31
1999           757.85     701.00       0.00   232.35    1,691.20    10,032.00   6,414.66    2,522.24
2000            399.88     632.00      0.00   242.67    1,274.55    15,273.00   6,668.76    5,140.11
2001             0.00      766.00      0.00   250.33    1,016.33    15,878.00   6,759.48    5,652.43
2002             0.00      512.00      0.00   255.45     767.45     16,094.00   6,676.74    5,992.03
2003             0.00       57.00      0.00   256.02     313.02     15,897.00   6,671.99    6,363.72
2004             0.00       0.00       0.00   251.30     251.30     15,885.70   6,749.82    6,420.69
2005             0.00       0.00       0.00   251.30     251.30     16,071.00   6,716.18    6,498.52
2006             0.00       0 00       0.00   251.30     251.30     15,990.90   6,943.02    6,464.88
2007             0.00       0.00       0.00   251.30     251.30     16,531.00   6,961.12    6,691.72
2008             0.00       0.00       0.00   251.30     251.30     16,574.10   6,772.33    6,709.82
2009             0.00       0.00       0.00   251.30     251.30     16,124.60   7,375.03    6,521.03
2010             0.00       0.00       0.00   251.30     251.30     17,559.60   7,375.03    7,123.73
2011             0.00       0.00       0.00   251.30     251.30     17,559.60   7,375.03    7,123.73
2012             0.00       0.00       0.00   251.30     251.30     17,559.60   7,375.03    7,123.73
2013             0.00       0.00       0.00   251.30     251.30     17,559.60   7,375.03    7,123.73
2014             0.00       0.00       0.00   251.30     251.30     17,559.60   7,375.03    7,123.73
2015             0.00       0.00       0.00   251.30     251.30     17,559.60   7,375.03    7,123.73
2016             0.00       0.00       0.00   251.30     251.30     17,559.60   7,375.03    7,123.73
2017             0.00       0.00       0.00   251.30     251.30     17,559.60   7,375.03    7,123.73
2018             0.00       0.00       0.00   251.30     251.30     17,559.60   7,375.03    7,123.73
2019             0.00       0.00       0.00   251.30     251.30     17,559.60   7,375.03    7,123.73
2020             0.00       0.00       0.00   251.30     251.30     17,559.60   7,375.03    7,123.73
2021             0.00       0.00       0.00   251.30     251.30     17,559.60   7,375.03    7,123.73
2022             0.00       0.00       0.00   251.30     251.30     17,559.60   7,375.03    7,123.73
2023             0.00       0.00       0.00   251.30     251.30     17,559.60   7,375.03    7,123.73
2024             0.00       0.00       0.00   251.30     251.30     17,559.60   7,375.03    7,123.73
2025             0.00       0.00       0.00   251.30     251.30     17,559.60   7,375.03    7,123.73
2026             0.00       0.00       0.00   251.30     251.30     17,559.60   7,375.03    7,123.73
2027             0.00       0.00       0.00   251.30     251.30     17,559.60   7,375.03    7,123.73
2028             0.00       0.00       0.00   251.30     251.30     17,559.60   7,375.03    7,123.73
2029             0.00       0.00       0.00   251.30     251.30     17,559.60   7,375.03    7,123.73
2030             0.00       0.00       0.00   251.30     251.30     17,559.60              7,123.73
Total     17,060.61    8,541.00    0.00  8,239.68   33.841.29    540,300.90  226,926.38  193,085.09
Assumptions:                                             Results:
Official exchange rate (Y/$):  8.72                      Economic IRR (%):                    18%
Shadow exchange rate (Y/$):    8.72                      PV of investment costs (Y):      12,823.45
Standard conversion factor:    1.00                      PV of total costs (Y):           19,154.03
PV of benefits (GWh):           73,063.54
Shadow electricity value (Y/kWh):   0.420                PV of benefits (Y)               30,686.69
Shadow AIC (Y/kWh):                 0.26
Breakeven tariff (Y/kWh):           0.26



- 157 -                            ANNEX 8.1
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE
IN THE PROJECT FILE
Selected Reports and Studies Related to the Project
1. Ertan Hydroelectric Project, Project Report for the World Bank Loan II (updated
information), Ertan Hydroelectric Development Corporation (EHDC), February 1995.
2. The Environmental Assessment and Resettlement (Final Report), EHDC, December 1994.
3. Resettlement (Phase II), EHDC, January 1995.
4. Economic Analysis Report for Ertan II Hydroelectric Project, Beijing Economic Research
Institute of Water Resources and Electric Power (BERIWREP), February 1995.
5. Articles of Association of Ertan Hydropower Development Limited Liability Company,
December 1994.
6. Agreement on the Construction of Ertan Hydropower Station, EHDC, February 1995.
Selected Worksheets
1. EHDC Financial Forecasts.
2. Cost Tables.
3. Implementation Schedules and Charts.



I



- 158 -               CHARTS
CHARTS






- 159 -
CHART 1
CHINA
ERTAN HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Organization Chart of MOEP
Ministry of -lectric Power
|Minister Shi Dazhen
Vice Ministers: Zhao Xizheng  Zha Keming Lu Yanchang  Wang Shucheng
-|China Electricity Council                        -- -
MOEP's Internal Organization   Groups & Provincial Companies              Provincial Companies
MOEPs Internal Organization [              <gUnder Ausoices of MOEP                       under Groups
-  General Office                                        ast                 Jilin Power Company            I
-   Genept. ofPlanng                              Electrc Power Group             Heilongjiang Power Company
-Dept. of Planning
-   Dept. of Policies & Legislation
Dept. of Economical Regulation                                               Shanxi Power Company
& Control of State Procerny                                             Hebei Power Company            I
-   Dept. of Personnel & Education                Electrc Power Group            Inner Mongolia Power Company X
-   Dept. of International Cooperation
-   Dept. of Science & Technology                                                 Tianjin Power Company          j
-   Dept. of Safery & Production                                                  Shanghai Power Company
Coordination                                                            S
-   Dept. of Capital Construction                                              - Jiangsu Power Company
-        Coordination                             Electric Power Group            Anhui Power Company
-   Dept. of Hydropower Development
& Rural Elecdtsrification                                            -Zhejiang Power Company
[JMOEP's_Affiliated Enterprises & Institutions                                        Hubei Power Company            l
=  .  ]    Central China    l   Henan Power Company        l
-        National Power Dispatching &             Electric Power Group         - Hunan Power Company            l
Communication Center                                              _
-   Information Center                                                           Jiangxi Power Company          |
-   Logistics Bureau
Planning Design & Engineering Institutses                                    Gansu Power Company
-   Research Institutes                                                        - QOnghai Power Company
-   Universities & College                                                     - Electc Power Group  Ningxia Power Company
-   Specialized Corps.
-   Scholarly Societies & Associations                                        -Xinjiang Power Company
-Huaneng Group, Electric Power Enterprises
-South China Electric Power Joint Venture Corporation             |
-Shandong Power Co.
-Fujian Power Co.                                                 l
-Sichuan Power Co.                 Provincial Companies
Guangxi Power Co.             non-directly under MOEP    -
Yunnan Power Co.
Guizhou Power Co.                  Guangdong Power Co.
Hainan Power Co.
Xizang Industry & Power Admin.
EKNV56702F






CHINA
ERTAN HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
The Ertan Hydroelectric Development Corporation (EHDC)
General Manager
Special Board 01                              ~~~~~~~Deputy General
Consultant                                    ~~~~~~~~Manager
Chiet Economist                                                      Chiet Accounant 
General      Department    Department    Department    Deparlrment    Department    DeparIment    Department    Department    Cheng du                   Beigingh
Office           of             01             ot              of             01              ot             Of              ot        Headquarter   Shanghai &
Personnel     Planning &       Material     Management        Foreign        Finance      Development  Administrativ                       Kunming
Contracting      Supply                         Aafairs                         anr            Atlairs                       oflices
Research
EK/W51451C



CHINA
ERTAN HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Ertan Engineering Corporation (EEC)
Project Implementation Unit
GeneW Mag
SpeciM     l                         1 4ARZV   l
I             Io II  d  Re eGenaMnage
LS7iLsZi   DeGeltne1
d RepressbSe                                               d Repre#rblve
0
|I
sadsl5MI45d    ID



- 162 -
CHART 4
CHINA
ERTAN HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Sichuan Power Grid
(End 1993)
SICHUAN POWER GRID:                                                           1027.1  (IrusJW  Capay, MW)
47087  (EnorgyGoueraum GWh)
solatd plants:
233.0                              r   ~~~~~~~~~~~~Hydro:    2651-
233                                                             11806
9327                               8197.0
37760
-Themnail:  5545-'
L     subsywn:                               Th man "aym:
(locgy dispad)                               (c y d spts
1497 4                                     6
6114             I7387                                                           63,3
__  2714                        _Thift:  4769.3
Cap*.             SEPAs            LMN             Cipe"           Capi         LO 'OhY .   tHuWn          SEPA Sy3n
~~wW ~~~~~an~~~~    ~      ~        go           POnc
5570.5
2678
Tiumiat       Hyo          Thnmial:
Rd: 1903.5
59.4            958             480            274          26.9          8213       7yd
2045.0               285.0              270             5002110                        308           131          3151
sad m   U687.0
Tira:18973
sada*514511



CHINA
ERTAN HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
Project Implementation Schedule
WORK ffEM                    ~~1992  _        1993            1994            1995            1996            199 i     i               ~       '
0 WORK ITEMS                       | 4!|    1  | 239E  S 41| | | 231944  1     4 1 2 3 |Fi4 41 41 3 F4                                      4  _ 1               4
PREPARATORY WORKS
LAND REOllSITION & RESETTLEMENT              _   _  _   _   _  _  _   _  _  _
CIViL WORKS
Diversion Tunnel                                                                R      o                                                i
-Cotter Dam
installaton: Gates & Hoists                                                                                                 _   -               .      I
-Power Conduit
Excavation                             I   I   I  I    _  _  _   _   1                      -                                      I,I
Concrete                               I   I   I  I                                                                     -  - _   __|                               I   I
Gates & Hoists Installation                                                                                                                        fles rvor IFil |ng
Penstocks rinstallation
S- pillway Tunnel
Excavation-- -                                                          - -- -- - -                     - -- ---
Concrete                                                                                 -   -   -       -   -  -   -  -  - _  _   _        -=| ,
Gates & Hoists Installation                                                                      _
-Power House
Excavation                                                                                                 -   -
Concrete                                                                                             -  -  -   -   -         - .    _ _   _   _  _
-Surge Chamber
Excavation                                                                                                                                                                                  J -   -  -   - |  -   -  - -
Concrete
Gates & Hoists Installation
*   Transtormer Chamber
Excavation-
Corncrete
*Tailrace Tunnel                                                                                          a - -- - -
Excavation
Conicrete
E& M WORKS
Contracting: Turbines & Generators                                              Signing
Contracting: Computer Supervisor
Contracting: 500KV Cable                                                                               Q  Signing
Contracting: Gene Circuit Breaker                                                                         S   I
Contracting: 500 KV GIS                                                                                Q Signikng
Contracting: Main Transformers                                                                          Q    Ign
Contracting: Gates & Hoists                                                                        Qinn                          Initial Opratin         Comecial   eralion
Installation: Unit 6                                                                                         U nit 6g I           I        I  I- - 1
Installation: Unit 5                                                                                          ni  UntL5   -            -T    I          --
Instatlation: Unit 4                                                                                                 Uni 4 -  --          Il  -    -                                    C)
Installation: Unit 3                                                                                                       n - .3                          
I n s t a lla t io n :  U n i t     2                                                                                            U i             -   -   -   -   -0-
ksr/cSiw24gSc



IBRO 26552
so 100                      10                                                                   C H I N A                                   '-
ERTAN HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
UNDER         EXISTING    FUTURE   PROJECT
1-  /                                         ~~~~      ~~~~~~~~~~A  N  U  CONSTRUCTION       EXSNG       FTR       POEC
-                      -           - ~mHYDRO POWER PLANTS
<> __ *> _-,    *                            *                      *        THERMAL POWER PLANTS
-7                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~A 500kV SUBSTATIONS
"   >   A  '  -- )   ~   ta                                          SHUNT REACTORS
CONVERTER STATIONS
-        -                       -                      500kV AC TRANSMISSION LINES
~- . -         -        - t   400--750kV DC TRANSMISSION LINES
32'
X  '  '^~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~ ' 2ct~~~~~~~,ngyoS -,;,  4,
0      50      'o !5              -90                        - _                       Genda      Y,,'s300son       (   Z)nrorg   -               Huoyingstrort21  
The bounOor,es, colors,                                                           E               . exshc)  /       X tZ>,anr          _
30' denom,natrons aund asny //l t .4__
other Inlormatton shown,                                                                                                                                                                                      20..///   \     Z>/        hnsoni,(
imply, on the pont of                               NEJ \                                         /z ;                         / C e 9 aqa h> s                                  '      )
The3 World Bfanke Group.                                  ( <                                  /*  t   Wu~otgnqoo I > Net lo g  ongX                                          S      r
or rany  endoYrsement>Y'   y ' 5sonebs (v c    -  ^K-<Tq/Lhngu
nori eac o suh                                                    \       Nanyohe  P3g          Gornqzhui   "'5
Thboundaries.    oos
3,  denomiat,on  an  anye_3S                                                                            >     
othe   m. r oo       sho-                                                                                                                                        h .,., .,gshounl1! //,    .    
I ,o   the port of                                                                                                  w.'2
'-'.-.'-   ,/'xv   _ -~,                                                     lA/f           *     
'm I                   *}t/                                                                                           /                         RAILROADS                                -'
I    f                        o      -       RIVERS
i > X Hemenkou *-9 . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C                                                                      PROVINCE CAPITAL
\  .'  ,  ^.   .                   Xinzhusng   T r  rgzl fr                            - _          ~         ~        ~~~~~~~- PREFECTURE BOUNDARIES
,) ~~~~~~~~~^~- ' ' ;*Ponz\l>o                                                                                                - -   PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
-~~~~~S.;   ~    ~           ~    ~ ~ -                - - j'   r/~~~~~ -                      -                               INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
'-')  . -  _                                                                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FeSP.ARY sCt;









, I -S       - ',.     -; '., T        !           L.1 4,       i:' 9-
1~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~                             1 ,  * ,  I  1i -
. ciil1,1,v
(3   43i tI&J 



