Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24342
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-39330; SCL-3933A; SCL-3933B; TF-26652)
ONA
LOAN AND GUARANTEES
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$550 MILLION
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
FOR THE
ERTAN II HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
June 21, 2002
Energy and Mining Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective January 2001)
Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
Y1 = US$ 0.12048
US$ 1 = Y 8.28
Exchange Rates During Project Years
Year Average
1995            ---             Y 8.30
1996           ---              Y 8.30
1997            ---             Y 8.30
1998           ---              Y 8.28
1999           ---              Y 8.28
2000            ---             Y 8.28
2001           ---              Y 8.28
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric system
FISCAL YEAR
January 1    December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS     Country Assistance Strategy                MW      Megawatt
CHIDI   Chengdu Hydroelectric Investigation and    NGO     Nongovernmental Organization
Design Institute                           O&M     Operation and Maintenance
DRB     Dispute Review Board                       OP      Operational Policy
EEC     Ertan Engineering Corporation              PHRD    Policy and Human Resource Development
EHDC    Ertan Hydroelectric Development Company    PPA     Power Purchase Agreement
EMP     Environmental Management Plan              QAE     Quality at Entry
ERP     Environmental and Resettlement Panel       QAG     Quality Assurance Group
ERR     Economic Rate of Return                    RAP     Resettlement Action Plan
FRR     Financial Rate of Return                   REDC    Resettlement Engineering Development Center
GDP     Gross Domestic Product                     ROR     Rate of Return
GOC     Government of China                        SAR     Staff Appraisal Report
GWh     Gigawatt-hour                              SBC     Special Board of Consultants
ha      Hectare                                    SDB     State Development Bank
ICB     International Competitive Bidding          SDIC    State Development Investment Company
ICR     Implementation Completion Report           SDPC    State Development and Planning Commission
IDC     Interest During Construction               SEPA    State Environment Protection Agency
JV      Joint Venture                              SEPC    Sichuan Electric Power Company
km      Kilometer                                  SIC     Sichuan Investment Company
kV      Kilovolt                                   SOE     State-Owned Enterprise
kW      Kilowatt                                   SPRO    Sichuan Provincial Resettlement Office
kWh     Kilowatt-hour                              TA      Technical Assistance
m       Meter                                      TCC     Technical Cooperation Credit
m2      Square Meter                               TWh     Terawatt-hour
MIS     Management Information System              VAT     Value-Added Tax
Vice President:     Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:      Yukon Huang
Acting Sector Director       Mohammad Farhandi
Task Team Leader:        Noureddine Berrah



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CHINA
ERTAN II HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
I. Project Data                                                                          I
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                         1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry               1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                  3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                   I 1
6. Sustainability                                                                       14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                        15
8. Lessons Learned                                                                      17
9. Partner Comments                                                                     19
10. Additional Informnation                                                             19
Annex 1. Key Perfornance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                    26
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                   29
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                    32
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                   40
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                   42
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                      43
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                  44
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results                                                     59
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results                                                   60
Map
IBRD No. 22093R2
IBRD No. 21308R1
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P003507                                      Project Name: Ertan II Hydroelectric Project
Team Leader: Noureddine Berrah                           TL Unit: EASEG
ICR Type: Intensive Learning Model (ILM) of ICR          Report Date: June 21, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: Ertan II Hydroelectric Project                IJCITF Number: CPL-39330;
SCL-3933A;
SCL-3933B; TF-26652
Country/Department: CHINA                                               Region: East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/subsector: PH - Hydro
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   12/21/1993                             Effective: 01/17/1996        01/17/1996
Appraisal:  02/17/1995                               MTR:
Approval:  08/22/1995                             Closing: 12/31/2001          12/31/2001
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOC/EHDC
Other Partners:
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jemal-ud-din Kassum                      Russell Cheetham
Country Manager:     Yukon Huang                              Nicholas Hope
Sector Manager:      Mohammad Farhandi                         Richard Newfarmer
Team Leader at ICR:  Noureddine Berrah                        Vukota Mastilovic
ICR Primary Author:  Yves Albouy; Jie Tang
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project objectives were to assist in five areas: (a) alleviation of acute power shortages in Sichuan in a
least-cost manner through the completion of the Ertan hydroelectric scheme; (b) further institutional



development of the Ertan Hydroelectric Development Company (EHDC) as an autonomous, financially
sound and commercially oriented entity; (c) promotion of competition through the development of
market-oriented commercial arrangements for the sale of power generated under the project; (d)
diversification of financing strategies for power development; and (e) transfer of modem technology for
hydroelectric power plants in the Borrower's territory.
Relevance to country priorities and the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). The relevance of Ertan II
is high. Power shortages persisted through project completion. It was and still is a priority to develop cheap
and environmentally benign energy sources, such as Ertan, to substitute for generation by coal. The need
followed for transfers of technical and managerial know-how and for institutional development in the
sector. The CASs had adopted these priorities, noting in particular the opportunity to build on the
momentum the Bank and the Government of China (GOC) had created in the dialogue on reform and
decentralization of the power sector and pricing [1].
Complexity and realism. The degree of complexity and realism of the objectives is rated satisfactory. The
technological requirements of the dam and powerhouse were very complex. The resettlement of populations
also involved the interplay of several institutions. But on the whole, the bulk of the intervention was
focused on and around the project site and on a limited number of project entities. The institutional goals,
far from adding extraneous complexity, were germane to and contributed to efficiency in serving the other
objectives.
Objectives were generally within the Borrower's reach. In the 1980s with the Bank-supported Shuikou
dam, China had demonstrated its capacity to undertake major hydro projects, absorb offshore technology
and make needed institutional adjustments. China had also shown strong interest in gradually restructuring
it sector and increasing its market orientation with the assistance of the Bank by promoting non-utility
power generation (Yangzhou Project, 1994, and Zhejiang Power Development, 1995), easing access to
financial markets with Bank guarantees (Yangzhou and Ertan II) and developing, on a trial basis,
competitive wholesale power markets (Tongbai, 1999). Objectives (c) and (d) were the first steps in that
direction. The former stopped short of setting up such a market, an outlandish target at the time not only in
China but also in most developed countries, but, in its broad formulation, it was over arnbitious: selling
wholesale electricity at market-oriented prices is proving more difficult in Sichuan than in fast-growing
coastal provinces.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives of the project were not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
Adequacy to objectives. Design efficacy is rated satisfactory. Components and covenants supported the
objectives. An agreement signed with the Sichuan Electric Power Company (SEPC) under another Bank
loan addressed the policy risks of excess generating capacity and distorted dispatch and pricing practices.
Components design. Detailed design is rated satisfactory. It usually followed good practice and
incorporated many lessons learned from similar projects [2]. Some changes were made on the basis of
experience from Ertan I: (a) affected and host populations participated in the design of resettlement plans;
(b) a new Environmental Assessment was prepared following stricter national guidelines, and (c) a financial
covenant was changed to guide EHDC's rate of return (ROR) on revalued fixed assets instead of its
contribution to investments. Still, the scope of resettlement was underestimated and the financial thresholds
- 2 -



were too ambitious, given the high front end cost, the move towards competition and soft market conditions
that have created a lot of problems for IPPs in Asia [3].
3.4 Revised Components:
The components of the project were not revised.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
No ratings exist for the quality of Ertan projects at their entry into the Bank portfolio. Applying the Quality
Assurance Group (QAG) criteria, this Implementation Completion Report (ICR) rates the quality at entry
(QAE) of Ertan II as satisfactory. Objectives and design are evaluated above. The other dimensions are
rated below [4]. The design meets all applicable safeguard policies: Operational Policy (OP) 4.01
Environment Assessment, OP 4.30 Involuntary Resettlement and OP 4.37 Safety of Dams. Throughout, all
risks were adequately identified, rated and mitigated except some policy risks mentioned above. Studies
were adequate to minimize construction risks and could not possibly foresee the geological problems that
caused tunnel collapses. The standard allowances that the Bank usually makes for physical contingencies
may have been too small given the size and complexity of the project (mainly due to the lack of flexibility
in the project approval process in China in the early 1990s). Implementation preparedness is rated highly
satisfactory for Ertan II: for the most part it continued activities ongoing under Ertan I in a seamless way.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project outcome is rated satisfactory. All major relevant objectives have been or will be met, albeit two
were not fully met at loan closing. Actions are being taken regarding EHDC's finances and the livelihoods
of all resettlers to reach satisfactory levels in the next few years and the prospects in these areas look even
brighter in the longer run, enhanced as it is by economic recovery in Sichuan and recent reforms of the
power sector nationwide [5] as noted below under Objectives (b) and (c).
Objective (a): alleviation of acute power shortages in Sichuan in a least-cost manner.
Outcomes: The objective was fully met. In 2000, the project added a capacity of 3,300 MW with an
annual energy output of 17 TWh to the Sichuan and Chongqing grids. It eliminated power shortages in
Sichuan for the first time in the past 27 years, and also enhanced service quality and reliability [6]. Today,
Ertan is still the least-cost option for discount rates of 14 percent or less. The power generated is clean,
equivalent to the burning of 6.3 million tons of coal annually, which would produce 15 million tons of
carbon dioxide, 230,000 tons of sulfur dioxide, 50,000 tons of ash, and 45 million tons of waste water.
Objective (b): further institutional development of EHDC as an autonomous, financially sound and
commercially oriented entity.
Outcomes: The objective was partially met. EHDC is now a joint-stock company with a Board of
Directors and a Board of Supervisors. It is organized as a fully autonomous and commercially oriented
entity responsible for its business operations; its administrative relationship with SEPC was converted to
contracts for power sales. Sales volume and price have fallen short of expectations. The approved tariff
(34.1 fen/kWh) was not implemented. The volume reached in 2002 will allow EHDC to service its debt.
Negotiations are underway on measures to ensure EHDC's financial soundness and its ability to attract
new project finance as soon as possible and in any case before 2010. EHDC is already doing better than
-3-



most IPPs started at the same time and its operating environment is improving rapidly: electricity demand
growth is accelerating and reforms will improve EHDC's market power as an independent producer of
clean energy.
Objective (c): promotion of competition through the development of market-oriented commercial
arrangements for the sale of power generated under the project.
Outeames: The objective was partially met. Ertan sharpened supply competition, causing the closure of
inefficient and polluting thermal plants. A very narrow spot market with price auction bidding was
developed in Sichuan, but other sales by EHDC seem to be thwarted by monopsony power abuses by
SEPC and political interference. That situation helped trigger a reform nationwide to move from the
provincial single buyer model to regional competitive wholesale markets. Under the new policy, utilities are
required to divest their generating plants and become independent dispatch and grid operators before April
1, 2003, thus reducing the conflict of interest of single buyers and providing incentives for regional and
inter-regional power trade. A regulatory committee is set up to discipline anti-competitive behavior and
enforce environmental standards. The level of 34.1 fen/kWh approved by the Government of China (GOC)
is close to the market's avoided cost, but the pricing regime and tariff structure are far from
market-accepted practice and two principles agreed at appraisals [7].
Objective (d): diversification of financing strategies for power development.
Outcomes: The objective was fully met. Funding included substantial offshore commercial lending, a Bank
partial credit guarantee to foreign creditors and financing by Chinese commercial banks and investment
companies. EHDC started with three shareholders: the Sichuan Investment Corporation (SIC), the State
Development Investment Company (SDIC) and SEPC, its main output offtaker; they agreed on equity
investments but have not yet fully met their commitment. At a slight cost to the goal of diversification,
GOC is helping to fill the gap: it agreed to convert into equity the 17 percent value-added tax (VAT)
proceeds of 1998-2002, a buildup that, unfortunately, like revenues, has lagged expectations.
Objective (e): transfer of modem technology for hydroelectric power plants in the Boi;ower's territory.
Outcomes: The objective was fully met. Modem technology for dam and power station construction was
successfully transferred. Chinese institutes and manufacturers played the major role, respectively, in the
design of one of the most sophisticated arch dams in the world, and the delivery of top-of-the-range
equipment including the 550 MW turbines and generators and the computer control system application
software. Chinese contractors learned many techniques for civil works, and EHDC became adept in large
project management. Following on other Bank-financed projects, Ertan transferred many modem
technologies for building and managing large-size hydropower schemes that are now being put to use in the
Three Gorges Project (18,200 MW), the world's largest hydropower scheme.
Other outcomes:
(a) Flood Control: The dam created a reservoir with 3.4 billion cubic meters of live storage which in
emergency situations was used to control floods of the Yalong and Yangtze Rivers. In 1998, during major
floods of the Yangtze, it retained six flood peaks and allowed the safe discharge of water, thereby
protecting 15 million people and 15 million hectares (ha) of farmland in the plain along the middle reaches
of the Yangtze, together with contributions of other water control projects in the river basin.
- 4 -



(b) Navigation Conditions: With the reservoir impounded to the Normal Pool Level of 1,200 meters (m),
the 145 kilometer (Iam) stretch of the main stem of the Yalong River upstream of the dam and the 45 km
stretch of the Ganyu River, a tributary of the Yalong, became major passages for navigation: in 2001, 77
passenger boats of various sizes were plying those stretches.
(c) Aquaculture and Fishing Development: The water area created by the reservoir provided resources for
aquaculture and fishing industry development and initial development was apparent. Caged fish fanming
occupied 8,000 square meters (m ), with an annual production of about 500 tons in 2001.
(d) Tourism Development: The reservoir created unique resources for tourism. GOC approved the
establishment of the reservoir area as the Panzhihua National Forestry Park. Tourists numbered more than
100,000 in 2001.
(e) Local growth. The project contributed remarkably to local economic growth. According to the
Statistical Bureau of Panzhihua Municipal Government, the construction of Ertan in 1991-99 doubled the
yearly growth rate of local gross domestic product (GDP) to 7 percent, raising the incomes of about 80,000
people. Over 1991-2001, it generated tax revenues of Y880 million; more than Y300 million was invested
to improve infrastructure, including roads, bridges, expansion of a cement factory and the old railway
station, and creation of a new county seat. It is also claimed that minorities benefited indirectly from
improved access and job opportunities.
4.2 Outputs by components:
The outputs of the five components have been essentially produced as defined in the Staff Appraisal Report
(SAR):
(1) Dam and Powerhouse
(1.1) Preparatory Works. Started in September 1987 and completed by the end of 1990, all works were
ready for commencement of the dam and powerhouse. They included nine access roads of 74.1 km in total,
three bridges, three power transmission lines of a total length of 124 lan, microwave communication links
of 470 km, housing of 60,000 m in total, earth and rock excavation of 1.02 million cubic meters, and land
acquisition for project construction.
(1.2) Construction of a parabolic double-curvature arch dam, an underground power complex, a log
conveyance system, and appurtenant works. All key target dates were met for the safe operation of: (a)
the dam and other hydraulic structures since May 1998, and (b) the powerhouse since December 1998, 6
months ahead of schedule. All concrete, steel and earthworks meet the highest standards. Concrete
placement surpassed in quality all past civil works in China. For the log conveyance system and
appurtenant works, construction was completed but equipment erection suspended in 1998 after devastating
flash floods, after which logging was banned by GOC as part of a large-scale plan to arrest soil erosion.
Two-thirds of the budget was spent and all equipment stored close to the site.
(1.3) Provision and installation of six 550 MW generating units and associated equipment, including a
500 kilovolt (kV) step-up substation. The first unit entered commercial operation in August 1998 and the
last one in December 1999, 2 and 6 months ahead of schedule respectively. All electromechanical
equipment has been operating successfully as designed since comnmnissioning.
(2) Resettlement Action Plan (RAP)
-5-



The number of affected people increased from 35,000 at the appraisal of Ertan II to 45,812 in the RAP, of
which 28,482 were in rural areas. Based on the changes in scope, in 1996 GOC approved a budget of
Y2.03 billion [8]. Planning and execution were carried out by the Sichuan Provincial Resettlement Office
(SPRO). In 1994, EHDC contracted the Resettlement Engineering Development Center (REDC) of
Sichuan Province to carry out independent monitoring and evaluation of resettlement. Output indicators are
available for the RAP and many indicators of impact on the life of affected people were also collected.
(a) Scope: By the completion of the project construction in 2000, 100 percent of the people were resettled
in accordance with the plan, of which 62 percent now live in rural areas. Yanbian County, where the dam is
located, hosts 66 percent of the affected people. A second-round resettlement is planned for about 3,000
people in areas with too little farmland and for nearly 600 people affected by project-induced slipping
erosion exacerbated by the major flood of 1998.
(b) Livelihood: The development-oriented plan was to provide for not just maintaining but enhancing the
income of the affected people. Negative impacts in the host areas, e.g. crowding, were also to be avoided by
reclamation of new fannland, construction of irrigation systems in rural areas and voluntary migration to
urban areas.
(b.1) Income recovery: According to a 2000 survey, most of the affected population in urban areas
recovered and surpassed their pre-resettlement incomes, but part of the affected people in rural areas
did not [9]. The lower the level of income, the slower the pace of recovery. Both, it seems, depend on
increasing available farmland and irrigation development. It is expected that most rural resettlers will
have recovered their income by 2005. Based on other experiences in China, recovery could accelerate
by an increasing shift to poultry/pig raising and other sideline or non-farming activities.
(b.2) Farmland: By the end of 2000, newly developed farmland was on average 0.72 mu per capita,
about 72 percent of what was planned. To ensure at least 0.5 mu of farmland for each resettler, the
county governments of Yanbian and Miyi, the host areas with the most severe crowding problem, plan
a second-round resettlement for 3,000 people out to Hongge and Pinshan, two areas with more irrigated
land.
(c) Standard of Living: Investment was made to replace and improve infrastructure and housing in the
receiving areas to promote the standard of living of people affected.
(c. 1) Infrastructure: Before the project, Yanbian county had an average fiscal revenue of about Y30
million a year and all households except for those in the county seat and immediate vicinity had no
access to electricity and telephone, and difficult access to all-weather roads, schools and clinics. With
Ertan, the county had a budget of Y1.2 billion for resettlement; by the end of 2000, it had invested
Y685.8 million in infrastructure, thus dramatically improving the access to, and the quality of, the
above services [10].
(c.2) Housing: In the reservoir inundation area, 1.61 million m of housing were replaced by new
housing of about 1.19 million m. The per capita area dropped 17 percent from 44 to 36 m but the
quality improved significantly: in the survey sample, old housing was 91 percent of earth/wood
construction, 8 percent of brick/wood and 1 percent in brick/concrete; in new housing the percentages
are 42.6, 22.9 and 34.5 respectively.
-6 -



(d) Support after Resettlement: Support to affected people is being provided for 10 years by SPRO with
funding from EHDC, a 10 year Reservoir Area Support Fund and a Maintenance Fund to facilitate the
recovery of the resettlers' livelihoods [11].
(3) Environmental Management Program (EMP)
The EMP had three objectives: (a) monitoring the environment of the Yalong River and detecting project
impacts; (b) mitigating adverse impacts; and (c) expanding the knowledge base to guide the appraisal of
future projects. Major impact areas as identified in the Environmental Impact Assessment are water
quality, aquatic biology, human health, cultural relics and facilities located downstream from the dam.
(a) Mitigation: All 10 groups of mitigation activities were implemented with few exceptions as described
below.
(a. 1) Conservation Management Zone. A "Plan and Design for the Management of a Buffer Zone
around the Ertan Reservoir" was developed after an inventory of the existing vegetation was made in
1997. The plan was not fully implemented-the State Environment Protection Agency (SEPA) deemed
it too extensive--but EHDC completed a pilot that met requirements and after 1998 when GOC
promulgated a policy for forestry protection, all local governments joined in [12]. A few areas were
designated as Plant Conservancy Areas. The scope of the plan is to be expanded.
(a.2) Fish Resources. According to the comments made by the Environmental and Resettlement Panel
(ERP) in 1999, the studies on reservoir fish resources related to the development of commercial
fisheries on the reservoir should not be implemented until the reservoir is operated normally to provide
a stable environment for fish. A budget for the studies has been set aside. Stocking of fish fry and
caged aquaculture were developed in the reservoir as part of the RAP.
(a.3) Reconstruction of Yuzha Ferry. It was not implemented because the project has no impact on
the operation of the ferry as of now.
(a.4) Protection of Cultural Property. A survey on the historic relics was conducted by the Sichuan
Cultural Relics Archaeology Institute, supported by local government agencies, in March 1997.
Excavations of the cultural properties on the site revealed were completed in 1998 before reservoir
impoundment. A building was constructed and all the properties unearthed were stored in the building.
A study of the relics is under way.
(a.5)Vermin ControL Measures against rats, flies and epidemical diseases were taken on a regular
basis during the construction period to reduce impacts on public health. No case of infestation has been
reported.
(a.6) Schistosomiasis Prevention. In 1996-97, an area of 4.776 million m was surveyed for snail
population. An eradication program was implemented with success [ 13]. Monitoring is continuing.
(a.7) Downstream Alarm System. Sirens were installed downstream to warn when water is released.
Due to vandalism, the system was later streamlined to one siren at the damn site, an alarm vehicle, alarm
telephones and alarm signals. EHDC also releases an operation schedule each day to the local daily
newspaper. Up to now, the system has worked effectively and there have been no injuries or damage to
property.
-7 -



(a. 8) Construction Worker Health Inspection. A health office, a first-aid station and a hospital were
established on the construction site for medical examination and treatment. No significant epidemical
and contagious diseases occurred on the site during construction. Four cases of syphilis among
expatriate staff were diagnosed; all of the patients were sent back to their home country as specified by
the contract.
(a.9) Post-Construction Landscaping. Before the rainy season of 2000, two phases of landscaping
were carried out for erosion control and aesthetic improvement after construction. A total of 62.7 ha
was reforested in the areas disturbed by construction and protection erected such as land leveling,
random and systemic rock bolting in quarry areas to support unstable rocks. Considerable soil
exposure still remains and will be covered by planted grasses. Local residents were interviewed and the
overall re-vegetation was deemed satisfactory.
(a. 10) Reservoir Clearing. All woody vegetation, waste disposals, houses as well as other buildings
and structures in the impounded area were removed in 1998-99. There were a few trees left due to
incomplete delineation of the maximum pool level. No adverse effect due to biomass decomposition has
been recorded thus far.
(b) Monitoring. The monitoring plan addresses seven major areas: (i) hydrology, sedimentation and
climate; (ii) seismic activity; (iii) bank slope deformation; (iv) water quality and biological monitoring; (v)
construction management; (vi) public health; and (vii) short-term monitoring programs. Monitoring was too
often not followed by an analysis of the results to detect trends and to investigate anomalies. Nevertheless,
it produced several important findings, some of which necessitated and were followed by mitigation
measures.
(b. 1) Sedimentation, Hydrology and Climate. First measurements were made in 1998 and a report on
suspended load was prepared in 2000 [14]. All hydrological stations have been operating effectively,
providing valuable data for investment planning, construction and now reservoir operation. In 1995, the
reservoir has apparently had no significant impacts on climate, possibly because of its narrow shape.
(b.2) Seismic Activity. Seismic activity in the reservoir area has been monitored for 10 years,
including the periods of construction and after the reservoir impoundment. No abnormal seismic
activity was recorded. The two-year monitoring of seismic characteristics after the reservoir
impoundment shows no changes after impoundment. But this time is too short to arrive at firm
conclusions and the monitoring is continuing.
(b.3) Bank Slope Deformation. Three major, potentially unstable landslide bodies, as well as other
minor unstable locations, were monitored before and after the reservoir impoundment. For the three
sites, results show that the impoundment had some impact but none significant to their stability. Some
landslides did occur around the reservoir after the impoundment. In general they were of a minor scale
on steep slopes. Subsequently, no new landslide areas around the reservoir have been observed.
(b.4) Water Quality and Biota. Water was sampled three times a year in high, average and low flow
periods in 1993 and in 1997-2000 in the reservoir. Other data were collected at nine stations in the
immediate upstream of the reservoir, the reservoir area and downstream. Monitoring will continue.
Temperature was monitored almost on a weekly basis from October 1999 to November 2001 at six
locations, one downstream and five in the reservoir area before it was terminated. In 1995-96, local
- 8 -



experts surveyed the terrestrial fauna and flora in the reservoir area; in 1996-98, they studied aquatic
biota [15]. The diversity of terrestrial wildlife is fairly low; many species are or will be affected both
positively and negatively, but the two endangered species, a plant (Nouelia insignis Franch.) and an
animal (Panthera pardus), will not be adversely affected. Aquatic weeds may proliferate, especially in
the Ganyu River, and populations decline for bottom-dwelling organisms, but there are good conditions
for other fish species and organisms. Water hyacinth was removed and fish species were introduced
extensively.
(b.5) Protection and Rehabilitation of the Construction Areas. Waste water treatment satisfied
national standards. Air and noise pollution were controlled to the satisfaction of the Environment
Bureau of the local government but the monitoring of both by contractors was not as frequent as
required and reported only in parts to EHDC and the ERP [16]. Soil erosion in the three spoil areas
was controlled through temporary measures during the construction including drainage, land leveling
and slope protection, as well as permanent measures after construction including rock embankment and
reforestation in 1999.
(b.6) Public Health. The public health program was implemented effectively in cooperation with the
Public Health Bureaus of local governments. No waterborne and water-related infectious diseases were
discovered. There have been no observed changes in the health of populations living around the
reservoir.
(b.7) Short-Term Monitoring. The programs included first a survey on birds in the immediate areas
of the reservoir conducted in 1996 by international and domestic experts jointly; findings were
incorporated into the "Investigation Report on Biology Diversity in Ertan Reservoir" which covered the
survey on terrestrial fauna and flora conducted from 1995 to 1996. A second survey was conducted in
2001 to evaluate any changes. The inventory of natural and human resources met the needs for
reservoir clearing operations.
(c) Environmental Monitoring during Construction. Chinese government agencies at central, provincial,
municipal and county levels supervised human health and the implementation of measures against pollution
by waste water, exhaust, materials and noises during the entire construction period. No pollution incident
was identified during the construction period and a completion acceptance of the environment protection
was made by SEPA.
(4) Engineering and Construction Management. The construction started in 1991 and met all key
deadlines in spite of major unforeseen circumstances [17] after changes in EHDC's management practices
and efforts by all parties involved [18]. Part of the credit also goes to services provided under Ertan II: the
Bank financed 544 person-months for international consultants and three expert panels to assist in
construction management and supervision. A workshop was held on dispute resolution. The results were
remarkable in scheduling, cost control, contract and site administration, construction inspection and quality
assurance, and design engineering services [19].
(5) Technical Assistance (TA) and Studies
(a) TA for Policy Support. In 1997, an offshore consultant completed a study to help develop EHDC's
managerial capabilities and proposed a reform plan covering 10 major aspects, including an organization
structure and financial management infornation system (MIS). The report provided the basis for the
transformation of EHDC to a non-utility power developer and producer.
-9-



(b) TA for Institutional Development This component was essential and its good impact felt daily in
EHDC's operation. A total of 39 senior staff were sent abroad for study tours and training for project
construction, power plant management, reservoir environmental protection and IPP development. For
power plant operations, 237 staff received formal and on-the-job training in other hydropower plants in
China and 15 person-months were spent abroad for technical training in relation to equipment procurement.
A total of 121 staff were sent to universities in China for masters degrees in business administration
(MBAs), financial management, corporate strategy and marketing from 1991 to 2002. Not all the planned
high-level management, planning and financial training took place. It will be completed as part of a training
program covering the next five years [20].
(c) Studies of power output pricing and optimal operation of the power plant and the reservoir. The
studies exposed the Chinese parties to new ideas but had less tangible impact than expected. First, a pricing
study was completed by a Chinese institute. Following another one by an international consultant, EHDC
and Sichuan University developed the basis for future negotiations with SEPC. The "avoided cost" and
two-part tariff principles or any reference to market prices were deferred in favor of finding a level to meet
financial targets and even the latter was not fully enforced. Two studies were carried out in parallel on the
long-, medium- and short-term optimal operation of the power plant and the reservoir by both a domestic
team and a foreign consultant [21]. Aimed at minimizing operating cost for the entire Sichuan power
system, its output is not applied in the current dispatch system, which is based on distorted contract prices.
The short-term optimization resulted in an 8 percent reduction in water consumption in December 2000 to
April 2001 relative to the same period a year earlier. To minimize that consumption further in the dry
months, a hydrological forecasting system was commissioned in May 2001 and EHDC is measuring the
characteristics of the reservoir storage and turbine's water consumption and efficiencies.
(d) Investigations and tests on safety of structures; energy dissipation facilities, and powerhouse
ventilation. These observations and tests were carried out in 1999 [22]. Data collected indicate that the
dam, powerhouse and slopes are safe; the powerhouse is well ventilated; the dam foundation and the two
dam buttresses are stable. The data provide a basis for the optimization of operation and valuable
experience for the design of future projects.
(6) Covenants
GOC and EHDC essentially complied with all nonfinancial covenants but EHDC's finances, though
improving, still fell short of covenants in 2001: Debt Service Coverage Ratio: 0.8 vs. 1.5, rate of return on
revalued assets 3.9 percent vs. 15 percent and debt-equity ratio 98/2 vs. 70/30. Losses accumulated
through 2001 reached US$257 mnillion and revenue shortfalls US$1,854 million. This is because the price
and volume of power sales were below expectations [23] following a pause in demand growth and a
temporary glut in generation capacity [24]. Lastly, EHDC is under-capitalized in spite of the conversion of
VAT proceeds into US$150 million of equity by GOC: shareholders injected less than 50 percent of what
they committed.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Economic benefits are quantified here as the sum of Ertan's environmental benefit and of the value of its
power sales. Conservatively, it is assumed that no regulating dam is built upstream so the output with an
average hydrology stabilizes at 17.6 TWh and that 3 TWh has takers only at a very low price. For valuing
the 14.6 TWh of contractual sales, a first method is the current price of 22 fen /kWh including the VAT. A
second one is the willingness to pay by the offtakers--also including the VAT--for alternative generation at
- 10 -



peak and base load; that avoided cost reaches 32.6 fen/kWh after netting out, the differential cost of
transmission of Ertan's power to the load centers where this alternative generation originates. The
re-estimated economic rate of return (ERR) is 11 percent with the first method and 15.7 percent with the
second one. Environmental benefits add about two percentage points. If quantified, flood control benefits
would add some more.
The updated ERRs exceed the opportunity cost of capital--plausibly now closer to 10 percent than 12
percent in China given the increasing abundance of domestic and offshore financing. The changes from
latest estimates, e.g. 18 percent in the 1997 ICR for Ertan I, are not so much due to project cost overruns
nor to delayed absorption of energy by the grids and associated environmental benefits. The major reason is
that power prices have decreased in real terms both because thermal capacity is some 30 percent cheaper
than in the 1990s and supply now exceeds demand so much that the willingness to pay for part of the
output is very weak.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
The financial benefits are the sales with an average hydrology, after netting out the VAT, sales and income
taxes. With a price of 22 fen/kWh adjusted for a 2 percent per year inflation, the financial rate of return
(ERR) is 7.6 percent. If the price is ramped up to the contractual level of 34.1 fen/kWh in 2006 and then
adjusted for inflation, it is 9.2 percent If no adjustment is made for inflation the FRR falls to 6.2 percent in
the first case and 8.3 percent in the second.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact is rated substantial. EHDC has acquired a sound organization,
efficiency in plant operations, transparency and accountability in financial management and a PPA that
represents conceptual progress for hydropower in China. But that PPA is not state-of-the-art and modern
pricing principles have yet to be fully applied. The World Bank credit guarantee likely extended and
deepened the local understanding of this instrument and the changes in banking/ insurance institutions
introduced with the Yangzhou thermal power project in 1994.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Foreign exchange. In the early stage of project implementation during 1992 to 1996, EHDC had foreign
exchange losses of US$63.34 million due to devaluation of US dollar against major European currencies.
Asia financial crisis. After power demand growth in Sichuan exceeded 9 percent a year over 1990-97,
outstripping all forecasts, it stalled in 1998-2001. The causes are partly the 1998 financial crisis that
reduced export performnance and GDP growth, partly a clampdown on money-losing SOEs. The downturn
made it difficult for the power industry in general, and for Ertan with its long inflexible construction time,
to come up with the right capacity at the right time; it made local authorities more reticent to raise power
prices and enforce the PPA.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Changes in taxes and duties. Changes in policies on custom duties and VAT for import of goods and
materials resulted in the actual expenses on custom duties and VAT less than the estimation at appraisal by
Y8.645 million.



Policy and regulatory failures. Reforms encouraged diversified sources of investment in power generation
but the policies and regulation were not quite right for a decentralized power market. For example, the
Chongqing Municipality had incentives--including fiscal ones--to build and use its own plants even though
costlier and more polluting than Ertan, SEPC also had incentives, after the creation of EHDC, to build its
own power plants to generate revenues and minimize transmission investment that are key to the project
because transmission services are not priced according to sound economic principles. More importantly, the
GOC-approved price was not implemented by local authorities.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Ertan was the first large-scale hydroelectric project in China for which major works and equipment
involved large participation by foreign contractors, and the first built by an IPP. For all its unique traits, it
shares common ones with other Bank-financed large-scale hydro schemes, Shuikou (Fujian) a power
project built in 1986-96 and Xiaolangdi (Henan) built in 1990-98. The following analysis of performance
factors is grounded in the Ertan experience, the ICRs for these projects (Implementation Completion
Report--China-Second Shuikou Hydroelectric Project. Report No. 18970, February 1999; Implementation
Completion Report--China-Xiaolangdi Multipurpose Project, Report No. 22493, June 2001) and the
Operations Evaluation Department (OED) review of resettlement (Involuntary Resettlement-The Large
Dam Experience, OED Precis No. 194, Winter 2000) that also included Yantan (Guizhou) built in
1985-94.
Clear accountability. Tasks were parceled out sensibly and clearly assigned. EHDC entrusted construction
supervision and management to Ertan Engineering Corporation (EEC), a subsidiary set up for the project.
CHIDI was the project designer. Resettlement was the responsibility of SPRO, a government body
responsible for resettlement in large-scale hydropower projects in Sichuan. Its monitoring was REDC's job.
It may have helped that EHDC had only Ertan as a sole activity as opposed to SEPC who needs to manage
many projects and operating assets.
Solid local competence. CHIDI is one of the most experienced design institutes in China and has been
responsible for the design of several large hydroelectric projects. The local partners of the construction joint
ventures (JVs) came also with solid experience. For example, the Gezhouba Construction Bureau, a partner
in the JV undertaking excavations, was one of the strongest firms in the hydropower construction business
in China after having acted as sole contractor for the Gezhouba Project on the Yangtze River, the largest
hydropower project in China until Ertan.
Procurement through ICB. Most procurement packaging, including 38 major contracts of which 9 were
through ICB, was largely determined during Ertan I. The excellent quality of the ICB process from
prequalification decisions to documentation was key. Contractors with too little international experience to
meet the technical and financial challenges of the task were barred from the bidding no matter their local
reputation and clout. The innovative packaging for generating units lowered the cost of procurement 25
percent below the estimate and facilitated the successful introduction of advanced design and
manufacturing technologies into China. While the language barrier and culture differences created
communication difficulties and problems, such as the labor dispute between the Chinese and the foreign
partner in a JV civil works, ICB practice was largely a factor of good performance and, in retrospect, it is
doubtful that matters could have been handled differently.
World-class advice. International consulting firms had their services for project management and
supervision extended from the first to the second loan. They were also drawn into project design all along.
Timely and valuable suggestions were made in the project design, construction, scheduling, quality control,
- 12 -



technology and coordination. The Advisory Group comprised two to nine prominent international experts
on a permanent basis and about 30 on an ad-hoc basis specializing in different technical and managerial
areas. The advice was the key to achieving high effectiveness on schedule, cost and quality controls in the
face of serious contingencies.
Expert groups method. Many channels were set up to produce and disseminate prompt advice by
world-class experts. EEC and CHIDI were assisted by an Advisory Group and three expert panels: the
Special Board of Consultants (SBC), the Environmental and Resettlement Panel (ERP), and a Dispute
Review Board (DRB) [25]. The SBC and ERP convened regularly to advise on important technical and
management matters. A mechanical and electrical branch of SBC also reviewed bid documents for the main
equipment The DRB successfully settled all submitted 14 civil works claims.
Openness to change. The parties to the project had a constructive dialogue; the Chinese were very open to
imported technologies and methods and to maling drastic changes in order to meet physical objectives and
the implementation schedule. That schedule, established in the Ertan I SAR, remained unchanged; it was a
challenge in the absence of adverse contingencies, even more so when major ones materialized; overcoming
them tested the mettle and creativity of all. As with Shuikou, there was a need to rethink the construction
method in various key areas and that need was fully met by schedulers, cost estimators and contractors.
The need for adapting the RAP and significantly increasing the resettlement budget during the preparation
of Ertan II were, as in Shuikou, well understood and adequately addressed at the provincial and central
government levels.
Good institutions for resettlement. China has institutions that facilitate resettlement: (a) enlightened
policies by central and provincial governments that establish the principles and incentives for resettlement
as a development opportunity; (b) planning and execution based on sound guidelines, managed by dedicated
local authorities and open to a fair and participatory process; (c) funding of post-resettlement activities by a
levy from the project-generated income. Ertan inaugurated a process of periodic surveys that was precious
in guiding action. Two remnants of its command economy also help: (i) authorities with experience in
creating and allocating jobs, and (ii) the public possession of land.
Resettlement strategy. The principles followed in China are good practice; they blend good standards for
reconstruction, identifying opportunities for land-based employment and tied cash options to steer
volunteers away from the land and avoid competition for a limited land pool that will send prices spiraling.
Here, however, land availability was overestimated for many reasons that are not unique to Ertan, except
for the ban on logging, which could not have been foreseen during project preparation. Usual responses to
farmland scarcity are three: (a) flexibility in moving rural populations to distant locations, or/and (b)
intensification of or shift to high value-added agriculture, or/and (c) conversions to nonfarming jobs. The
Bank's guidelines favor the last two solutions. They worked well in Shuikou in large part because of the
strong growth of other sectors in Fujian. Because of the comparatively modest economic growth in
Guizhou, all three solutions had to be used for Yantan. For the same reason, moving a small part of the
affected population to distant locations is also needed in Sichuan.
Planning shortcomings. At appraisal, planning was too vague and inaccurate on key points: (a) which
people should be taken care of, (b) how to relocate and restore incomes, and (c) at what cost In Shuikou,
the unit costs were unrealistic because they were based on old "plan" prices; for Ertan both the count of
affected people and the unit costs were far off the mark when, in fact, economic reforms and previous
experience had made it easier to improve estimates.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
- 13 -



At the appraisal of Ertan II, the estimated cost (excluding interest during construction--IDC) was
US$2,200.2 million equivalent, of which US$930 million (42.3 percent) were in foreign costs and
US$1,270.2 in local costs. The actual costs at completion were US$2,601 million, of which US$984.2
million were in foreign costs and $1,616.8 million in local costs. In US Dollar terms, the overrun is 18
percent, of which 6 percent for the foreign part and 27 percent for the local part. In Yuan, it is an 11
percent overrun, with 21 percent for the local part and an underrun of 4 percent for the foreign part.
Compared to the Ertan I appraisal estimate, overruns reached 38 percent in US Dollar terms and 81 percent
in Yuan terms. Because of great changes in cost factors that occurred mostly under Ertan I, GOC approved
in 1998 a revised budget of Y28.5 billion (including IDC) in 1998, 3.3 percent more than the actual costs
of Y27.64 billion. Those factors are: (a) higher-than-expected inflation in China (24 percent in 1993, 19.5
percent in 1994 and 14.9 percent in 1995 vs. 5 percent constant projected for these years); (b) devaluation
of the US Dollar against European currencies in 1992-96, resulting in exchange losses of US$63.34
million; and (c) devaluation of local currency from Y5.24/US$1 in 1991 to Y8.30/US$I in 1996 [26].
Major local cost overruns originated in the changes of resettlement scope and in the unreliable method used
to estimate unit costs for land, material and labor that has been the bane of most hydro projects in China.
The contingencies at appraisal were on the low side, particularly in light of the unsettled claims at that time
[27].
Financing closely followed the appraisal plan for offshore lending i.e. for the Bank loan and the Bank
guaranteed commercial loan. It was way off expectations for equity and for loans by the State Development
Bank's (SDB). Paid-in capital accounted for about 8 percent of total funding vs. a target of 18.5 percent.
The SDB's loans included $150 million in foreign exchange and exceeded by 144 percent the $594.1
million of the plan. Together with the World Bank, the SDB accounts for 61 percent of the financing. With
31 percent, the share of commercial financing, is notable and close to the expected level of 34.7 percent; a
lot of it is by government-owned banks and classified as such in Annex 2.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
Sustainability is rated likely. Technical/institutional capacity is up to the task: (a) all facilities are
operational; (b) the organization is being structured into an IPP following modem management practice,
and has had a record of efficiency in the past seven years; and (c) EHDC's capacity will continue to
develop through its Training Program.
Negative environmental impacts were obviated or mitigated as they arose. For resettlement, sustainability is
likely also. A commitment was made and a budget allocated by EHDC to relocate about 3,600 people
affected by landslides and farmland shortages by 2005 [11]. The quality of construction is good and the
modem amenities of resettlers are generally affordable. Income recovery in rural areas is a concern but
experience with other Bank projects in China shows that productive employment promotion has paid off
over time not only in favorable economic environments such as Shuikou but also for cases like Yantan in
areas where the availability of farmland and off-farm activities was less than plentiful. With effective
monitoring systems and funding from electricity sales already in place, additional measures for resetlement
and the environment can be devised and implemented as necessary.
Financial sustainability is likely. The loans made by SDB and SIC have been rescheduled so their
maturities match the project life better. With sales reaching 14.6 TWh in 2002, a recent commitment by
EHDC not to pay dividends until it is financially sound and a Debt Service Reserve Fund to smooth it out,
the debt service coverage ratio is well above 1 but other indicators are not too robust until 2010. The quick
- 14 -



achievement offinancial soundness is likely on the expectation that negotiations will shortly produce two
enhancements: (a) conversion of VAT proceeds into equity is extended, and (b) the Sichuan Government
agrees to a quick and substantial ramping up of the selling price from the current 22 fen/kWh. The GOC is
committed to help as it did in the past by (i) converting into equity the VAT proceeds for 1998-2002; (ii)
helping to reschedule local loans; (iii) taking sweeping reform measures for a better dispatch; and (iv)
approving a price of 34.1 fen/kWh, enough to make EHDC financially attractive before 2010.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Operational arrangements. Arrangements for safe and effective plant operation have been at work
satisfactorily since the commissioning of the first unit in 1998. EHDC has an adequate organization in
place including units for dam safety, hydrological and environmental monitoring (Box 1). It has adequate
staffing except perhaps for a shortage of skills for electricity marketing and pricing and for cost control but
there is a training program under way to address this shortcoming.
Box 1: EHDC Organization
Hydropower Station. The number of staff, now 186, will be kept below 200. The organization chart indicates a rational
setup of offices and workshop units. Operation procedures now in their fourth revision have assured safe and reliable O&M.
An MIS was imporled and customized to improve work content, procedures and management information.
Financial Department. Responsible for optimizing the capital structure of EHDC, and for disbursing, monitoring the use of
and servicing the debt. It is also to raise funds for future investment. Accounting principles follow the Intemational
Accounting Standards (IAS) after adaptation to Chinese legal provisions on financial reporting.
Business Management Department. Responsible for power market studies, marketing and selling power output. It
negotiates power sales deals and establishes budgets for all departments.
Project Management Department. Responsible for current and future project construction--several hydropower projects on
the Yalong River. It is staffed with experienced personnel, with training and experience from Ertan and other projects.
Unfinished business. Important business remains to boost the resettlers' livelihood [11], and the Bank
agreed with EHDC and committed a budget to carry out post-resettlement supervision. The Bank also
agreed with EHDC the following: completion of the current discussion to guarantee EHDC's financial
soundness as detailed above [28], and restructuring of financial covenants. It is also strongly recommended
to structure the purchase price into a fixed capacity charge and energy charges--the latter to reflect the
avoided costs--as was agreed at loan approval. SDPC is reviewing the pricing policy nationwide.
Performance indicators. The indicators to monitor are the sales tariff as practiced, revenues from power
sales, covenanted fmancial indicators, incomes of affected people and environmental impact indicators
defined in the plan. All monitoring systems to that effect are in place.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7. 1 Lending:
Quality at entry was satisfactory. Bank financing was arranged in a timely manner, including the second
loan to allow a seamless continuation of construction, and Loan 3848-CHA to fund the transmission of the
project output to consumption centers. At an early stage, the Bank had put project construction on a sound
footing. This did not happen for resettlement where lessons of experience were not fully applied [29]. Under
- 15 -



Ertan II, the Bank improved project design on many fronts, but it could have been more realistic on a few
important details: physical contingencies, resettlement scope, financial covenants and progress on the
market-orientation of the power sector in Sichuan.
7.2 Supervision:
Performnance is rated highly satisfactory. The Bank proactively supervised Ertan II with an unflagging
focus on development impacts and on its safeguard policies and fiduciary duties. One QAG evaluation of
the supervision of safeguard policies in China projects and one of supervision in general rated the project as
best practice. The staff had an adequate skill mix and continuity. Missions had a sufficient and timely
presence in the field. While not substituting for the Borrower in making decisions and nurturing its strong
ownership of the project, it helped the Borrower in many ways (a) facilitating or providing world-class
advice to EHDC so as to catch up on a major construction delay and settle major claims of contractors; (b)
actively supporting the reorganization and institutional buildup of EHDC; and (c) prodding high-level
government officials on key issues until satisfactory results were achieved, as it continues to do now on
financial issues--EHDC's capitalization, debt rescheduling, sales pricing--and dispatch and transmission
line construction by SEPC.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
The Bank's overall performance is satisfactory. Ertan II was about implementation rather than design and
on that score it did well. As noted earlier in the second Shuikou ICR, the two-loan arrangement had two
advantages: (a) reducing the repayment burden before plant commissioning and commitment charges; and
(b) allowing updates of project objectives and design as appropriate. Those probably offset the cost of
processing a second loan and the trouble in opening letters of credit for procurement lasting beyond the first
loan closing.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The performance of central and local govemments and EHDC was highly satisfactory. All of them were
very responsive to comnments made by the SBC and the Bank missions. Most of the work was completed in
a timely manner and ensured smooth continuation of Ertan I. EHDC was quick to help in the planning of
the RAP and EMP.
7.5 Government implementation peiformance:
The overall government performance is rated unsatisfactory.
GOC's performance is rated satisfactory. GOC was very responsive throughout. On policies, GOC did its
part in changing EHDC's legal status and taking or facilitating measures that are conducive to EHDC's
financial soundness.
The provincial government was very responsive to comments for implementing the RAP and EMP;
adequate counterpart funds were made available and meetings convened to review the project at various
stages and ensure the resolution of construction and resettlement issues. A large increase in resettlement
budget was authorized after the revised RAP was submitted. SPRO and the municipal resettlement offices
prepared development and relocation plans in a timely manner and did not affect the construction schedule,
but they could have better assessed and managed the risk of insufficient land availability. However,
Sichuan Provincial and Chongqing Municipal Governments were remiss in the regulation of generation
- 16 -



expansion, energy dispatch and wholesale power pricing. They bear the principal responsibility in the waste
of economic resources--building and running high-cost plants that substituted for Ertan--and in EHDC's
failure to meet financial covenants that are key to its future. The provincial and municipal governments'
performance is rated unsatisfactory.
In its comments on this ICR, EHDC takes exception to this last rating and considers that contractors should
also receive high ratings.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
EHDC's performance is rated highly satisfactory. (i) It achieved completion of one of the largest and most
sophisticated arch-dam projects in the world in time and reasonably within budget considering the back
drop of economic transformation, many unexpected events and major delays in early stages. (ii) It
established an organization, restructured it as necessary, and efficiently mobilized and managed various
offshore and local resources in achieving its goals. (iii) The achievement in financing the project throughout
the implementation period was remarkable given the Asia Financial Crisis and the cost overrun. (iv) It
committed to meet both national and international standards for resettlement and environment and was
timely in plugging funding gaps for resettlement and environmental protection pending approval of budgets
and for the second-round resettlement. (v) After commissioning, it did not default on its debt payments
despite its financial difficulties and was also very responsive--albeit with mixed success so far--to Bank's
comments in seeking remedies to improve its finances (a not very common approach of State-Owned
Enterprises in China). (vi) It achieved highly efficient plant operation. (vii) It made good use of TA, kept
open to new technologies and advice. It shares merit in the successful integration of the Advisory Group
and the successful record of the DRB. (viii) The progress and implementation reports were timely and well
documented.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall borrower performance is rated satisfactory. Ownership of the project was high to meet the
challenges of building one of the highest dams in the world six months ahead of schedule with excellent
standards of quality as shown by EHDC's emphasis on it in the 300-page ICR it prepared. The
performance will be highly satisfactory once uncertainties are removed about the resettlers' livelihood and
EHDC's financial ability to continue as a developer of hydro resources.
8. Lessons Learned
The generic lessons below have broad validity as they are grounded in the experiences from Ertan,
Shuikou, Yantan, and Xiaolangdi and the OED review of resettlement. One put forward for Ertan is only a
strong presumption at this point
Generic lessons
(a) World-class construction work calls for world-class contractors and advice. Procurement must
follow rigorous ICB. JVs with insufficient technical and financial wherewithal should not be
prequalified to bid. This principle served Ertan well. For Shuikou, the involvement of the offshore
contractor was too low given the capacity of its local partner and that led to long delays in mobilizing
equipment. International consultants usually made timely and valuable input, e.g. for design,
construction methods, scheduling, cost and quality control.
(b) Communication problems should be kept in mind in procurement package design and
- 17 -



sourcing. In Ertan, the allocation of civil works between two main contractors left interfaces that led to
contractual difficulties. In Ertan and Xiaolangdi, with people from many countries, problems surfaced
between Chinese and foreign contractors and laborers not only in terms of language but also
misunderstandings and conflicts based on prior training or culture.
(c) Construction and contract management personnel should be trained at the outset. The method
should include the secondment of trainees for substantial periods to ongoing projects where modem
management techniques are in use. This training increases their competence and improves response
time by allowing better delegation rather than involving senior management in matters of detail. China
routinely does this with a lot of success.
(d) Project management tools should be available early on. These tools include contractual
documentation management systems, a project master schedule, procurement and delivery schedules for
employer-supplied equipment, a design drawing control system and cost control system. These reduce
claims resulting from errors and delays in the supply of information or equipment. Development of a
modem accounting and financial management system should also commence before commissioning the
power plant for commercial operation.
(e) Expert panels can improve the quality and timeliness of decisions. Following a now proven
model, three panels are recommended: the Special Board of Consultants (SBC), the Environmental and
Resettlement Panel (ERP), and a Dispute Review Board (DRB). The SBC and ERP convene regularly
to review and advise on important technical and management matters. The DRB can be very effective if
properly set up: for Ertan, contractors and EHDC each selected a member and both parties selected the
Chairman.
(f) Nimbleness in the face of contingencies is multifaceted. Changes in construction method are likely
along the way; after important delays they are often the only way to cope and minimize cost and time
overruns. They often imply some redesign, a large rescheduling and recosting exercise and the
mobilization of extra equipment There is also invariably a need to adapt and sometimes rethink the
plan for resettlement and particularly income recovery. All of this requires nimble mechanisms for
budget adjustment as well as incentives and systems for cost control.
(g) Good institutions for resettlement are key. China has three institutional features that facilitate
successful resettlement and can be replicated elsewhere: (i) enlightened policies by central and
provincial governments that establish the principles and incentives for resettlement as a development
opportunity; (ii) planning and execution based on sound guidelines, managed by dedicated local
authorities and open to a fair and participatory process; and (iii) funding of post-resettlement activities
by a levy from project-generated income.
(h) Income restoration strategies must be tailored to the physical and economic environment. In
very agrarian economies, farmland availability largely determines how many people can be resettled
and where. Therefore, it is better that farmland availability be conservatively ascertained. In
fast-developing areas like China's coastal provinces, the shift to high value-added agriculture and
nonfarming jobs provides much more flexibility and resilience to the plan.
(i) Resettlement planning needs to improve. At appraisal, planning is usually too vague and
inaccurate on key points: (i) who should be taken care of, (ii) how to relocate and restore incomes, and
(iii) at what cost Planning is generally the weakest for economic rehabilitation, and its cost and the
- 18 -



compensation amounts to finance it are seldom aligned; long gestation activities like crop tree planting
are never scheduled early enough. This does not imply micro planning, especially when lead times
exceed five years, as many details laid out at appraisal prove outdated at execution. A picture of
plausible income opportunities is enough to establish a basis for budgeting and interactive
implementation.
(j) Resettlement contingencies are grossly underestimated. Landslides, weather and other
contingencies may increase the scope of works. Local prices and incomes driving resettlement costs are
usually higher than national inflation. Resettlement inevitably pushes land prices up. A new
methodology must be worked out based as much as possible on area and specific forecast of the cost
drivers. An OED survey of 50 projects suggested that a satisfactory resettlement requires a budget of
3.5 to 5 times the local GDP per capita (The World Bank's Experience with Large Dams--A
Preliminary Review of Impacts, Operations Evaluations Department, August 15, 1996, p.30).
Ertan-Specific Presumptions
(k) For technically demanding construction, it is the best if, at the outset, the owner is a
well-established separate entity with commercial orientation, full decision-making authority and
accountability for its performance. In Ertan, initial delays, resulting in sizable contractor claims,
largely arose from EHDC's inability to make timely decisions. In 1995, its incorporation as a limited
liability company allowed EHDC to make quick decision on its own instead of seeking instruction from
government agencies. The case for a separate owner was less strong for Shuikou and most other dams
financed by the Bank in China, but their construction was arguably not quite as demanding.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower's comments were incorporated into the final document GOC and EHDC were abundantly
represented at the stakeholders' meeting.
(b) Cofinanciers:
All the cofinanciers attended the stakeholders' meeting. In addition, the SDB in a meeting held in Beijing on
June 3, 2002 with the Bank, MOF and EHDC stressed that EHDC is one of its strongest and creditworthy
clients. They strongly feel that the current difficulties are only temporary, that the recently initiated reform
will open new opportunities for EHDC in the thriving markets of east China, that Sichuan's and
Chongqing's economies are recovering quickly, and that power shortages are looming during the dry season
in both systems, increasing Ertan's value to the systems.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
No comments were sought from nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) or the private sector. EHDC's
clients and a few NGOs attended the stakeholders' meeting.
10. Additional Information
Notes to the main text
[I]    The 1994 CAS called for "easing long-standing constraints to growth by alleviating infrastructure
bottlenecks, particularly in the energy, transport and communication sectors;" and "furthering the market
orientation of China's SOEs and financial institutions that are still largely insulated from competitive
-19-



pressures." The 1995 and 1997 CASs had the same thrust.
[2]    Good practice design came in large part from Ertan 1. Strict international competitive bidding
(ICB) procurement was applied to all major packages. Design quality was assured by the reinforcement of
a very experienced design institute (Chengdu Hydroelectric Investigation and Design Institute, CHIDI),
foreign and domestic consultants and thorough reviews by independent panels composed of
world-renowned Chinese and foreign experts. A pricing study was to guide power purchase agreement
(PPA) negotiations, and a reservoir management study to optimiize operations. Pricing criteria referred to
avoided costs and the need for a kilowatt (kW) charge for capacity as practiced in the best power markets,
for instance in Latin America.
[3]    Changes from Ertan I to 11 were good answers to practical problems. A self-financing ratio,
smoothed over three years or so, made sense with an almost continuous investment program, that is a world
where EHDC is part of a utility and/or develops hydro quickly on the basis of power prices as high as the
market would bear, i.e. the avoided cost. It became impractical in the presence of a long hiatus between
investments. Once issues about the inclusion of work in progress and assets revaluation have been solved,
covenanting a 15 percent ROR on revalued assets can accommodate such a hiatus and make EHDC
attractive to investors. However, as a cost-plus instrument of regulation, an ROR covenant works against
the objective of promoting competition; references to avoided costs or competitive market prices would be
more appropriate, In any case a "fair "ROR on revalued assets is probably in the 8 to 12 range depending
on the assessment of country risks by lenders.
[4]    The economic analysis was satisfactory; the project as built was justified and still is, even with
large resettlement cost overruns. The institutional and financial analyses are rated satisfactory. The
economic analysis under Ertan I had led to an increase of the capacity from an original proposal of 3,000
megawatts (MW) to the actual 3,300 MW; the financial analysis had laid the basis for tranching the project
into two loans and for extending the loan repayment grace period until plant commissioning. The
resettlement analysis under Ertan I had underestimated its scope and resource requirements.
Implementation preparedness was satisfactory: all the tasks on the first segment of the critical path had
been well defined; resettlement was hardly one of them but the major civil works packages, which clearly
were, had been awarded to rigorously pre-qualified contractors and their cost had been firmed up.
[5]    The 2002 Sate Council Document No 5 is a major step forward in the gradual process of reformiing
the power industry in China. The new policy sets out a number of major tasks to be achieved during the
10th five year plan (2001-2005). Theses are:
(a) separation of network from generation and restructuring of both generation and network
businesses;
(b) establishment of competitive and open regional markets through dispatching of generators
according to bidding procedures, development of electricity market code(s);
(c) setting up of a new pricing mechanisms including environmental protection mechanisms that
link the price paid to generators to their emissions to encourage the development of renewable
energy and other clean generation sources;
(d) initiation of market trials that allow generators to supply energy directly to large customers and
begin the phasing out of the single buyer market structure;
(e) establishment of a State Power Regulatory Agency and a modem regulatory framework;
- 20 -



(f) continuation of the rural electricity reform.
[6]    Ertan is the most important peaking plant in the area, supplying 1,900 to 2,500 MW, i.e. 60 to 75
percent of the peak load in the Chongqing grid, 30 to 50 percent in the Sichuan grid, in the wet and dry
seasons. Frequency and voltage are meeting standards 99.9 and 99.7 percent of the time, respectively, vs.
99.1 and 98 percent before the project. In addition, the seasonal flow regulation capacity of Ertan enhances
the firm power of existing hydroelectric plants in the Sichuan grid by 16 percent and their energy output by
2 percent.
[7]    The Power Purchase Agreements (PPAs) specify purchases for 1998 to 2000, principles for
determining those after 2000 and pricing principles but price setting was left to the Government. That
would be unacceptable in a competitive market. The formula proposed by the State Development and
Planning Commission (SDPC)--operation and maintenance (O&M) and debt service costs levelized over a
notional 20-year period--is more acceptable economically and politically than letting the price surge and
fall with the repayment of shorter-tenure loans. But the price of 34.1 fen/kWh is used for an artificially low
share of the output; the remainder is paid at a spot price that is artificially low, resulting in an average price
of 22 fenlkWh. Besides, the tariff would track market value better if it had a kW charge component to
reflect capacity benefits provided at peak and in dry months and the value of the project's contribution to
grid frequency and voltage regulation, instead of being uniform and all-inclusive of capacity and energy
cost.
[8]    The first increase in the scope of resettlement was made in 1995: from 30,000 in the SAR for Ertan
I based on a 1984 census to 35,000 people in the Ertan II SAR based on a 1992 census, a physical survey
and demarcation of the reservoir boundary. Further revisions in 1996 jacked up the number to 45,812
people after including those who would lose land but do not require relocation, those who will be indirectly
affected by sliding reservoir banks, and natural population growth until 1998. The budget was YO.61
billion in the Ertan I SAR and Y1.5 billion in the Ertan II SAR. On a per capita basis, the approved budget
was 3.9 percent higher than that in the Ertan II SAR and more than twice that in Ertan I.
[9]    Among the 550 rural households of the sample surveyed in 2000, 10 percent had incomes 15
percent higher than before relocation, but on average, income per capita was Y929, 65.6 percent of the
level before resettlement. The income increased 17.7 percent in 2000 but only 3.7 percent in 2001. Only
37.6 percent of rural resettlers had 0.5 to 1 mu per capita while 30 percent had less than 0.5 mu, the
targeted baseline for rural resettlers in the plan. The major reasons for this shortfall are three (i) more
people than expected chose to stay within their original villages, where the potential for new farmland
development is very limited; (ii) farning has been recently banned on steep grades to avoid erosion; (iii) the
encroachment of infrastructures is greater than anticipated.
[10]   Infrastructure for resettlers include: (i) seven completed water reservoirs, four under construction;
(ii) construction of three power substations, rehabilitation of one and construction of transmission and
distribution lines to all 46 host areas; (iii) construction of 313 km of highway, rehabilitation of 500 km,
construction of 400 km of roads for farming machinery, and five major bridges, (iv) 100 percent radio and
99 percent TV coverage to all affected Xiangs and towns; (v) program-controlled telephone to all Xiangs
and towns in the reservoir area; and (vi) schools, clinics or hospitals built to cover each Xiang.
[11]   (1) Despite its current financial difficulties, EHDC committed Y 45 million in June, 2000 to
finance the secondary resettlement of 3000 resettlers who are suffering farmland shortage and about 600
persons who were affected by reservoir-induced slipping erosion exacerbated by the 1998 flood. EHDC
supplied and will continue to supply free of charge 33 GWh electricity a year to pump stations in host
- 21 -



areas. (2) PHRD grant funds have been secured for post-resettlement support activities under Ertan II,
including (i) diagnostic review of resettlement under the project, including barriers to income restoration
and options for income generation; (ii) preparation of feasibility studies and business plans for the most
promising income-generation projects; (iii) assistance to SPRO in preparation of work plans for the
second-round resettlement. The agreement for the grant of US$543,000 was signed in April 2002 by the
Bank and GOC. (3) Post-resettlement support is also financed by a Reservoir Area Support Fund
(currently about Y24 million per year) and an Ertan Reservoir Area Maintenance Fund through a levy over
Ertan's sales (currently about Y14.6 million, out of which 80 percent for resettlement and 20% for
environment activities) since 2001. (4) A 10-year post-resettlement support program was initiated by the
Provincial Government. The governments and State-Owned Enterprises (SOE) in various cities/counties in
Sichuan provide continuous supports to the host Xiangs. For example, Sichuan Provincial Government
entrusted REDC to prepare a plan and explicitly instructed local governments to execute it with a focus on
(i) infrastructure construction for existing farmland and fertilization of new fanmland to improve
productivity; (ii) improving the system for the distribution of grain and cash crops; (iii) providing job
opportunities for surplus laborers. As an example of SOE support, EHDC continues to provide support to
five local communities, for example it recently donated 12 computers to the high school in Yanbian County
seat.
[12]   Local governments reforested 700 ha, which added to EHDC's pilot of 240 ha. But, the Yi-derived
and other problems above the EHDC buffer zone were not dealt with effectively: lacking a watershed
management approach, EHDC deemed those as outside its scope of works and thus had no productive
dialogue with counties on the topic.
[13]   Schistosomiasis eradication was the work of the Sichuan Health Office, with EHDC's funding.
The area treated by 1998 covered 1.676 million m' and 47 locations of snail habitat. Snails were eliminated
from the surveyed areas (16,682 persons and 2,153 oxen were examined) and measures taken to prevent the
reintroduction of the disease, such as building biogas-generating units, monitoring of fish ponds and
socialization through training and information dissemination, etc. No new incidence has been diagnosed
since program completion.
[14]   For sediment load monitoring during construction, establishment of 14 monitoring sections in a
river reach of 31 km was started in March 1994 and accepted in 1998. For suspended load monitoring
during trial operation, 60 monitoring sections were established in 1999 and measurements were made in
September and October 2000. In total, 9 hydrological stations and 17 rainfall stations are operating. The
number of stations for meteorology monitoring was reduced to three after the Special Board of Consultants
(SBC) found the impact was nil; monitoring then took place at nine locations in the three stations before
being terminated. Sediment sections were not measured soon after the exceptional storns of 1998 in order
to establish a secondary baseline of "normality," making it hard to assess the average annual sediment
increment, i.e. barring such an exceptional event.
[15]   Summarized in "An Investigation Report on Diversity of Fishes and Aquatic Organisms in the
Reservoir Area" and "Investigation Report on Biology Diversity in Ertan Reservoir," reviewed by the
Science and Technology Committee of Sichuan Province.
[16]   Contract provisions made contractors responsible for waste water treatment, air pollution control
and noise management. Waste water was treated before discharge into the Yalong River. Dust was
controlled by measures such as sprinkling and water spray. Exhaust was controlled through selection and
regular maintenance of construction machinery. Noise-reducing measures were taken to reduce noise
- 22 -



generated by construction machinery. Noise containment facilities were installed in locations when
necessary to reduce noise level.
[17]   Underground works were delayed at an early stage. Unforeseen geological conditions caused the
collapse of outlets in the two flood diversion tunnels, and EHDC could not make quick decisions to solve
the problem. The commencement of tunneling was delayed by about a full year. The excavation for the
underground powerhouse was consequently delayed, also due to lack of resources of the contractor in
charge of underground works. The situation was worsened with the withdrawal of more than 1,000 skilled
laborers by the Chinese party of the joint venture due to labor disputes. For the powerhouse, the contractor
also suffered delays in the delivery of equipment drawings or specifications by suppliers, construction
drawings by the design institute, and material and equipment by EHDC.
[18]   At this critical juncture of delayed schedules, construction methods were revised, a very
experienced project manager was appointed by the contractor, international consultants were incorporated
into the team, training of unskilled laborers was conducted and supervision enhanced for quality
improvement, and capital investment was made by the contractor for more construction machinery. With
efforts by all parties, the contractor fulfilled all its contractual obligations on October 1, 1998, half a year
ahead of schedule. It allowed the commissioning of the first unit to go ahead of schedule by about 2 months
and of the last unit by 6 months. The underground powerhouse construction proved the most difficult of all
project works.
[19]   Consulting services were financed through grants, the joint financing from foreign banks with the
Bank's guarantee, the Bank Group-supported Technical Cooperation Credit (TCC) and Loan 3933. The
budget covered the services of (a) the core advisory group providing general support and consultation on
contractual matters, (b) the Dispute Review Board, (c) specialists in civil, underground, mechanical and
electrical engineering, (d) establishment of a cost control system, and (e) start-up coordination during the
commissioning stage. The level of inputs and the anticipated staff mix is considered appropriate.
[20]   For training abroad, the five-year program mainly involves two candidates for MBA degrees in the
United States and five groups to be sent to power plants in Australia and Norway for study tours and
short-term training. For domestic training, it covers comprehensive management, computer software and
applications, financial management and technical training. It will be carried out jointly by Sichuan
University and Southwest China University of Finance and Economy.
[21]   The domestic team completed the "Report on Studies of Optimal Operations of Ertan Power Plant
and The Reservoir" in January 1998. At the same time, a foreign consultant delivered an ETGMS (Ertan
Generation Management System), a computer program, which enables EHDC to assess the compensation
regulation of cascaded projects on the Yalong River, a good basis for decision-making on future projects.
[22]   EHDC signed a contract with the China Water Conservancy and Hydropower Research Institute
for a joint campaign of observations and tests on the safety of structures under various hydraulic
conditions, including observation tests for impacts of flood-release atomization on the safety of the
surrounding environment and facilities, hydraulic tests for the safety of surface outlets and No.2 flood
release tunnel, and monitoring of energy dissipation facilities of the plunge pool. EHDC conducted
independently a hydraulic test on the discharge capacity of gates for both surface and middle-level outlets
under various discharging conditions: 947 observation instruments were embedded in the dam and 187 in
the powerhouse; in addition some were embedded in the excavated slope and potential landslide slopes
during the construction period. An extemal network was set up to collect real time data from these
instruments.
- 23 -



[23]   In 1998, a sales agreement signed with SEPC in 1995 was reworked into two PPAs with SEPC
and the Chongqing grid; their pricing principles accommodate EHDC's revenue covenants but not other
principles agreed at the approval of Ertan I and II that refer to avoided cost and a two-part tariff, i.e. with
both kW and kWh charges.
[24]   The Chongqing Municipal Government became independent from  the Sichuan Provincial
Government in 1997, and approved several thermal power plants, which were not planned at the time of
Ertan's approval. It did so plausibly because demand growth rates averaged 9.1 percent from 1990 to
1997, which were faster than the government forecast of 8 percent, and to generate fiscal revenues. Other
plants, many of which were hydro, were installed in Sichuan province. A result was a sizeable capacity
surplus in 1998-2001. That impacted the actual output and tariff for Ertan. In those years, excluding the
VAT, the average tariff was 15.81, 15.68, 17.91 and 18.04 fen/kWh in contrast with 29.06 fen/kWh
approved by the GOC, the shortfall in sales was 2.15 TWh, 5.73 TWh, 6.27 TWh and 1.8 TWh, and that
in operating revenue US$110 million, US$401 million, US$631 million and US$715 million, respectively.
[25]   The success of Ertan has become widely recognized intemationally, and is often used as a case
study at international conferences on Alternative Dispute Resolution Procedures. The Bank in association
with the Institute of Civil Engineering of UK hosted a one-day seminar at Bank Headquarters to discuss the
Ertan DRB and draw lessons from its operation applicable to dispute resolution in the international context.
[26]   For Ertan II alone, the main deviations are listed below with respect to the appraisal estimates, i.e.
base cost plus contingencies as allocated by EHDC. The 6 percent overrun in foreign costs in US Dollar
terms results mainly from: (a) a US$3.4 million (1.8 percent) increase in mechanical and electric
equipment; (b) a US$60.4 million (7.9 percent) increase in civil works, largely due to unforeseen geological
conditions; and (c) a US$9.4 million decrease in the costs of contract administration, services and TA.
[27]   For Ertan II alone, the 21 percent local cost overrun in Yuan terms can be attributed to: (a) the 29
percent increase in resettlement scope and the 3.8 percent increase in the cost per capita from Y42,736 to
Y44,382, causing an overrun of 55.6 percent for land acquisition and resettlement; (b) civil works overruns
of 37 percent due to (i) a 44 percent overrun for excavation works (Lot I) with physical contingencies of 45
percent vs. 10 percent at appraisal, due to unforeseen geological conditions and claims for schedule delays,
price contingencies of Y971 million vs. Y278 million in the SAR due to labor cost increases of about 400
percent; and (ii) a 27 percent overrun for dam construction (Lot II) with physical contingencies of 25
percent vs. 20 percent in the SAR due in part to a Y1 12 million investment following water damage, and
price contingencies 155 percent above expectations; (c) contract administration and services ovenruns of 50
percent. Additional costs include: (i) Y216.9 million for preparation works overlooked in the contingency
allowance; Y131.5 million for construction service, design optimization and scientific research; Y59.4
million for contract administration; Y56.8 million for TA; and Y311.6 million for log transportation and
repairs of water destruction in the reservoir area; (d) the cost for mechanical and electrical equipment was
underrun by about 14 percent; and (e) taxes were Y864.5 million less than estimated, largely due to
exemption of custom duties and import VAT.
[28]   EHDC committed to withhold dividend until all financial covenants are satisfied. SIC committed
on extending the tenure of its loan from 2001-2009 to a new one up to 2019, and negotiation is underway
to achieve an agreement.
[29]   The Bank's suggestion to optimize plant capacity led to its increase from 3,000 MW to 3,300
- 24-



MW. Later, the quality and timeliness of construction owes much to the Bank's insistence that only Joint
Ventures with a significant share of foreign expertise and funds be pre-qualified. But it could have
questioned harder the low cost assumptions that the Borrower proposed to prepare the first resettlement
budget: evidence from other projects like Shuikou was available by then. On the question of policy risks
that impaired EHDC's financial performance, this is not the first time-see Shuikou again--that new
efficient plants are substituted by less efficient ones because of distortions in dispatch or development
plans. The loan agreement signed with SEPC was of little use after decentralization allowed municipalities
to build power plants. It was nearly impossible to design and enforce remedies on the issues of SEPC's
performance with respect to energy dispatch because of the difficulty in obtaining hard evidence, and that
is, in effect, intruding into the operations of the wholesale market.
- 25 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
Output Indicators:
End of project
The Log Frame Matrix was not yet introduced when the project was appraised. The key indicators
specified in the SAR were followed for monitoring (see next table).
- 26 -



Key Monitoring Indicators
Indicator                                          Target Date Actual Date
A. Physical Construction
Construction Progress
Diversion Tunnel Closure                                        June 1, 1998 May 1, 1998
Completion of Powerhouse Draft Tube Liners
Unit 6                                                         Oct. 1, 1996 July 31, 1996
Unit 1                                                         June 1, 1998  June, 1997
Comunercial Operation
Unit6                                                          Oct. 1, 1998 Aug 18, 1998
Unit I                                                         June 1, 2000 Dec 12, 1999
Procurement Progress                                               1995-1996   1995-1996
500 kV Dry Cable
Generator Circuit Breakers
500 kV GIS
Main Transformers
Gates, Hoists, Cranes
B. Environment Management Program
Mitigation Program                                               1991-1997   1991-1997
Environmental Monitoring System                                  1994-1996   1994-1996
Environmental Monitoring during Construction                     1993-2000   1992-2000
Staff Training and Study Tour                                    1991-1998   1991-1998
Scientific Research                                              1995-1998   1995-1998
Environmental Evaluation Panel                                   1994-1998   1994-1998
C. Resettlement Action Plan
Lianshang County (resettlement of 6943* inhabitants)                  1995   1995-1998
Yanbian County (resettlement of 30361* inhabitants)              1995-1997   1995-1998
Miyi County (resettlement of 4885* inhabitants)                  1995-1997    1995-1998
Relocation of 12 Small Plants                                    1995-1997    1995-1998
Road Construction                                                1995-1997    1995-1997
Telecommunication, Power Transmission Line                       1995-1997    1995-1997
Fish Farm                                                        1995-1997
'Updated numbers in the resettlement planning approved by GOC in Aug., 1996.
continued...
-27 -



continue
Indicator                                            Target Date Actual Date
D. Institutional Development
Corporatization
Incorporate EHDC as a Limited Liability Company                       1995      1995
Establish a Board of Directors                                        1995       1995
Commercialization
Study on Organizational Restructuring and Financial
Management System                                              1995-1996    1996-1997
Implementation of the New Organization Structure and
Financial Management System                                         1997      1998
Power Sales
Bulk Sales Study                                                      1995    1995-1996
Memorandum of Understanding with SEPC                                 1995   May 8, 1995
Reservoir Optimization Study                                    June 30,1995  June, 1995
Signing of the Power Sales Agreement with SEPC                  June 30,1997 July 16, 1998
Training Prograrn
Senior Management                                                1995-1997    1996-1997
Technical and Business Staff                                     1995-1997    1996-1997
Financial Staff                                                  1995-1997    1996-1997
Environment and Resettlement                                      1995-1997   1996-1997
Power Station                                                    1995-1997    1995-1998
E. Financial Indicators (in %)
1998   1999   2000   2001          2002       2003         2004
Rate of Return on  (target)   8.0   20.0  17.0   17.5          16.3        15.0         15.0
Revalue Assets    (actual)   (1.7)  (1.1)  1.4   3.9           5.9**      6.0**        6.2**
Long-term Debt/   (target)   79.0   77.0   71.0   63.0         56.0        52.0        47.0
(LTDebt+Equity) (actual)      92.4   94.6  97.8   98.0        95.6**      93.1**      90.5**
Debt Service     (target)    1.5    1.5   1.6   1.5             1.5        1.5          1.7
Coverage ratio  (actuallproj.)  0.3  0.4  0.8   0.82           1.5**      1.3**        1.2**
.                 ~~~~~~~1.5***  1.3***    1.4***
** projected based on the following assumptions (refer to the Financial Analysis Report in the project file):
1) no tariff growth from 22 fen/kWh in 2001 (unlikely);
2) energy sales of 14.6 TWh in 2002 and the ensuing years (highly likely);
3) extension of the tenure of SIC's loan from 2001-2009 to 2006-2019 (committed);
4) VAT rebate till 2002 (approved).
*** projected based on the same assumptions as above plus
5) set-up a Debt Service Reserved Funds for the next 6-month debt service (committed).
- 28 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost b Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Preparatory works                                      107.50           87.50            81.4
Land acquisition and resettlement                      168.20          293.00           174.2
Civil works                                           1053.20         1671.40           158.7
Administration & other works (1)                       148.60
Electromechanical equipment                            256.00          295.90           115.6
Power transforners                                      28.20           19.60            69.5
Gates/hoists etc.                                       40.00           37.30            93.3
Engineering & construction management (1)               72.60          183.90            83.1
Environmental protection                                 7.30            5.90            80.9
Reform plan & financial MIS                              2.50            1.20            46.4
Training                                                 6.10            5.40            88.5
Taxes & duties (2)                                     132.70
Total Baseline Cost                                   2022.90         2601.10
Physical ConUngencIes                                 130.90
Price Contingencies                                    46.50
Total Project Costs             2200.30         2601.10
Interest during construction   739.90          928.90          125.50
Front-end fee                I               I
Total Financing Required              2940.20         3530.00
Notes:
(1) The actual expenditures on "Administrative & other works" are included in the expenditures for "Engineering &
construction management."
(2) The actual expenditures on taxes and contingencies are incorporated into the actual costs of individual project components.
- 29 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
B~-::p                        -iN.BF        ,_
4         M.i         ~   ~         B.F      -TrotllCo'st
1. Works                     1222.70         0.00          3.20         448.20       1674.10
(639.00)       (0.00)        (3.20)        (0.00)      (642.20)
2. Goods                      381.20         0.00          5.00         42.70        428.90
(95.10)        (0.00)       (5.00)        (0.00)       (100.10)
3. Services                    0.00          0.00         97.20          0.00         97.20
(0.00)        (0.00)        (37.70)       (0.00)      (37.70)
4. Miscellaneous               0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                      1603.90        0.00         105.40        490.90       2200.20
(734.10)       (0.00)        (45.90)       (0.00)      (780.00)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
V~~~  ~              v..            PF6remeB OMthqrdTon.Qs
Y.- .                                  O1 . ..h-6r  _ _ __ _ _
1. Works                     1303.97         0.00          0.00        748.10       2052.07
(578.44)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (578.44)
2. Goods                      217.96         0.00          0.00         138.18       356.14
(185.15)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)       (185.15)
3. Services                    0.00          0.00         26.09         166.00       192.09
(0.00)        (0.00)       (16.26)       (0.00)       (16.26)
4. Miscellaneous               0.00          0.00          0.70         0.00          0.70
(0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                      1521.93        0.00          26.79       1052.28      2601.00
(763.59)       (0.00)       (16.26)        (0.00)      (779.85)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2'Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) relending project funds to local government units.
Note: The differences of Bank financing for ICB between appraisal and actual was due to replacement of direct
financing by Bank guaranteed financing in favor of civil works over goods or vice versa.
- 30 -



Project Financing by components (in USS million equivalent)
1. Works                642.20    1031.90             578.44    1335.06    138.57   90.1   129.4
2. Goods                 100.10    328.80              185.15    170.09    0.90     185.0  51.7
3. Services              37.70     59.50               16.26     166.00     9.83    43.1   279.0
4. Others                                                                  0.70
5. Total                780.00    1420.20              779.85   1671.15    150.00   100.0  117.7
- 31 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Common Assumptions for Rate of Return Calculations
1. Unit cost of emissions
Unit                                  Local                        Global
Y/ton              Hunan                        Sichuan
SO2      NOx       TSP       S02      NOx       TSP      Carbon
1995
1998                1275     5073                607      2417      166
2000      5103      1671     6651      2431      796      3168       166
2005      6126      2456     9772      2918      1170     4655       182
2010      8135      3286     13078     3875      1565     6230       182
2015      8304      3998     15911     3956      1905     7580       188
2020      9115      4865     19358     4342      2318     9222       188
Notes:
Population          64400000 person              83290000 person
Area                 210000 km2                   480000  km2
GDP                  368.89  billion Y            401.68  billion Y
Source: World Bank/Beijing Economic Research institute study team.
2.  Contractual energy sales: actual for 1998 -2001; forecast for 2002 and later 14.6 TWh of which
peak sales 5 percent of total in 1998, increasing by 8 percent a year until it reaches 2,300 GWh,
i.e. about 1,000 hours at maximum feasible power.
3.  Spot sales to SEPC and other sales to other off takers are not taken into account even though the
prices they fetch may very well increase from the low levels observed or anticipated today.
4.  Plant service represents 0.5 percent of total generation.
5.  Operation cost in 2000 is 1 percent of the capital cost.
6.  All present values (PV) are discounted to year 2001.
A) ERR Case 1 - 22 fen/kWh tariff (IERR = 11.07 percent)
1. Output value: current sale price of 22 fen/kWh including a 17 percent value-added tax (VAT)
2. No input is shadow price because price distortions are negligible for most key inputs.
3. All prices are held constant and expressed in Yuans of 2001.
B) ERR Case 2 - WTP tariff (IERR = 15.72 percent)
1. Same as in (A but output is valued at SEPC's willingness to pay as revealed by price paid to
competitors for contracts i.e. at peak--65 fen/kWh and base load--39.8 fenlkWh.
2. The cost of transmission from Ertan to load centers is netted out of the above; it is calculated as the
Average Incremental Cost (AIC) of transmission investments discounted at 12%.
C) FRR Case 1 - 22 fen/kWh tariff, (FRR = 7.56 percent after tax)
1. Inflation rate 2% p.a.
2. VAT rate is 17%.
- 32 -



3. Corporate profit taxation rate after depreciation is 33%.
4. Output value: current sale price of 22 fen/kWh for 2002 and ensuing years.
5. Tariff and operating costs adjusted for inflation.
D) FRR Case 2 - 34 fen/kWh tariff (FRR = 9.19 percent after tax)
1. Same as in C) but tariff ramping up from 22 fen/kWh in 2001 to the GOC agreed contract price of
34.1 fen/kWh in 2006 and adjusted for inflation in following years.
2. Operating costs adjusted for inflation.
E) FRR Case 3 -22 fen/kWh tariff (FRR = 6.21 percent after tax)
1. Same as in C) but tariff not adjusted for inflation.
F) FRR Case 4 -34 fen/kWh tariff (ERR = 8.28 percent after tax)
1. Same as in D) but tariff not adjusted for inflation
- 33 -



A) ERR Case 1 - 22 fen/kWh tariff, and 14.6 TWhi sales [RR=11.07 percent)
Generation         Tariff                                cost                             Beneffi                    Net
Base    Peak     Investment        O&M cost      Totatl    Generation      Enviroment     Total
Total   Base     Peak    Load    Load    Plant    PV     Fixed    PV      PV              PV               PV      PV      PV
GWhI                fan/kWh                             Y Million                        Y Million               Y Millon
1990
1991                                           2655.5  7589.5                   7589.5                                          -7589.5
1992                                           1889.5  4861.9                   4861.9                                          -4861.9
1993                                           1840.2  4263.0                   4263.0                                          -4263.0
1994                                           1723.7  3595.1                   3595.1                                          -3595.1
1995                                           2145.3  4028.3                   4028.3                                          -4028.3
1996                                           3751.6  6342.3                   6342.3                                          -6342.3
1997                                           5527.9  8413.7                   8413.7                                          -8413.7
1998     800     760      40     22.0    22.0  2337.8  3203.5    218.7   299.7  3503.2     175   240.0     30.1    41.2   281.2 -3222.0
1999    5100    4825     275     22.0    22.0    1482  1828.4    233.5   288.1  2116.4    1116  1377 3     285    351.6  1728.9  -387.5
2000    8300    7816     4.84    22.0    22.0   969.7  1077.1   243.23   270.2  1347.2    1817  2018.0    494.5   549.3  2567.3  1220.1
2001   12700   11900     800     22.0    22.0     0.0     0.0   243.23   243.2   243.2    2780  2780.0    791.8   791.8  3571.8  3328 6
2002  14673.4  13675     998     22.0    22.0     0.0     0.0   243123   219.0   219.0    3212  2891.8     959    863.4  3755.2  3536.2
2003  14673.4  13595    1078     22.0    22.0     0.0     0.0   243.23   197.2   197.2    3212  2603 5   1111.9   901.3  3504.8  3307.6
2004  14673 4  13509     1164    22.0    22.0     0.0     0.0   243.23   177.5   177.5    3212  2344.0     1132   826.1  3170.1  2992 6
2005  14673.4  13416    1257     22.0    22.0     0.0     0.0   243.23   159.8   159.8    3212  2110.3   12.21 5  802.5  2912.9  2753.1
2006  14673.4  13315    1358     22.0    22.0     0.0     0.0   243.23   143.9   143.9    3212   1900.0    1236   731.1  2631,1  2487.2
2007  14673.4  13207    1467     22.0    22.0     0.0     0.0   243.23   129.5   129.5    3212   1710.6    1261   671.5  2382.1  2252.6
2008  14673.4  13089    1584     22.0    22.0     0.0     0.0   243.23   116.6   116.6    3212   1540.0    1286   616.6  2156.6  2040.0
2009  14673.4  12963    1711     22.0    22.0     0.0     0.0   243.23   105.0   105.0    3212   1386.5    1315   567.6  1954.2  1849 2
2010  14673.4  12826    1848     22.0    22.0     0.0     0.0   243.23    94.5    94.5    3212   1248.3  1377.6   535.4  1783.7  1689.2
2011  14673.4  12373    2300     22.0    22.0     0.0     0.0   243.23    85.1    85.1    3212   1123.9    1397   488.8  1612.7  1527.6
2012  14673.4  12373    2300     22.0    22.0     0.0     0.0   243.23    76 6    76.6    3212   1011.8    1422   447.9  1459.8  1383.2
2013  14673.4  12373    2300     22.0    22.0     0.0     0.0   243.23    69.0    69.0    3212    911.0    1447   410.4  1321.3  1252.4
2014  14673.4  12373    2300     22.0    22.0     0.0     0.0   243.23    62.1    62.1    3212    820.1    1475   376.6   1196.8  1134.7
2015  14673.4  12373    2300     22.0    22.0     0 0     0.0   243.23    55.9    55.9    3212    738.4  1531 6   352.1   1090.5  1034.6
2016  14673.4  12373    2300     22.0    22.0     0.0     0.0   243.23    50.3    50.3    3212    664.8  1549.1   320.6   985.4   935.1
2017  14673.4  12373    2300     22.0    22.0     0.0     0.0   243.23    45.3    45.3    3212    598.5  1567.1   292.0   890.5   845.2
2018  14673.4  12373    2300     22.0    22.0     3.6     0.6   243.23    40.8    41.4    3212    538.8  1585.6   266.0   804.8    763.4
2019  14673.4  12373    2300     22.0    22.0    79.6    12.0   243.23    36.7    46.8    3212    465.1  1604.7   242 4    727.5   678.7
2020  14673.4  12373    2300     22.0    22.0    58.5     8.0   243.23    33.1    41.0    3212    436.8    1689   229.7    666 4   625.4
2021  14673.4  12373    2300     22.0    22.0   321.3    39.3   243.23    29.8    69.1    3212    393.2    1689   204.8   600.0    530 9
2022  14673.4  12373    2300     22.0    22.0  1331.2    146.7  243.23    26.8   173.5    3212    354.0    1689    186.2   540.2   366.7
2023  14673.4  12373    2300     22.0    22.0   455.7    45.2   243.23    24.1    69.4    3212    318.7    1689    167.6   486.3   417.0
2024  14673.4  12373    2300     22.0    22.0   503.8    45.0   243273    21.7    66.7    3212    287.0    1689    150.9   437.9   371.1
2025  14673.4  12373    2300     22.0    22.0   193.1    15.5   243.23    19.6    35.1    3212    258.4    1689    135.9   394.2   359.1
2026  14673.4  12373    2300     22.0    22.0                   243.23    17.6    17.6    3212    232.6    1689    122.3   354.9   337.3
2027  14673.4  12373    2300     22.0    22.0                   243.23     15.9   15.9    3212    209.4    1689    110.1   319.5   303.7
2028  14673.4  12373    2300     22.0    22.0                   243.23     14.3   14.3    3212    188.5    1689     99.1   287 7   273.4
2029  14673.4  12373    2300     22.0    22.0                   243.23     12.9   12.9    3212    169.7    1689     89.3   259.0   246.1
2030  14673.4  12373    2300     22.0    22.0                   243123     11.6    11.6   3212    152.8    1689     80.4   233.2   221.6
2031  1473.4   12373    2300     22.0    22.0                   243.23    10.4    10.4    3212    137.6    1689     72 3   209.9   199.5
2032  14673.4  12373    2300     22.0    22.0                   243.23     9.4     9.4    3212    123.9    1689     65.1   189.0   179.6
2033  14673.4  12373    2300     22.0    22.0                   243.23     8.4     8.4    3212    IIIlS    1689     58.6   170.2   161.7
2034  14673.4  12373    2300     22.0    22.0                   2431'3     7.6     7.6    3212    100.4    1689     52.8   153.2   145 6
2035  14673.4  12373    2300     22.0    22.0                   243123     6.8     6.8    3212     90.4    1689    47.5    137.9   131.1
2036  14673.4  12373    2300     22.0    22.0                   243.23     6.2     6.2    3212     81.4    1689    42.8    124.2   118.0
2037  14673.4  12373    2300     22.0    22.0                   243123     5.5     5.5    3212     73.3    1689     38.5   111.8   106.3
2038  14673.4  12373    2300     22.0    22.0                   243123     5.0     5.0    3212     66.0    1689     34.7   100.7    95.7
2039  14673.4  12373    2300     22.0    22.0                   243123     4.5     4.5    3212     59.4    1689     31.2    90.6    86.1
2040  14673.4  12373    2300     22.0    22.0                   243.23     4.0     4.0    3212     53.5    1689     28.1    81.6    77 5
2041  14673.4  12373    2300     22.0    22.0                   243123     3.6     3 6    3212     48.1    1689     25.3    73.5    69.8
2042  14673.4  12373    2300     22.0    22.0                   243173     3.3     3.3    3212     43.3    1689     22.8    66.1    62 9
2043  14673.4  12373    2300     22.0    22.0                   243123     3.0     3.0    3212     39.0    1689     20.5    59 5    56.6
2044  14673.4  12373    2300     22.0    22.0                   243123     2.7     2.7    3212     35.1    1689     18.5    53.6    50.9
2045  14673.4  12373    2300     22.0    22.0                   243.23     2.4     2.4    3212     31.6    1689     16.6    48.3    45.9
20461 14673.4  12373   23001    22.0    22.0                   243123     2.2     2.2    3212     28.5    1689     IS.0    43.5    41 3
2047  14673.4  12373    2300     22.0    22.0                   24313      1.9     1.91      0      0.0    1689     13.5    13.5    11.S
Total     701875  602711   99164  1100.0   1100.0  7736.3  6421.3  12127.2  3280.3  9701.71150428.4 35167.0  73372.5 13628.5 48795.5    0.0
- 34 -



-    ~~B)ER             Case 2 - WTP tariff, and 14.6 TWh sales (IERR = 15.72 percent)
Generation                Tariff                           Plant Cost                           Benefit                 Net
AIC Leva-      Invesment     O&M Cost       Total  Generation      Envirnment  Total
Total  Base    Peak    Base Peak Weig. Trns.lized    Plantg  PV     Fixed   PV     PV             PV             PV     PV      PV
Load Load vAwragi cost  f-g                                                                              q-1
GWh                       fewikWh                                  Y Million        Y Milhion          Y Miullon      Y Million
a      b       c     d     a     f    It    h       h      I       i      k      I      m      n       o      p       g.      r
1991                                                     2655.5 11432.9               11432.9                                     -11432.9
1992                                                      1889.5 7030.0                7030.0                                      -7030.0
1993                                                      18401  5916.6                5916.6                                     -5916.6
1994                                                      1723.7 4789.3                4789.3                                      -4789.3
1995                                                     2145.3 5151.0                 5151.0                                      -5151.0
1996                                                     3751.6 7784.3                 7784.3                                      -7784.3
1997                                                     5527.9 9912.1                 9912.1                                      -9912.1
1998    800    760      40  39.8  65.0  41.1  10.5  30.6 2337.8 3622.5   218.7   338.9 3961.4   244   377.5    30.1   46.6  424.2 -3537.2
1999   5100 4824.6     275  39.8  65.0  41.2  10.5  30.7   1482  1984.5  233.5   312.7 2297.2  2089 2796.9     285   381.6 3178,5    881.4
2000   8300  7815.9    484  39.8  65.0  41.3  10.5  30.8   969.7 1122.1  243.23  281.5 1403.6   3408 3944.0   494.5   572.2 4516.2  3112.6
2001   12700  11900    800  39.8  65.0  41.4  10.5  30.9     0.0    0.0  243.23  243.2  243.2   5230 5229.9   791.8   791.8 6021.7  5778.5
2002  14673   13675    998  39.8  65.0  41.5  10.5  31.1     0.0    0.0  243.23  210.2  210.2   6061 5237.8     959   828.7 6066.5  5856.3
2003  14673   13595   I078  39.8  65.0  41.7  10.5  31.2     0.0    0.0  243.23  181.6  181.6   6081 4541.3   1111.9  830.4 5371.7  5190.0
2004  14673   13509   1164  39.8  65.0  41.8  10.5  31.3     0.0    0.0  243.23  157.0  157.0   6103 3938.4    1132   730.5 4668.9  4512.0
2005  14673   13416   1257  39.8  65.0  42.0  10.5  31.5    0.0     0.0  243.23  135.6  135.6   6126 3416.5  1221.5  681.2 4097.7   3962.1
2006  14673   13315   1358  39.8  65.0  42.1  10.5  31.7    0.0     0.0  243.23  117.2  117.2   6151 2964.6    1236   595.7 3560.3  3443.0
2007  14673   13207   1467  39.8  65.0  42.3  10.5  31.9     0.0    0.0  243.23  101.3  101.3   6179 2573.2    1261   525.2 3098 4  2997.1
2008  14673   13089   1584  39.8  65.0  42.5  10.5  32.1     0.0    0.0  243.23   87.5   87.5   6208 2234.3    1286   462.8 2697.1  2609.6
2009  14673   12963   1711  39.8  65.0  42.7  10.5  32.3     0.0    0.0  243.23   75.7   75.7   6240  1940.7   1315   409.0 2349 7  2274.0
2010  14673   12826   1848  39.8  65.0  43.0  10.5  32.5    0.0     0.0  243.23   65.4   65.4   6274  1686.3  1377.6  370.3 2056.6  1991.2
2011  14673   12373   2300  39.8  65.0  43.8  10.5  33.3    0.0     0.0  243.23   56.5   56.5   6388  1483.6   1397   324.5  1808.1  1751.6
2012  14673   12373   2300  39.8  65.0  43.8  10.5  33.3    0.0     0.0  243.23   48.8   48.8   6388  1282.1   1422   285.4 1567.5  1518.7
2013  14673   12373   2300  39.8  65.0  43.8  10.5  33.3    0.0     0.0  243.23   42.2   42.2   6388  1107.9   1447   251.0 1358.9  1316.7
2014  14673   12373   2300  39.8  65.0  43.8  10.5  33.3    0.0     0.0  243.23   36.5   36.5   6388   957.5   1475   221.1  1178.6  1142.1
2015  14673   12373   2300  39.8  65.0  43.8  10.5  33.3    0.0     0.0  243.23   31.5   31.5   6388   827.4  1531.6  198.4 1025.8   994.3
2016  14673   12373   2300  39.8  65.0  43.8  10.5  33.3    0.0     0.0  243.23   27.2   27.2   6388   715.0  1549.1  173.4  888.4   861.2
2017  14673   12373   2300  39.8  65.0  43.8  10.5  33.3    0.0     0.0  243.23   23.5   23.5   6388   617.9  1567.1  151.6  769.5   746.0
2018  14673   12373   2300  39.8  65.0  43.8  10.5  33.3     3.6    0.3  243.23   20.3   20.6   6388   534.0  1585.6  132.5  666.5   645.9
2019  14673   12373   2300  39.8  65.0  43.8  10.5  33.3    79.6    5.8  243.23   17.6   23.3   6388   461.4  1604.7  115.9  577.4   554.0
2020  14673   12373   2300  39.8  65.0  43.8  10.5  33.3    58.5    3.7  243.23   15.2   18.8   6388   398.8   1689   105.4  504.2   485.4
2021  14673   12373   2300  39.8  65.0  43.8  10.5  33.3   321.3   17.3  243.23   13.1   30.5   6388   344.6   1689    91.1  435.7   405.3
2022  14673   12373   2300  39.8  65.0  43.8  10.5  33.3 1331.2    62.1  243.23   11.3   73.4   6388   297,8   1689    78.7  376.5   303.1
2023  14673   12373   2300  39.8  65.0  43.8  10.5  33.3   455.7   18.4  243.23    9.8   28.2   6388   257.3   1689    68.0  325.4   297.2
2024  14673   12373   2300  39.8  65.0  43.8  10.5  33.3   503.8   17.5  243.23    8.5   26.0   6388   222.4   1689    58.8  281.2   255.2
2025  14673   12373   2300  39.8  65.0  43.8  10.5  33.3   193.1    5.8  243.23    7.3   13.1   6388   192.2   1689    50.8  243.0   229.9
2026  14673   12373   2300  39.8  65.0  43.8  10.5  33.3                 243.23    6.3    6.3   6388   16C.1   1689    43.9  210.0   203.7
2027  14673   12373   2300  39.8  65.0  43.8  10.5  33.3                 243.23    5.5    5.5   6388   143.5   1689    37.9  181.5   176.0
2028  14673   12373   2300  39.8  65.0  43.8  10.5  33.3                 24323     4.7    4.7   6388   124.0   1689    32.8  156.8   152.1
2029  14673   12373   2300  39.8  65.0  43.8  10.5  33.3                 243.23    4.1    4.1   6388   107.2   1689    28.3  135.5   131.4
2030  14673   12373   2300  39.8  65.0  43.8  10.5  33.3                 243.23    3.5    3.5   6388    92.6   1689    24.5  117.1   113.6
2031  14673   12373   2300  39.8  65.0  43.8  10.5  33.3                 243.23    3.0    3.0   6388    80.0   1689    21.2  101.2    98.2
2032  14673   12373   2300  39.8  65.0  43.8  10.5  33.3                 243.23    2.6    2.6   6388    69.2   1689    18.3   87.5    84.8
2033  14673   12373   2300  39.8  65.0  43.8  10.5  33.3                 243.23    2.3    2.3   6388    59.8   1689    15.8   75.6    73.3
2034  14673   12373   2300  39.8  65.0  43.8  10.5  33.3                 243.23    2.0    2.0   6388    51.7    1689   13.7   65.3    63.3
2035  14673   12373   2300  39.8  65.0  43.8  10.5  33.3                 243.23    1.7    1.7   6388    44.6    1689   11.8   56.4     54.7
2036  14673   12373   2300  39.8  65.0  43.8  10.5  33.3                 243.23    1.5    1.5   6388    38.6    1689   102'   48.8     47.3
2037  14673   12373   2300  39.8  65.0  43.8  10.5  33.3                 243.23    1.3    1.3   6388    33.3   1689     8.8   42.1    40.9
2038  14673   12373   2300  39.8  65.0  43.8  10.5  33.3                 243.23    1.1    1.1   6388    28.8   1689     7.6   36.4     35.3
2039  14673   12373   2300  39.8  65.0  43.8  10.5  33.3                 243.23    0.9    0.9   6388    24.9   1689     6.6   31.5    30.5
2040  14673   12373   2300  39.8  65.0  43.8  10.5  33.3                 243.23    0.8    0.8   6388    21.5    1689    5.7   27.2     26.4
2041  14673   12373   2300  39.8  65.0  43.8  10.5  33.3                 243.23    0.7    0.7   6388    18.6   1689     4.9   23.5    22.8
2042  14673   12373   2300  39.8  65.0  43.8  10.5  33.3                 243.23    0.6    0.6   6388    16.1    1689    4.2   20.3    19.7
2043  14673   12373   2300  39.8  65.0  43.8  10.5  33.3                 243.23    0.5    0.5   6388    13.9   1689     3.7   17.6    17.0
2044   1473   12373   2300  39.8  65.0  43.8  10.5  33.3                 243.23    0.5    0.5   6388    12.0   1689     3.2   15.2    14.7
2045  14673   12373   2300  39.8  65.0  43.8  10.5  33.3                 243.23    0.4    0.4   6388    10.4   1689     2.7   13.1i   12.7
2046  14673   12373   2300  39.8  65.0  43.8  10.5  33.3                 243.23    0.3    0.3   6388     9.0   1689     2.4    11.3   11. 0
20471 14673   12373   23001 39.8  65.0  43.8  10.5  33.31                243.23    0.3    0.31  6388     7.7   1689     2.0    9.81    9.5
Total  701875 602711  991641 1_____________               27270.0 58876.1 12127.2 2721.8 61597.91 302731 51754.7 73372.5 9843.2 61598.01  0.0
- 35 -



C)FRR Case 1 - 22 fenlWhtariff, and 14.6 TWh sales (FR= 7.56 percent after tx
Oper.     Oper.      Cashiflow        interest   Sales    income     Cashflow
Investment          Sales     TaTiff  Revenue     Cost     before Tax         paymnent    tax      Tax       after Tax
Plant      PV                                                         PV                                               P
Y Millon  Y Million   TWIt    feaikWh   Y Million  Y Million  Y Million  Y Milhon  Y Million  Y Million  Y Milhion  Y Million  Y Million
1990
1991    2655.5    5502.9
1992    1889.5    3640.4
1993    1840.2    3296.3
1994    1723.7    2870 6
1995    2145.3    3321.7
1996    3751 6    5400.6
1997    5527.9    7398.4
1998    2337.8    2909.0      0.75     15.81     118.6      199      98.7     122 8       0.0       2.8       0.0     95.9     119.3
1999      1482    1714.5      5.00     15.51     775.0     79.9     695.1     804.1       0.0      18.4       0.0     676.7    782.8
2000     969.7    1043.0      8.23     17.87    1469.7     129.7    1340 0    1441.3      0.0      35.0       0 0    1305.0    143.7
2001       0.0       0.0     12.50     18.41    2300.7     250.0    2050.7   2050.7       0.0      54.8       0 0    1995.9    1995.9
2002       0.0       0.0      14.6    18.803    2745.3     243.2    2502 1   2326.3       0.0      65.3       0 0    2436.8   2265.5
2003       0.0       0.0      14.6     19.18    2800.2    248 06    2552.1   2206.0       0.0      66.6       0.0    2485 5    2148.4
2004       0.0       0.0      14.6     19.56    2856.2    253.03    2603.2   2092.0       0.0      68.0       0.0    2535 2    2037.4
2005       0.0       0 0      14.6     19.95    2913.3    258.09    2655.2   1983.9       0.0      69.3       0.0    2585.9    1932.1
2006       0 0       0.0      14.6     20.35    2971.6    263.25    2708.4   1881.4       0.0      70.7       0.0    2637.6    1832.3
2007       0.0       0.0      14.6     20.76    3031.0    268.51    2762.5   1784.2       0.0      72.1      38.7    2651 7    1712 6
2008       0.0       0.0      14.6     21 18    3091.7    273.88    2817.8   1692.0       0.0      73.6     269.7    2474.4    1485 8
2009       0.0       0.0      14.6     21.60    3153.5    279.36    2874.1   1604.5       0.0      75.1     320.0    2479.1    1384.0
2010       0.0       0.0      14.6     22.03    3216.6    284.95    2931.6   1521.6       0 0      76.6     380.2    2474.8   1284.5
2011       0.0       0.0      14 6     22.47    3280.9    290.65    2990.2   1443.0       0 0      78 1     447.9    2464.3    1189 2
2012       0.0       0.0      14.6     22.92    3346.5    296.46    3050.0    1368 4      0 0      79 6     494.8    2475 6    1110.7
2013       0.0       0.0      14.6     23 38    3413.4    302.39    3111.0    1297 7      0.0      81.2    .540.8    2489.0    1038.2
2014       0.0       0.0      14.6     23.85    3481.7    308.44    3173.3    1230 6      0.0      82.9     587.4    2503.0     970.7
2015       0 0       0 0      14 6     24.32    3551.3    314.61    3236.7    1167.0      0.0      84.5     634.8    2517.4     907.7
2016       0.0       0.0      14.6     24.81    3622.4    320.90    3301.5    1106.7      0.0      86.2     686 8    2528.5     847.6
2017       0.0       0.0      14.6     25.31    3694.8    327.32    3367.5    1049.5      0.0      87.9     730 7    2548.9     794 4
2018       3.6       1.0      14.6     25.81    3768.7    333.86    3434.8    995.3       0.0      89.7     772.2    2573.0     745.5
2019      79.6      21.4      14.6     26.33    3844.1    340 54    3503.5    943.8       0 0      91.5     810.3    2601.7     700.9
2020      58.5      14.7      14.6     26.86    3921.0    347.35    3573.6     895.1      0.0      93.3     845.8    2634.5     659.9
2021     321.3      74.8      14.6     27.39    3999 4    354.30    3645.1     848.8      0.0      95.2     879 2    2670.7     621.9
2022     1331.2    288.2      14.6     27.94    4079.4    361.38    3718.0     804.9      0.0      97 1     904.5    2716.4     588.1
2023     455.7      91.7      14.6     28.50    4161.0    368.61    3792.3     763.4      0.0      99.0     930.3    2763.1     556.2
2024     503.8      94.3      14.6     29.07    4244.2    375.98    3868.2     723.9      0.0     101.0     956.6    2810.6     526.0
2025      193.1     33.6      14 6     29.65    4329.1    383.50    3945.6     686.5      0.0     103.0     983.4    2859 1     497.5
2026                          14.6     30.24    4415.6    391.17    4024.5     651.0      0 0      105 1    1010 8   2908.6     470.5
2027                          14.6     30.85    4504.0    399.00    4105.0     617.4      0.0     107.2    1379.0    2618.8     393.9
2028                          14.6     31.47    4594 0    406 98    4187.1     585 5      0.0     109.3    1407 4    2670.3     373.4
2029                          14.6     32.10    4685.9    415.11    4270.8     555.2      0.0      111.5   1436.5    2722.8     354.0
2030                          14.6     32.74    4779.6    423.42    4356.2     526 5      0.0      113.8   1466 1    2776 3     335.6
2031                          14.6     33.39    4875.2    431 89    4443.3     499.3      0.0      116.0   1496.4    2831.0     318.1
2032                          14.6     34.06    4972.7    440.52    4532 2     473 5      0.0      118.4   1527.2    2886.7     301.6
2033                          14.6     34.74    5072.2    449.33    4622.9     449.0      0.0     120.7    1558.6    2943.5     285.9
2034                          14.6     35.44    5173 6    458.32    4715.3     425.8      0.0     123.1    1590.7    3001.5     271.1
2035                          14.6     36.14    5277.1    467.49    4809.6     403.8      0.0     125.6    1623.4    3060.6     257.0
2036                          14.6     36.87    5382.6    476.84    4905 8     383.0      0.0     128 I     1656.8   3120.9     243 6
2037                          14.6     37.60    5490 3    486.37    5003.9     363.2      0.0     130.7    1690.8    3182.4     231.0
2038                          14.6     38.36    5600.1    496 10    5104.0     344.4      0 0      133.3   1725.6    3245.2     219 0
2039                          14 6     39.12    5712.1    506.02    5206 1     326.6      0.0      135 9    1761 0   3309 2     207.6
2040                          14.6     39 91    5826.3    516.14    5310 2     309.7      0.0      138.7   1797.1    3374.4     196.8
2041                          14.6     40.70    5942.9    526.47    5416.4     293.7      0.0      141.4   1833.9    3441.0     186.6
2042                          14.6     41.52    6061.7    537.00    5524.7     278.5      0.0      144.3   1871.5    3508.9     176.9
2043                          14 6     42.35    6183.0    547.74    5635.2     264.1      0.0     147.2    1909.9    3578.2     167.7
2044                          14.6     43.20    6306.6    558.69    5747.9     250.5       0.0    ISO 1     1949.0   3648.9     159 0
2045                          14.6     44.06    6432 8    569.86    5862.9     237 5      0.0      153.1   1988 8    3720.9     150 8
2046                          14.6     44.94    6561.4    581.26    5980.1     225.3      0.0     156.2    2029.5    3794.5     142.9
2047                          14.6     45.84    6692.6    592.89    6099.8     213.6       00     159.3    2071.0    3869.4     135 5
Total        24464.9  37717.1     698.1    1465 3    208724    18556.7   190167   45512.8       0.0    4967 6   48994.9   136204   37717.1
- 36 -



D) FRR Case 2 - 34 fen/kWh tariff FRR = 9.19 pe cent after tax)
Oper.     Oper.     Cashflow          Intees     Saes     Income     Cshflow
Investment          Sales     Tanff   Revenue     Cost     before Tax         payment    tax       Tax      after Tax
Plant      PV                                                         PV                                               PV
Y Milion  Y Milion    TWh     fen/kWh   Y MilIon  Y Milion  Y YMlsion  Y Million  Y Milhon  Y Millon  YMillion  YMtlion  YMiUion
1990
1991    2655.5    6396.8
1992     1889.5   4168.5
193     1840.2    3718.1
1994    1723.7    3189.6
195     2145.3    3635.6
1996    3751.6    5822.7
1997    5527.9    7857.5
1998    2337.8    3043.4      0.75     15.81     118.6     19.9      98.7     128.5       0.0       2.8       0.0     95.9     124.8
1999      1482    1766.9      5.00     15.51     775.0     79.9     695.1     828.7       0.0      18.4      0.0     676.7     806.7
2000     969.7    1058.8      8.23     17.87    1469.7     129.7    1340.0   1463.1       0.0      35.0       0.0    1305.0    1424.9
2001       0.0       0.0     12.50     18.41    2300.7     250.0   2050.7    2050.7       0.0      54.8       0.0    1995.9    1995.9
2002       0.0       0.0      14.6     20.52    2996.4     243.2    2753.2   2521.4       0.0      71.3       0.0    2681.8   2456.1
2003       0.0       0.0      14.6     22.40    3271.0    248.06    3022.9   2535.5       0.0      77.8       0 0    2945 0   2470.2
2004       0.0       0.0      14.6     24.46    3570.7    253.03    3317.7   2548.5       0.0      85.0       0.0    3232.7   2483 3
2005       0.0       0.0      14.6     26.70    3898.0    258.09    3639.9   2560.7       0.0      92.8     418.5    3128.6   2201.0
2006       0.0       0.0      14.6     29.15    4255.2    263.25    3992.0   2572.0       0.0     101.3     590.1    3300.6    2126.6
2007       0.0       0.0      14.6     29.73    4340.3    268.51    4071.8   2402.7       0.0     103.3     645.2    3323.3    1961.0
2008       0.0       0.0      14.6     30.32    4427.1    273.88    4153.2   2244.5       0.0     105.4     700.0    3347.9    1809.3
2009       0.0       0.0      14.6     30.93    4515.7    279.36   4236.3    2096.7       0.0     107.5     758.8    3370.0    1667.9
2010       0.0       0.0      14.6     31.55    4606.0    284.95    4321.0   1958.6       0.0     109.6     827.8    3383.6    1533.7
2011       0.0       0.0      14.6     32.18    4698.1    290.65    4407.5   1829.7       0.0     111.8     904.4    3391.2    1407.8
2012       0.0       0.0      14.6     32.82    4792.1    296.46    4495.6   1709.2       0.0     114.1     960.5    3421.1    1300.7
2013       0.0       0.0      14.6     33.48    4887.9    302.39   4585.5    1596.6       0.0     116.3    1015.8    3453.4    1202.5
2014       0.0       0.0      14.6     34.15    4985.7    308.44    46772     1491.5      0.0     118.7    1071.9    3486.7    11119
2015       0.0       0.0      14.6     34.83    5085.4    314.61    4770.8   1393.3       0.0     121.0    1129.0    3520.8    1028.2
2016       0.0       0.0      14.6     35.53    5187.1    320.90   4866.2    1301.6       0.0     123.5    1190.9    3551.9     950.0
2017       0.0       0.0      14.6     36.24    5290.8    327.32    4963.5    1215.9      0.0     125.9    1244.8    3592.7     880.1
2018       3.6       0.8      14.6     36.96    5396.6    333.86    5062.8    1135.8      0.0     128.4    12966     3637.7     816.1
2019      79.6      16.4      14.6     37.70    5504.6    340.54    5164.0    1061.0      0.0     131.0    1345.3    3687.8     757.7
2020      58.5      11.0      14.6     38.46    5614.7    347.35    5267.3    991.1       0.0     133.6    1391.4    3742.3     704.2
2021     321.3      55.4      14.6     39.23    5727.0    354.30    5372.7    925.9       0.0     136.3    1435.7    3800.7     655.0
2022     1331.2    210.1      14.6     40.01    5841.5    361.38    5480.1    864.9       0.0     139.0    1472.1    3869.0     610.6
2023     455.7      65.9      14.6     40.81    5958.3    368.61    5589.7    808.0       0.0     141.8    1509.3    3938.6     569 3
2024     503.8      66.7      14.6     41.63    6077.5    375.98    5701.5    754.8       0.0     144.6    1547.2    4009.7     530.8
2025      193.1     23.4      14.6     42.46    6199.0    383.50    5815.5    705.1       0.0     147.5    1585.8    4082.2     494.9
2026                          14.6     43.31    6323.0    391.17    5931.9    658.6       0.0     150.5    1625.2    4156.1     461.5
2027                          14.6     44.17    6449.5    39.00     6050.5    615.3       0.0     153.5    2005.7    3891.3     395.7
2028                          14.6     45.06    6578.5    406.98    6171.5    574.8       0.0     156.6    2046.7    3968.2     369.6
2029                          14.6     45.96    6710.0    415.11    6294.9     536.9      0.0     159.7    2088.6    40467      345.2
2030                          14.6     46.88    6844.2    423.42    6420.8    501.6       0.0     162.9    2131.2    4126.7     322.4
2031                          14.6     47.82    6981.1    431.89    65492     468.5       0.0     166.2    2174.8    4208.3     301 1
2032                          14.6     48.77    7120.8    440.52    6680.2    437.7       0.0     169.5    2219.2    4291.6     281.2
2033                          14.6     49.75    7263.2    449.33    6813.8    408.9       0.0     172.9    2264.4    4376.5     262.6
2034                          14.6     50.74    7408.4    458.32    6950.1     381.9      0.0     176.3    2310.6    4463.1     245.3
2035                          14.6     51.76    7556.6    467.49    7089.1     356.8      0.0     179.8    2357.8    4551.5     229.1
2036                          14.6     52.79    7707.7    476.84    7230.9     333.3      0.0     183.4    2405.8    4641.6     213.9
2037                          14.6     53.85    7861.9    486.37    7375.5     311.4      0.0     187.1    2454.8    4733.6     199.8
2038                          14.6     54.93    8019.1    496.10    7523.0     290.9       0.0     190.9   2504.8    4827.3     186.6
2039                          14.6     56.02    8179.5    506.02    7673.5     271.7      0.0      194.7   2555.8    4923.0     174.3
2040                          14.6     57.14    8343.1    516.14    7827.0     253.8       0.0     198.6   2607.9    5020.5     162.8
2041                          14.6     58.29    8510.0    526A7     7983.5     237.1       0.0    202.5    2660.9    5120.0     152.1
2042                          14.6     59.45    8680.2    537.00    8143.2     221.5       0.0    206.6    2715.0    5221.5     142.0
2043                          14.6     60.64    8853.8    547.74    8306.0     206.9       0.0    210.7    2770.2    5325.1     132.6
2044                          14.6     61.86    9030.8    558.69    8472.1     193.3      0.0     214.9    2826.6    5430.7     123.9
2045                          14.6     63.09    9211.5    569.86    8641.6     180.6       0.0    219.2    2884.0    5538.4     115.7
2046                          14.6     64.35    9395.7    581.26    8814.4     168.7      0.0     223.6    2942.6    5648.2     108.1
2047                          14.6     65.64    9583.6    592.89    8990.7     157.6       0.0    228.1    3002.3    5760.3     100.9
Tont         24464.9  41107.5     698.1    2052.1  294402.6   18556.7  275845.9   51463.5       0.0    7006.8   76596.1  192243.1  41107.6
- 37 -



E) FRR Case 3 - 22 fen/kWh tariff, and 14.6 TWh sales (F R = 6.21% after tax)
Oper.     Oper.     Cashflow          Interest   Sales    Income     Cashflow
Investment          Sales     Taiff   Revenue     Cost     before Tax         payment    tax       Tax      after Tax
Plant      PV                                                         PV                                               PV
Y Milihon  Y Million  TWh     fen/kWh   Y Million  Y Milhon  Y Million  Y Mdilion  Y Million  Y Million  Y Million  Y Million  Y MLlion
1990
1991    2655.5    4848.5
1992     1889.5   3248.3
1993     1840 2   2978.7
1994     1723.7   2627.1
1995    2145.3    3078.7
1996    3751 6    5069.3
1997    5527.9    7033.0
1998    2337.8    2800.6      0.75     15.81     118.6      19.9     98.7      1182       00        2.8       00       95.9     114.9
1999      1482    1671.6      5.00     15.51     775.0      79.9     695.1    784.0       00       184        00      6767      763.2
2000     969.7    1029.9      823      17.87    1469.7     129.7    13400     1423 1      0.0      350        0.0    13050     13860
2001       0.0       0.0     12.50     18.41    2300.7     250.0    2050.7    2050 7      0.0      54 8       0.0    1995.9    1995 9
2002       0.0       0.0      14.6    18.803    2745.3    243.23    2502.1   2355.9       00       65.3       00     2436.7    2294 4
2003       0.0       0.0      14.6     18.80    2745.3    248.09    2497.2    2213.9      0.0      653        0.0    2431.9    2156.0
2004       0.0       0.0      14.6     18.80    2745.3    253.06    2492.2    2080.4      0.0      65.3       0.0    2426.9    2025.9
2005       0.0       0.0      14.6     18.80    2745.3    258.12    2487.2    1954.9      0.0      65.3       0.0    2421.8    1903.5
2006       0.0       0.0      14 6     18 80    2745.3    263 28    2482.0    1836.9      0.0      65.3       00     2416.7    1788.5
2007       0.0       0.0      14.6     18.80    2745.3    268.55    2476.8    1725.9      0.0      65.3       0.0    2411.4    1680.3
2008       0.0       0.0      14.6     18.80    2745.3    273.92    2471.4    1621.5      0.0      65.3       0.0    2406.0    1578 6
2009       0.0       0.0      14.6     18.80    2745.3    279.39    2465.9    1523.4      0.0      65.3     119.5    22810     1409.2
2010       0.0       0.0      14.6     18.80    2745.3    284.98    2460.3    1431.1      0.0      65.3     230.8    2164.2    1258.9
2011       0.0       00        14.6    18.80    27453     290.68    2454.6    1344.4      00       65.3     2780     2111.2    11563
2012       0.0       0.0      14.6     18.80    2745.3    296.50    2448.8    1262.8      0.0      65 3     304 2    2079 3    1072.3
2013       0.0       0.0      14.6     18.80    2745.3    302.43    2442.9    1186.2      0.0      65.3     329.0    20485      9947
2014       0.0       0.0      14.6     18.80    2745.3    308.47    2436.8    1114.1      0.0      65.3     354.1    2017.4     922.4
2015       0.0       0.0      14.6     18.80    2745.3    314.64    2430.7    1046.4      0.0      65.3     3794      19859     8549
2016       0.0       0.0      14.6     18.80    2745.3    320.94    2424.4     982.7      0.0      65 3     408.9    1950.1     790.4
2017       0.0       0.0       146     18.80    2745.3    327.36    24179      922.8       0.0     65.3     429.9    19227      733.8
2018       3.6       1.3      14.6     18.80    2745.3    333.90    2411.4     866.5      0.0      65.3     448.0    1898.0     682 1
2019       79.6     269        146     18.80    27453     340.58    24047      813.7       0.0     65.3     4623      1877.0    635.1
2020      58.5       186      14.6     18.80    2745.3    347.39    2397.9     763.9       0.0     65.3     473.5    1859.1     592.3
2021     321.3      96.4      14.6     18.80    2745.3    354.34    2391.0     717.2       0.0     65.3     482.0    1843.6     553.0
2022     1331.2    376.0      14.6     18.80    2745.3    361.43    2383.9     673.3       0.0     65.3     482.0    1836.5     518 7
2023     455.7     121.2      14.6     18.80    2745.3    368.66    2376.6     632.1      0.0      65.3     482.0    1829.3     4865
2024      503.8    126.2      14.6     18.80    2745.3    376.03    2369.3     593.3       0.0     65.3     482 0     1821.9    456.2
2025      193.1     45.5      14.6     18.80    2745.3    383.55    2361.7     556.8       0.0     65.3     482 0     1814.4    427.8
2026                          14.6     18.80    2745.3    391.22    2354.1     522.6       0.0     65.3     482.0    1806.8     401 1
2027                          14.6     18.80    2745.3    399.04    2346.3     490.4       0.0     65.3     822.2    1458.7     304 9
2028                          14.6     18.80    2745.3    407.03    2338.3     460.2       0.0     65.3     822 2     1450 8    285 5
2029                          14.6     18.80    2745.3    415.17    2330.1     431.8       0.0     65 3      822.2   1442.6     267 3
2030                          14.6     18.80    2745.3    423.47    2321.8     405.1       0.0     65.3     822.1    1434.4     250 3
2031                          14.6     18.80    2745.3    431.94    2313.4     380.1      0.0      65.3     822.1    1425.9     234 3
2032                           146     18.80    2745.3    440.58    23047      356.5       0.0     65.3     822.1     1417.3    2192
2033                          14.6     18.80    2745.3    449.39    2295.9     334.4       0.0     65.3     822.1     14085     2052
2034                          146      18.80    2745.3    45838     2286.9     313.6       0.0     65.3     822 1     1399.5    191.9
2035                          14.6     18.80    2745.3    467.54    2277.8     294.1      0.0      65.3      8220     13904      1795
2036                          14.6     18.80    2745.3    476.90    2268.4     275.8       0.0     65.3     822.0    1381 0     167.9
2037                          14.6     18.80    2745.3    486.43    2258.9     258.6       0.0     653      822.0    1371 5     1570
2038                          14.6     18.80    2745 3    496.16    2249.1     242.4       0.0     65 3     822.0    1361 8     146.8
2039                          14.6     18 80    2745 3    506.09    2239.2     227.3       0.0     65 3     822.0    1351 9     137.2
2040                          14.6     18.80    2745.3    516.21    2229.1     213.0       0.0     65.3     821.9    1341.8     1282
2041                          14.6     18.80    2745.3    526.53    2218.8     199.7       0.0     65.3     821.9    1331 5     119.8
2042                          14.6     18.80    2745.3    537.06    2208.2     187 1       00       65.3    821.9    1321.0     111.9
2043                          14.6     18.80    2745.3    547 80    2197.5     175.3       0.0     65.3     821.9    1310.3     104 5
2044                          14.6     18.80    2745.3    558.76    2186.5     164.2       00      65.3     8219      1299.3     97.6
2045                          14.6     18 80    2745.3    569.93    2175.4     153.9       0.0     65.3     821.8    1288.2      91.1
2046                          14.6     18.80    2745.3    581.33    2164.0     144.1       0.0     65.3     821.8    1276 8      85.0
2047                          14.6     18.80    2745.3    592.96    2152.3     135.0       0.0     65.3     821.8    1265.2      79.3
Total        24464.9  35197.8     6981      932.6  130947.8   18558.9  112388.8   40961.7       0.0    3116.6   24371.7   84900.5   35197.8
- 38 -



F) FRR Case 4 -34 fen/kWh tariff, and 14.6 TWb sales =R =8.28% after tax)
Oper.     Oper.     Cashlifow         Interest   Sales    income     Casliflow
Investmnent         Sales     Tairiff  Revenue    Coat     before Tax        payment     tax       Tax      after Tax
plant      PV                                                         PV                                               PV
Y Milhon  Y Million  TWht     fen/kWh  Y Millon  Y Millio            Y Milli on Y  Million  Y Millon  Y Million  Y MillionYMlio YMlin
1990
1991    2655.5    5882.7
1992    1889.5    3865.7
1993    1840.2    3477.0
1994    1723.7    3007.9
1995    2145.3    3457.4
1996    3751.6    5583.8
1997    5527.9    7598.6
1998    2337.8    2967.8      0.75     15.81     118.6     19.9      98.7     125.3       0.0       2.8      0.0      95.9     121.7
1999      1482    1737.5      5.00     15.51     775.0     79.9     695.1     8I5.0       0.0      18.4      0.0     676.7     793.3
2000     969.7    1050.0      8.23     17.87    1469.7     129.7    1340.0   1450.9       0.0      35.0       0.0    1305.0   1413.1
2001       0.0       0.0     12.50     18.41    2300.7     250.0   2050.7    2050.7       0.0      54.8       0.0    1995 9    1995.9
2002       0.0       0.0      14.6     20.52    2996.4    243.23   2753.1    2542 6       0.0      71.3       0.0    2681.8   2476.8
2003       0.0       0.0      14.6     22.40    3271.0    248.09    3022.9   2578.3       0.0      77.8       0.0    2945.0    2511.9
2004       0.0       0.0      14.6     24.46    3570.7    253.06    3317.7   2613.4       0.0      85.0       0 0    3232.7    2546.5
2005       0.0       0.0      14.6     26.70    3898.0    258.12    3639.9   2648.0       0.0      92.8     419.4    3127.7   2275.4
2006       0.0       0.0      14.6    29.145    4255.2    263.28    3991.9   2682.1       0.0     101.3     591.0    3299.6    2216 9
2007       0.0       0.0      14.6     29.15    4255.2    268.55    3986.7   2473.7       0.0     101.3     619.1    3266.3    2026.7
2008       0.0       0.0      14.6     29.15    4255.2    273.92    3981.3   2281.5       0.0     101.3     646.2    3233.8    1853.2
2009       0.0       0.0      14.6     29.15    4255.2    279.39    3975.8   2104.2       0.0     101.3     676.9    3197.6    1692.3
2010       0.0       0.0      14.6     29.15    4255.2    284.98    3970.2   1940.6       0.0     101.3     717.2    3151.8    1540.5
2011       0.0       0.0      14.6     29.15    4255.2    290.68    3964.5   1789.6       0.0     101.3     764.5    3098.8    1398.8
2012       0.0       0.0      14.6     29.15    4255.2    296.50    3958.7   1650.4       0.0     101.3     790.6    3066.8    1278.6
2013       0.0       0.0      14.6     29.15    4255.2    302.43    3952.8   1521.9       0.0     101.3     815.4    3036.1    1169.0
2014       0.0       0.0      14.6     29.15    4255.2    308.47    3946.7   1403.4       0.0     101.3     840.5    3005.0    1068.5
2015       0 0       0.0      14.6     29.15    4255.2    314.64    3940.6   1294.1       0.0     101.3     865.8    2973.5     976.5
2016       0.0       0.0      14.6     29.15    4255.2    320.94    3934.3    1193.2      0.0     101.3     895.4    2937.7     891.0
2017       0.0       0.0      14.6     29.15    4255.2    327.36    3927.9    1100.2      0.0     101.3     916 3    2910.2     815.2
2018       3.6       0.9      14.6     29.15    4255.2    333 90    3921.3   1014.4       0.0     101.3     934.5    2885.6     746.5
2019      79.6      19.0      14.6     29.15    4255.2    340.58    3914 6    935.2       0.0     101.3     948.8    2864.6     684.4
2020      58.5      12.9      14.6     29.15    4255.2    347.39    3907.8    862.2       0.0     101.3     959.9    2846.7     628.1
2021     321.3      65.5      14.6     29.15    4255.2    354.34    3900.9    794.9       0.0     101 3     968.4    2831.2     576.9
2022     1331.2    250.5      14.6     29.15    4255.2    361.43    3893.8    732.8       0.0     101.3     968.4    2824.1     531.5
2023     455.7      79.2      14.6     29.15    4255.2    368.66    3886.6    675.5       0.0     101.3     968.4    2816.9     489.6
2024      503.8     80.9      14.6     29.15    4255.2    376.03    3879.2    622.7       0.0     101.3     968.4    2809.5     451.0
2025      193.1     28.6      14.6     29.15    4255.2    383.55    3871.7    573.9       0.0     101.3     968.4    2802.0     415.4
2026                          14.6     29.15    4255.2    391.22    3864.0    529.0       0.0     101.3     968.4    2794.4     382.6
2027                          14.6     29.15    4255.2    399.04    3856.2    487.6       0.0     101.3    1308.6    2446.3     309.3
2028                          14.6     29.15    4255.2    407.03    3848.2    449.4       0.0     101.3    1308.6    2438.3     284.7
2029                          14.6     29.15    4255.2    415.17    3840.0     414.1      0.0     101.3    1308.6    2430.2     262.1
2030                          14.6     29.15    4255.2    423.47    3831.7     381.6      0.0     101.3    1308.6    2421.9     241.2
2031                          14.6     29.15    4255.2    431.94    3823.3    351.7       0 0     101.3    1308.5    2413 5     222.0
2032                          14.6     29.15    4255.2    440.58    3814.6    324.1       0.0     101.3    1308.5    2404 8     204.3
2033                          14.6     29.15    4255.2    449.39    3805.8    298.6       0.0     101.3    1308.5    2396.1     188.0
2034                          14.6     29.15    4255.2    458.38    3796.8    275.1       0.0     101.3    1308.5    2387.1     173.0
2035                          14.6     29.15    4255.2    467.54    3787.7    253.5       0.0     101.3    1308.5    2377.9     159.1
2036                          14.6     29.15    4255.2    476.90    3778.3    233.5       0.0     101.3    1308.4    2368 6     146.4
2037                          14.6     29.15    4255.2    486.43    3768.8     215.1      0.0     101.3    1308.4    2359.1     134.7
2038                          14.6     29.15    4255.2    496.16    3759.1     198.2      0.0     101.3    1308.4    2349.4     123.8
2039                          14.6     29.15    4255.2    506.09    3749.1     182.5      0.0     101.3    1308.4    2339.5     113.9
2040                          14.6     29.15    4255.2    516.21    3739.0     168.1      0.0     101.3    1308.4    2329.4     104.7
2041                          14.6     29.15    4255.2    526.53    3728.7     154.8      0.0     101.3    1308.3    2319.1      96.3
2042                          14.6     29.15    4255.2    537.06    3718.2     142.6      0.0     101.3    1308.3    2308.6      88.5
2043                          14.6     29.15    4255.2    547.80    3707.4    131.3       0.0     101.3    1308.3    2297.8      81.4
2044                          14.6     29.15    4255.2    558.76    3696.5     120.9      0.0     101.3    1308.3    2286.9      74.8
2045                          14.6     29.15    4255.2    569.93    3685.3     111.3      0.0     101.3    1308.2    2275.8      68.7
2046                          14.6     29.15    4255.2    581.33    3673.9     102.5      0.0     101.3    1308.2    2264.4      63.2
2047                          14.6     29.15    4255.2    592.96    3662.3      94.4      0.0     101.3    1308.2    2252.8      58.0
Total        24464.9  39165.9     698.1    1385.8  1971 19.0  18558.9  178560.1   48090.7       0.0    4691.4   45688.5  128180.1  39165.8
-39 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty           Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc;)    Implementation Development
Month/Year     Count          Specialty                      Progress      Objective
Identiflcatfon/Preparation
10/1994                      1   Energy specialist
Environmental                I   Economist
I   Environment specialist
I   Financial specialist
2    Resettlement specialists
3    Engineers
4/1994                       3   Financial specialist
Preappraisal                 I   Energy specialist
I   Resettlement specialist
2    Economists
3    Engineers
Appraisal/Negotiation
3/1995
1   Economist
I    Environment specialist
2    Financial specialists
I    Resettlement specialist
3    Engineers
Supervision
6/1996                       1   Manager                            HS            HS
I   Environment specialist
I   Engineer
I   Resettlement specialist
I   Economist
I   Energy specialist
11/1996                      1   Financial specialist               HS            HS
I   Engineer
I   Economist
I   Resettlement specialist
6/1997                       1   Engineer                           HS            HS
I   Resettlement specialist
I   Environment Specialist
3/1998                       2   Engineers                          HS             S
I   Resettlement specialist
I   Environment Specialist
7/1998                       1   Engineer                           HS             S
I   Resettlement specialist
I   Environment Specialist
12/1998                      1   Economist                          HS             S
I   Energy specialist
I   Engineer
I   Resettlement specialist
-40 -



5/1999                         1   Environment specialist              HS              S
I   Energy specialist
11/1999                        1   Economist                           HS              S
I   Energy specialist
I   Environment specialist
I   Resettlement specialist
5/2000                         1   Economist                            S              S
I   Engineer
I   Energy specialist
I   Resettlement specialist
I   Financial specialist
I   Environment specialist
I   IT specialist
11/2000                        1   Economist                            S              S
I   Engineer
I   Energy specialist
3   Resettlement specialists
I   Financial specialist
5/2001                         1   Economist                            S              S
1   Engineer
I   Energy specialist
2   Resettlement specialists
I   Financial specialist
2   Environment specialists
I   Agri. development specialist
I   Micro credit specialist
11/2001                        1   Economist                            S              S
2   Engineers
I   Resettlement specialist
I   Financial specialist
ICR
4/2002                        2     Economists                          S              S
I    Engineer
2     Resettlement specialists
Note:
Barry Trembath, Lead Power Engineer, assisted in managing and supervising the project and played a first role in assisting
EHDC in adequately addressing technical issues as they arose.
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                     'Actual/Latest Estima.te
.___________ :_____        No. Staff weeks          .      US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                 89.0                        356.00
Appraisal/Negotiation                      36.2                        187.50
Supervision                                97.1                        585.25
ICR                                         12.4                        45.20
Total                                     234.7                       1173.95
Notes:
1) Figures are as of end of June 2002;
2) Regional markup from direct cost to full cost is 25 percent for prior fiscal years (1990-2001);
3) For the ICR, the cost is an estimation, including the cost for I consultant for 24 days.
-41 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
Macro policies                        O H   OSUOM      O N  * NA
Sector Policies                       OH    OSUOM      ON   O NA
M Physical                             *H OSUOM ON ONA
Financial                             OH    OSU-M      ON   ONA
M Institutional Development            0 H   * SU O M   0 N  0 NA
OEnvironmental                         OH    OSUOM      ON   O NA
Social
0 Poverty Reduction              O H   OSUOM     O N   O NA
M Gender                         O H   OSUOM     O N   * NA
0 Other (Please specify)         * H   OSUOM     O N   O NA
Achievement on local economic
development was high.
N Private sector development           0 H   O SU O M   0 N  0 NA
N Public sector management             0 H   0 SU O M   0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)               O H   OSUOM      O N  O NA
- 42 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
O Lending                                           OHS*S OU OHU
O Supervision                                       *HS OS       OU    O HU
OI Overall                                          OHS OS       OU    O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
FII Preparation                                     OHS OS       OU    O HU
D Government implementation performance             OHS OS       0 U   0 HU
Ej Implementation agency performance                OHS OS       O U   O HU
O Overall                                           OHS OS       O U   O HU
-43-



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Additional supporting information
1.     Executive Summary of EHDC's Own Evaluation
2.     SAR and ICR Key Dates
3.     Key Financial Indicators--Historical and Projections (2006, 2010)
4.     EHDC's Financial Statements
5.     Technologies transferred by the project
6.     Project photos
7.     Maps
List of Supporting Documents
1.     Financial Analysis of EHDC
2.     Borrower's comments on Bank's ICR
3.     Borrower's Implementation Completion Report
4.     Bank's ICR Aide-Memoire (April 2002) and Follow-up Letter (April 22, 2002)
-44-



1. Executive Summary of EHDC's Own Evaluation
Borrower:           People's Republic of China
Beneficiary:        EHDC
Loan amounts:       First Bank loan US$380 million equivalent (1991 to 1995)
Second Bank loan USS400 million equivalent (1995 to 2001)
The World Bank guarantee for US$150 million equivalent; cofinancing from
international financial institutions.
Project ID:         CN-PA-3507
The Project
Ertan Hydroelectric Project is located in Panzhihua City (in Sichuan Province of China) where one of the
most important steel works is based. The major purpose of the Project is to generate power. The Project
consists of a concrete double-curvature arch dam 240 meters high, two flood-releasing tunnels, and an
underground powerhouse system equipped with 3,300 MW power generation facilities. The annual energy
output of 17 TWh is transmitted to the Sichuan and Chongqing power grids via four circuits of 500 kV
transmission lines. Construction of the Ertan Hydroelectric Project has opened a new chapter in the
development of the rich water resources of the Yalong River, one of the major tributaries of the Yangtze
River.
Project Objectives:
1) Alleviation of acute power shortages in Sichuan and Chongqing through added power generation
capacity;
2) Reduction in the cost and duration of large-size hydropower project construction by introducing
advanced technologies and construction methods into China;
3) Enhancement of capacities in the assessment of environmental impacts from water resource development
and in the design of mitigation measures for negative impacts;
4) Further institutional development of EHDC through training in modern management practices and
principles for power pricing;
5) Technical assistance in project design, implementation, optimization of power system operation,
establishment of a perfect financial management system and human resource management.
Project Implementation
1) International Competitive Bidding was introduced for procurement for the Project. Following the best
international project management practices and the principle of combining technology transfer,
co-production and import for the procurement of mechanical and electric equipment, project
implementation management in China has been upgraded to a new level, and the manufacturing of hydro
turbines and generators and associated auxiliary equipment has been upgraded to an international advanced
level.
-45 -



2) Outstanding consulting services. The advantages of the Special Board of Consultants (SBC) were fully
taken in the initial stage of Project implementation. The SBC also played a very important role in
decision-making and consultancy on technical issues, ensuring the smooth completion of project
implementation. Pushed by the Environment and Resettlement Panel (ERP), environment protection
measures have been taken for the reservoir area and the objective of environmental sustainability has been
attained.
3) Perfect contract management system. Both Chinese engineers and international consultants were
involved in contract management. The Dispute Resolution Board practice was first introduced for
large-size project and it ensured timely settlement of contractual disputes. This has a far-reaching impact
on contract management practices for project implementation in China.
4) In the 10 years of the Project implementation, construction progress followed the planned schedule and
satisfied all milestones; quality met design requirements, and cost was controlled within the State-approved
budget
Project Operation and Energy Production
1) Data collected by the dam safety instrumentation system for the past four years after completion shows
that the displacement and seepage of the dam body are less than design allowances. The project is in normal
operation.
2) Since commissioning in 1988, 27 TWh of electricity has been generated as of 2001, equivalent to the
total energy output of Sichuan Province in 1992. The power station has served 33 percent of the energy
demand in dry seasons and 25 percent of the peak load of Sichuan and Chongqing power grids since
commissioning, and has secured the stable operation of the power grids.
Corporate Restructuring
Preparation for setup of EHDC was initiated in 1987 and EHDC was officially established as an
independent power producer (IPP) in 1990. The company becarne the Ertan Hydropower Development
Company Ltd. in 1995, in line with the Corporate Law. Its shareholders include the State Development
Investment Corporation (SDIC), the Sichuan Investment Company (SIC), and the Sichuan Electric Power
Company (SEPC), holding 48, 48 and 4 percent of shares, respectively. Studies were carried out in 1996
for restructuring its organization and reforming its financial system. Implementation of the restructuring
and reform was started in 1999 and EHDC shifted from project construction management to energy
production and business operation with commercially oriented departments in its organizational structure.
EHDC has become a famous IPP in China.
Difficulties and Prospects
Over the period 1998 to 2001, EHDC generated 27 TWh of electricity in total, with an average annual
growth of 50 percent and a highest annual growth of 60 percent. Energy output could reach 14.6 TWh in
2002. Operating revenue has increased by 45.4 percent per year and will reach Y3.15 billion (including
VAT) in 2002. Still, EHDC's financial indicators are lagging behind the financial covenants specified in
the Project Agreement. The major causes are that (a) it takes time for the markets to absorb the energy
from a large-size hydropower station and the timing is determined by the stability of the transmission
system and the market demand. The Ertan hydro station was commissioned in 1998-2000 when demand
-46 -



growth paused due to macroeconomic adjustment and market condition changes; (b) coordination of power
industry development planning was insufficient; (c) construction of the transmission lines for Ertan was
delayed; and (d) reformn of the power industry is still in progress.
The Government of China (GOC) has made great efforts in improving EHDC's financial health and
making full use of the benefits of Ertan, considering the important role that Ertan is playing in the operation
of the Sichuan and Chongqing power grids and in the development of western China. With a series of
measures taken including VAT rebates, EHDC's financial performance is recovering its health. Along with
the demand growth in the Sichuan and Chongqing power grids, the enhancement of transmission line
stability, and implementation of the strategy of exporting energy from the west to the east of China, EHDC
will have a great future.
-47-



2. SAR and ICR Key Dates
Items                                SAR Completion Date      ICR Completion Date
Instruction to commence work          September 14, 1991       September 14, 1991
River Diversion                       November 26, 1993        November 26, 1993
Dam foundation excavation completion  December 1994
Dam concrete start                    February 1995            February 25, 1995
Diversion tunnel closure              June 1, 1998             November 4, 1997
Completion of powerhouse draft tube
liner:
Unit 6                              October 1, 1996
Unit I                              June 1, 1998
Commercial operation:
Unit 6                              October 1, 1998         August 18, 1998
Unit I                              June 1, 2000            December 4, 1999
- 48 -



3. Key Financial Indicators - Historical and Projections (2006, 2010)
The financial covenants set in the Project Agreements have not yet been met by the end of 2001(see the
table below).
Ertan Hydropower Development Company, Ltd.
Key Financial Indicators (As of December 31)
And
Financial Projections (for 2002, 2006 and 2010)
(Unit: Y million)
1998     1999    2000     2001     2002    2006     2010
Energy Sales (GWh)           750     4,998    8,226   12,497  146.00   146.00  146.00
Average Tariff (fen/kWh)     15.81    15.50   17.87    18.41    18.80   29.15    31.55
Average Tariff               18.50    18.14   20.90    21.54    22.00   34.10    36.91
(incl. VAT) (fen/kWh)
Operating Revenue             119     775     1,470    2,301    2745    4255     4606
Net Income After Tax         (145)    (673)   (935)    (377)     124     1269    1572
Operating Ratio (%)          177.84  114.21   75.09    58.16    47.8     32.0    30.2
Current Ratio                 1.44    0.28     0.77    0.80      1.3     2.2      3.0
ROR on Revalued Assets
- WBCovenants            12%     15%      15%      15%     15%      15%      15%
- Actual                -1.7%   -1.1%     1.5%    3.9%     5.9%    11.1%   12.3%
Debt/(Debt + Equity)
- WB Covenants          80%      80%      80%      70%     70%      70%     70%
- Actual                92.4%   94.6%    97.8%    98.0%   95.6%    87.5%   65.5%
Debt Service Coverage Ratio
- WB Covenants           1.3      1.5      1.5     1.5      1.5     1.5      1.5
- Actual                 0.3      0.5      0.8     0.8     1.5      1.4      1.3
Assumptions for projections:
I) Tariff kept constant at 22 fen/kWh (including VAT) for 2002-05, increased to 34.1 fen/kWh in 2006, and
adjusted by 2 percent for inflation for the ensuing years;
2) Sales kept at 14.6 TWh constant;
3) VAT rebated until 2002;
4) Debt service reserve fund not considered when the actual debt service coverage ratio calculated;
5) The tenure of SIC's loan rescheduled from 2001-2009 to 2006-2019.
-49-



4. EHIDC's Financial Statements
1) Balance sheet
Ertan Hydropower Development Company, Ltd.
Balance Sheets
(As of December 31)
(Unit: YMillion)
Item                     1997     1998      1999      2000       2001
ASSETS
CURRENT ASSETS                                   _
Casb                                  164.3     302.8    101.8     261.1      459.2
Accounts receivable                     0.0     138.7    189.5      494.0     527.1
Inventories                             4.1      34.4     52.0      81.1       79.3
Others                                 50.6     412.6    277.8      113.3     463.0
Total current assets                  219.0     888.5    621.0      949.5    1,528.7
Long-term investrnents                  0.0       3.3      3.4       10.1      11.3
FIXED ASSETS
Plant in service                       70.8  11,023.4  24,966.0  27,411.7   27,360.7
Less: Accumulated depreciation         22.6     210.8    997.1    1,938.0    2,969.8
Net plant in service                   48.2  10,812.6  23,968.8  25,473.7   24,390.9
Work in progress                   20,598.4  13,792.1   1,860.2      92.3     133.9
Total fixed assets                 20,646.6  24,604.6  25,829.1  25,566.0   24,524.8
Deferred and intangible assets          0.0      32.6     95.1      256.2     313.9
Total Assets                       20,865.6  25,529.1  26,548.6  26,781.8   26,378.7
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Accounts payable                       40.6     420.6    362.8      339.2     168.1
Short-terrn loans                     370.0     158.0    624.0        0.0      50.0
Others                                  0.4      38.3   1,193.6     897.8    1,703.9
Total Current Liabilities             411.0     616.9   2,180.4   1,237.1    1,922.0
Long-term debt                      18,794.5  23,027.9  23,056.8  24,989.7  23,969.0
EQUITY
Paid-in capital                      1,640.2  2,000.2   2,100.2   2,278.3    2,586.9
Capital surplus                        18.8      28.6     28.6       28.6      30.0
Reserve surplus                         0.0       0.0      0.0        0.0       0.0
Retained earnings                       1.1   (144.4)   (817.3)  (1,751.9)  (2,129.3)
Total Equity                         1,660.1  1,884.3   1,311.4     555.0     487.7
Total Equity and Liabilities       20,865.6  25,529.1  26,548.6  26,781.8   26,378.7
RATIOS
Current ratio (times)                  0.53      1.44     0.28       0.77      0.80
Debt as % of debt and equity(%)        91.9      92.4     94.6       97.8      98.0
- 50 -



2) Income statement
Ertan Hydropower Development Company, Ltd.
Income Statements
(As of December 31)
(Unit: Y Million)
Item                     1997      1998     1999       2000      2001
Energy Sales (GWh)                                  750     4,998      8,226     12,497
Increase (%)                                             566%        65%        52%
Average Tariff (incl. VAT) (fen/kWh)              18.50     18.14      20.90      21.54
Average Tariff (excl. VAT) (fen/kWh)              15.81     15.50      17.87      18.41
Increase (%)                              _                -2%       15%         3%
Operating Revenues                                 118.6    775.0     1469.7     2300.7
Value-Added Tax                                    20.2     131.8      249.9      391.1
Operating Revenues (Including VAT)                 138.7    906.8     1719.6     2691.8
Operating Expenses
Fuel                                             0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00
Purchased Power                                  0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00
Operating and Maintenance                       18.35     57.42     89.51     186.85
Depreciation                                   188.17    786.37    940.84    1031.87
Sales Tax                                        2.88     18.83     33.17      56.12
Admninistration                     ______       1.50     22.49     40.17      63.18
Total Operating Expense                          210.90    885.12    1103.69    1338.02
Operating Income                                 (92.31)  (110.12)    366.06     962.70
Financial Expenses                                53.26    483.95    1299.71    1345.08
Net Nonoperating Income                            0.00    (79.07)      0.00     (1.51)
Other Income                                       0.11      0.20      (0.87)      6.48
Taxable Incomes                                 (145.47)  (672.93)  (934.52)   (377.41)
Income Tax                                         0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00
Net Income After Tax                            (145.47)  (672.93)  (934.52)   (377.41)
Profit Distribution
Net Income                                      (145.47)  (672.93)  (934.52)   (377.41)
Retained Earnings at Beginning of year             1.06  (144.41)   (817.34)  (1751.87)
Balance of Profit Available for Distribution   (144.41)  (817.34)  (1751.87)  (2129.28)
Reserve Surplus Allocation                         0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00
Dividend                                           0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00
Retained Earnings at End of year         1.06  (144.41)  (817.34)  (1751.87)  (2129.28)
Rates
Rate Base                                       5430.4   17390.7    24721.3    24932.3
Operating Ratio (%)                              177.8      114.2      75.1       58.2
Return On Net Fixed assets (%)          -_       (1.70)    (1.09)      1.48       3.88
- 51 -



3) Cash Flow Statements
Ertan Hydropower Development Company, Ltd.
Cash Flows
(As of December 31)
(Unit:  Million)
Item                     1997      1998      1999       2000      2001
SOURCES
Net Income                                      (145.5)   (672.9)    (934.5)   (377.4)
Depreciation                                     188.2      786.4     940.8     1,031.9
Borrowings                                     4,466.1      983.2    2,455.8     410.3
Equity                                           369.8      100.0     178.1      310.1
Total                                          4,878.6    1,196.7    2,640.2    1,374.8
APPLICATIONS
Capital Expenditures                           4,178.8    2,073.3     838.9       48.4
Long-term Investments                              3.3        0.1       6.7        1.2
Change in Working Capital                        325.2   (1,630.0)   1,112.4   (303.8)
Dividend                                           0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Loan Repayment                                   232.8      954.3     522.9     1,431.0
Total                                          4,740.1     1,397.7   2,480.9    1,176.7
Changes In Cash                                   138.5    (201.0)     159.4      198.1
Cash balance at beginning of years               164.3      302.8      101.8     261.1
Cash Balance at End of Years                      302.8      101.8     261.1      459.2
- 52 -



5. Technologies transferred by the project
The following is the list of modem technologies and practices transferred to China by Ertan Hydroelectric
Project I (Loan 3387-CHA) & II (CPL-39330; SCL-3933A; SCL-3933B)
Technologies for the design and construction of double-curvature arch dams
a) Double curvature arch-dam design
Dam profile optimization
Dam foundation face optimization
b) Concrete placement
Cooling optimization
Placement layer thickness optimization
Joint grouting
c) Cofferdam seepage control
High-pressure jet grouting
d) Underground works engineering and construction methods
Supporting by shotcrete and bolting
e) Penstock design
Design concept (allowing cracking in surrounding reinforced concrete)
Inner water pressure balance calculations
f) Construction machinery
Programs for calculations of climbing cable crane
g) Topography-adaptive layout of concrete aggregate system
h) Design and application of U-shape anchorage cables for the sector gates of middle-level outlets
Technologies for design and manufacturing of 550 MW hydro turbines and generators
a) Technologies for Francis turbines
Computer technologies and CFD software for analysis of flow passage
Development and manufacturing of turbine runner models
Five-axis manufacturing of runner blades
Runner assembly and welding
Structural design and manufacturing of head covers and stay rings
b) Design technologies for generators
Electromagnetic system design
Ventilation system design
Multipoint spring supported trust bearings
Structural design and manufacturing of stator-bar insulation
Manufacturing of field windings
c) Calculation of large-size component strength and stiffness by finite element methods
Project management
a) Use of FIDIC guidelines for consultant services bidding
b) Claim management
Setup of claim evaluation comnmittee
Claim treatment procedures
HAR procedures
Documentation management
- 53 -



International cooperation
a) Bulk power pricing
b) Optimization of power plant and reservoir operation
c) Organizational restructuring
d) Model power purchase agreement
e) Hardware and software for real-time control and dispatching of hydropower plant
Resettlement
a) Independent supervision and evaluation on implementation of Resettlement Action Plan (RAP)
b) Sampled household surveys on income restoration
Environment management
a) Independent supervision and evaluation on implementation of EMP
b) Forestation of reservoir zone financed by project owner for the first time in China
c) Surveys on varieties of biota financed by project owner for the first time in China
d) Competitive tendering and contract management for EMP implementation
-54 -



6. Project Photos
1) The dam
,~~~~~~ I
2) The reservoir
- 55 -



3) The plunge pool undler lmaintenance
 ,
21 tf;-   7  x4
hl -  P- 
o  m t           ,,q,W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, ' 
4) The stakeholdlers consultation meeting
#  -  . _       '> ''' ' 56  '- S



5) Old Yanbian County Seat
ARW~~~~~~~W
Q,m. Ne.aba  on~Sa
ii     *   5 -  -
r4~~~~~~.4
.~~~~~~~~- 57 "'



7) Host area for rural resettlement
LI~~ 
. .    I
58 -



Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results
Ertan has many beneficiaries over widespread area. Therefore, it is considered impractical to carry out an
overall beneficiary survey. However, as part of the last Independent Evaluation of Resettlement Survey
canied out before the ICR mission, Sichuan Resettlement Development Center conducted a resettlers'
satisfaction survey using a sample of 1000 persons in rural receiving areas covering Yanbian, Miyi,
Dechang and Yanyuan, and 400 persons in urban receiving areas covering Yanbian New Town, township
towns and 5 other locations. The survey requested participants to rate in four categories-satisfactory,
relatively satisfactory, satisfactory and very satisfactory-12 items, including housing, farnland (income in
urban case), compensation, irrigation and drnking water, electricity, fuel, road, medical facilities,
telecommunication, broadcast facilities, shopping and entertainment. The survey results are summarized
below.
Results of resettlers' satisfaction survey
In percentage                     Rwal                       Urban
Satisfactory*  Unsatisfactory  Satisfactory*  Unsatisfactory
Housing                              82.8          17.2          93.7           6.3
Farmland/income**                    86.6          13.4          82.4           17.6
Compensation                         84.4          15.6          87.3           12.7
Irrigation and drinking water        82.1          17.9          83.6           16.4
Electricity                          90.2           9.8           84.7          15.3
Fuel                                 85.1          14.9          86.3           13.7
Road                                 93.2           6.8           93.0          7.0
Medical facilities                   71.3          28.7          91.1           8.9
Telecommunication                    90.4           9.6           95.2          4.8
Broadcast facilities                 91.6           8.4          94.6           5.4
Shopping                             88.0          12.0          80.3           19.7
Entertainment               _        55.0          45.0           92.9          7.1
Notes:
including percentages of relative satisfactory, satisfactory and very satisfactory;
farmland for nurl and income for urban survey.
- 59 -



Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Results
HIGHLIGHTS OF STAKEHOLDER MEETING
Chengdu, April 9-10, 2002
To review the results, solicit the views of local stakeholders and facilitate lesson learning, a consultation
meeting was held in Chengdu on April 9-10, 2002. The meeting was chaired by the Ministry of Finance and
attended by 69 people representing (a) management and various departments of EHDC; (b) government
agencies viz. the State Development Planning Commission (SDPC), State Administration of Taxation,
State Power Company of China (SPCC), Sichuan Provincial and Chongqing Municipal Governments,
Sichuan and Chongqing Development and Planning Committees, Sichuan Provincial Department of
Finance, Sichuan Provincial Resettlement Office (SPRO), Panzhihua Resettlement Office and Health
Bureau; (c) EHDC's shareholders and financiers including the State Development Investment Company
(SDIC), Sichuan Investment Company (SIC), State Development Bank (SDB); (d) project output offtakers
viz. the Sichuan Power Company and Chongqing Power Company of SPCC; (e) the designer, CHIDI of
SPCC; (f) contractors, suppliers and supervision engineers including Gezhouba Company Group, No.8
Hydroelectric Construction Bureau, Dongfang Electric Machinery Company Ltd., and Ertan Engineering
Company, Ertan Hydropower Plant; (g) consultant firms including ERP, Energy and Economic Research
Center of SPCC; (h) independent resettlement experts and observers and NGOs (Sichuan University); and
(i) the World Bank mission.
1) Presentations and discussion followed an agenda agreed with the Bank. It covered seven major topics:
project economic benefits, sector reforms, institutional development, financial sustainability, resettlement,
environment and financing. The plenary session format set up by EHDC was well adapted to the
presentation of the project outcomes and to the purpose--shared by many stakeholders--of celebrating the
end of a long and arduous venture. It proved less than ideal to brainstorm on the factors of performance and
lessons learned. Key facts about project outcomes are reflected in the ICR. The following notes highlight
the more evaluative part of the stakeholders' presentations and reactions about agenda items.
2) All stakeholders concur that the technical execution of the project was a second-to-none achievement and
that its completion has already brought considerable benefits; they are all convinced of its sustainability. A
few did underline the need to solve pending issues on resettlement and EHDC finances. Most see those as
"normal" glitches in an otherwise outstanding performance
Economic benefits
3) Ertan's contribution to flood control and to peaking and energy needs is well documented. Both are vital
to Sichuan. Chongqing uses it for 75 percent of its peak load and buys 27 percent of the output. The
Sichuan Power Company buys the balance and is investing in transmission lines to develop exports to
central China. Measures are being taken to improve the dispatch and make sure the offtaker of both
absorbs the design output of 14.6 TWh. These include the reduction in output or shutdown of old and
polluting plants, the promotion of new demand like public lighting.
4) Under current pricing and fiscal rules, the measures sound more like acts of solidarity toward EHDC
than economically driven business decisions on the part of the offtakers. In their view, the 1998 crisis is
largely to blame if EHDC sales failed to meet expectations; in Chongqing, tariffs were increased and
demand boosted in spite of the financial difficulties of large users, generating capacity was added there but
without much exceeding the plans and following all licensing rules. It is understood that it is EHDC's
- 60 -



responsibility to market at negotiated prices the energy in excess of the design output and that the high
share of hydro makes water spillages hard to avoid in the wet season.
5) An independent observer deems Ertan as an early manifestation of a policy toward the sustainable
development of western China. It has had multiple direct benefits, e.g. for minorities in Liangshang:
improved access, job opportunities, electrification and opening to the outside world. In Panzhihua,
investment lifted incomes for 80,000 people, almost doubling GDP growth to 7 percent.
Institutional development and finance
6) The Bank-promoted structuring of EHDC as an IPP to develop hydropower is deemed a good model by
its shareholders and SDPC. The former were quick to see its merits: they financed early preparation
works--e.g. roads and bridges--and helped shelter the project from suspension in 1995 during a GOC
budget crunch. They feel that EHDC's legal status made it act as an uncontested project owner with clear
targets in project schedule, cost and quality, and a strong motivation to do well on resettlement.
7) SDPC considers that the project has modernized the approach to bulk electricity pricing which since
1985 was largely determined by debt service costs. Ertan introduced levelized financial costs over a long
life span, a target of 12 percent return on equity in the long run, the "shaving" of front-end financial costs
by the rescheduling of SDB loans over 25 years and the conversion into government's equity of the 17
percent VAT proceeds for the first five years. Like sales, VAT proceeds will lag expectations by Y1.25
billion by the end of 2002 and EHDC would like to see the conversion extended another four years or until
GOC's equity reaches Y 4.6 billion.
8) SDPC also feels that the problems EHDC encountered in selling its output illuminated the need to
separate dispatch and transmission from generation in this case to avoid self-dealing by the Sichuan Power
Company. It may have precipitated the new GOC circular mandating this unbundling nationwide. A
sensible move, but the World Bank team cautioned that success will require that prices reflect the avoided
costs of supply, in fact, the costs of the competition, separately for kWs and kWhs and for peak, off-peak,
dry and wet seasons. These principles were agreed under the project but not acted upon. A shareholder
agrees that current pricing policy is not adequately promoting hydro development and in particular does not
reward its benefits in terms of coal use-related pollution abatement.
Technology transfers
9) For designers, transfers occurred in preparing the bidding according to FIDIC rules and in the
day-to-day working with contractors; it brought clarity and good balance of contractual relationships, a
focus on serving the owner, on design management and coordination with execution. For electromechanical
manufacturers, it meant moving up the unit size ladder to 550 MW through progressive localization: 0
percent for first unit to 100 percent for the last two, with impacts on research and development and
machine tooling capacity. The Gezhouba Engineering Group representative reflected on the cultural clashes
that led to several labor strikes and on the time and efforts the Chinese parties--including EHDC--had to
invest to overcome them. The No.8 Construction Bureau noted that the efficiency improvements they made
under the project now enable it to win auction biddings overseas.
10) Was the recourse to foreign-controlled consortia a good method? The State Power Corporation believes
that it was appropriate to the tasks and the times. The end results were worth the trouble of managing
communications and cultural problems. In particular, the method helped avoid the problems faced by
earlier large-scale hydro projects like Shuikou, where a mostly Chinese consortium did not have the
- 61 -



resources to mobilize the needed construction equipment. But today, such a heavy foreign involvement
would no longer be needed. While still open to foreign input in specific areas, China will not invite it again
to such an extent because its industry has now the technical and financial wherewithal to do most of the
job. This is the new method now followed for the Three Gorges Project although it poses even more
daunting challenges.
Environment and resettlement
11) Contract bidding was also very helpful in improving project management in those two areas. It
provided access to specialists in many disciplines and greater cost effectiveness. Communications with the
Bank were demanding but they gave the issues the high visibility and emphasis they deserve. The frequent
resettlement surveys demanded by the Bank, a novelty in China, proved very valuable to keep execution on
track and focused on the problems. The Environment and Resettlement Panel in theory merged the two
aspects but in practice worked as two separate teams specializing each on only one of them.
12) Was the right balance struck in terms of money and efforts, between rural and urban areas, and
between infrastructure activities and programs directly promoting income recovery? SPRO feels it was
about right. Funds allocation among these separate items is controlled and tightly separated to avoid
robbing one in favor of the other. Naturally a lot of funds were called for to replace the important stock of
urban infrastructure that was affected by reservoir impoundment. But rural areas and income promotion,
e.g. training, were also well taken care off. Recovery is still lagging among the poorest, and certainly most
of those are in rural areas. Surveys show that the problem lies mostly with villagers who chose to move
back just a short distance and therefore were allocated very little farmland. Reports have identified factors
that have led to overestimating land availability, and underestimating the affected population, the unit costs
and the contingencies of resettlement. One speaker mentioned incomplete, inaccurate land and geological
surveys and a reluctance to move people farther at least in the first round. In closing, MOF insisted on the
need for a second round of activities to solve quickly all outstanding resettlement issues and abide by the
zero-tolerance policy that the World Bank chooses to apply on such matters.
- 62 -



IBRD 22093R2
CHINA                                                       \    8 To Chengdu\,
SICHUAN PROVINCE                                                                       "\
ERTAN HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT                              'D                      (         XICHANG"
RESETTLEMENT PLAN                         (     Daiaoo                          Xichang
C)   POPULATION MOVING TO HIGHER ELEVATION                                                 CITY
IN SAME VILLAGE
RESETTLEMENT AREAS FOR DISPLACED FARMERS               ianhe
    URBAN RESETTLEMENT AREA
- RIVERS
-  ROADS                            P
----RAILROADS                       incucaniiaoo            |           X  I     H  A   N  G
XIAN (COMMUNITY) BOUNDARIES
- -     PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
O      1 0     20      30      ,-/'^^_@
KILOMETE-RS                                   ; fTielu
YanyuanDeshi                         ) t; Dqi  Dechang
,- -'          /1            / ,1 2Rehe
y      t   ~~Shube 0X    N'sfJ
,,  ,  g                \,    ~~~~~~~Malu<  .(                              (                   '
,/                                    T,Tengqiao         /ONonba
>   Qinhe
Xinpi'ng  I
\ Yngx.ing~
Miyi      Area"       H  U  I LI
N%sHuiming      Yanbin
6          ~~~~Limo         PROPOSED
O 4/Llma> ~- ttssit RTAN DAM                                 j
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
w Yonbian Town Si-
?          2J DUKOU         '       for Urban Population
Y UNNAN                 t*:Dukou                            QHangge      OINGHAI   *-"\GANSU
9~~~~ Are                    )                   5\(; SHAANXI ;
.. ) ,X~\            Re 9,\7
This mop was produced by the                                                       SA C,'H U'A N      --a,
Map Design Unit of The World Bank.                      \        .                     Chengdu   e - .L  -HUBEI
The boundaries, colors, denominotions  )                                  30    _     Chengd
ond anyother information shownon                                                   A        Chongcang of
this map do not imply, on the port of  *                     \                                   *       '* ,
The World Bank Group, any judgment                            l                     Map     rI
on the legal stotus of any territory, r o>
any endorsement or acceptance ofHO 
such boundaries                                     To Kunmin|g           YUNNAN   I      i      05'          tO
JULY 2002






IBRD 2l208Ri
98                     100                  102                    104                   106'   Ii8'                                  l I'-                  112'                        I D48
CHINA
QI N G H A I                                            G       A        N        S       U                                                    ERTAN HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
-                                      .I                                            SICHUAN TRANSMISSION NETWORK
.~~~~~  ,-~~~~~~~~~. ~~~~EXISTING               FUTUJRE  PROJECT
/ \-o                                                              v i <S *   -  *~ e \ _ S f _ = _ HYSDRO POWER PLANTS
Fl         ~~~~THERMAL POWER PLANTS
I                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~000EV TRANSMISSION LINES
)
.       .         ,                                     '\             <.                  "A                         '" _T,f                        220 kV TRANSMISSIGN LINES
'""~~~~~     ''   A'             *---'               A ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oo0 kv SUBSTATIONS
'.~~~~~~~~~~~--.1          //9,                               /                        0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~220  kv  SUBSTATIONS
- 7\o X -  A B A  Z ANf,9 G Z U                  I                "'s                      k                                 r 3 W r r ;t SHUNT REACTORS
9,                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~32'-
I A IN Y A                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RAILROADS
- 32        ,          ._ -t                   T "0  s   \   Z I l Z   H   I  Z F H   O   U   1  J l onp 9o  'Z  ) Z  H   I                      / 0                        R IV E R S
/                   ~~~~~~~~PROVINCE CAPITAL
D                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PREFECTURE ROUNSARIES
A. > .                                                                X            '            | Jon3tt9, nyong  <0  *  <, X9. I A N , J  ''9_ _ PROVINCE 8OUNDAR ES
*   1  >  ?   <  /   <? hX X6Y-n3   t 9   _   \ zT  D  i  W A N X I A N  "      -*-    INTERNAT ONAL BOUNDARY
,^> , G AIR Z        E                . X YQiz;X NA4CHON                                                                               5,0 '  ?O   1 5z      j0 TO200
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
| X I0'ANG       I                                                                                                                                                                              -S I H U'UEEIANG|
,9 j, , X A < c                                                      3S H     U                     N E  I
XIZANG                          -SI- I 'ICNGSHX Hunhon                                                 D-1, \    ~            %            S                    2B4-         TX   S           >
<             .  A         )      l      ZIZHIZ:UZIZHZHO  '  X                          ,-h,\ mop  -o rdcdh b o eenUlo feWrdEn 
30(G                                                                                                                         _                                       112CLI
LIANGSHAN  /-'~~~~~~~~-JI29J
29' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                      0099~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UY20
I                                 /                    G    U     /7         H  O      U        (-    ~~~~~~~~~SlCRUSSAN FEERAIO
H.      U N A 
ONGCLI~~~~~~~~~~U,,
~~~~~~~~~  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IN                HAN                      1                                                                               8-
YUNNkJN        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~z                                             U     I   Z     H                                                          0151H9AN4'
NE'          OR'                                             104                    109                       OR'                                                           M~  99NZHIZ  E-
z                                                                                                                                                Ch-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1020









IMAGING
Report No.:         24342
Type:     {CR



