Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3933 CHA
Loan Agreement
(Ertan II Hydroelectric Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated November 2, 1995
LOAN NUMBER 3933 CHA
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 2, 1995, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Borrower intends to contract from certain financial institutions 
syndicated loans in an amount equivalent to one hundred and fifty million dollars 
($150,000,000) (the Syndicated Loans) to assist in financing a portion of Parts B and 
C of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in
syndicated loan agreements (the Syndicated Loan Agreements) to be entered into between 
the Borrower and said financial institutions;
(C)
the Project will be carried out by Ertan Hydropower Development Company, 
Ltd. (EHDC) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the 
Borrower will make available to EHDC the proceeds of the Loan as provided in this 
Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and 
EHDC;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
 
"Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: 
(a) on account of expenditures in the territories of 
any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the 
purpose of any  
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security 
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United 
Nations."
(c)
In Section 6.02, sub-paragraph (k) is re-lettered as sub-paragraph (l) 
and a new sub-paragraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further withdrawals 
under the Loan would be inconsistent with the 
provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's 
Articles of Agreement."
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
"Charter" means the Articles of Association of EHDC dated February 9, 
1995.
(b)
"Company Law" means the Borrower's Company Law promulgated on December 
29, 1993 and effective as of July 1, 1994, as the same may be amended from time to 
time.
(c)
"Environmental Management Program" means the environmental management and 
monitoring plan related to the Project approved by the National Environmental 
Protection Administration of the Borrower, dated June 3, 1995, as the same may be 
supplemented and amended from time to time with the approval of the Bank.
(d)
"EHDC" means the Ertan Hydropower Development Company, Ltd., a company 
established under the Company Law and operating pursuant to the Charter and Business 
License No. 201B7022-1 issued by the Sichuan Provincial Industry and Commerce 
Administration on March 1, 1995.
(e)
"Ertan Hydroelectric Scheme" means Parts A, B, C, D and E of Schedule 2 
to this Agreement.
(f)
"Prior Loan Agreement" means the Loan Agreement dated July 11, 1991, 
between the Borrower and the Bank for an Ertan Hydroelectric Project (Loan No. 3387 
CHA).
(g)
"Prior Project Agreement" means the Project Agreement dated July 11, 1991 
between the Bank and EHDC for an Ertan Hydroelectric Project (Loan No. 3387 CHA).
(h)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and EHDC of even 
date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes 
all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement.
(i)
"Purchase Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into between EHDC 
Page  3
and SEPC pursuant to Section D of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
(j)
"Resettlement Action Plan" means the resettlement action plan related to 
the Project, dated May 15, 1995, and the addendum thereto dated June 13, 1995, both 
prepared by the Sichuan Provincial Resettlement Bureau and approved by the Sichuan 
Provincial Government, as the same may be supplemented and amended from time to time 
with the approval of the Bank, in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.05 of 
this Agreement.
(k)
"SEPC" means Sichuan Electric Power Company, a state-owned enterprise of 
the Borrower, established under the laws of the Borrower and operating pursuant to its 
charter dated March 26, 1993, and includes any successors and permitted assigns. 
(l)
"Sichuan" means the Sichuan Province, a political sub-division of the 
Borrower and any successor thereto.
(m)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement.
(n)
"Subsidiary Loan Agreements" means the agreements to be entered into 
between the Borrower and Sichuan, and Sichuan and EHDC, pursuant to Section 3.01(b) of 
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes 
all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreements; "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means 
either of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements; and "Subsidiary Loan" means either of the 
loans provided under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of four hundred million dollars 
($400,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with each 
withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a financial institution and on terms and 
conditions, both satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate protection against 
set-off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Page  4
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding
each date specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, beginning 
with the Interest 
Period in which this Agreement is signed.
 
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank
and expressed as a percentage per annum, of the outstanding 
borrowings of the Bank 
drawn down after June 30, 1982, excluding such 
borrowings or portions thereof as 
the Bank has allocated to 
fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may 
be made by 
the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%).  On each of the dates 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay 
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, 
calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
 
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the 
Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in 
respect of such Quarter."
"(c)  (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, July 1 
or October 1 in a calendar year."
 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on April 
15 and  October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. EHDC is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Loan Agreement, 
shall cause EHDC to perform in accordance with the
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of EHDC therein set forth, 
shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds 
(including, without limitation, the proceeds of the Syndicated Loans), facilities, 
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable EHDC to perform such 
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent 
or interfere with such performance.
(b)
The Borrower shall (i) relend the proceeds of the Loan to Sichuan under a 
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and Sichuan, and 
Page  5
(ii) cause Sichuan to relend said proceeds to EHDC under a subsidiary loan agreement, 
in each case under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the Bank, 
and which shall include, without limitation, terms whereby:
(A)
the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan shall be the 
equivalent in dollars 
(determined on the date or respective 
dates of withdrawal from the Loan Account or 
payment out of the Special 
Account, as the case may be) of the value of the 
currency or 
currencies so withdrawn or paid out, on account of the cost of goods 
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan;
 
(B)
the Subsidiary Loan shall be made for a period not exceeding 
twenty (20) years, 
inclusive of a grace period not exceeding five 
(5) years; and
(C)
the Subsidiary Loan shall be charged: (a) interest, on the 
principal amount thereof
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate equal to the rate 
applicable to the Loan 
pursuant to Section 2.05 of the Loan Agreement; and (b) a 
commitment charge on the principal 
amount thereof not withdrawn from time 
to time at a rate equal to three fourths of one percent 
(3/4 of 1%) per 
annum.
(c)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under its Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement with Sichuan and cause Sichuan and EHDC to exercise  their respective rights 
under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not, and shall not permit Sichuan or 
EHDC to, assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreements to which 
Sichuan or EHDC is a party, or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 2 to the 
Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by EHDC 
pursuant to Section 2.03(a) of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04.  (a) The Borrower shall take all steps necessary to ensure that 
SEPC shall enter into the Purchase Agreement with EHDC not later than June 30, 1997, 
and that SEPC shall perform all of its obligations thereunder in accordance with the 
provisions thereof.
(b)
Section 3.04 of the Prior Loan Agreement is hereby amended to read as set 
forth in paragraph (a) of this Section.
Section 3.05.  (a) The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken all measures 
necessary to ensure that all persons displaced as a result of the Project shall be 
resettled in accordance with the the Resettlement Action Plan.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained policies and procedures 
adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with 
indicators acceptable 
to the Bank, the carrying out of the 
Resettlement Action Plan, and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof;
 
(ii)
prepare or cause to be prepared under terms of reference 
acceptable to the Bank, 
and furnish to the Bank annual reports 
on or about April 30 in each calendar year, 
integrating the results of 
the monitoring and evaluation activities performed 
pursuant to 
Page  6
paragraph (b)(i) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the 
carrying out of the Resettlement Action Plan during the preceding calendar year, 
together with any revisions proposed to be made thereto in order 
to achieve the 
objectives thereof; and
 
(iii)
review with the Bank each report furnished to the Bank pursuant to 
paragraph 
(b)(ii) of this Section, and promptly introduce such 
revisions into the 
Resettlement Action Plan as shall have 
been approved by the Bank.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, 
records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one year after 
the Bank has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records.
 
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a)(i) of 
this Section and 
those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the 
Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six (6) 
months after the end of each such year the 
report of such audit by said auditors, 
of such scope and in such 
detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested, 
including a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and 
internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied 
upon to support the 
related withdrawals; and
 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
and accounts and 
the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
EHDC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Loan 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that EHDC will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(c)
The Charter shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or 
waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of EHDC to perform any of 
Page  7
its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d)
The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of EHDC or for the suspension of 
its operations.
(e)
The Syndicated Loan Agreements shall have failed to become effective by 
December 31, 1995, or such later date as the Bank may agree; provided, however, that 
the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the 
satisfaction of the Bank that adequate funds for the Project are available to the 
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of 
the Borrower under this Agreement.
(f)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
 
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of any 
loan or grant made 
to the Borrower for the financing of the 
Project shall have been suspended, 
cancelled or terminated in 
whole or in part, pursuant to the terms of the 
agreement providing therefor; or
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable prior to the 
agreed maturity
thereof. 
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower 
establishes to 
the satisfaction of the Bank that: (A) such 
suspension, cancellation, termination 
or prematuring is not 
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions 
consistent 
with the obligations of the Borrower under this 
Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof 
shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower;
(b)
the events specified in paragraphs (c) (d) or (e) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur; and
(c)
the event specified in paragraph (f)(i)(B) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of paragraph (f)(ii) of said Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been executed on 
behalf of the Borrower, Sichuan and EHDC.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by EHDC, 
and is legally binding upon EHDC in accordance with its terms; and
(b)
that the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been duly authorized or ratified 
by the parties thereto and are legally binding upon said parties in accordance with 
their respective terms.
Page  8
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64l45 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Li Daoyu
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Nicholas C. Hope
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Page  9
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated             % of
                            (Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Civil Works              270,000,000        100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures
(2)  Goods                     85,000,000        100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures,
                                                 100% of local
                                                 expenditures (ex-
                                                 factory cost)
                                                 and 75% of local
                                                 expenditures for
                                                 other items procured
                                                 locally
(3)  Consultants'              12,500,000        100%
     services and
     training
(4)  Unallocated               32,500,000
                              ___________
        TOTAL                 400,000,000
                              ===========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$30,000,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date 
but after March 30, 1995. 
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for (a) goods and works under contracts 
not exceeding $5,000,000 equivalent; (b) training; (c) services provided by consulting 
firms under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent; and (d) services provided 
by individual consultants under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent, all 
under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist in the: (i) alleviation of acute 
power shortages in Sichuan in a least-cost manner through the completion of the Ertan 
Hydroelectric Scheme; (ii) further institutional development of EHDC as an autonomous, 
financially sound and commercially-oriented entity; (iii) promotion of competition 
through the development of market-oriented commercial arrangements for the sale of 
power generated under the Project; (iv) diversification of financing strategies for 
power development; and (v) transfer of modern technology for hydroelectric power 
Page  10
plants in the Borrower's
territory.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Carrying out of preparatory works, including construction of access roads and 
bridges, provision of water and electricity supply and communication links, and 
construction of plants and site facilities.
Part B:
Construction of a parabolic, double curvature arch dam about 240 meters high and 
about 775 meters long, across the Yalong River, together with an underground 
powerhouse complex, a log conveyance system and appurtenant works and structures.
Part C:
Provision and installation of six 550-megawatt generating units and associated 
electrical equipment, including a 550-kilovolt step-up substation.
Part D:
Resettlement of about 35,000 people affected by the Project.
Part E:
Establishment of a science station for environmental monitoring and carrying out 
of studies on the environment; and implementation of an environmental management 
program.
Part F:
Carrying out of a program to strengthen the organization, management and 
operations of EHDC, consisting of the: (1) carrying out of a study of EHDC's 
organization, management and staffing with a view to strengthening its operational and 
commercial activities and thereafter implementing the recommendations thereof; (2) 
development and introduction of suitable accounting and financial management systems 
designed to facilitate EHDC's transition to a financially autonomous and 
commercially-oriented enterprise and its access to domestic and foreign financial 
markets; (3) development of suitable commercially-oriented power sales agreements 
between EHDC and power purchasers; (4) implementation of training programs for staff 
of EHDC in institutional development, utility  management, financial planning, and 
operation and maintenance of hydroelectric power facilities; and (5) provision of 
computer hardware and software required for the above.
Part G:
(1)
Carrying out of studies on: (a) power pricing in Sichuan; (b) optimal power 
plant and reservoir operation; (c) safety of structures; (d) monitoring of energy 
dissipation facilities; and (e) powerhouse ventilation.
(2)
Carrying out of studies to prepare future power projects.
 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in dollars)*
Page  11
April 15, 2001                                       7,690,000
October 15, 2001                                     7,965,000
April 15, 2002                                       8,245,000
October 15, 2002                                     8,540,000
April 15, 2003                                       8,840,000
October 15, 2003                                     9,155,000
April 15, 2004                                       9,480,000
October 15, 2004                                     9,815,000
April 15, 2005                                      10,165,000
October 15, 2005                                    10,525,000
April 15, 2006                                      10,895,000
October 15, 2006                                    11,285,000
April 15, 2007                                      11,685,000
October 15, 2007                                    12,095,000
April 15, 2008                                      12,525,000
October 15, 2008                                    12,970,000
April 15, 2009                                      13,430,000
October 15, 2009                                    13,905,000
April 15, 2010                                      14,400,000
October 15, 2010                                    14,910,000
April 15, 2011                                      15,440,000
October 15, 2011                                    15,985,000
April 15, 2012                                      16,550,000
October 15, 2012                                    17,140,000
April 15, 2013                                      17,745,000
October 15, 2013                                    18,375,000
April 15, 2014                                      19,025,000
October 15, 2014                                    19,700,000
April 15, 2015                                      20,400,000
October 15, 2015                                    21,120,000
________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of 
withdrawal.  See General Conditions, Section 3.04 and 4.03.
 
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
 
The interest rate (expressed as a
percentage per annum) applicable
to the Loan on the day of
prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years 
0.15
before maturity
More than three years but
0.30
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.55
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not
0.80
more than sixteen years
before maturity
More than sixteen years but not
0.90
more than eighteen years
Page  12
before maturity
More than eighteen years before
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation"  means an amount equivalent to 
$25,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $15,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of $150,000,000. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank 
requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this 
Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On 
the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such 
amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of 
the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures.
 
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
Page  13
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
