Document of                           b
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.P-2746-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO INDIA
FOR THE
UTTAR PRADESH PUBLIC TUBEWELLS PROJECT
March 20, 1980
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents maY not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(As of March 14, 1980)
Rs 1.00         =     Paise 100
US$1.00         =     Rs 8.19
Rs 1.00         =     US$0.1221
Rs 1,000,D00   -      US$122,100
(Since September 24, 1975, the Rupee has been fixed against a
"basket" of currencies. As these currencies are floating, the
US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to change. Conver-
sions in the Staff Appraisal Report were made at US$1.00 to
Rs 8.40, which represents the projected exchange rate over
the disbursement period).
1FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED IN THIS REPORT
ha2        -    hectare
km         -    square kilometer
m          -    meter
m  h        -    cubic meter/hour
Mm         -    million cubic meters
Rs         -    Rupees



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH PUBLIC TUBEWELLS PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            India, acting by its President.
Beneficiary:         The State of Uttar Pradesh.
Amount:              US$18 million equivalent.
Terms:               Standard.
Relending Terms:    From GOI to Uttar Pradesh as part of Central
assistance to State development projects on terms
and conditions applicable at the time.
Project              The project would support the construction of 500
Description:        public tubewells in 12 Districts of the State of Uttar
Pradesh over a two-year period, with the objective of
demonstrating and evaluating the relative merits of a
number of technical and operational improvements to
the design of existing tubewell systems in the State.
Estimated Cost:                                           (US$ Millions)
Local   Foreign   Total
Land Acquisition                 0.38       -       0.38
Tubewell Construction           22.64      1.56    24.20
Buildings                        0.71     0.02      0.73
Vehicles and Equipment           0.76     0.09      0.85
Monitoring and Evaluation        0.12       -       0.12
Training                         0.01      -        0.01
Administration and
Engineering                    2.19      -        2.19
Preparation for Stage II         0.01       -       0.01
Base Cost                     26.82     1.67    28.49
Contingencies:  Physical         1.95     0.12      2.07
Price           6.74     0.39      7.13
Total Project Cost           35.51     2.18    37.69
Taxes and Duties                 1.69      -        1.69
Project Cost Net of
Taxes and Duties          33.82      2.18    36.00
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contenst may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Financing Plan: /1                                           (US$ Millions)
Local   Foreign   Total
IDA                              15.82      2.18    18.00
Government oE UP/GOI             18.00       -       18.00
33.82      2.18    36.00
Estimated                                                     (US$ Millions)
Disbursements:                                        FY81      FY82      FY83
Annual                             1.0       5.5      11.5
Cumulative                         1.0       6.5      18.0
Rate of Return:       36%.
Appraisal Report:   No. 2758-IN, dated March 20, 1980.
1/   Excluding taxes and duties.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO INDIA FOR THE
UTTAR PRADESH PUBLIC TUBEWELLS PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to India in an amount equivalent to US$18 million on stan-
dard IDA terms to help finance a project for the construction of 500 public
tubewells for irrigation in the State of Uttar Pradesh. The proceeds of the
credit would be channelled to the Government of Uttar Pradesh in accordance
with the Government of India's standard terms and arrangements for financing
State development projects. The exchange risk would be borne by the Govern-
ment of India.
PART I - THE ECONOMY I/
2.        An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(2431-IN dated April 9, 1979), was distributed to the Executive Directors
on April 13, 1979. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        India is a large, low-income country with 652 million people (in
mid-1979) whose average income is US$150 per annum. The agricultural sector
dominates the economy, employing over two-thirds of the labor force and con-
tributing over 40% of value added. Although smallholder agriculture provides
a fullsome subsistence to many, the land base is inadequate to provide all
families in rural areas with an adequate livelihood under current conditions,
and many who are landless or nearly landless have only an insecure grasp on
the means of existence. Industrialization in India has not been rapid enough
to bring about the economic transformation that has led to higher productivity
and rapid urbanization in some other countries. The urban population was 18%
of the total in 1960, 20% in 1970 and is 21% now. The share of manufacturing
has grown slowly and since the late 1960s has remained roughly constant at
16% of GDP.
4.        Economic growth has been slow in the past, with GDP growing at a
trend rate of 3.6% per annum from 1950 to 1975. Agricultural output grew at
2.4% per annum over the same period. Slow growth in agriculture acted as a
drag on overall growth, not only because of its sheer weight in the total, but
also because of the need to use scarce foreign exchange to import food. Growth
in industrial output has been higher at 5.2% per annum between 1950 and 1975,
but not as high as in many other developing countries nor as high as can be
expected.
1/   Parts I and II of this report are substantially the same as Parts I and II
of the President's Report for the Second Population Project (Report
No. P-2692-IN), dated January 24, 1980.



- 2 -
5.        This slow growth has persisted despite a quite creditable domestic
saving and investment performance. Domestic saving has grown from 9% of GDP
in 1951 to the current high level of 22%. Gross domestic investment has risen
from 10% to 21% of GDP over the same period. Foreign savings have never
financed a large portion of domestic investment and have financed no more than
5% of investment since 1970. Foreign savings have been important in financing
imports, and a shortage of foreign exchange has acted as a constraint on the
economy for most of the period. External assistance has been low both as a
percentage of GDP and in per capita terms. Net external assistance is less
than 2% of GDP now, has never risen above 3% and fell to less than 1% in the
early 1970s. Exports have grown relatively slowly--5.4% per annum in US
dollar terms and 2.8% per annum in volume terms between 1950/51 and 1975/76.
So far during the 1970s, exports have grown much more rapidly, by 18% per
annum in US dollar terms and 8% in volume terms over the period 1970/71 to
1976/77. During the same period imports grew by 17% per annum in US dollar
terms but only by 2% per annum :in volume terms, reflecting a 28% fall in
India's terms of trade over the period.
6.         India has the capacity to grow and develop at a more rapid pace than
has been achieved so far. Although the industrial sector is small compared to
the size of the total economy, it nevertheless has a highly diversified struc-
ture and is capable of manufacturing a wide variety of consumer and capital
goods, Basic infrastructure--irrigation, railways, telecommunications, roads
and ports--is extensive compared to many countries, although considerable
gaps remain. India is rich in human resources and institutional infrastruc-
ture, although there is much scope for improvement. India is reasonably
well-supplied with natural resources, not only land and water but minerals,
including oil, gas and coal. With good economic policies and sufficient
access to foreign savings, India should be able to manage these considerable
resources to accelerate the longer-term growth trend.
Recent Trends
7.         India has managed faster growth during the recent past.  Growth of
GDP in 1978/79 is estimated to be between 3% and 4%; this is a strong perform-
ance coming on top of the previous year's 7.2% growth in GDP and considering
agricultural output grew less than 2%. Even this agricultural growth is
highly creditable given the previous years' record harvests in most crops.
Industrial output grew by 8-10% in 1978/79. Over the four years, 1975/76 to
1978/79, growth in real GDP, agricultural output and industrial output has
averaged 5.3%, 4.4% and 6.9% per annum, respectively. Although these rates
represent growth over the depressed base of the early 1970s, they are signi-
ficantly higher than the longer-term past trend and comparable to the target
growth rates for the medium-term future. Buoyant domestic demand, upward
adjustment of depressed agriculture prices and world inflation have lead to
significant increases in prices during the first half of 1979.  The wholesale
price index increased by 16% between mid February and September. Together,
food, food products, crude petroleum and mineral oils contributed over two-
thirds of this increase. However, prices of almost all commodities have
moved up significantly during the first months of 1979/80. Although in part
reflecting a seasonal rise in food and food products, the trends observed do
indicate a distinct departure from the relative price stability of the past



- 3 -
four years. The inflationary trend is likely to continue during the second
half of 1979/80, although at a slower rate, given the July 1979 price in-
creases in oil, steel and coal and continuing world inflation. Although the
current inflationary pressures need not seriously impair medium-term growth
prospects, given available aggregate resources and production capacity, sig-
nificant improvements are likely to be required in the organization of key
sectors if an economic slowdown is to be avoided.
8.        The 1978/79 foodgrain crop exceeded the 1977/78 record crop of
126 million tons, and many non-food crops did well. The 1978 monsoon rains
were timely and adequate, although severe flooding in some areas destroyed
both lives and property and ruined some crops. The basic inputs into agricul-
tural production continued their rapid growth of the recent past. Additions
to area under irrigation have doubled from 1.3 million hectares a year during
the five-year period ending 1973/74 to 2.6 million hectares a year during
1977/78 and 1978/79. Fertilizer consumption in 1978/79 reached 5 million
nutrient tons, an increase of 18% over 1977/78. This growth has been impres-
sive, particularly since it followed two successive years of very high growth--
18% in 1976/77 and 26% in 1977/78--so that fertilizer consumption in 1978/79
was 75% higher than in 1975/76. However, prospects for agricultural produc-
tion in 1979/80 are not good. India experienced a severe drought in 1979.
The monsoon was delayed and subsequent rainfall was deficient throughout the
country. Consequent damage to the kharif crop has been substantial. Tenta-
tive estimates indicate a shortfall of 13-15 million tons in kharif crop from
last year's level of 78.7 million tons. Delayed sowing, lack of soil moisture,
low levels of water in tanks and wells as well as power cutbacks and recent
shortages in diesel fuel for irrigation pumps are adversely affecting the rabi
crop. Depending on the performance of the rabi crop, total shortfall in grain
crop is expected to be 17-20 million tons below the 1978/79 level.
9.        The growth of industrial output in 1978/79 came from a sharp rise
in the output of food industries, particularly sugar, a modest increase in
textiles, important increases in the hitherto depressed engineering sector
and the revival of demand for consumer durables. Production would have been
still higher but for recurring shortages of steel, coal, railway wagons and
electric power and capacity constraints in fertilizer, cement, vegetable oils
and petroleum products. Labor unrest also constrained output in some indus-
tries, particularly in textiles, steel and mining; man-days lost in 1978 ex-
ceeded the high level of 1977 and only in 1974 were the number of days lost
higher. Power production increased by 12% but continuing shortages in many
States necessitated power cuts and curbs on new demand. During the first
half of 1979/80 supply bottlenecks in basic industrial inputs began to retard
overall industrial production. In addition to coal and steel, cement, sugar,
cotton textile and cotton yarn output fell below last year's levels. Strong
demand has continued to sustain other important industries such as fertilizers
and chemicals, but it appears increasingly unlikely that these can counter-
balance the constrained sectors.
10.       The trade deficit grew and both the current account surplus and the
balance of payments surplus of recent years shrank in 1978/79. The import bill
is expected to reach US$8.4 billion, which brings the average rate of increase
in US dollar terms to 19% per annum since 1976/77.  Non-foodgrain imports rose



- 4 -
even more dramatically by 28% per annum over the past two years. The growth
of imports and the liberalization of import control policies represents a
desirable adjustment to enhancecd foreign resources. Although exports grew
much faster during the 1970s through 1976/77 than earlier, export growth
in 1977/78 and 1978/79 has slowed somewhat. After rising by 12% in 1975/76
and 23% in 1976/77 in US dollar terms (virtually all growth in export volume),
export earnings rose by only 9% in 1977/78 (with little or no volume growth)
and an estimated 8% in 1978/79 (with 5-8% volume growth). Although part of
the decline is attributable to unfavorable conditions in foreign markets,
export profitability has been allowed to deteriorate somewhat. With net
invisible receipts in 1978/79 estimated the same as in 1977/78--US$2 billion--
the widened trade deficit resulted in a significantly reduced current account
surplus, from US$1 billion in 1977/78 to US$400 million in 1978/79. Despite
some increase in net aid disbursements from their low level in 1977/78, the
increase in reserves declined from about US$2 billion in 1977/78 to about
US$1.5 billion in 1978/79 to reach US$7.4 billion. Exports during the first
three months of this fiscal year are 32% higher than the same quarter of
last year. Although part of the increase is due to the dollar depreciation
and recovery in coffee prices, the prospects of sustaining a volume growth
of at least 7% during 1979/80 appear good. Imports in the first quarter of
1979/80 are around 7% higher than the same period of the previous year. How-
ever, the impact of recent increases in petroleum prices are only partially
reflected in this figure. India's total POL import bill for 1979/80 is
likely to reach $3.2 billion, $800 million higher than earlier estimates.
As a result, there should be a sharp deceleration in the rate of growth of
reserves sufficient to significantly reduce the number of months of imports
covered by reserves during 1980.
Development Prospects
11.       The faster growth of th-e recent past has been made possible by the
much-increased inward flow of foreign exchange from increased exports, workers'
remittances and external assistance; greatly improved agricultural performance;
the impressive saving effort; the liberalization of import controls; and ex-
panded public expenditure on development programs. Although sustaining the
high growth rates of the recent past in the medium-term is by no means assured,
especially if there is a repeated drought in 1980, India has a level of re-
sources with which to manage the economy that had not existed before. The
comfortable foreign exchange position, and the large foodgrain stocks have
greatly eased the pressures to deal with short-term crises and freed India's
economic managers to continue planning a more ambitious course for the economy.
The policy improvements needed to achieve the better performance now possible
have begun in some important areas but in others have yet to be initiated.
12.       The Draft Plan, which was released in March 1978 and is expected
to be finalized and approved by the National Development Council later this
year, sets out India's development strategy for the five years 1978/79 to
1982/83. The principal objectives of the Draft Plan are to achieve within
a period of ten years: (i) the removal of unemployment and significant
underemployment, (ii) an appreciable rise in the standard of living of the
poorest sections of the population, and (iii) provision by the Government of
some of the basic needs of the pe!ople in these low-income groups. While the



- 5 -
Plan recognizes the importance of achieving more rapid expansion of the economy
than in the past to meet the employment and welfare objectives, the targeted
rate of growth at 4.7% per annum is lower than projected in most earlier Plans.
According to the planners, this reflects in part the increased emphasis given
to the distribution rather than the level of income generation, and in part
the need for greater realism in the macro-economic assumptions underlying the
Plan. While the trade-off between growth and distribution is not immediately
obvious from the Plan model, the adoption of a more realistic growth target
is in itself well justified -- even at 4.7% per annum, the targeted growth
rate is higher than actually achieved during any of the previous Plan periods,
and is substantially above the longer-term trend growth rate.
13.       In agriculture, despite the 1979 drought, economic policies, dev-
elopment programs and secular trends all seem favorable for resuming a period
of sustained high growth after 1979/80. Fertilizer prices have been reduced
progressively from their very high level in early 1975 and despite some fall
in market foodgrain prices, the fertilizer: foodgrain price ratio has fallen
to a clearly profitable range. Good harvests and higher farm incomes provide
the money to finance higher fertilizer purchases, creating something of a
virtuous circle. Pricing policies for many crops--rice, wheat, sugarcane,
pulses and others--have concentrated recently on supporting prices to maintain
incentives to farmers rather than trying to administratively control prices
to contain inflation. The ambitious irrigation and rural electrification
investment program in the new Five-Year Plan, if fully funded, will help pro-
vide the water control needed to increase yields directly and to induce further
productivity-increasing investments. The effective reorganization of the
agricultural extension service will raise yields as it takes hold gradually
across India. Finally, there are several heartening trends in foodgrain pro-
duction: one is the steady growth of area planted to high-yielding varieties
of rice; another is the growing adoption of summer rice cultivation in the
traditional wheat-producing areas (Punjab and Haryana). These two trends
along with the other favorable developments have caused rice production to
rise impressively in the last two years. Another good omen for foodgrain
production is the rapid growth of winter wheat cropping in traditional rice
areas (West Bengal, Assam and Orissa).
14.       In industry, despite some uncertainty in industrial policy and
the lack of strong policy stimulus to improve efficiency in the industrial
structure, recently strengthened demand forces, increase in planned invest-
ment along with adroit input supply management should allow the industrial
sector to continue to grow at the improved rate of the recent past, at least
for the near- and medium-term future. Over the longer term, growth of indus-
trial production at or above the rate experienced in the recent past--e.g.,
7% per annum during the last four years--will require some changes in policy
to induce a more efficient industrial structure. Recent industrial policies
have sent mixed signals to private manufactures and investors.  Some, such as
reserving certain lines of production for small-scale enterprises or prohibit-
ing the location of new firms in municipal areas, have been restrictive.
Others have been stimulative, such as the raising of the exemption limit of
industrial licensing for capital investment or favorable adjustments in the
pricing and production controls in several major industries, including cement,
steel, and textiles. In addition the liberalization of import controls is of



- 6 -
considerable benefit to increasing industrial production. However, there are
some worrisome supply shortages that are currently threatening continued rapid
industrial growth. Many can be handled through imports, if needed, as long
as India maintains a healthy foreign exchange position. However, two supply
constraints likely to persist in the future -- namely, rail transport and
power -- cannot be eased through imports. The new Plan contains a major power
investment program to increase capacity rapidly. The railway investment pro-
gram is more modest. Another crucial input into both of these sectors, and
into most other major sectors, is coal, whose supply needs careful management.
15.       The main reason for expecting sustained growth in industrial pro-
duction is improvement in demand prospects for each of the four major sources
of industrial demand. The first: is market demand for manufactured consumption
goods, which is expected to pick up in response to the increase in disposable
income due in particular to improvement in agricultural output. Although its
effect has been delayed somewhat, this broad-based demand is finally making
itself felt and is expected to continue into the future unless the growth
in agricultural output is constrained by repeated droughts. Another source
of demand is public expenditure on development projects, which has grown in
a major way in the last few years and is scheduled to continue to grow under
the new Five-Year Plan. A third source of growth is export demand for indus-
trial goods. There has been a sustained growth in the export of manufactures
such as engineering goods, garments, gems, finished leather and some chemical
products. This export growth should continue in the future with proper policy
support.  A final source of growing demand is private investment by both the
household and corporate sectors.  There are as yet only a few signs of this
growth, such as increased disbursement by term lending institutions and in-
creased use of inputs; investments should become stronger as growth in the
other sources of demand continues and as capacity limitations begin to con-
strain production in more industries.  The net result of increasing demand
should be continued high growth in industrial production in the near and
medium term within existing policies.
16.       Import policy is an area where there has been significant improve-
ment in the recent past; but some improvement in export policy is required
to raise incentives to export. India has liberalized import control policy
significantly in the past two years and imports have responded. Future growth
in imports, and in the benefits of price stability, enhanced production and
increased efficiency which imports bring, will depend to a great extent on
how the now liberalized policy is administered. A delicate touch is required
to yield the benefits without bringing about undesirable damage to vulnerable
industries. India has the foreign resources to allow imports to grow at the
rapid rates of the past two years for a few more years and continue to relax
the very severe restraints imposed on the economy during the early 1970s by
suppression of imports. But, given the import liberalization undertaken so
far and the expected growth of irnports, by the end of the Plan period (1982/
83), foreign exchange reserves w.ill have fallen to six months of imports, or
less, and some adjustment in the balance of payments will be required. Part
of the adjustment will very likely be a reduction in the growth rate of
imports; the import bill need not: grow 15% in volume terms indefinitely to
sustain the target growth in GDP, Part of the adjustment must come from the
achievement of a growth rate of exports in the vicinity of 7-8% or higher in



volume terms. Faster export growth is needed not only to provide the foreign
exchange to sustain the rapid growth in imports but also to allow foreign
demand and competition to improve the efficiency of Indian industry. Finally,
part of the adjustment should come from an increased net transfer of external
assistance.
17.       India's population policy continues to aim at reducing the birth
R          rate to 30 births per thousand people by 1983 through completely voluntary
acceptance of fertility control methods supplied by a family welfare system
integrated with the supply of basic health, maternal and child health and
nutrition services. Since 1977, the family planning achievements in terms
of number of acceptors have been below that needed to achieve the 1983 goal
or even to keep the birth rate from rising above its current level. The low
performance is primarily the result of the reaction to the harsh birth control
policies introduced during 1976. Since then family planning performance has
been gradually returning to the rising trend which was discernible before it
was disrupted by the intensive drive of 1976/77. Given continued support for
the program of family welfare, Bank estimates indicate that India's rate of
population increase should remain below 2% per annum and fall to 1.5% by about
the year 2000. Despite the declining trend in the rate of population increase,
a net production rate (NRR) equal to one (replacement level) would only be
achieved around the year 2020. At this time, the total population is estimated
to reach 1.2 billion persons, an increase of about 84% over the mid-1979 level
of 652 million.
18.       In addition to stimulating overall economic growth and constraining
population growth, reduction of poverty in India requires special attention
to ways of raising the income and productivity of low-income groups. More than
one-third of the world's poor live in India and more than 80% of the Indian
poor belong to the rural households of landless laborers and small farmers.
The prospects for alleviating their poverty by providing these families with
more land are not good because of the virtual absence of uncultivated arable
land, the slow progress in implementing land reform and the limited amount of
land that would be available if land reform were carried out. Estimates of
the amount of land that would be available if land reform were carried out vary
greatly. One estimate is that there would be about 9 million hectares avail-
able for distribution. This compares to roughly 45 million families in the two
poorest groups in rural India: landless families and families owning less than
one hectare of land, whose average holding is 0.31 hectares. An approach to
the amelioration of poverty more promising than land reform is the creation
of more employment opportunities for the landless and small farmers in rural
areas. Although the basic thrust must come from the market by a more rapidly
increasing agricultural output, there will be a role for employment-intensive
rural works programs. The new Plan provides for increased rural employment
both through direct employment schemes and through ambitious programs of
investment in rural infrastructure in addition to the more general rural
development programs.



- 8 -
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
19.       Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 57 loans and 118 development
credits to India totalling US$2,529 million and US$7,263 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$1,044 million had
been repaid, and US$3,186 million was still undisbursedi as of January 31,
1980. Annex II contains a summary statement of disbursements as of January 31,
1980, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
20.       Since 1959, IFC has made 18 commitments in India totalling US$72.6
million, of which US$17.4 million has been repaid, US$7.6 million sold and
US$6.9 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$40.7 million, US$31.6 mil-
lion represents loans and US$9.1 million equity. A summary statement of
IFC operations as of January 31, 1980, is also included in Annex II (page
5).
21.       In recent years, the emphasis of Bank Group lending has been on
agriculture. The Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor
irrigation and other on-farm investments through agricultural credit opera-
tions. Major irrigation, marketing, seed development, and dairying are other
agricultural activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank Group
has been active in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer sector
and, through its sizeable assistance to development finance institutions, in
a wide range of geographically scattered medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises. IDA financing of industrial raw materials and components for
selected priority sectors has been instrumental in facilitating better
capacity utilization in industry.  The Bank Group has also been active in
supporting infrastructure development for power, telecomimunications, and
railways. Family planning, water supply development, and urban investments
have also received Bank Group support in recent years.
22.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, industry, power, urban development and water
supply remains highly relevant. Projects designed to foster agricultural
production through the provision of essential inputs such as credit for
on-farm investments, improved water management and intensification and stream-
lining of extension systems, form an important aspect of the Bank Group's
program for the next several years. Special emphasis will be given to proj-
ects benefitting small farmers. Projects supporting water supply, sewerage,
and urban development also form an integral part of the Bank's lending
strategy to India for the next several years. Lending in support of infra-
structure and industrial investments will focus on agriculture-, export- and
energy-related projects.
23.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in large part to the response of the aid community, India has success-
fully adjusted to the changed world price situation. However, the basic need
for foreign assistance, to augment domestic resources, stimulate investment



- 9 -
and accelerate economic growth, remains. As in the past, Bank Group assist-
ance for projects in India should include, as appropriate, the financing of
local expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods because of
the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic capital goods industry. Con-
sequently, the foreign exchange component tends to be small in most projects.
This is particularly the case in such high-priority sectors as agriculture,
irrigation, rural water supply and medium- and small-scale industry.
24.       Although the growth prospects of the economy have improved, India's
poverty and needs are such that as much as possible of India's external
capital requirements should be provided on concessionary terms.  Accordingly,
the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and should continue
to be, provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA funds that can reasonably
be allocated to India remains small in relation to India's needs for external
support, and India may be regarded as creditworthy for some supplemental
Bank lending. The ratio of India's debt service to the level of exports was
12% in 1978/79 and is projected to remain below 20% through 1995/96. As of
January 31, 1980, outstanding loans to India held by the Bank totaled US$1,525
million, of which US$600 million remained to be disbursed, leaving a net
amount outstanding of US$925 million.
25.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements,
and 12% of net disbursements as compared with an estimated 62%, 27% and 38%,
respectively, in 1978/79. On March 31, 1978, India's outstanding and dis-
bursed external public debt was US$14.8 billion, of which the Bank Group's
share was US$4.3 billion or 29% (IDA's US$3.7 billion and IBRD's US$0.6 bil-
lion). Because Bank Group assistance to India is predominantly in the form
of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly. In 1977/78,
about 16% of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank Group.
PART III - AGRICULTURE AND IRRIGATION IN UTTAR PRADESH
26.       The State of Uttar Pradesh covers an area of 298,000 km  in north-
eastern India and has a population of approximately 100 million, 15% of the
total population in India. Supported by a primarily agrarian economy, with
agriculture contributing 55% of the State's income and employing 78% of the
workforce, Uttar Pradesh has one of the lowest per capita incomes of all of
India's States -- at Rs 870 (approximately US$99) in 1976/77, higher only than
that of the State of Bihar. Between 1960/61 and 1976/77, the State's income
grew at a rate of only 2.2% per annum, well below the national average of 3.1%.
Per capita income during this period increased by only 0.5% per annum.
27.       By most traditional indicators, Uttar Pradesh is one of the least
advanced States in India. The literacy rate, at 21.8%, is significantly below
the national average of 30%. The infant mortality rate, at 128/1,000 live
births, is the highest among the sixteen major States and the average life
expectancy (43 years) one of the lowest in the country. Similarly, per capita



10 -
government expenditure on health in Uttar Pradesh is the lowest in India, as
is the number of doctors and health centers per 1,000 population. A large
State with a population which exceeds that of most developing countries, Uttar
Pradesh clearly faces serious development problems.
The Agricultural Sector in Uttar Pradesh
28.        The State divides naturally into three physical zones:  the Himalayas,
the Gangetic Plain and the Central Indian Plateau. The Himalayan region, in
the north, is of rugged topography, relatively sparsely populated and largely
unsuitable for agriculture.  The Gangetic Plain crosses the State from north
to southeast and is the most heavily populated and cultivated area of Uttar
Pradesh. The southern edge of the State rises onto the Central Indian
Plateau, only a portion of which is suitable for cultivation.
29.       About 18.2 million ha of land are under cultivation in Uttar Pradesh,
most of this in the Gangetic Plain. The average farm size is 1.2 ha, although
two-thirds of all farm holdings are under one hectare in area. Farm holdings
are particularly small in the eastern region, where rainfall is relatively
high and population dense, with larger holdings prevalent in the Himalayan
area and the Central Indian Plateau, where the terrain is rough and the soil
infertile. The climate and soils in the State are suitable for growing paddy,
maize, bajra, and sorghum in the kharif (summer, rainy) season and wheat and
barley in the rabi (winter, dry) season. Approximately 66% of the State's
cropped area is planted to cereal crops, 12% to pulses, and 22% to non-food
crops, principally oilseeds and sugarcane.
30.       Performance in the agricultural sector in Uttar Pradesh in the years
since Independence (1948) has bee!n mixed at best. Production of foodgrains
grew at an average annual rate of approximately 2% between 1950/51 and 1977/78,
barely keeping pace with population growth. Despite this discouraging perform-
ance in overall foodgrain production, production trends for certain individual
crops have been somewhat more encouraging. Increases in cropped area and
yields in the 1950's led to rates of growth for rice and wheat production of
5.2% and 4.8% per annum, respectively. While rice production stagnated in the
1960's, wheat production grew at a rate of 9.9% per annum and maize production
at a rate of 9.7% per annum, due largely to the introduction of improved
varieties and the accelerated development of private tubewells during this
period. Although the growth in wheat production has slowed to 4.1% per annum
in the 1970's, rice production has picked up, growing at an annual rate of 4.7%
between 1971/72 and 1977/78. Unfortunately, however, the rising trends in
rice and wheat production have been to a large extent offset by declining
production in other major cereal crops, which together with pulses account for
about 60% of total foodgrain produaction.
Irrigation in Uttar Pradesh
31.        Surface Water Resources and Utilization.  Uttar Pradesh lies within
the catchment areas of four major tributaries of the Ganges River system.
The rivers within the Gangetic Plain are fed by a combination of run-off from
snow-melt in the Himalayas, monsoon run-off, and groundwater drainage, ensur-
ing perennial flow in the main river courses, although not in all tributaries.



- 11 -
Although no thorough survey has been undertaken, it is estimated that the total
amount of Iurface water available in the Ganges basin is approximately
510,000 Mm per annum. Approximately 70% of the flow passes through Uttar
Pradesh.
32.       Surface water irrigation in Uttar Pradesh is provided largely through
seven major canal systems fed by water diverted from tributaries of the Ganges.
Together these systems serve more than four-fifths of the total area irrigated
by surface water. They are supplemented by numerous minor canal systems, tanks,
and pump lift irrigation from rivers and lakes. In 1977/78, the gross surface
irrigation capacity in the State stood at 6.2 million ha, 50% of the total
surface irrigation potential of 12.4 million ha.
33.       Groundwater Resources and Utilization.  The Gangetic Plain is under-
lain by a highly prolific aquifer system formed of alluvial deposits. The
State Groundwater Directorate in Uttar Pradesh has conservatively estimated
the net recoverable groundwater resources available to the State at 58,000 Mm
in the average year. Total grouidwater extraction through public and private
wells was estimated at 29,000 Mm in 1976/77, or 50% of net recoverable
groundwater resources.
34.       In 1976/77, groundwater irrigation served 4.8 million ha in the
State. Three-quarters of this area was served by tubewells (public and
private) and the remaining one-quarter by private dugwells. Much of the ground-
water in the State has been privately developed. At present, there are about
one million private tubewells in the State, serving three-quarters of the area
irrigated by tubewells, and about 15,000 public tubewells, serving the remain-
ing one-quarter of tubewell-irrigated cropland. Private dugwell and tubewell
development, then, accounts for over 80% of the area currently irrigated by
groundwater in Uttar Pradesh.
35.       Trends in Irrigation Development.  Between 1950/51 and the mid-
1960's, surface and groundwater development contributed equally to the expan-
sion of irrigated area in Uttar Pradesh. However, since 1965/66 groundwater
development, the most quickly exploitable and assured source of irrigation
and that which is within the capacity of private as well as public investors,
has accounted for virtually all of the increase in net irrigated area in the
State. Thus, in 1976/77 about 58% of the total net irrigated area was supplied
by groundwater, as against 34% provided with surface irrigation. The remain-
ing 8% was irrigated with water supplied from storage tanks or pump lift
schemes of varying scales.
36.       Despite the abundant overall water resources available in Uttar
Pradesh and the considerable proportion of those resources as yet unexploited,
only about 40% of the gross cropped area in the State is under irrigation. In
view of the generally poor performance of agriculture in the State over the
past thirty years, the importance of agricultural growth to the economy of
this largely agricultural State and the potential for substantially increased
productivity through irrigation, the State Government has focussed considerable



- 12 -
attention in recent Five-Year Plans on the importance of accelerating the devel-
opment of irrigation. The Government has placed particular emphasis on public
and private development of grounclwater resources.  Expanded rural credit pro-
grams and technical assistance are aimed at encouraging the development of
approximately 100,000 private tubewells per annum, while the Government's own
investment program provides for the construction of 1,000-1,500 new public
tubewells each year. At the same time, plans are underway for the expansion
and modernization of existing surface irrigation schemes in the State.
37.       Bank Group Lending in Uttar Pradesh.  Uttar Pradesh has benefitted
from a number of Bank Group-assisted projects in the population, water supply,
power and agricultural sectors. Chief among these are the First Population
Project (Credit 312-IN of June 14, 1972); the Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and
Sewerage Project (Credit 585-IN cf September 25, 1975); the First and Second
Rural Electrification Projects (Credits 572-IN of July 23, 1975 and 911-IN of
June 21, 1979); the Singrauli Thermal Power Project (Credit 685-IN of April 1,
1977); the Uttar Pradesh Tubewell Irrigation Project (Credit 8-IN of Septem-
ber 6, 1961); the Second Grain Storage Project (Credit 747-IN of January 6,
1978); the Second National Seeds Project (Credit 816-IN of July 17, 1978); the
Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry Project (Credit 925-IN of June 21, 1979) and the
First, Second, and Third Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
Projects (Credits 540-IN of April 28, 1975, 715-IN of June 1, 1977 and 947-IN
of August 20, 1979). Of these, the most relevant to the proposed credit are
the rural electrification and thermal power projects, which are designed to
augment the electric power supply and distribution network in Uttar Pradesh
(among other States) and will therefore increase the State's capacity to pro-
vide power for irrigation pumps, the Agricultural Refinance and Development
Corporation Projects, which provide credit for private tubewell development,
and the Uttar Pradesh Tubewell Irrigation Project, discussed below.
38.       The first Uttar Pradesh Tubewell Irrigation Project, supported by an
IDA credit of US$6 million, financed the construction of 800 public tubewells
between September 1961 and March 1964. While implementation of the well con-
struction program was satisfactory, a project review mission fielded in early
1966, which examined wells constracted under the project as well as wells con-
structed by the Government outside of the project, found a number of problems
in tubewell operation in Uttar Pradesh, which caused the agricultural and
economic benefits realized to fall short of potential. Chief among the
operational problems were the following.
(a) Brick-lined and earthen channels for conveyance of water from the
tubewells to the farmers' fields were poorly constructed, permitting excessive
water losses. In particular, farmers were expected to construct channels of
considerable length from the main distribution system to their fields them-
selves, without adequate design assistance.
(b) The average command area of public tubewells (approximately 150-
200 ha) was too large, with respect to the capacity of the wells, to permit
intensive agriculture.



- 13 -
(c) Procedures for water allocation were weak, which led to inequity
and unreliability in the supply of water to farmers.
(d) Systems for operation and maintenance of the wells were inadequate,
leading to frequent breakdowns, delayed repairs, delays in start-up of wells
after power inzerruptions and interruptions of service due to absence of the
well operators.
(e) Inadequate power supply in certain zones combined with unscheduled
short power outages and voltage drops (which damaged pumps and/or necessitated
frequent manual restart) reduced running hours for many tubewells far below
potential.
39.       The combined effect of these deficiencies was to reduce the water
supplied from each well substantially and to render that water supply highly
unreliable, thus inhibiting farmers from adopting the more productive, in-
tensive cultivation practices which have been utilized profitably in areas
where water supply is adequate and reliable. It is these deficiencies the
proposed project is designed to address.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
40.       The proposed project was appraised by a mission which visited India
in August 1979. A report entitled "Appraisal of the Uttar Pradesh Public
Tubewells Project" (No. 2758-IN, dated March 20, 1980) is being distributed
separately to the Executive Directors. Negotiations were held in Washington
in March 1980.  The Government of India and the Government of Uttar Pradesh
were represented by a delegation coordinated by Mr. B.S. Lamba, Deputy Secre-
tary, Department of Economic Affairs, Government of India.
Project Description
41.       The project is designed to demonstrate and evaluate the relative
merits of a number of technical and operational improvements to the design
of existing public tubewell systems in Uttar Pradesh. It would support the
construction of 500 public tubewells of three basic alternative designs over
a two-year period (1980-82). Detailed monitoring and evaluation would be
carried out in order to allow a fully substantiated demonstration of the
impact of the proposed design improvements and to reveal the relative effec-
tiveness of the design alternatives introduced. A small fund (US$10,000
equivalent) for preparation of a second-stage project to introduce new tube-
well designs throughout the State would also be provided under the project.
The project would be implemented in 12 of the 56 Districts of Uttar Pradesh,
representing the full range of agro-climatic conditions in the State.
42.       Tubewell and Distribution System Design.  The principal design
improvements to be introduced in project-financed tubewells are summarized
below.



- 14 -
(a)  Command areas for wells with a discharge of 150 m 3/h (the discharge
of most existing public tubewells in Uttar Pradesh) would be reduced to 75-
100 ha, as against a current average of 150-200 ha, to permit a change from
the use of irrigation as a simple protection against drought to the use of
irrigation for more intensive agriculture.  In addition, 40% of projert wells
would be designed for increased discharge levels (i.e., 225 and 300 m /h)
with proportionately larger command areas. The expected effect of this
innovation would be a significant reduction in the cost of tubewell system
investment per hectare irrigated (from Rs 3,900/ha for smaller wells to
Rs 3,300/ha for the proposed larger wells).
(b) Pumps would be automat(ed to obviate the necessity for a pump
operator to be present to start the pump or re-start it after power inter-
ruptions. Pumps would also be f:itted with protective devices to prevent
damage to the motors due to voltage fluctuations or power cuts and with
electronic meters to permit contiLnual monitoring of pump operation.
(c) Elevated regulating tanks would be installed at 90% of project
wells to permit automatic starting and stopping of the pumps in response to
the level of water in the tank and, in turn, the rate of off-take in the dis-
tribution system. This would prevent spillage at times when the distribution
system was operating at less than the full discharge of the well.
(d) Finally, water would be conveyed from the well to outlets serving
no more than 3-5 ha each through underground pipes, in order to prevent the
excessive water loss occurring ir.n existing tubewell systems and the delay in
tubewell construction which typically occurs due to disputes over right-of-
way for distribution channels. Individual farmers' plots would be no more
than 150 m from outlets of the piped system and would be connected to these
outlets by properly designed earthen channels constructed under the project.
43.       Criteria for Well Location.  Sites for project-financed tubewells
would be selected according to criteria agreed between the Association and
the Government of Uttar Pradesh (Section 2.07(a), Project Agreement). These
criteria would ensure, inter alia, that project-financed public tubewells are
constructed in areas where no alternative State Government irrigation system
exists and where private tubewell development is inhibited either by the lack
of financial resources of local cultivators or the depth of the groundwater
level.
44.       Water Allocation.  A rotational system of water allocation, designed
by the engineer in charge of each tubewell, would govern delivery of water to
individual outlets (serving 3-5 ha and approximately 5 farmers each). Only
one outlet per distribution system loop would be open at any one time, thus
fixing the rate of water delivery and allowing the quantity delivered to be
defined on a time basis. Water deliveries would be allocated to each outlet
according to the size of the command area of the outlet. Assisted by the tube-
well engineer and an agricultural officer, farmers within each outlet would
form a committee and elect a leader to supervise water distribution within the
outlet command on the basis of an agreed schedule. Leaders of all outlet comr
mittees would select, from among their ranks, five representatives to sit on the
Tubewell Committee, which would be responsible for coordination and cooperation



- 15 -
among outlet committees, adjudication of disputes, and oversight and adjust-
ment, in concert with the tubewell engineer, of the rotational schedule.
45.       Operation and Maintenance.  The operation and maintenance function
would be separated from the task of well construction for the project-
supported tubewell program (see para 48 below). Tubewell operation and main-
tenance would be carried out on the basis of procedures and criteria agreed
between the Association and the Government of Uttar Pradesh (Section 2.07(a),
Project Agreement) which would, inter alia, assure the provision of one skilled
mechanic plus assistants for each cluster of approximately 20 wells, the
establishment of a properly equipped workshop (including adequate means of
transport and spare parts stock) for each Operations and Maintenance Division,
and the regular (semi-annual) check of pump discharge and well drawdown at all
tubewells to ensure adequate preventive maintenance. The State Electricity
Board would provide power to each tubewell pump unit no more than two months
after the completion of the piped distribution system (Section 2.07(b),
Project Agreement).
46.       Training.  In order to ensure proper construction and operation of
the new-design tubewell systems, the project would support in-service training
of the engineering staff in charge of well construction as well as short train-
ing courses conducted at the State's G.P. Pantnagar University of Agriculture
and Technology for staff of the Operation and Maintenance Divisions. In-
service training for construction engineers would place particular emphasis
on the design and layout of the proposed piped distribution system. A satis-
factory training program to be set up for operation and maintenance staff
would cover operation and maintenance of the pump and pipe system, design of
field channels, land preparation for irrigation, water management at the field
level, cultivator organization, and basic cultivation practices for the prin-
cipal crops grown in the tubewell command area (Section 2.08, Project Agreement).
47.       Monitoring and Evaluation.  Monitoring and evaluation would be a
critical element of the proposed project, due to the importance of evaluating
the relative merits of the design alternatives incorporated in the tubewell
systems to be constructed under the project. Therefore, a special Monitoring
and Evaluation Division has been established in the Department of Irrigation.
This division includes an Executive Engineer, two Assistant Engineers, two
Agricultural Officers and a Statistician, assisted by a staff of Junior Engi-
neers, Agricultural Assistants, and Assistant Economists. The Monitoring and
Evaluation Division would gather and analyze information on (i) the actual
investment, supervision, and operation and maintenance costs of each construc-
tion alternative, as compared with the costs of existing tubewell systems;
(ii) water use and water losses for each new construction alternative and
for existing tubewell systems; (iii) well yield and water table fluctuations;
(iv) power availability at well sites and running hours of each pumping unit;
(v) irrigation practices in each tubewell system and pre-project and post-
project yields in tubewell commands; and (vi) farmers' reaction to water
allocation procedures introduced under the project. In addition to the
activities of the Monitoring and Evaluation Division, a baseline and post-
project agro-economic survey of the project area and selected control areas
would be conducted by the Uttar Pradesh Development Systems Corporation as the



- 16 -
basis for a full evaluation of the impact of the project on agricultural
practices in command areas of project-financed tubewells.
Project Implementation
48.       The project would be implemented by the Tubewell Wing of the Irriga-
tion Department of the Government of Uttar Pradesh. Two newly created Circles
within this organization, with eight Divisions, would be responsible for
construction and operation of the 500 project-financed tubewells. In light
of the strengthened operation and maintenance procedures required under the
project, one Division in each of the engineering Circles would specialize in
tubewell operation and maintenance. This Division would be responsible for
assisting farmers in construction of field channels, for designing and super-
vising rotational water distribut:ion systems in each tubewell command area,
and for repair and maintenance of tubewell systems, and would include an
agricultural staff (on deputation from the Department of Agriculture) in
addition to a staff of engineers. Construction and drilling Divisions would
thus be relieved of responsibility for well operation and maintenance.
49.       Monitoring and evaluation would be coordinated by a special Division
(see para 47 above) at the Tubewell Wing's headquarters, under the supervision
of the Additional Chief Engineer. Project-supported training programs would
be carried out by senior officers of the Tubewell Wing (in the case of train-
ing for engineers responsible for design and layout of distribution systems)
and by the State's G.P. Pantnagar University of Agriculture and Technology
(in the case of training for operations and maintenance staff). Finally,
preparation of a second-stage program of construction of tubewells of improved
designs would be carried out by the headquarters staff of the Tubewell Wing.
Project Costs and Financing
50.       Total project cost is estimated at US$37.7 million equivalent,
including US$1.7 million in taxes and duties. The foreign exchange component
of project cost is estimated at US$2.2 million equivalent, approximately 6% of
total project cost. Physical contingencies averaging 8% have been applied to
civil works costs. Price contingtencies have been applied variably and amount
to 19% of total project cost. The principal components of project cost, net
of contingencies, are tubewell construction (US$24.20 million), buildings
(US$0.73 million), vehicles and equipment (US$0.85 million), land acquisi-
tion (US$0.38 million) and monitoring and evaluation (US$0.12 million). The
balance of project cost consists of training (US$0.01 million), administration
and engineering (US$2.19 million), preparation for a second phase of the
program (US$0.01 million) and contingencies (US$9.2 mill:ion).
51.       The proposed Credit of US$18 million would finance 50% of project
cost net of taxes and duties, including all foreign exchange costs and 47% of
local costs. The balance of the funds required for the project would come
from State and Central Government sources. The project has been included
in the State's draft Sixth Plan with sufficient allocation of funds to cover
the cost of the project. In order to allow the State to take advantage of the



- 1 7 -
current dry season to construct an initial set of tubewells, and thus to allow
an early start on collection of monitoring information, retroactive financing
of up to US$1 million would be provided for approved expenditures made after
September 15, 1979 for well construction and for acquisition of vehicles
required for field operations.
Procurement and Disbursement
52.       Civil works would consist of drilling of bore holes and construction
of well distribution systems, access roads, and buildings (i.e., pump houses,
workshops and storage facilities, and quarters for operation and maintenance
staff). Drilling (US$3.7 million 1/) would be carried out by the Tubewell
Wing, which has an established, technically competent staff capable of drilling
the 1,500 wells in its annual program, of which IDA-financed wells would form
only a part. The remaining civil works (US$4.3 million 2/) would be small and
scattered and thus unsuitable for international bidding. These works would be
carried out by local contractors selected after competitive bidding, according
to procedures satisfactory to the Association, with materials provided by the
State Government.
53.       PVC and steel casing pipes valued at US$11.8 million would be
required for project wells and the associated distribution systems. These
materials would be procured by the State Government through international
competitive bidding, with the exception of an initial supply of up to US$2
million worth of PVC pipes, which would be procured through the State's usual
local procurement procedures in order to permit an early start on the first
year's well construction program. Remaining building materials (e.g., steel
bars, bricks, concrete, cement, timber, totalling US$3.8 million) would be
required in small amounts throughout the project area and would be unsuitable
for international procurement. These materials would be procured through
standard procurement procedures of the State Government, which are satisfactory
to the Association. In view of the need to maintain an adequate supply of
spare parts throughout the project area, pumpsets and accessories (US$1.8
million) would also be procured locally on the basis of competitive bidding.
Field vehicles (US$0.8 million) would be purchased in small quantities over a
period of two years and would be widely dispersed over the project area. As
adequate maintenance of these vehicles would require a good network of ser-
vicing and spare parts facilities, these vehicles would be procured locally
through existing Government procedures. Finally, monitoring equipment
(US$40,000) would be purchased in small orders of US$3,000 or less by prudent
shopping through normal commercial channels.
54.       The proceeds of the Credit would be disbursed against:  (i) 100%
of foreign expenditures or 70% of local expenditures for monitoring equipment;
(ii) 100% of expenditures for training; (iii) 100% of the ex-factory price
of locally procured vehicles or, where the ex-factory price is not readily
available, 70% of total expenditures on vehicles; and (iv) 50% of expenditures
1/ All figures in paras 52 and 53 are net of contingencies.
2/   Net of materials costs.



- 18 -
incurred on completed tubewells. Disbursements against completed tubewells
would be made on the basis of certificates of expenditure, itemized by major
components. Disbursements for training and for payments of less than
Rs 150,000 for equipment and vehicles would also be made against certificate
of expenditures. These would be audited semi-annually and the audit reports
submitted to the Association. Additional supporting documentation for these
expenditures would be retained biy the State Government for inspection in the
course of project review missions. Disbursements against all other expendi-
tures would be fully documented.
Cost Recovery
55.       The capital costs of project-financed tubewel:Ls would range from
Rs 3,300/ha to Rs 3,900/ha. Full recovery of the capital cost (at 6% annual
interest over 20 years) would require annual collection of an average of
Rs 320/ha. The annual cost of tubewell operation and maintenance would
average Rs 160/ha.  Thus, full recovery of capital and operation and main-
tenance costs would require collection of an average of Rs 480 per year per
hectare of irrigated area.
56.       Under the prevailing system of water rates in Uttar Pradesh, which
are calculated on a volumetric basis, assuming a total of 3,500 running
hours per well per year (the expected running time for project-financed
wells), direct cost recovery through water charges would cover nearly the
full cost of well operation and maintenance (i.e., approximately Rs 155/ha
collected against an average O&M cost of Rs 160/ha). The ratio of direct
cost recovery via water charges to total capital and operational costs would
be slightly over 32%. In addition, the State Government would collect incre-
mental land revenues averaging approximately Rs 25 per ha for newly irrigated
land and would realize increased revenues arising from irrigation-related
changes in production (e.g., increased collections from purchase taxes on
sugarcane). When these charges are taken into account, the level of cost
recovery per tubewell rises to approximately 39%. Even this figure, however,
somewhat underestimates actual cost recovery, as increased farm incomes would
lead to further increases in States and Central Government revenues through
other indirect taxes.
57.       The average incremental farm income expected to result from the
project ranges from Rs 1,300/ha in the Eastern and Central Regions to Rs
2,300/ha in the Western Region. The associated rents are estimated at
Rs 680 - 850 per ha. On the basis of these estimates, water and water-related
charges, at existing rates, would account for 22-27% of project rents. While
these figures indicate that there is scope for increasing water charges, a
decision on the magnitude and timing of any proposed increase must take into
account the importance of encouraging farmers to make full use of available
water resources. Water charges in the kharif (summer, rainy season), for
example, should be kept low enough to encourage farmers to utilize irrigation
water to allow early planting of paddy (rather than wait for the rains), which
would in turn allow early planting of the subsequent wheat crop and increase
wheat yields. In addition, current, relatively low water charges reflect the
unreliability of water supply, particularly to farmers farthest from the



- 19 -
public tubewells, who feel the full effect of water loss through leakage, in
addition to supply interruptions due to power cuts or absence of the pump
operator. The benefits of the improved tubewell design, in terms of amount
and reliability of water supply, would have to be demonstrated and accurately
measured before charges are raised, particularly if farmers are to be encour-
aged to continue and expand irrigated farming.
58.       In view of these factors, with the objective of ensuring the recovery
of annual operation and maintenance costs and, to the extent possible, the
capital costs of such wells the Government of Uttar Pradesh would review the
water charges on tubewells in the State by March 31, 1981 and implement an
appropriate system of water charges based on the recommendations arising from
the preceding review, after paying due regard to the Association's comments,
if any. In determining the appropriate level of charges, due consideration
would be given to incentives for and payment capacity of farmers (Section 2.10,
Project Agreement). Uttar Pradesh would make every effort to introduce the new
system of water rates by about March 31, 1982.
Benefits and Risks
59.       The proposed project would expand the irrigated area in Uttar
Pradesh by 60,000 ha, bringing irrigation to 62,000 farm families currently
not served by irrigation systems. The project is expected to result in in-
creased production on the order of 64,000 tons per year in foodgrains, 80,200
tons per year in sugarcane, and 2,100 tons per year in oilseeds. The value
added to the local economy due to these production increases is estimated at
Rs 80 million (US$10 million equivalent) per year and the resulting net annual
foreign exchange savings at US$10 million. Incremental farm employment gene-
rated by the project is expected to amount to the equivalent of 30,000 jobs.
In addition to generating these direct benefits, the project would demonstrate
and test the efficacy of technical and organizational innovations which
could be extended to the State's entire tubewell program, through rehabili-
tation of 15,000 existing wells as well as adoption of the new technology
for future well construction. The economic rate of return of the project
is estimated at 36%.
60.       Economic analysis indicates that only large deviations from the
cost and output assumptions made in evaluating the project would render it
economically inviable. In particular, underutilization of wells would
endanger project returns. Field observations indicate that in the past
underutilization of wells was caused by inadequate power supply, frequent
mechanical breakdown, incomplete distribution systems and absence of tubewell
operators. Technical and administrative innovations introduced under the
project are designed specifically to protect against underutilization due to
the last three of these factors. As for power supply, power availability
would have to fall to six hours per day, significantly below the current
average power availability of 12 hours per day, to render the project eco-
nomically inviable. The Government of Uttar Pradesh and the Government of
India, with Bank Group assistance, are actively engaged in an investment
program designed to increase power availability in Uttar Pradesh by approxi-
mately 80% by 1983, with particular emphasis on expansion of the supply



- 20 -
network in rural areas. While power rationing may still be necessary during
peak demand periods, severe power cuts in rural areas are not expected. Thus
the risk associated with this project is considered acceptable.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
61.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the
Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Association and the State
of Uttar Pradesh, and the Recommendations of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Association are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.
62.       Special conditions of the Project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
63.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART V:[ - RECOMNENDATION
64.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
March 20, 1980



ANNEX I
_ IvX.& - SOCIA  mCACTo  og_ SE                          Page  1  of  5
8ZFCE CGRUPS (ADJUSTER AAGEn
LAND      (THOUSAND So. K".)                 DEA                           - NDS      T CST T)
_LL   8- --   3287.6                                                 s!          SIE      *ZXT  IGER
AGRcULTUlRAL    1818.3                               am  RCENT    GEOGRAPHIC    ICOME          tiCJoC
1960 Lk    1970 k  ESTIMATE         itt1io0  Li   Du0 CI    G/00c   C   -
GNP PER CAPITA (US$                  60.0        90.0      180.0          191.1      209.6       467.5
EERGY CONS  ION PER CAPITA
(EXLOGRAN' OF COAL EQUIVAUYT)     142.0       181.0    218.0             69.1       83.9       262.1
POPm.&YION    VITAL STSATISTCS
POPULATION. HID-YEAR (MILLIONS) U34.9         547.6    631. 7Lf
GIAM POPULTION (PWFECT Or TOT) 17.9            19.7      20.7            13.2        16.2       24.6
POPULATION P50TJIOONS
PODPULATION  g YE*  2000 (MILLIONS)                   973.0
STATIONARY POPMLATION (LLIOUS)                       1643.0
YEAR STATIONAY POPLATIONI IS 31*81                   2150
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. YM.                     132.0       167.0    192.0             86.6       49.4        45.3
PER SQ. M. AGRICULTURAl LAND    247.0       308.0     347.0           330.2      252.0       149.0
POPLATION AGE STDCTYUE (PF3CENT)
0-14 YRS.                        40.8        42.5      42.0            44.3       43.1        45.2
15-64 YS.                         55.7        54.6      55.0            52.4       53.2        51.9
65 YRS. AND A1OVE                  3.5         2.2       3.0             3.1        3.0         2.8
POPLATION GCOVM RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             1.9         2.3       2.1             2.4        2.4         2.7
URBAN                             2.5LL       3.3       3.1             4.1        4.6         4.3
CRtDE 8BITH RATE (PM  TOUS4ND)     43.0        40.0      35.0            44.4       42.4        39.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PQ THDUSAD)    21.0          17.0      14.0            16.4       15.9        11.7
GROSS BPPRODUCTION RATE              3.2        2.9       2.4             3.2        2.9         2.7
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTIRS, ANNUAL (THOUSADS)    64.0      3782.0   4518.0
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WO)    *           12.0      16.9             7.9       12.2        13.2
FOOD AND NDTRITION
INDEX OP FOOD PRODUCTION
PUM CAPITA (1969-71-100)        100.0       102.0    101.0             ".4        98.2        99.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT 0F
REQUIRRMES)                    95.0        92.0      89.0            93.0       93.3        94.7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PQ DAY)          51.0        53.0      48.0            56.1       52.1        54.3
OF WHICH ANIML AND PULSE        19.0       16.0      12.6            10.4       13.6        17.4
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RAST    28.0         22.0     18.0            19.2       18.5        11.4
REALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BT   (tYARS)   43.0         48.0      51.0            49.1       49.3        54.7
INFAnT MORTALITY RATE (PM
THOUSAND)                            *-       134.0        ..              *-      105.4        68.1
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PEJCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              *         17.0      33.0            31.5       26.3        34.4
UREBAN                             ..        60.0      83.0            63.9       58.5        57.9
RURAL                              ..          6.0     20.0            20.1       15.8        21.2
ACCESS TO EXRET DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..         18.0     20.0            15.7       16.0        40.8
URBAN                              *-        85.0      87.0            66.8       65.1        71.3
RURAL                              *          1.0       2.0             2.5        3.5        27.7
POPNJLATION PER PHYSICIAN        5800.0Ch   4890.0    3135.0           7107.9    11396.4      6799.4
POPULATION FEE KURSING PERSON    9630.0/h    5220.0   6320.3          12064.0     5552.4      1522.1
POPULATION PER ROSPITAL BED
TOTAL                          2590.0L    2020.0    1231.0           2738.4     1417.1       726.5
'jAN                               ..          ..        ..              ..      197.3       272.7
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..              ..    2445.9       1404.4
ADMISS.ONS PER LOSPITAL BE           ..          ..        ..              ..       24.8        27.5
HOUSING
AVERAGE S5ZE OP HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                             5.2          ..       5.2              ..        5.3         5.4
LRSAN                             5.2          ..       4.8              ..        4.9         5.1
LILAL                             5.2          ..       5.3              . .        .4         5.5
AVERAGE NLn3ER OF PERSONS PER ROTh
TOTAL                             2.6         2.8         ..
LESAS'                             ..          ..        ..              .           ..
SISAL                              ..          ..        ..              .           ..
ACCESS .Q -LECTRI:ITY  PERCENT
OP QWELL:N'G S 
GTIAL                                          ..        ..             ..        22.5S       28. 1
LUWAN                              ..          ..        ..              ..       17.S        45.1
RLRAL                              ..          ..        .               ..         ..         9.9



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
INDIA - SOCIAL INDICATOR  DT  S
INDAR                           C  GROUPS (     D   AVpACES
- WIT RECE   ESTIMATE) 
HWT RICUT       Ct0GAmiC    ThO WEE        IICW
1960 lb     1970 /b  S?DIAT Xb        UGIOU Ic   Gump /4       ROP  /a
EDUCATION
SfD  8wEMOLLHU  RATOS
PIMAarY      TOTAL                61.0         72.0      79.0             5.5        63.3        62.7
ALE                  50.0         87.O      94.0             74.9       79.1        87.3
?ZILt                40.0         55.0      63.0            43.7        48.4        75.8
SlCW1AATY:  STAL                   20.0        a9.0      26.0             19.5       16.7        21.4
MALE                 30.0        :19.0      38.0             27.8       22.1        33.0
FDKAL                10.0         17.0      18.0             10.0       10.2        15.5
VOCATIONAL ENIEOL. (I OIF SZCODfT)   8.0          6.0        ..              1.3        5.6          9.8
PUPIL-TEACmR RATIO
mADLY                             29.0         40.0      42.0             42.2       41.0        34.1
SEWm&DAY                           16.0        17.0        ..               ..       21.7        23.4
AULT LITRACY RATE (PERCENT)          28.0        33.0      36.0             25.5       31.2         54.0
C0NSUST1ON
PASSEU CAMS PER THOUSlS-
POPPILATI0M                        0.7          1.0       1.2              2.3        2.8         9.3
RADIO RECEIVERS Pm T800SAW
POPLATION                         5.0         21.0      24.0             15.5       27.2        76.9
TV RECtXVlS P   lIOUSND
POIILATION                           ..         0.1       0.5               ..        2.4        13.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GEItAL
ITEREST") CIRCULATION PEn
IROUSAND POPULATION                  11.0       1I.0       16.0              6.2        5.3         18.3
CINEMlA AIUAL AmrrNDAN1C  FM CAPITA  4.0          1.3       3.8               ..        1.1          2.5
LABOR FORCE
iTOAL LABO  FRCE (TEOUSANIDS)   188670.0    226870.0  261000.0/k
FEALE (PERCENT)                   31.3         32.6      32.2            21.4        24.8        29.2
AGlICULTUIE (PERCENT)             73.0         73.0      73.0             66.3       69.4        62.7
INUSTRY (PERCENT)                 11.0         11.0      11.0              9.6       10.0        11.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCTnT)
TOTAL                                43.0        40 2      39.2             35.8       36.9        37.1
MALE                                 57.1        52.3      51.3             52.3       52.4        48.8
FEALE                                27.9        27 1      26.2             15.7       18.0        20.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RAtIO               1.0         L.l       1.1              1.3        1.2          1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUITION
PMCENT OF PRIVATE INCOIM
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCEN.T OF UOUSEOLDS   26.7         26.3/1      ..               ..         ..        l5.2
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  51.7         48.97i      ..               ..         ..        48.2
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF NOUSEROLDS    4.1          6.771      ..               ..         ..         6.3
LOWVST 40 PERCENT or HOUSE80LDS   13.6         17.271      ..               ..         ..        16.3
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIEMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOKE
LEVEL (US3 PER CAPITA)
UTtAN                               ..           .       8 83.0          86.5        99.2       241.3
RVhAL                               ..           .       73.0             74.2       78.9       136.6
ESTIMATE D RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..           ..        ..              ..        91.9       179.7
IIuRAL                              ..           ..      50.0            50.4        54.8       103.7
EST1wATED POPULATION BELOIW ABSOLUTE
P(OERTY *:COME LEVEL (PERCENT)
!RBAN                                ..          ..      67.0            44.3        44.1        24.8
3LRAL                               ..           ..      52.0             52.4       53.9        37.5
Noc aoailable
Not apDlcatle.
NOTES
i    The adjus.ed group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the exrreue
-ai-es of the ondicator and the most populated crumtry in each group.  Coverage of countrias among the
indtcators depends o  availa.bility of data and is not -nifor.
'    ?rlcss ocher,ise noced, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
a,,ri 1971; and for Mosr Recent lscimate, between .974 and 1977.
- Sotcr tota;   d~ow Inco=e (S280 or 'ess per capita 1976);  ie  LDwer Middle Income (f281-550 per capita,
!976)        'q7S sod-year pop.tacion is estiate.d it 640.. n7ilion;   .. 1951-60;   4h  1962;
0SS ;      !967;    5  1973 mid-rear labor force Is es-L.ated at 6  oillion;   il  1964-o5.
"<rot torerrr Estimate of i.N  per capita is for .978.
August. 1979



ANiNEX I
_______________                                                            P~~~age   3of~
lot.    =Alto      th t   dot. soc drawo fo.. sou.e  geserally judge  the   et mthsodtative un  reli.hls, it .b.lA  ale. be  oted that th                   w sot be intorcs-
t!iy  0 .0  heess  of the lok of .tsodardld deftiitim. sd MA  omWit. SOed bW ditffert euutri.. in oo0l.etiag  the dots. TAe dots ar., unatha1e-,
-sful to d-cibe order. of  ugoltode, todloste trnu., sod ohssreetrise 0.r.14 in4.00r difPeeree5 betu... oBstria..
Th   iotdgrop ac;..a       reroldoSo   o  posloto~igbted genntri.  smm, eanludjo: the eetraw   aIses of the dodloator s.d the unnt pp9lotd
in.ryt   ec   r,op   De- ;to lsk of dot-. eroP  -orsg.0 of .11 iflotats fer Coital kevplo   Oil Mkqte0     md of likAotot. of MAe.n  to Vater ed ftcret.
OisPo.-, Sco.,lco   dtribotioo so.  Pevorty for oter  cuntry Vou0e ar. powlatic-0eIgtdt gannatrio  unums ..  thcut ancliosi of the eetr-  os1*  sod
the soot pou.td cootry-         i. 3   wthe coer.  of Oo.Otrles            theu lolso.           ~       os-5ii f dots st.d tost soie   costS.   setbefeeri,ed
todicato  St S tt.  easE  the oouctry sodz -rofrso  9:10..
tllM ARIA (thoossd sq.be.)                                                                    500555 to mmreto   essl(e'ea   f,uot.      oe,Wo,sdcso 
T   ?.1-Tt..  -ufaoe noes  -oerietog 1ed eros sod Inland ester..                          - e r O  peOpLe  too, ob.   .   ee)see   yscesdeoo
Agric,ilt,iral_- hot  -eort eotinate of agiculturl anoe  ose  tuoror-Ii                       parcsotage. of their respeetls  papaaisota. lbert. dispoesi .      ioclode
00 peossocotly for crps, poet-oc,  -ekot sod kitohe  goodan. or to                          the eoileoti- s.d dieomol, With er withest trsatnant, of bwmu                rciet
lie  foi..sd uest.-tear br utar-bocs    et-  o- the s   of plt ped.se  NWd  -.aoil
iostaiistins.e
WP_ZRC&ITA(U4)- GNP per capits cetisotes at CUrret nakAt yrit..,                        POLAi     e    lvim- Pop"Aitiop dirided bW unnbr of practicinig pbySlI.Oe
cua-Lte          oeersoosc bys  World leak Atlos (1976-78 bosh.);   .                     qlfe    ~a.a.    bIa   m-ir1 1
1960, 1970, OOd 1978 dot..                                                                  !W        =nr              aue - PoPe1stito   dlrtddd by  .eber of proetictog  .Le
mEMOY CS0IC'PI0I.PEPCAPI A -            Idol  -oou.tto of Ooert,isl asergrse  romi  g'einse mares., practical xarose, 004 eeistot   -oas
(001 so  lISot   peroeo            -tro  gK- sod bydr- , uncles  sod 9-0-                   PswRlstim VW               bats  ~d - totel    I --..  d4 rol - Popslotioo  (totl, urOso,
thersl eleotriotty) to tilogrs   of ... I equteleut pr opit.; 1960,                           &arm)dn               t  their reepetics je    o  bepi   beds &slbl.b1   to
1970, sod 1976 dat..                                                                          public sod poio-te gesrs1 and apeeisltoed b..tpit.1 sod -sbhbilittio   cester..
mospiteln ore .etbli.hunat. persstly etoffd by at I.st cae rd.p.ieiso.
0                        ~~~~~~~~~FOUItfATIOSg AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                       meal.Bt. proo-di5g principally tsetodais. cor  ore st Includ.d  Rural5
T.a    =     ti       dy       stiilloo ..  As of July 1; 1960, 1970, sod                     h-epitals, hoeser, imlood  heelth sa  sedloe  coter. tot peuss.eetly stafc
1977 dts                                                                                    by a pdai.iso  (iot by a sedicol secieteot,   -e   sideifo, etc.) Which offer
Urbso P.pultiot (peroct Of total)   R.tist    of orbo  to tot.l popuIStio;                    is-Sotimat accodotto   sod proid. a liadted reagu of s.dis .1 r-litie...
differet defi.ittotO  of orb.   -reo    p off-t  -oporbility of doto                      Aesiwr 0eetalt   d                 otl   .er of sdmiinn.s to or d.i-oherge  fro
tseo  coutroc-t l9,0. 1970, sod 1975 d.t..                   ~~61dhdritios    f bed..
Pepo1t'iooi.9h-  ef   - Cocr.ot ypo atooi.  p-ojeotiioo   ore b-.ed o                   S
T ~tsloo1     tioa  by age sod .eo sod their ncrtality sod fertility                AroiSieo    ushl(srpse   es id -til.ro.sdrra -
oste.  Procctio pa  teorru F., sortolity rotes coprise of three                    A his 1od ooo rot of-pupo   otLe.ooss.lvo    oreosd
levoo  000500  lf- opet-yC at bir-th I - - - lrg sith .-tory-                       their  .I.   ol..  A bordar or basso  my  r un  sot b. incluoded do the
per  toia otomoIcoc, sd f-eer life  -opctsocy etbil.ioig ci                       hoossld for sttinti.slpsoe.
775po..TOpro,tr  for fertility  -nto ooo hoc, thre. le-l                              org    ~ro   ees                 os-tii.  uh,sdrri-A.reeose
-.oueil,  dolioc io fertility  -cordoog to oo-e  l..eIsod pest                          ofpro.pr50   0                 ob.   o   oeiOcpe    oOoildeeliogo,
fsedly 0100010  perf-rso. toot -utry 10 thes a.sigoed 00. ofthe.e                         r-pstio-ey.  DoW,1iiogs coclode  --p-es.o,t  tractOre sod unoropied Parts
oioocoshsotios  f  -ot.lity ond fertility trend. for projeotioo                   Acces  to ElsAtilitr (percnt of deelit'"     R,tsl6 cbo   Iodru                  -  Co--
iSitosor  population  - 1. a etstio...ry PoPIvfltios there Is oo goouth                     totis1, orbo, ssd rEe.l deeLling. roepeetiecly.  
otooc th, birti rotc Io eqool to thr d-eth robe, sod .1.0 the age
otrootuc  r-it-  -OOtOt. This to ehi-'od osy ofter fertility rtbes                   EIAJATION
d-cli-  to the  rysertleel of -ot set rrproh.ti- rst.,  h..m                         W10-ted .lat-.Sstio R4tSii
.-ht geeratio  of  -oo  repl-oo   it-elf c.actly.  The at.ti-.so   po3-                   Prlume7  hof-ltoo L,.l  MAd f-ale -Gross total, eel. and f.slo  -ori-
lot. OtI-c sc etitsed .o  h.o hoi. of the prjeoted chsroterIstie.                           seot of all sgest the priary  lev"Io  P-ecoseteg. of ceePseti-c  Winri Y
of teP-potiO   to tic Ye.r 2000, sod tho rote of deolioe of fertility                      shool-sgd pooois orsolly  oole.". ehildrun aged 6.11 y-r  hoot
rttorpssotlot.                                                                            dJssted for dlffert length. of pri-yo edesotics; for                       Wiorisoth
peerctatoooy oooolsioois reaoci  - The ye.r  h..c t.ttionry pop.Sisio                so   &reiedotios Sero.Ilsot so  .ocs   100 percent  inito . .D  Pupils
obic be  bee  0-h000.                                                                       bo.1hle  or sor  the ofico shool Mge.
Np0oooti.. Dco-iy                                                                             Seodr  oO          -ttl sole  and fasle  - Cotd0 .So tore;n=sdsoy
Per to. ks.     OOid.yco  popototion Per po-r  kilo,t-r (100 hectare.) of                     .dsosios1 rsOt's  at let ff00  poor. of app-edc pri-sr L is trsito;
ototI orsPr-id.. gemrsi osetibse1, or teoher training isstrctioo  for popils
Per so  t.                  1-ioluslo  C- OPoted 00 si-  for sg,ioltu-l 1sod                  os_olY 0f 12 to 17 pesos of age; oo-reposdenr000c   r  g--rll,
os1y.                                                                                       esoludd.
Popslston  ge  trutuce(pocoo)-ChIbdro-t (0-lpes, coko-dod                           Ioois1aoiot(eos o   sodr)-Vctoe    etitstiose  isolude
(15hi  eor(,  od  etird   -hyor  sod 00-    oPerctg.o  odd-per                          treol   auiil   rohrpooe  ehio  oper-t  bdepuibdootly or 
potolSti.n; 1960. 1970, sod 1977 dots.                                                        deport-t. of  -soodary istitotions.
totla.tio tr-eth O.tt  (-ocet S - tot.l1   goool ooth rst.  of ttisi odd-                     Pool-tohrmb-i              sop   o   soesp-Tot.             ooet   Sold1
yeao ppislati-o  for 1450-h6, 1000-7   sd90-.proysd   oosylee.dIcde  by nnaners of best,r  io thecr-
ototion Groth Onto (orrorot) - -ris   - Ao.-nl trocth rato of  rbs                          spondieg lo-eL..
pope1otiooo  for 1950-60, 19b0-70, sod 1970-75.                                            4ll' Ititf,.Y rptt.ppropo_   - LIt-tni  edoits (sOle to reed s.d  -cite) 
Crdo- Bioti Rote   er- thoutnd) - An u...1 lic bhoths pc- thi.o.s.d of Old-                         . . penc.t. . of =tt I7d     pop.Ution seed 15 Yee.-   .d c-er.
po ott19000  0Iw0, soM97dt.                                                         eooe  oe'Prtossd ooooio   -Pscgr005ce s  sotor -art
Groso Pep-d-tit O.tto  - Ahv-cog9r  -dh- of d-odht-o      oo   iti he-                       eco.-tiN  lee,tO.eih  pesos;ootd.  .9.lsoce., he.-... sod  ilitary
or hoc n-1ma  rcp-d-ti-e per-d of oh  -operi-c-e  proocot 0g-                               -hcOoe..
oproic  frt.ity   ote; uooll  fic-e-oo   --g-oc   -0010   - 1960,                Rodiol   oe,  r  (pe.r thoossod owsi)-All Itypo  of r iefor,r.dio
1970, sod 1975.                                                                             Orondo-ts to gceo  poito pe  ttc,ossd of popuiotioo; coldes uoi--od
Ps-ilo P100i00  -A-ptcO...o. Aonol. (th-d.)i   - do-oo  tueh- of                              r-eicero  In ooootries sod io peers shoe regiotrotio  of r"diooctsoo   toi
-cptor. of birth-c-troI deoi-o  oodrr  -pi-e  of n.tit...  family                           offeot; dot  for recet prar   myp sot he  -ospoObhe  10c  -.tcooro
pisooiog orogrom.                                                    shol~~~~~~b.ished Iioc-ing.
Family ~Pl=otg  J-ir        erctofs id           PooS -Peoct.ge of earned                   TOOoi-r   orth-assd oo.lntioo   - TO r it-cr  for broodost to g-ors1
00000ofohldbortg  or   .5    for   co  00 tirt-ootrO   doctor                      ioohlo pe  th-ansd popaitios; cooud.          .a...sc  TV r-oi-rr  It c-utri-e
to stl so-od 00-,i0 10 oso   age   -p.                                                      sad to y-orohenregit-brtios of TV aCts 0-  it effect.
PlOD dOll NOTOITCOR                                                   leseosoer Ciroo~~~~I,-latioo  (L., toossadM     tPu.oto) -  000the aergeg  oirooltioo
FOOD___AND _____roITdoil  gesersi-a 4o1trer.t scopoper , dfid as s peridical p00lt-ti-o
0000  offf00 Podotto  Per CePito (i 'L-_7i-io     - Itdeo Of P00  -pit.                 deoedp iesly tl r--odiog general  e-..  It 00  -osiderrd to bo "dol1,y
-cno  pr-d-tio  of oil food -bomoditle.. P-od-otioeo-1dee  -cd sod                          if it  aoer   t lenot four tiae. s sect
feed sod it or -t-td- yeor b- io.  C-aditi-  --oe  p010507 goodO                           leodoo   tedoo   e   aiSo Pe    B-0.d0 00 tic oober of ticktet
(r.gI.osdto  r   00dcd).  Aggretote pr-d-ti.. of 000h 000ty                                                                                t.diiitona               d   bl
Per -spits osplp  o    torp   pecs of  cormenoto( - Compoted fro                        ABRFORCE
co-gretovooo   f-ot foo.d soppli-o  oo.-iblsb   to cootty per c-pta                    Total bOr F-r  (th-ansd.) - &-oos-a.ly acti-c per-nso, toolodi.g  nosd
pr day,  A-1.bsle -uppl-c  -cepro- d-sot- pr-d-cti., isporto  le.s                       fr.-.e sd -..plypd ht  -oldiog hossoo    todeot., et-,  Mfloit-ots
"oP"rt,  "00 oiogco2oot   000t -uPPli-  -licd soimol feed, .0cm,                          is t-tt-    -otri..  -r tot ooepo-blc.
,ostiti- o -od it food pr--csig,  od 1--oe   it di.trib.tioo. Require-                              F~e    ( - Pal. Ilbor ff00-  -O porootsge of total Lohor fro.r.
motto so-r  -ttisotd by FAO b-od  -o phyoiologo-2 orcdo for 00-.0                                                _ -Isr forc  i  fooitog, foetry, hoetitg sod
00ttdit  000 bttt - cotdrr-g  -oi  ,nttt teuporttO-, bodp otigito,                   fiahing  -s p-erooge of tota1lb10r force.
sd   o   o  _' oriitio     ~f lpuP  .1, , sod .iloolog 10 p-roro  for           lod..try (Percent) - Labo ;.foror It ulioto, oo-tstttioo, sOfOt.riog sod
os-te st  --othi-  trori                                                                 elorcty    oe   odgoo   oretg                   f total l.hb   foroc.
-c copit .o...Ity cp-ote-  5005-  pe, ldy  -                     "ocooo t of Per        PotoOto    oe(rco -total,  ole  sod fenle - P-rticieioo
-opit. -ot -opply of food per day. Ntt supply of food Osdoflo-d -                         sotivity  -tt- noc oosptotd -~ total, sole, sod frost,l 1olor force  e p0r-
tho-e  Ret..ire-t0i  for 510 -outr-c  ~t.bolithed by USiA pro-idr for                      -tcebsoe  of total, sole sod fesote popsontion  of *li eges repecticeiy,
siocn-   olotcoo1  droot- of  otot1 Pr-tcin Pr day sod 20 gr-s  of                        1960, 1970, sod 1975 Oats.  These 000 01,00 pertl-optia  -nt-  r-fleoting
;-otl sd poIoo p-oteic.  of  h-ho 10 gr-o001 h         Icb soisol pr.tei..M.... 0-O                otr-t.re of th  P.PolotIo*  sod loog tbs. trcod.  A leo  -ttieste
77cc  otadordo crc "I0l tiar th-  of 75 Sr-.  of total p-otro  sod                      00  fo.c Otiossl . sorc.
27 gra-   of_"_,m iroto i  0          -  gsero  for tie .ortd, proposed by PAd         &-.anb  RlpoenyAtio -  05t10 of pOpolotiot usir 15 sod 05 sod ovr to
- tho Third W-I. Rood S-rco.                                                                                In Sbrfc   dogse gr-op of 15-61 Yes..
Ocrotlto  02020  upiy Po, otol Sd clt - rtcio supply of food
Scoor   Yr-oiossdpooe   cooopr0p                                                     tiBO  lISTRINJTON
Child,sr    -1(  tObloty Otto (-cr thoo-d~   An-Iitt  d-ttot Per thooood                    Peroetao   fPrvte Ioos  (bcth Is .-h sod ktod) - Rcoelced by richest
S               Y00dro  - . rr, to ohildro  t hio  go ..ooP; for Oot ocep1-               5 percent, richest 20 porocot, poorest 20 Percest, so  poores t 40 Peroe..t
opit~  -o,r-~  o.tt dr-telfr I ifo-  btlco.o  hoohcool..
HEA 170                                                                                     POVERiT TARtGET  OP
lif  lOctooO00  ici PAs) - derg  Ouio  of y-r  of lifc                                 Retiotcd Ab  li Ooety 050..1.01 (16orop (- ob, sod roral. 
rcoato,oo  so 020th; t~~2l, 1970, 000 1977. Soot                     Absolut  perty  moI          eoe  etoot iso.lve   eo   hic               silo
loftt Motaity Oto  ocr o, usod   - dot-I desth. of iofert, uder oesrti-sollp   deste diet PIo ..se..otio1 to-food                                 qiocto  i  otl
ot   f sgc per th-oiod blo- bnith.                                                        ffrdoble.
toesto Safe Ast-r(oon   fppl o   -totol. orb.. :od ros.                                 g.Rtanted Retair  oety[o                   I oe  (US$  -c   -Ipte) -  -bis  sad rurl 
[loolco  pocplc  (total  uroa-   od  rorl   oirsotb sc t                 ohR ral ltice  pot-rtyt ioe   ee   .tt-tbird  of ocroge Per -apitn
role .tatr   -PPLY  ~i-Iide- to-ttd  -uf-o  .st-r  or fotr-ted bot                          prno.tcsof the   sty  lIrbo leve Is Ocricdft                              ua   oe
..O'teiOtd00c   -oo  so tht fo- protected borehoe-, oprig.,                         with sdjuetscot for higher  -tt of ljicig  io urb_one
sd  -iott'Y  -etil to peroett - of their reopecti-e Poptoltiots. It                      totisoted Pmclotios Rc  Aslte P..rt  In0.-  1-,1 (--cet) - urto sod
so   rt.  -ro  o polito f-totol  or otocdpoet loootcd con      ortS                       rur.l - Per-et of popol`iot (urbs  sody-rl)  h.0 Soc 'shoolote Poor'
210 00t-0  PIoc..,oo   .Y0 b0ce --id-rd 50 belig oliO   ros- sble
ocrco   he,Oo  ho,se.  10                                  _,aaresroooioaotsood Oply
thattbcroros  , o  cetrto  th e tostod do not h.ce to spend o                                                                  o-cic e-d S-tl Dnto 010010-
dOipr-p.rt---st  port of the dy1 -p fotoblog tie f-lly'. . oter oeedo                                                          icoso        alysis sod Prjrctiooa Oepo-tert
August 1979



ANNEX I
tcD Wos3m1m                                 Page 4 of 5
2/
iow     CAIflI 11  87  tS 150
C30  311^:03*.I~T13 177/78                                                                    AL  O~                fl.. coeent" teriea
______                                           1901/61.191/65        65i/W691g 70    1970/7.-197*/77
Cw  at "arkat P"ce              101.47      100.0                                                  3.9                  3.5                3.2
Gross Dmastic Imve te            21.65       21.3
Gross  atiosal Swing             22.77       22.4
Currant   comt Slasac   d/        1.Q        1.0
lsorce tlawe   d/               - 0.31      . 0.3
OVSWU. 1831 rUt    iWs Dt  1971
Value Adde  (at factor cost)         La_  orn           . ?OA Perrkr
Usll$ slit,      2I               Bi.        *                  .     I et Noties I Asa.
Ajricalture                       24.5           46.6               130.0     72.1            I88              86
ladutry                           11.$           22.3               20.2      11.2            582             1"
Services                          16.3            11                          16.7            2 
tocalJIrN 52.                                  100.0               180.    100.0             292             L0O
90SI  P1130                                                    /
Gemeral Gowernea                                             Cnteral Guer
U. bi               : of CM                                  le             = nJ  I
V,90 /7S      1977179    1297477  if7r                                    -119- Ms77n  T-7-47TS-Z-1n/
Curran   ecipta                  186.42         18.9           16.                             95.62         11.0            10.5
Curr et Readitures               157.29         U8.1          L6                                             . i10 
Currac  lur/D/eiicit               7.1.3         0.8           1,6                              0.35         a.e.            0.6
Capital 3_udttuwa  U/             62.58          7.2           70                              43.31          5.0             5.0
3xteml A.sistance (et.)  j/        9.82          1.1           1,6                              9.82          1.1             1.6
YAPuV. C=DW  AIp 1CY                1970/71    1873/7     1974/7!1   1975/76    1 Z         19f/7       Swteber 1977       Swc_er 1978
(Sn  1115. oustandin  at NW of per o"d
fo-y -d Q-1i 3A-                     121.6      198.       220.3       254.7      306.9      3U5.1          334.8             395.8
eak  Credit to Cor_C  (oat)           52.6       87.3       95.3      101.1       110.2      129.7          119.3             139.5
3s  Creit to Cnrcial sector           86.6      107.0      126.7       153.9      U.5.1      210.0          195.3            223.5
(PereiRtage or lden&  lw.rs)                              Jat   t976         Jmr  1979
nowy and Quasi Mey as *     of cW     30.1       33.5       31.5        34.5       38.8        41.9
Wbolaol. Price   t
(1970/71 - 100)                    100.0      139.7      174.9      173.0      178.6        185.8        186.5             1S4.6
Aenual perceatage chae_g in:
Wheleale Price  l1dez                  7.7       20.2       25.2       - 1.1        2.1         5.2          3.2                0.1
bak Credit to C       emant (mt)     10.8       12.3        9.2        6.1         9.0        17.7         13.4               1.9
7ank Creit to Ciwretal Sector         19.4       22.6      1.4         21.5       20.3        13.3         16.6               16.6
a/ 7be per capita 0o   etimatoe is at xarket prices  calculated k  th  coaweraioa technique Geed in the World Atlas.
A11 other coavereson  to dollars in this teble are at the  awrage enchaoge rate pCo   alis  durin w e period tinted.
b/ Quiek latimte.
c/ Cmutcd fr  tred lie of 0  at factor coat saria, including one obeervatis  before first yer and one
obaervtiom after leot yer of listed period.
d/ Vorld  ank estimates; not necessrily comeistent wtch official eaioaal Acoeme Statistice.
e/ Iraomfers betw_m Centre ed Statas have bean matted out.
f/ Al llaes sa advacwes to third partioos hae bean matted out.
A/   ztermal grants and loas, lane principal raymars, as recordd in the Central budet.



ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
h/         h/
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS            1975/76    1976/77    1977/78    1978/79                 MERCNANDISE EXPORTS (AVERACE 1975/76 - 1977178)
(US$ million)                                                       US$ Min.        X
Exports of Goods                 4,672      5,753        6,276       6,800               Engineering Goods              610         11
imports of Goods                -6,449    -5,928        -7,237      -8,400               Tea                            417          7
Trade Balance                    -1,777     - 175        - 961      -1,600               Gems                           377          7
NFS (net)                           310       360          650         700               Clothing                       331          6
Leather and Leather
Resource Balance                -1.467        185        - 311      -  900                       Products               278          5
i/                                                             Jute Manufactures              267          5
Interest Payments (net)          - 216      - 180         - 50          -                Iron Ore                       265         5
Other Factor Payments (net)          -         -            -           -                Cotton Textiles                248          4
Net Transfers  3/                  470        730        1,400       1,300               Sugar                          244          4
-                                                                        Others                       2,530        45
Balance on Current Account      -1,213        735        1.039         400
Total                        5.567       100
Official Aid
Disbursements                 2,341      1,953        1,628       1,805              EXTERNAL DEBT. MARCH 31. 1978
Amortization                  - 531      - 560        - 645       - 725                                                    USS billion
Transactions with IMF               242     - 337        - 330       - 158               Outstanding and Disbursed                14.8
All Other Items                    - 45     - 216          384         205               Undisbursed                               4.3
Outstanding, including
increase in Reserves (-)         - 794    -1,575        -2,076      -1,527                    Undiabursed                         19.1
Gross Reserves (end year)        2,172      3,747        5,823       7,350                                                h/l/
Net Reserves (end year)  IL/     1,365      3,276        5,668       7,350               DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1977/78          15.0  percent
Fuel and Related Materials                                                               IBRD/IDA LENDING. DECEMBER 31. 1978
Imports                          1,417      1,581        1,817      1,980                                                     uS$ million
of which: Petroleum            1,417      1,581       1,817       1,980                                                  IBRD    t     DA
Exports                             43         37           33       n.a                Outstand!,.s .... Disbureed         613         3,864
of which: Petroleum               22         21           18       n                  Undisbursed                         615        1,992
Outstanding, including                 N/
Undisbursed             1,228         5,856
RATE OF EXCHANGE
June 1966 to mid-December 1971       :  US$1.00 - Rs 7.5
Re 1.00 - US$0.133333
Mid-December 1971 to end-June 1972 :  US$1.00 - Rs 7.27927
Rs 1.00 - US$0.137376
After end-June 1972                  :  Floating Rate
Spot Rate end-December 1978          :  USS1.00 - Rs 8.188
US11.00 - Rs 0.122
h/  Estimated.
iF Figures given cover all investment income (net). Major payments are interest on foreign loans
and charges paid to IMF, and major receipt is Interest earned on foreign assets.
jI  Figures given include workers' remittances but exclude official grant assistance, which is
included within official aid disbursements.
k/  Excludes net use of IMF credit.
1/ Amortization and interest payments on foreign loans as a percentage of merchandise exports.
m/ Excludes exchange adjustment, but includes US$ 22 million due to third parties.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 17
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of January 31, 1980)
US$ million 1/
Loan or                                                   (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower         Purpose               Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
41 Loans/                                               1,163.2
60 Credits fully disbursed                                       3,624.6
312-IN      1972   India    Population                  --         21.0      .86
342-IN      1972   India    Educat:ion                  --         12.0    5.92
356-IN      1973   India    IDBI I                      --         25.0    8.44
378--IN     1973   India    Karnataka Agricultural
Markets                 --          8.0    4.42
390-IN      1973   India    Bombay Water Supply I   --             55.0    7.73
456-IN      1974   India    HP Apple Processing
& Marketing             --         13.0    8.11
481-IN      1974   India    Trombay IV Fertilizer   --             50.0      .61
1011-IN      1974   India    Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD 52.0           --      22.61
482-IN      1974   India    Karnataka Dairy             --         30.0   21.55
502-IN      1974   India    Rajasthan Canal CAD         --         83.0   36.68
520-IN      1974   India    Sindri Fertilizer           --         91.0    3.22
521-IN      1974   India    Rajasthan Dairy             --         27.7   16.91
522-IN      1974   India    Madhya Pradesh Dairy    --             16.4    7.36
526-IN      1975   India    Drought Prone Areas         --         35.0   11.56
1079-IN      1975   IFFCO    IFFCO Fertilizer           109.0       --      11.30
1097-IN      1975   ICICI    Industry DFC XI             95.6       --       5.28
532-IN      1975   India    Godavari Barrage
Irrigation              --         45.0   10.80
541-IN      1975   India    West Bengal Agric.
Development             --         34.0   13.53
562-IN      1975   India    Chambal (Madhya
Pradesh) CAD            --         24.0    8.18
572-IN      1975   India    Rural
Electrification I        --         57.0   15.25
585-IN      1975   India    Uttar Pradesh Water
Supply                 --         40.0   24.97
598-IN      1975   India    Fertilizer Industry         --        105.0   63.61
604-IN      1976   India    Power Transmission IV   --            150.0   86.73



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 17
US$ million 1/
Loan or                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower        Purpose               Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
609-IN      1976   India    Madhya Pradesh
Forestry T.A.          --         4.0      2.43
610-IN     1976   India    Integrated Cotton
Development            --        18.0    14.60
1251-IN    1976   India    Andhra Pradesh
Irrigation           145.0        --    113.42
1260-IN      1976   India    IDBI II                   40.0       --      24.90
1273-IN      1976   India    National Seeds I          25.0       --      24.22
1313-IN      1976   India    Telecommunications VI  80.0          --      23.47
1335-IN     1976   India    Bombay Urban Transport 25.0           --      10.47
680-IN     1977   India    Kerala Agric.
Development            --         30.0   29.25
682-IN     1977   India    Orissa Agric.
Development            --         20.0   17.24
685-IN     1977   India    Singrauli Thermal
Power                  --        150.0  112.89
687-IN     1977   India    Madras Urban
Development            --         24.0   15.74
690-IN     1977   India    WB Agric. Exten-
sion & Research        --         12.0   12.00
695-IN     1977   India    Gujarat Fisheries           --         4.0    1.87
1394-IN     1977   India    Gujarat Fisheries           14.0      --      14.00
712-IN     1977   India    Madhya Pradesh
Agric. Dev.            --         10.0    9.24
720-IN     1977   India    Periyar Vaigai
Irrigation             --         23.0   17.43
728-IN     1977   India    Assam Agricultural
Development            --          8.0    7.23
1473-IN     1977   India    Bombay High Offshore
Development           150.0       --      75.97
736-IN     1977   India    Maharashtra
Irrigation             --         70.0   52.62
737-IN     1977   India    Rajasthan Agricul-
tural Extension        --         13.0   10.93
740-IN     1977   India    Orissa Irrigation           --        58.0   51.88
1475-IN     1977   ICICI    Industry DFC XII            80.0      --      39.73
747-IN     1978   India    Second Foodgrain
Storage                --        107.0   96.11
756-IN     1978   India    Calcutta Urban
Development II         --         87.0   62.79
761-IN     1978   India    Bihar Agric.
Extension &
Research               --          8.0    7.75



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 17
US$ million 1/
Loan or                                                  (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower        Purpose               Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
1511-IN      1978   India    IDBI Joint/Public
Sector                 25.0       --      25.00
1549-IN      1978   TEC       Third Trombay
Thermal Power         105.0       --      94.17
788-IN     1978   India    Karnataka Irrigation    --            126.0  107.65
793-IN     1978   India    Korba Thermal Power         --       200.0  179.25
806-IN     1978   India    Jammul-Kashmir
Horticulture          --         14.0   13.99
808-IN     1978   India    Gujarat Irrigation          --         85.0   80.12
815-IN     1978   India    Andhra Pradesh
Fisheries              --         17.5   17.50
816-IN     1978   India    National Seeds II           --         16.0   15.97
1592-IN      1978   India    Telecommunications VII 120.0         --      65.04
824-IN     1978   India    National Dairy              --        150.0  146.02
842-IN     1979   India    Bombay Water
Supply II              --        196.0  194.78
843-IN     1979   India    Haryana Irrigation          --        111.0   90.61
844-IN     1979   India    Railway Modernization
& Maintenance          --        190.0  172.90
848-IN      1979   India    Punjab Water Supply
& Sewerage             --         38.0   36.03
855-IN     1979   India    National Agricultural
Research               --         27.0   27.00
862-IN     1979   India    Composite Agricultural
Extension              --         25.0   25.00
871-IN     1979   India    NCDC                        --         30.0   27.07
1648-IN      1979   India    Ramagundam Thermal
Powar                  50.0       --      50.00
874-IN     1979   India    Ramagundam Thermal
Power                  --        200.0  200.00
889-IN      1979   India    Punjab Irrigation          --        129.0  125.26
899-IN     1979   India    Maharashtra Water
Supply                 --         48.0   48.00
911-IN      1979   India    Rural Electrification
Corp. II               --        175.0  175.00
925-IN*    1979   India    Uttar Pradesh Social
Forestry               --         23.0   23.00



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 17
US$ million 1/
Loan or                                                 (Net of Cancellations)
Credit No.  Year   Borrower        Purpose              Bank   IDA    Undisbursed
947-IN*    1979   India      ARDC III                  --      250.0     250.00
1743-IN*    1979   India      Thai Fertilizer         250.0       --      250.00
963-IN*    1979   India      Inland Fisheries                   20.0      20.00
Total                                  2,528.8  7,263.2
of which has been repaid               986.3      57.2
Total now outstanding                  1,542.5  7,206.0
Amount Sold                    133.8
of which has been repaid   116.2        17.6
Total now held by Bank and IDA         1,524.9  7,206.0
Total undisbursed (excluding*)           599.6  2,586.62
*    Not yet effective
1/   Prior to exchange adjustment.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 17
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of January 31, 1980)
Fiscal                                                     Amount (US$ million)
Year                    Company                         Loan      Equity      Total
1959         Republic Forge Company Ltd.                 1.5        -          1.5
1959         Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.                  0.9        -          0.9
1960         Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                      1.4        -          1.4
1961         K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                           0.2        -          0.2
1963-66      Precision Bearings India Ltd.               0.7        0.3        1.0
1964         Fort Gloser Industries Ltd.                 0.8        0.4        1.2
1964-75-79  Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.               11.8        1.4       13.2
1964         Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.                  1.0        0.3        1.3
1967         Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                     1.0        0.1        1.1
1967         Indian Explosives Ltd.                      8.6        2.9       11.5
1969-70      Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.                  15.1        3.8       18.9
1976         Escorts Limited                             6.6         -         6.6
1978        Housing Development Finance
Corporation                                 4.0        1.4        5.2
1980        Deepak Fertilizer and
Petrochemicals Corporation Ltd.             7.5        1.1        8.6
TOTAL                                61.1       11.5       72.6
Less:  Sold                                   5.9        1.7        7.6
Repaid                               17.4          -       17.4
Cancelled                             6.2        0.7        6.9
Now Held                             31.6         9.1      40.7
Undisbursed                          11.7         1.7      13.4



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 17
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding
reasonably well.  Details on the execution of individual projects are below.
The level of disbursements was US$538.3 million in FY79 or 39% of Bank Group
commitments to India in that year. The undisbursed pipeline of US$3,186 mil-
lion as of January 31, 1980, reflects the lead time which would be expected
given the mix of fast- and slow-disbursing projects in the India program.
Ln. No. 1097   Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100.0 million loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: July 1, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
Ln. No. 1475   Twelfth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$80.0 million loan of July 22, 1977
Effective Date: October 4, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
These loans are supporting industrial development in India through
a well-established development finance company and are designed to finance
the foreign exchange cost of industrial projects. ICICI continues to be a
well-managed and efficient development bank financing medium- and large-scale
industries, which often employ high technology and are export-oriented. Loan
1097 is fully committed and disbursements are slightly ahead of schedule.
Disbursements under Loan 1475 are also ahead of schedule.
Loan No. 1260  Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40.0 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Loan No. 1511  IDBI Joint/Public Sector Project; US$25.0 million loan of
March 1, 1978; Effective Date: May 31, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
Loan 1260 is designed to assist the Industrial Development Bank of
India in promoting small- and medium-scale industries and in strengthening the
State Financial Corporations involved. Loan 1511 is designed to encourage the
pooling of private and public capital in medium-scale joint ventures. The
project also assists IDBI in carrying out industrial sector investment studies
and in strengthening the financial institutions dealing with the state joint/
public sector.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 17
Cr. No. 440    Bihar Agricultural Credit Project; US$32.0 million credit
of November 29, 1.973; Effective Date: March 29, 1974;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project provides US$32.0 million in support of a lending program
for 50,000 tubewells and pumpsets investment in the Tirhut Division of Bihar.
Because of slow disbursements caused by a lower than estimated Dollar/Rupee
exchange rate and by low unit irLvestment costs compared with appraisal esti-
mates, IDA agreed to extend the closing date to March 1980 and expand the
project area to cover the whole State. Physical targets have now been
achieved and the credit should be fully disbursed by the revised closing
date.
Cr. No. 947    Third Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
(ARDC) Project; US$250.0 million credit of August 20, 1979;
Effective Date: January 2, 1980; Closing Date: June 30,
1982
Refinancing of lending to farmers has been started under this project
after the completion of the Second ARDC Project towards the end of 1979.
Cr. No. 747    Second Foodgrain Storage Project; US$107.0 million credit of
January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 17, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
As of September 1979, satisfactory progress was being made in
the construction of bag storage warehouses, despite problems of land acqui-
sition at some sites. However, construction of flat bulk warehouses and
port silos is not expected to be completed until 1985, as a result of delays
in the employment of consultants and the longer time required for the prepa-
ration of technical specifications and tenders and the construction itself.
Cr. No. 456    Himachal Pradesh Akpple Processing and Marketing Project;
US$13.0 million credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Closing Date:  December 31, 1980
The project encountered prolonged initial delays due to managerial
and technical problems. These problems have been largely resolved, but con-
struction progress remains slow due to material shortages and severe winter
conditions. Initial packing house operations were undertaken in the last
two seasons with favorable response from farmers.  The project is scheduled
for completion by December 1980.
Cr. No. 806    Jammu-Kashmir Horticulture Project; US$US$14.0 million credit
of July 17, 1978; Effective Date: January 16, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The principal executing agency, J&K Horticulture Produce Marketing
and Processing Corporation, is under strong management and rapid progress has
been made in start-up operations with only minor slippage. The project's
research activities, however, are behind the original schedule due to poor
organization.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 17
Ln. No. 1313   Telecommunications VI Project; US$80.0 million loan
of July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
Ln. No. 1592   Telecommunications VII Project; US$US$120.0 million loan
of June 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 30, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
Both projects are progressing satisfactorily, although as of
November 1979, when they were last reviewed, imports of electronic switching
equipment and local production of electro-mechanical switching equipment
were behind schedule, resulting in a reduced growth rate for the installa-
tion of direct exchange lines. Institutional improvements envisaged under
the projects have been achieved, and the financial situation of the Posts
and Telegraphs Department remains sound.
Cr. No. 520    Sindri Fertilizer Project; US$91.0 million credit of
December 18, 1974; Effective Date: February 27, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
Ln. No. 1079   IFFCO Fertilizer Project; US$US$109.0 million loan of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: April 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
Cr. No. 598    Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105.0 million credit
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Ln. No. 1743   Thal Fertilizer Project; US$250.0 million loan of August 20,
1979; Effective Date: February 29, 1980 (expected);
Closing Date: November 30, 1984
The Sindri project has also been commissioned and commercial produc-
tion is expected shortly. The IFFCO project was delayed by about a year as a
result of a change in feedstock from fuel oil to naphta and delays in comple-
tion of engineering contracts. However, project construction is now proceeding
satisfactorily and commissioning is expected within the next six months.
Credit 598 is designed to increase the utilization of existing fertilizer
production capacity. The project has encountered delays in sub-project prep-
aration and investment approvals by the Government. Further, some of the sub-
projects identified earlier may not materialize because of reconsideration
by the Central and State governments. IDA has agreed to a list of sub-projects
to replace the ones that are likely to be dropped. Because of the above, the
project is likely to be delayed by about 18 months.



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 17
Cr. No. 378    Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project; US$8.0 mil-
lion credit of Maiy 9, 1973; Effective Date: September 7, 1973;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1981
Delays in project implementation were encountered as a result of
frequent changes in management in the early stages, and these have necessi-
tated an extension of the closing date by 18 months to June 30, 1981, to allow
for completion of works and withdrawal of the credit. Progress is improving,
however. As of May, 1979, construction on 36 of the 39 markets envisaged under
the project was underway or completed, and trade had shifted to about half of
these. An additional five markets may be included in the project at the
request of the State government.
Cr. No. 312    Population Project; US$21.2 million credit of June 14, 1972;
Effective Date: May 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
This credit is designed to finance an experimental and research
oriented population project in Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. The project's
infrastructure, which would provide the optimum facilities (buildings, equip-
ment, staff and transport) according to GOI standards in selected districts
in each state, is virtually complete. The two Population Centers, established
to design and monitor research aimed at improving the family planning program,
are now functioning. The Population Centers are expected to complete their
evaluation of family planning strategies and the introduction of management
information and evaluation systems by the present closing date.
Cr. No. 342    Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
The project involves the development of the agricultural univer-
sities in Assam and Bihar. The primary aim of the AUs project is to improve
the quality and practical training of undergraduates and so the spectrum of
their employment opportunities; and to strengthen university structure to
enable it to give an impetus to agricultural and rural development. Consider-
able progress has been made in achieving the latter objective; but achieving
educational objectives is more slowly attainable, constrained by traditional
attitudes and structures where consistent effective leadership falters.
Changes to a more functional orientation are now planned. The Project
Director and others responsible are aware of the constraints and are support-
ing efforts to remove them.
Cr. No. 390    Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date: March 13, 1974;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 842    Second Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$196.0
million credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date:
June 12, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1985



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 17
Cr. No. 848    Punjab Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$38.0 million
credit of October 27, 1978; Effective Date: January 25, 1979,
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 899    Maharashtra Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$48.0 mil-
lion credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: November 9,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Having overcome earlier difficulties, including cost overruns caused
by inflation (requiring project redefinition in February 1975), redesign of
major project components and the addition of a supplementary study on sewage
disposal, Credit 390 is now progressing satisfactorily. The water treatment
works were successfully completed on schedule at the end of 1979. Completion
of construction of the project sewerage works is scheduled for mid-1980.
Financial performance of the project entity is satisfactory. Implementation of
Credit 842, a second stage of the ongoing Credit 390, is proceeding to schedule.
Preliminary work in connection with implementation of Credit 848 is progressing
satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 585    Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0
million credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date:
February 6, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The Project has had a slow start due to delays in the preparation
of technical reports for regional and local water authorities and in the
engagement of consultants. While improvements have been made in the physical
execution, other aspects of project implementation continue to lag so that
disbursements under the Credit have fallen short of estimates at the time
of appraisal. In order to improve the situation, arrangements have be-
,nade to closely supervise and coordinate implementation.
Cr. No. 756    Second Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$87.0 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 7, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
The project is proceeding quite well in most sectors, in spite of
the severe floods of September 1978 and serious Statewide electric power
shortages. Procurement is generally on schedule for equipment and consultants'
services, though somewhat behind for larger civil works contracts. Staff
shortages in some of the implementing agencies continue, although more exten-
sive use of consultants has to a great degree alleviated this problem.
Cr. No. 687    Madras Urban Development Project; US$24.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date:  June 30, 1977; Closing
Date: September 30, 1981
Physical progress is generally satisfactory and costs are within
appraisal estimates on most components. However, land acquisition problems
and consequent delays in construction on one of the three sites and service
areas will result in about 15 months delay in the completion of the final
sections of these areas. Inadequate attention and staff has been given to



ANNEX II
Paee 11 of 17
the financial analysis and marketing strategies required to ensure that anti-
cipated cost recovery in the sites and services and slum upgrading components
and thus replicability is actually achieved. However, there is still ample
time to deal effectively with these problems; technical assistance is being
sought to strengthen financial management and analysis.
Cr. No. 482    Karnataka Dairy D)evelopment Project; US$30.0 million credit
of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521    Rajasthan Dairy )evelopment Project; US$27.7 million credit
of December 18, 1.974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522    Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million
credit of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1982
Cr. No. 824    National Dairy Project; US$150.0 million credit of
June 19, 1978; Effective Date:  December 20, 1978;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1985
These four credits, tetalling US$224.1 million, support dairy devel-
opment projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy coopera-
tive scheme in Gujarat State. More than 2,100 dairy cooperative societies
(DCS) have been established under the three state projects (Karnataka 923,
Rajasthan-926, Madhya Pradesh-272). Farmer response had been excellent and
project authorities are under considerable producer pressure to speed up the
establishment of DCS. Profitability in almost all of the DCS is good and con-
struction of dairy and feed plants is now proceeding at a satisfactory pace.
Limited milk processing capacity has been the major constraint to DCS formation
in all three projects. Under the National Dairy Project, three subprojects
with an estimated total cost of approximately Rs 1,000 million have been
appraised by the Indian Dairy Corporation and a further eight subprojects are
in various stages of preparation and appraisal. Advance procurement of dairy
equipment is well underway thouglh disbursements have been slow, mainly as a
result in the start of project operations.
Cr. No. 532    Godavari Barrage Project; US$45.0 million credit of
March 7, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Both the civil works and equipment tenders have been awarded after
international competitive bidding. Work is proceeding satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1011   Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52.0
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 502    Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83.0
million credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date:
December 12, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 37
Cr. No. 562    Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Command Area Development Project;
.US$24.0 million credit of June 20, 1975; Effective Date:
September 18, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Ln. No. 1251   Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)         Composite Project; US$145.0 million loan (Third Window)
of June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 720    Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23.0 million
credit of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30,
1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 736    Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$70.0 million credit of
October 11, 1977; Effective Date: January 13, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 740    Orissa Irrigation Project; US$58.0 million of October 11,
1977; Effective Date: January 16, 1978; Closing Date:
October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 788    Karnataka Irrigation Project; US$126.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 10, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1984
Cr. No. 808    Gujarat Irrigation Project; US$85.0 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Cr. No. 843    Haryana Irrigation Project; US$111.0 million credit of
August 16, 1978; Effective Date: December 14, 1978;
Closing Date: August 31, 1983
Cr. No. 889    Punjab Irrigation Project; US$120.0 million credit of
March 30, 1979; Effective Date: June 20, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,
to use water savings for briaging additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructure, drainage, and land shaping are
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads. Progress of these projects
is generally satisfactory with the exception of the Nagarjunasagar compo-
nent of Loan 1251 where water losses have proven higher than anticipated.
Specific efforts are underway to redesign this project so that it can
achieve its original objectives.



ANNEX II
Paee 13 of 17
Cr. No. 541    West Bengal Agricultural Development Project; US$34.0 million
credit of April 28, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The progress of shallow tubewells is well ahead of the appraisal
schedule, but progress in all other areas is slow. The project will not
fuLly disburse by the closing date, and GOI's request for an extension is
expected.
Cr. No. 682    Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20.0 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 690    West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
August 30, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 712    Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 728    Assam Agricultural Development Project; US$8.0 million credit
of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 737    Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$13.0 million credit of November 14, 1977; Effective
Date: February 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 761    Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$8.0
million credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 2,
1978; Closing Date: October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 862    Composite Agricullural Extension Project, US$25.0 million
credit of Februarr 16, 1979; Effective Date (expected):
December 14, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
These seven credits finance the reorganization and strengthening
of agricultural extension services and the development of adaptive research
capabilities in nine States in India. In areas where the reformed extension
system is in full operation, field results have been very good, both in terms
of adoption of new agricultural techniques and of increased crop yields. In
Rajasthan, Assam, and Orissa, in particular, significant gains have been made
under the projects. In West Bengal, where a change in government brought a
review of the organizational principles underlying the new extension system
and an accompanying hiatus in project implementation, a recent Cabinet deci-
sion has reaffirmed the State Government's commitment to the project and
revised implementation plans are under preparation. In Bihar and Madhya
Pradesh, staff shortages, particularly in supervisory and managerial posts,
have hampered project implementation, although progress in areas where



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 17
regular extension visits are being made attests to the efficacy of the
system itself. Finally, in Gujarat, Haryana and Karnataka, all covered
under the Composite Agricultural Extension Project (which is not yet effec-
tive), project implementation is still in the very early stages, although
important early administrative and financial steps have been taken which
should pave the way for effective operation of the reorganized extension
system.
Cr. No. 855    National Agriculture Research Project; US$27.0 million
credit of December 7, 1978; Effective Date: January 22,
1979; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
While the initial sanctioning of research subprojects under this
project was somewhat slower than expected, due to staff shortages in the
Project Unit, the pace has picked up considerably in recent months. Commit-
ment of funds to research subprojects in FY80 is expected to meet or even
exceed appraisal estimates, although corresponding disbursements may lag
somewhat behind the original estimates. Additions to the staff of the
Project Unit are being recommended to expedite further progress under the
project.
Cr. No. 526    Drought Prone Areas Project; US$35.0 million credit of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Overall progress of this project continues to be satisfactory.
Implementation of most components is proceeding well. Dairying and dryland
farming components show particular promise for the drought-prone areas.
Cr. No. 680    Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30.0 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Project implementation started slowly due to initial staffing and
funding delays. The project has now gained momentum and the planting opera-
tions, which were one season behind original schedule, have been rephased
to make up for lost time.
Cr. No. 871    National Cooperative Development Corporation (NCDC) Project;
US$30.0 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
May 3, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
As of October, 1979, when the project was last reviewed, construc-
tion of godowns had begun in the three participating States of Haryana, Orissa,
and Uttar Pradesh. Consultants were being recruited to assist NCDC and State
Cooperative Banks in strengthening their institutions. Initial project
preparations have been completed on schedule; disbursements are therefore
expected to follow the appraisal targets.



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 17
Cr. No. 844    Railway Modernization and Maintenance Project; US$190.0
million credit of November 13, 1978; Effective Date:
January 10, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
Credit 844 was designed to help the Indian Railways reduce manu-
facturing and maintenance costs of locomotives and rolling stock and to
improve their performance and availability.  The project is still at an
early stage of implementation but is progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 609    Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4.0 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective
Date:  May 17, 1976; Closing Date:  December 31, 1981
A feasibility study financed under this Credit and completed in
November 1979 has recommended the establishment of two mills, one for sawn-
wood and one for pulp, as the basis of the development of a forest-based
industry in Bastar district.
Cr. No. 925    Uttar Pradesh Social Forestry Project; US$23.0 million
credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: January 3,
1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
This project was designed to expand the social forestry program
in Uttar Pradesh, to provide a source of energy to the villages, and supply
raw materials to cottage industries. The project provides for large-scale
tree plantation on 48,600 ha of ]public and village lands, primarily along
roads, rails and canals, and on village common lands and degraded forest
reserves.
Cr. No. 610    Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18.0 million
credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project's progress remained very disappointing in all areas
until the 1978 season, resulting in negligible disbursements. Due to renewed
interests from GOI and the States, the project has now started to progress
well. Short-term credits are increasing significantly, new processing units
are being established in Haryana and Maharashtra, and plant protection
activities have started progressing well.
Ln. No. 1273   National Seed Project; US$25.0 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: Cctober 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 816    Second National Seed Project; US$16.0 million credit of
July 17, 1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
These projects were designed to increase the availability of high
quality agricultural seed, and cover nine States (four by Ln. 1273-IN and
five by CR. 816-IN). The first project started slowly due to organizational



ANNEX II
Paep 16 of 17
difficulties and is almost two years behind schedule. Progress in the
second project States is more satisfactory. The role of various organizations
(National and State) in the production and processing of seed is being reviewed.
Ln. No. 1335   Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25.0 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1980
The bus procurement program supported by the project has proceeded
on schedule, with all 700 bus chassis and bodies having been ordered and 589
already in service. Total fleet strength has increased from 1,530 buses at
the inception of the project to 1,900 buses in September 1979, in accordance
with appraisal estimates. Depot capacity expansion is lagging somewhat behind
fleet expansion, but should match fleet size by early 1980. However, delays
in construction of new workshop facilities have been more substantial and will
not be fully recoverable. Traffic management civil works are also somewhat
behind schedule, although efforts are being made to speed up the works program.
Ln. No. 1394   Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14.0 million loan and US$4.0
(TW) and       million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 695    July 19, 1977; Closing Date:  June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 815    Andhra Pradesh Fisheries Project; US$17.5 million credit
ofJune 19, 1978; Effective Date: October 31, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1984
In Gujarat, harbor construction at Mangrol and Veraval are under
way, and although some delays have been encountered, the project is progress-
ing satisfactorily and no major problems are evident. In Andhra Pradesh,
preliminary work on implementation is progressing satisfactorily, and harbor
works at Visakhapatnam and Kakinada are scheduled to commence shortly.
Cr. No. 685    Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 793    Korba Thermal Power Project; US$200.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; Effective Date: August 14, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1985
Ln. No. 1549   Third Trombay Thermal Power Project; US$105.0 million loan
of June 19, 1978; Effective Date: February 8, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
Ln. No. 1648   Ramagundam Thermal Power Project; US$50.0 million loan and
and Cr.         US$200 million credit of February 2, 1979; Effective Date:
No. 874         May 22, 1979; Closing Date:  December 31, 1985



ANNEX II
PaP2 17 of 17
Cr. No. 604    Power Transmission IV Project; US$150 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date:  October 22, 1976;
Closing Date: Jlune 30, 1981
Credit 685 assists in financing the first stage of the 2,000 MW
Singrauli development which is the first of four power stations in the
Government's program for the development of large central thermal power
stations feeding power into an interconnected grid. The second such
station, at Korba, is being financed under Credit 793. The National Thermal
Power Corporation (NTPC) has been carrying out construction and operation
of these power stations. Organization and staffing of NTPC is proceeding
satisfactorily. Loan 1549 is supporting the construction of a 500 MW
extension of the Tata Electric Companies' station, in order to help meet
the forecast load growth in the Bombay area. Loan 1648 and Credit 874 sup-
port the construction of the first three 200 MW generating units in Andhra
Pradesh together with related facilities and associated transmission. All
these large-scale thermal power projects are progressing satisfactorily.
Under Credit 604, contracts aggregating about US$114 million have been ap-
proved to date. Although this project suffered delays in preparation of
technical specifications and evaluation of bids for highly sophisticated
equipment, the project is now progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 572    Rural Electrification Project; US$57.0 million credit of
July 23, 1975; Effective Date: October 23, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980
Cr. No. 911    Rural Electrification Corporation II Project; US$175.0
million credit of June 21, 1979; Effective Date: October 17,
1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1984
Credit 572 consists of a tranche of rural electrification schemes
which would cover about 140 rural electrification schemes. There are now
thirteen State Electricity Boards (SEBs) eligible for onlending, compared
with six at the time of appraisal. The project got off to a slow start, due
principally to the need to adapt: the specifications and tendering procedures
to international competitive bidding, but the position has improved and the
full amount of the Credit has been committed. Credit 911 would provide con-
tinued support to the Rural Electrification Corporation's lending program,
and help finance about 1,700 rural electrification schemes in fourteen SEBs,
including the newly participatirLg Uttar Pradesh SEB. The project is at an
early stage of implementation, and preparation of bid specifications is
progressing satisfactorily.
Ln. No. 1473   Bombay High Offshore Development Project; US$150.0 million
loan of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: October 20, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project is progressing satisfactorily. Gas and oil pipelines
from Bombay High to shore were commissioned in June 1978. Most contracts for
Phase III of Bombay High development have been laid, construction should be
completed by mid-1980 and the loan should be fully disbursed by its original
closing date.



ANNEX III
Page I
INDIA
UTTAR PRADESH PUBLIC TUBEWELLS PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:   Timetable of Key Events
(a)   Time taken by the Borrower to prepare the project.
Two years.
(b)  The agency which has prepared the project.
Government of Uttar Pradesh, with assistance from
the Cooperative Program of the Food and Agriculture
Organization.
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Bank and date of
the first mission to consider the project.
January 1979; February 1979.
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission.
August 27, 1979.
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations.
March 1980.
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness.
July 1980.
Section II:   Special Conditions
(a)  GOUP to select sites for project tubewells in
conformity with criteria agreed with the Asso-
ciation (paragraph 43).
(b)  Tubewell operation and maintenance to be carried
out on the basis of procedures and criteria agreed
between the Association and GOUP (paragraph 45).



ANNEX III
Page 2
(c) State Electricity Board to provide power to each
tubewell pump unit no more than two months after
completion of the piped distribution system
(paragraph 45).
(d) Training programs acceptable to the Association for
operation and maintenance staff to be set up (para-
graph 46).
(e) GOUP to review the water charges on tubewells in the
State by March 31, 1981 and to implement an appropriate
system of water charges based on the recommendations
arising from the review (paragraph 58).



7S  7d'            Th,s sp hdS t S- ?p t t #  ra:!id Thtt f 'he W  dtn sDd Rt5          X        *e C.{ C /.X   IBRDD11463
HfIMACHA/A    PRADESH                                   .....e3ScntSd7m01dtelYltaDoa;elokaaSoeeS2J                              >                            _
UTTARKASHI                                          X C        H    I N    A                                           jM<    
)  r  \  U        \     ~~~CHAMOLI     4,.
e~~~~~~~~~~~~El R CSHA DU          TEHRI-GARHWAL \     0                                                                           ,t, 
HARYANA  .  <aDn                                  Gptwr        z)                     
-SDo  <       t1SW        g  Pa~~   ~     ~    ~~~oNl  g  'TPlrORAGARH       *\                                    .                  Ah
t 3 m ~~~~~~~GARHWAL 4r
e Q SAHARANPUR   %\.                               
41   SA  2  <                  g    ~~~~~ALMORA   
jkMUZAFFARNAGAR toin            -         Nma                                                UTTAR  PRADESH  PUBLIC
(7 MEERUT   0                _           NAINITAL                                               TUBEWELLS PROJECT                                
k  M98n A   X    <                  J                                        ~~~~~~~~~PROJECT DISTRICTS 
D      GHAIARAM PUR    <                             ..                                                                       PROJECT DISTRICTS
iEbady  \   s MO~~~~~RADABAD                      Pi,                                                                   DITRC  HEAD7AiTER
J  XOSLlgndshA        \  A dAREILW  9    ~~~~~~~~~~~PILIBHIT       /                                     S      cSTAITE  HEAP QJAL TR
BULANt                X(   3r                     /     |       g      \^                                                   NATIONAL HIGHVWAY
-2e-   .  s  < < BU~~~~ADAUN \    w^+E  ,<-== RES
t JTJ <    XAIig r  7<   BudaJn   t\              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~KHERI 9>1i >_                           _ DISTRICT BOUINDAR ES        
~~\   ?  >  3   <  9   Slahia         LeWllmpurOJ p_;>    8   >                      _     _   S~~~~~~~~~~TITE BOUNDAR ESldo
2zMATHuUR,A \    ALIGARH  ETAH  M~~~~SHA_HJAHAlrPU   \      -                   AHIC                              INTERNATIONAL SOLNDAR ES
+ Mathoa    <   +   EtX    3 <>  9  ~~HARDOI           >,                      d,l 
<   rHA N                   MAIN,                                                                GONDA  T
r    _S    a                         ;t                                                                    -Leorl  -;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Bh~ 
MHADHYA   PRA DESH wF/@    u, p,<f<\' 
-20-                         g5    JALAUN>,~~~~~~~~~~4  KANPUR                                  0                               5      A
g y$ S >rt2 \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.                                 AZAMGARH               yJ26"-
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ATEgtHA1PUPRAT e JA Pu;\ ~GA,RH                                                      ALLIA
@,~~~~~~~~~~~~~HMRU                                                                                     GHAZPUR  PUR
JHANSI ;
24-                                            0       4C                100     120                 > >         f     \                        244-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o 
KILOETER
_  78-                                       8D'                                        824                          NOf/EMEER 1979~~~~~~~1HA



