CREDIT NUMBER 1004 IN
Project Agreement
(Uttar Pradesh Public Tubewells Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH
Dated                              , 1980


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1004 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       44                    , 1980, between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association) and STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH, acting by its Governor
(hereinafter called Uttar Pradesh).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India, acting by its President (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to eighteen million dollars ($18,000,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that Uttar Pradesh agree to
undertake such obligations toward the Association as are herein-
after set forth; and
WHEREAS Uttar Pradesh, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. Uttar Pradesh shall carry out the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and agricultural practices,
and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out


﻿-2-
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Uttar Pradesh undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credits made available to it
by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or instal-
lation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by Uttar Pradesh to replace or repair such
goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, Uttar
Pradesh shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower to be
used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) Uttar Pradesh shall furnish to the Assoc-
iation, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifi-
cations, reports, contract documents and construction and procure-
ment schedules for the Project, and any material modifications
thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request.
(b) Uttar Pradesh: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditures of such proceeds and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Asso-
ciation and Uttar Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh shall prepare and
furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and in such


﻿- 3 -
detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the execu-
tion and initial operation of the Project, its cost and the
benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance *by
Uttar Pradesh and the Association of their respective obligations
under the Project Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes
of the Credit.
Section 2.06. (a) Uttar Pradesh shall at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to
the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit.
(b) Uttar Pradesh shall promptly inform the Association of
any condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with
the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by Uttar Pradesh of its obligations
under this Agreement.
Section 2.07. (a) Uttar Pradesh shall:
(i) select or cause to be selected, irrigation command
areas under the Project; and
(ii) design, construct, operate and maintain the
irrigation systems under the Project,
in accordance with criteria agreed between the Association
and Uttar Pradesh.
(b) Uttar Pradesh shall cause the State Electricity Board of
Uttar Pradesh to energize each tubewell pump unit not later than
two months after the completion of the piped distribution system
for such unit.
Section 2.08. Uttar Pradesh shall carry out a training
program, satisfactory to the Association and Uttar Pradesh, for
the operation and maintenance staff involved or to be involved
with the Project.
Section 2.09. Uttar Pradesh shall take all such measures in
the command areas of tubewells under the Project as shall be
necessary on its part to prevent the spread of malaria and other
water-related diseases.


﻿Section 2.10. With the objective of ensuring recovery of
annual operation and maintenance costs, and to the extent pos-
sible, the capital costs of public tubewells, having regard inter
alia to incentives for, and payment capacity of farmers, Uttar
Pradesh undertakes to (i) review the water charges on the tube-
wells in Uttar Pradesh by not later than March 31, 1981 and (ii)
implement an appropriate system of water charges based on the
recommendations arising from the said review, after paying due
regard to the Association's comments; if any, on such
recommendations.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. Uttar Pradesh shall maintain separate records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
appropriate accounting practices its operations and financial
condition, in respect of the Project, or any part thereof.
Section 3.02. Uttar Pradesh shall: (i) have its separate
accounts in respect of the Project, for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any
case not later than nine months after the end of each such year,
(A) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such
other information concerning the accounts and financial statements
of Uttar Pradesh and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of Uttar Pradesh thereunder shall terminate on
the earlier of the following two dates:


﻿-5-
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms;
or
(ii) a date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
Uttar Pradesh of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. An   notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made unler this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-6-
For Uttar Pradesh:
Secretary to the Government
of Uttar Pradesh
Irrigation Department
Lucknow
Uttar Pradesh, India
Cable address:
SECRETARY Irrigation
Lucknow
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of Uttar Pradesh may be taken or executed
by its Secretary, Irrigation Department or such other person or
persons as Uttar Pradesh shall designate in writing, and Uttar
Pradesh shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each
such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia
STATE OF UTTAR PRADESH
Authorized Representative


﻿- 7 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, Uttar Pradesh shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days 1rior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Association shall
reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the publi-
cation of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. Uttar Pradesh shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
or works remain to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or
the sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in


﻿- 8 -
India may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
India if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of India and the Association that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in India equal to at least 20% of the ex-
factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C


﻿- 9 -
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Drilling of bore holes for tubewells shall be carried
out departmentally by Uttar Pradesh.
2.   Contracts for civil works, other than those included in
paragraph C.1 above, may be let on the basis of competitive
bidding advertised locally in accordance with procedures satis-
factory to the Association, and Uttar Pradesh shall make available
all necessary materials to the successful bidder or bidders.
3.   (i) PVC pipes estimated to cost an amount not exceeding
$2,000,000 equivalent in the aggregateS (ii) building materials
such as steel bars, bricks, concrete, cement and timber; and (iii)
field vehicles, shall be procured through Uttar Pradesh's standard
procurement procedures, satisfactory to the Association.
4.   Monitoring equipment may be purchased through usual
commercial channels.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, Uttar Pradesh shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, Uttar
Pradesh shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Association of the name of the bidder to which it


﻿- 10 -
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Assoc-
iation, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on
the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform Uttar Pradesh and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on whijk bids were asked or prequalification invited.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, Uttar Pradesh shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after its execution, together with the analysis of the
respective bids, recommendations for award and such other informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was not
consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
Uttar Pradesh and state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, Uttar Pradesh shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform Uttar Pradesh
and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198 q .
FOR SECRETARY


