Document of
The World Bank FILE CaPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2384-JIS
JAMAICA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FORESTRY PROJECT
April 27, 1979
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Jamaican Dollar (J$)
Through April, 1977
US$1,000        J$0.909
J$1,000       US$1,100
April 1977 to May 1978
In April 1977, the Government instituted a dual exchange rate system.
under this system, a new "special" exchange rate of US$1,000 = J$ 1,250 was
established for all transactions except essential imports and transactions of
the Government and bauxite sector, which remained at the old ("basic") exchange
rate of US$1,000 = J$ 0.909. Subsequent adjustments were made in the "basic"
and "special" rates and by May 1978, the rates were:
Basic                           Special
US$1,000  = J$ 1,050               US$1,000  =   J$ 1,350
J$1,000  =US$0.952                 J$1,000  =  US$0.740
May 1978 to March 1979
On May 10, 1978, the exchange rate was unified at the new rate of
US$1,000 = J$ 1,550. The Government started a system of monthly devaluations
totalling 15% over the following period. The following are the exchange
values at March, 1979.
US$0.01  =   J$ 0.0175
US$1.00  =   J$ 1.75
J$0.01  =  US$0.0571
J$1.00  =  US$0.571
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Historically Jamaica has used the English system but, in keeping with
general forestry practice, its forest industry is in the process of
changing over to the metric system.
FISCAL YEARS
The Government and its Ministries,
including FD and FIDU                         Anril 1 - March 31
JNIC and FIDCO                                January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CDC              Commonwealth Development Corporation
dbh              Diameter at breast height
FAO/CP           Food and Agriculture Organization/World Bank
Cooperative Programme
FD               Forest Department
FIDCO            Forest Industries Development Company Ltd.
FIDU             Forest Industries Development Unit
JNIC             Jamaican National Investment Company Ltd.
mai              Mean Annual Increment
m r              Cubic Meters of Roundwood
m s              Cubic Meters of Sawnwood
ODM              UK Overseas Development Ministry
r/h/t            Roading/Harvesting/Transport component of the project
UNDP             United Nations Development Programme
USAID            U.S. Agency for International Development
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






JAMAICA
FORESTRY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page Nos.
1.  THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR ......................       1
A. The Place of Agriculture in the Economy ...      1
B. Resources and Land Use ....................      1
C. Structure and Land Distribution ...........      1
D. Production and Performance ................      2
E. Government Support Services ...............      2
F. Government Policies .......................      3
G. Bank Involvement in the Sector ............      4
2.  THE FOREST SUBSECTOR ......      ..................  4
A. Background ................................      4
B. Economic and Social Importance     .    .        6
C. Government Policies ................             7
D. Current Structure           ...    7
E. Commercial Potential          .       .          9
F. Noncommercial Forestry         .      .         10
3.   EXECUTING AGENCIES .......................,.       11
4.   THE PROGRAM AND PROJECT ......................     13
A. Project Origin ...... .....................     13
B. Goals and Objectives .....................      14
C. The Industrial - Plantation Program ......      14
D. The Project Area (For Pine Plantation
Establishments)            .       .           15
E. Description of the Project       .     .        16
F. Project Costs and Financing ............. .     19
G. Retroactive Financing ....................      23
H. Procurement    ..............................   24
I. Disbursement .............................      25
This project was appraised in September/October 1978 by a mission composed of
John E. Graves and Christian E. Keil of the Bank and Lars Hartman and Karsten
Holmsten (consultants) in collaboration with a CDC mission composed of F.S.
Dorward and P.J. Coughlan.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page Nos.
5.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, TECHNOLOGY
AND PRODUCTION SPECIFICATIONS ........................          25
A. Implementing Agencies .............................          25
B. FIDCO Organization and Management ....        .............  26
C. Commencement of Corporate Activity for FIDCO   ......        27
D. Planning ..........................................          28
E. Land Acquisition ..................................          29
F. Plantation Development .............................         30
G. Road Developme~nt and Harvesting .....       ..............  31
H. Sawmill Development ...............................          32
I. Project Implementation, Monitoring and Evaluation..          33
6. PRODUCTION AND MARKETING                   ...                     34
7.   FINANCIAL ANALYSIS           ...................................  35
A. Background .................... ....................         35
B. FIDCO Accounts and Audit Arrangements .        ............  35
C. Forecast Financial Results               .        .          36
D. Proposed Financial Undertakings ........  ,. ......          -40
E. Government Accounts ........              ......             41
F. Income Tax implications ...........................          42
8.   ECONOMIC ANALYSIS, OTHER BENEFITS AND RISKS ...........          42
A.  Assumptions ........................................         42
B.  Results of the Analysis ............................    44
C.  Other project Benefits .............................         44
D.  Ecological Impact ..................................         45
E.  Project Risks ................                               45
9.   RECOMMENDATIONS ................... ...... .., ...               46



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page Nos.
TEXT TABLES
2.1      Forestry Accomplishments - 1973-78 ...........    6
2.2      Commercial Activities of the Forest                  8
Department 1973 - 78.
4.1   Pine Plantation Program                .      .        15
4.2      Estimated Project Cost .......................   20
4.3      Estimated Project Financing          .      .       22
6.1      Annual Production Goals .       .....................   34
7.1      Key Financial Ratios of FIDCO          .     .      38
7.2      FIDCO - Summary Sources and Requirements
of Funds 1979-84 .39
8.1      Internal rate of return of project and
components .44
CHARTS
3.1      Organization of the Forestry Sector and
of FIDCO .      ...........  ,........,.....   12
ANNEXES
1.       Plan of Action
2.       Tools, Vehicles, Materials and Equipment Required
3.       Estimated Loan Disbursement
4.       Financial Statements
5.       Government Cash Flow
6.       Rate of Return
7.       Background Documents and Data Available in Project File
MAP
IBRD 13995 - JAMAICA - Forestry Project






JAMAICA
FORESTRY PROJECT
1. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A.    The Place of Agriculture in the Economy
1.01       In spite of continuous migration from the rural to the urban areas
in recent years, agriculture is still a major source of income and employment
in Jamaica. It currently contributes approximately 7% to the gross national
product, 35% to national employment and about 20% to export earnings.
However, socio-economic problems abound in rural areas, where about 60%
(1.2 million) of the population still lives. About 80% of the rural popula-
tion have incomes less than a third of the national average (relative poverty),
and at least a third earns less than the income considered necessary to
provide minimum caloric requirements (absolute poverty).
B.    Resources and Land Use
1.02       Out of a total surface area of 1.1 million ha (2.7 million acres),
about 700,000 ha (1.7 million acres) in Jamaica are designated as suitable
for some agriculture, including forestry, the remainder being too steep, too
dry or urbanized. About 40% of such land is of limited agricultural potential,
and, in effect, Jamaican agriculture is based on about 400,000 ha (one million
acres) of land. There is ample rainfall (about 2,000 mm annually on average),
but its distribution is uneven and partial droughts are frequent.
C.   Structure and Land Distribution
1.03       Jamaican agriculture until recently consisted of two sectors, the
export-oriented, large-scale plantation sector engaged in the production of
cash crops and beef cattle, and small-scale farmers, producing mostly food
crops and small livestock largely for domestic consumption. In recent years
the importance of the plantation sector has declined. Medium-sized, relatively
capital intensive commercial farms emerged as a potentially significant factor
in the 1960s and early 1970s, but the reluctance of the private sector to make
new investments since the mid-1970s has limited the growth of this class of
enterprise. More recently, the government has promoted the establishment of
small farms (see below) and fostered the development of sugarcane-growing
cooperatives; continued emphasis on small-farmer and cooperative rural devel-
opment is expected in the future.
1.04       Agricultural land is still very unevenly distributed among about
190,000 holdings. About 15% of the land is in 150,000 farms of less than
five acres, while, at the other end of the scale, about 300 farms of more
than 500 acres occupy 43% of the area. In recent years the government sought
to alleviate this discrepancy by distributing 45,000 ha (110,000 acres) to
about 30,000 small-holders and landless laborers under its Project Land Lease,
and it plans to provide another 20,000 leased farms under this program through
1982.



- 2-
D.    Production and Performance
1.05       The overall performance of the agricultural sector has not been
commensurate with its physical potential. Over the last decade, production
has remained stagnant, resulting in a decline in agricultural output and food
production per capita. This has been particularly evident for export crops,
production of which had been decreasing at an annual rate of 5% in constant
prices until 1978, when it appears to have stabilized. Until 1977, production
of foodstuffs for domestic consumption did not keep pace with domestic demand.
As a result, food imports increased at an annual rate of 5% to reach about
J$120 million in 1975. More recently, restrictions imposed by the government
in 1976-77 reduced food imports to J$50 million in 1977, and response to
government stimuli (principally expanded small-farmer credit through the
Emergency Production Plan--see para 1.10) has resulted in increased food-crop
production.
1.06       The unsatisfactory performance of the agricultural sector in the
past may be broadly attributed to:
(a) its long-standing neglect by the government;
(b) the reluctance of the traditional plantation sector to adjust
to changing socio-economic conditions;
(c) highly skewed land distribution;
(d) the lack of effective agricultural services, especially extension
and applied research, to provide support to small- and medium-
sized farmers;
(e)  deficient infrastructuLe and social services in rural areas;
(f) deficient marketing arrangements for both food and some
export crops;
(g) inertia regarding the application of improved farm practices
and failure to intensify land-use and cropping patterns;
(h) inter-related problems of low capital formation and the private
sector's reluctance to invest in agriculture; and
(i) a serious increase in praedial larceny.
E.    Government Support Services
1.07       Numerous government agencies axe involved in the agricultural
sector and this poses serious administrative problems. The Ministry of
Agriculture has principal responsibility, but a number of other agencies
control important subsectors or special agricultural development programs,
as below:



-3-
Function                             Agency(ies)
Marketing       Ministry of Commerce and Trade; virtually autonomous
commodity boards
Credit          Ministry of Finance, through public-sector banks
Irrigation      Ministries of Public Utilities and Mining/Natural
Resources
Extension       Commodity boards
This situation has led to duplication of effort, inefficient use of scarce
human and financial resources and uncoordinated and fragmented services to
the farmers.
1.08       Adding to the government's organizational problems are the diffi-
culties which ministries are experiencing attracting and retaining qualified
personnel. Low salary levels and frustrating working conditions for civil
servants induce capable personnel to seek other employment, and the ministries
are unable to prevent an exodus of key professional and managerial employees.
Consequently, the quality of service provided by the Ministry of Agriculture
has not improved in recent years, and there is little prospect for improvement
as long as the Ministry retains direct responsibility for providing services
and salary restrictions remain in effect. In certain subsectors, the govern-
ment has been able to circumvent civil-service restrictions and thereby attract
qualified employees by establishing government-owned corporations.
F.    Government Policies
1.09       The government has long been aware of the problems outlined and,
with Bank assistance, undertook in 1973 an in-depth agricultural sector study.
This resulted in a Cabinet-approved policy for increasing agricultural produc-
tion, improving rural infrastructure and enhancing rural living conditions.
This policy was received with enthusiasm, but little of it was put into effect.
1.10       Recognizing anew the vital role of agriculture, the government
re-emphasized its importance in April 1977 by formulating an Emergency
Production Plan which called for immediate increases in food production and
for a long-term agricultural strategy to be completed by the end of 1977.
Its present intentions are embodied in the Five-Year Development Plan 1978-82,
which calls for an annual growth rate of 7 to 8% and an annual increase in
employment of 6% in the sector. The Plan's principal objectives are to:
maximize production of food and agricultural raw material; reduce reliance on
imports; optimize utilization of agricultural land; improve the standard of
living of the rural population by increasing both farm incomes and rural
amenities; provide more employment opportunities; ensure that inputs and
markets are available to farmers; and protect farmers from praedial larceny.
The plan proposes to accomplish this by: continuing the system of guaranteed
prices for urgently-required products; accelerating the distribution of land to



-4-
small farmers; implementing new or improved drainage or irrigation to about
20,000 ha (50,000 acres); implementing a soil-conservation program; strength-
ening research and extension services; improving the marketing and distribu-
tion of domestic food crops; and increasing the flow of agricultural credit.
While the Plan includes targets for each of 24 products or subsectors, includ-
ing forestry, it does not present specific measures needed to achieve the
targets. Because of the severe financial and management constraints facing
Jamaica now, substantial amounts of external technical and financial assistance
will be necessary if Jamaica is to achieve the Plan's objectives.
G.    Bank Involvement in the Sector
1.11       The Bank has so far made four loans, totalling US$42.2 million,
in the sector:
Loan Number and Date           Amount                 Project
(US$ million)
719-JM, December 1970           3.7         Agricultural Credit I
1004-JM, June 1974               5.5         Agricultural Credit II
1464-JM, June 1977              15.0         Rural Development
1517-JM, February 1978           18.0        Sugar Rehabilitation
The two credit projects were aimed at the medium-sized commercial farmer, and
their performance reflects the changing fortunes of that sector sub-group
(para 1.03); demand for subloans, relatively strong under the first project,
has declined to a virtual standstill under the second. In addition, project
management has been adversely affected by the executing agency's (Jamaica
Development Bank's) acute administrative problems. Severe manpower constraints
in the Ministry.of Agriculture have been principally responsible for very slow
implementation of the Rural Development Project, while the Sugar Rehabilitation
Project is progressing relatively well, thanks in large part to effective
management of the public-sector company which is the principal project execu-
ting agency.
2. THE FOREST SUBSECTOR
A.    Background
2.01       A total of about 267,000 ha (659,000 acres) or about 24% of
Jamaica's land area is classified as forest lands. Of this, about 77,000 ha
(190,000 acres) are considered well-stocked natural forest, of which about
60,000 ha (148,000 acres) are government-owned forest reserves and 17,000 ha
(42,000 acres) are privately owned. The remaining area classified as forest
land--190,000 ha (469,000 acres) is ruinate (scrub forest) with little present
potential for exploitation, fuelwood being the only use in the foreseeable
future. Much of the now well-stocked forest reserves--about 40,000 ha (89,000
acres)--is in very steep terrain and is not readily accessible. The steadily



- 5 -
declining activity of small rural sawmills illustrates this situation; little
by little accessible areas have been exploited of commercial trees without
reforestation. In 1969 there were about 80 small sawmills producing about
31,000 m3s. By 1977 about 70 sawmills produced about 23,000 m3s.
2.02       Forest products form an important element of indigenous consumption.
Sawnwood is used in residential and commercial construction, furniture manu-
facture and production of railway sleepers. Demand for utility poles and
fenceposts is increasing. Wood pulp and paper products are used both for
cultural purposes (reading and writing materials) and industrial ones (paper-
board and packaging materials). While the extent of the use of fuelwood for
rural energy consumption is not known, it is believed to be increasing. Until
recently, however, forestry development was not a high-priority development
area, with the result that demand for forest products has had to be met
increasingly by importation. In addition, the important role of forest areas
in protecting watersheds, thereby preventing soil erosion and ensuring a
sustained flow of water for downstream uses--agricultural, industrial and
domestic--has not been sufficiently taken into account.
2.03       With the exception of the Blue Mountain area in the eastern portion
of the country (see map), most of the soils in Jamaica are derived from
limestone. While they may be suited to selected hardwood species, their
near-term commercial potential remains to be demonstrated. Only in the Blue
Mountain area, with shale- and conglomerate-derived soils and moderate-to-high
rainfall (from 60 to over 160 inches p.a.), are conditions suitable for pine
(particularly Caribbean pine) cultivation, which is the initial focus of
commercial forestry because of the ready local market for pine products as
sawnwood and as a high-quality raw material for paper production, coupled with
a relatively short maturity cycle. In the Blue Mountain area about 73,000 ha
(180,000 acres) are suitable for Caribbean pine planting, but much of this area
is too steep for commercial logging, i.e., with slopes of more than 45 . The
suitable area for commercially-exploitable Caribbean pine forestry is about
40,000 ha (100,000 acres).
2.04       Small-scale planting of pines, as part of a regional plantation
development program, began in the early 1950s. Planting accelerated through-
out the 1960s and early 1970s, wnen the first large-scale plantations were'
established in the Mount Airy area with the assistance of USAID. Under the
USAID project about 3,000 ha (7,500 acres) of Caribbean pine plantations were
established in the three-year period 1974-77. By 1977 about 10,000 ha (24,700
acres) of plantations had been established: 7,100 ha (17,500 acres) of
Caribbean pine and 2,900 ha (7,200 acres) of various hardwoods, principally
blue mahoe, eucalyptus and mahogany. However, as shown on the map, this
planting has taken place in isolated pockets, making future maintenance and
harvesting more expensive than those activities would have been if more
thorough planning had preceded planting. Principal accomplishments in the
last six years are shown in Table 2.1. It should be noted that activity has
slowed down after the termination of the USAID project, principally because
of a lack of local funds.



Table 2.1
Forestry Accomplishments - 1973-78
Years Ending March 31
1973  1974  1975  1976  1977  1978
Millions of seedlings produced                1.2   1.2   2.7   3.1   3.1   2.6
Thousands of acres:  afforested               1.2   1.0   3.1   2.6   4.3   3.1
weeded                 8.9   6.3  17.6   9.5  14.5  12.9
thinned                0.5   0.4   1.1   0.2   0.3   0.5
pruned                 0.5   0.5   1.1   0.5   1.9   0.4
Miles of roads:       constructed            12.0  11.1  20.4  13.4  24.0  14.3
improved                 -      -  16.7   8.6   7.3  12.1
B.    Economic and Social Importance
2.05       A steadily rising import bill represents one of the major con-
straints on Jamaica's development. Imports of forest products in 1975 were
as follows:
Roundwood
Equi)alent            Value
(m')           (in US$ millions)
Roundwood                     20                  3.8
Sawnwood                     230                 16.0
Panels                        37                  2.1
Other wood                    16                  3.8
Pulp and paper               200                 41.5
Total                  503                  67.2
Because of foreign-exchange restrictions, importation of forest products
declined in 1976 and 1977 to a still-high level of over J$50 million p.a.,
which represented about 6% of total merchandise imports for those years; this
level has been maintained since 1972.
2.06       Jamaica's other principal macro-economic problems at this time are
very high unemployment and the growing differential between rural and urban
income levels. Stagnating employment opportunities and the attraction of urban
incomes and amenities have led to a continuing large-scale migration from
rural to urban areas. The proposed project, which envisages continued large-
scale pine planting and the genesis of a national forestry program, would not
only save on foreign-exchange expenditures but, by providing employment outside
urban centers, would also help to reduce the disparity in income levels and
migration from the country to the cities.



-7-
C.    Government Policies
2.07       The 1968 National Physical Plan described the project area as most
suitable for the development of commercial forestry with respect to market
accessibility, availability of services, and the existence of large blocks of
suitable land. In addition, it recognized that the land in the project area
is suitable for little else, principally because of the steep slopes throughout
the Blue Mountain area. While the Coffee Industry Board is considering expand-
ing coffee plantation in the Blue Mountains from less than 300 ha at present
to about 1,500 ha, existing and new plantings would be on the southern slopes
of the mountain range, outside the area proposed for the project (see para 4.10).
2.08       The report on the forestry sub-sector in the 1973 Cabinet-approved
policy paper which addressed the problems of the agricultural sector in general
(para 1.09) recommended a series of programs:
(a) a forestry development project to meet the nation's need for
coniferous sawnwood involving the acquisition of at least
25,000 ha (60,000 acres), forest establishment of up to
2,000 ha (5,000 acres) p.a., harvesting and training of
personnel. This led to the USAID-funded 1974-77 project
(para 2.04);
(b) continuation of a watershed-management program, already begun,
including extensive training of forestry personnel; and
(c) development of recreational facilities in different forest
regions.
2.09       At this stage in Jamaica's development, high priority is being given
to reducing the country's reliance on imports, increasing rural employment
opportunities and generally improving rural amenities and social infrastruc-
ture. Because of its potential for foreign-exchange savings through import
substitution and its capacity for employment creation, particularly in the
rural sector, the development of forestry and forest industries could play an
important role in this strategy. A second, although less immediate, concern
is the need for appropriate land-conservation practices in Jamaica. The high
priority of forestry development is reflected in the government's five-year
development plan 1978-82 (para 1.10), which calls for the establishment of
2,000 ha (5,000 acres) p.a., mostly in industrial plantations, development of
downstream industrial potential and also mentions the forest's role in water-
shed protection/soil conservation.
D.    Current Structure
2.10       Responsibility for the development, management and protection of
Jamaica's forest resources lies with the Ministry of Agricuture. Execution
of these activities has until recently been the exclusive responsibility of
the Forest Department (FD), one of the six departments in the Ministry. A
major activity of FD has been the establishment and maintenance of industrial
plantations, as shown in Table 2.1. FD has carried on logging operations for
a number of years, and beginning in 1976, has been producing pine sawnwood at



- 8-
the Twickenham Park Sawmill, which was installed under UNDP auspices as a
training and demonstration project. FD's commercial activities are summarized
in Table 2.2 below:
Table 2.2
Commercial Activities of the Forest Department 1973-78
Year Ending March 31
1973  1974  1975  1976  1977  1978
Timber extraction: m3r x 103                  2.6   3.1   3.4   3.0   3.8   4.4
Sawnwood production:  m3s x 1o3                 -            -      -   0.6   1.2
Fencepost production:  103                     43      8   144    24    43    39
Utility pole production:  1o3           1-                   -      -     - 
As analyzed in Chapter 7, FD's commercial activities have not been profitable.
2.11       Private-sector participation in forestry is negligible, and in
forest industries, significant but declining. Private Jamaican investors have
not invested in forestry because of the inherent risk in an investment with a
long payback period. Except for Twickenham Park, all Jamaican sawmills are
private, but the number and production of the 70 small sawmills are not
expected to increase. A private paper company has produced about 4,000 tons
of tissue p.a. since 1971; this company, which relies on imports for its raw
material, has been operating at less than 50% of capacity for several years
because it has left one of its two machines in disrepair. In summary, the
private sector has not elected to expand or even maintain its investment in
the forestry subsector, leaving to the government the responsibility of
commercial development.
2.12       All sawnwood imports are now handled by a branch of the Jamaica
State Trading Corporation (State Trading), a government-owned import company,
which sells the imported products to private-sector distributors and large
users. While State Trading has directly or indirectly subsidized other areas
of Jamaican consumption in the past, its prices for forest products reflect
its costs.
2.13       In 1977 the government created the Forest Industries Development
Unit (FIDU) within the Ministry of Agriculture to be responsible for the
operation and management of public-sector forest industries--at that time only
the Twickenham Park sawmill--and to promote and coordinate future development
of forest-related industries. This division of responsibility envisaged FD
continuing to be responsible for establishing and maintaining commercial and
other forest reserves, as well as logging and transport of mature timber from
commercial stands to the sawmill, while an industrial corporation under FIDU
would be responsible for industrial processing of harvested timber.



-9-
2.14       In 1978 FD undertook a reorganization into four divisions:  (a) re-
gional forestry, responsible for noncommercial forestry activities; (b) indus-
trial plantations, responsible for commercial-plantation development and
logging and for planning future commercial development; (c) planning and
research, providing management services, surveys, inventory, data collection,
work study, land acquisition and research programs; and (d) administration.
2.15       The above reorganizations, however, could not overcome the principal
problem facing FD and FIDU: the inability of a government department or
ministry to attract and retain qualified personnel (para 1.08) and to achieve
reasonable levels of efficiency from existing personnel. In mid-1978 about
half of the professional and technical positions in FD were vacant or were
filled with only partially-qualified personnel.
2.16       Realizing that a commercial-forestry subsector would need to run
efficiently if it was to achieve its goals, the government established the
Forest Industries Development Company (FIDCO) in August 1978 to have respon-
sibility for operating all forest and forest-industry activities designated
as commercial, including establishment and maintenance of plantations, logging,
transport and processing of harvested timber. Analysis of FIDCO's structure
is provided in Chapter 5.
E.    Commercial Potential
2.17       The figures indicated in paragraph 2.05 show that Jamaica's primary
forest industries will not be constrained by the size of the domestic market
for many years to come and that even with a large-scale industrial plantation
program there will be substantial net importation of forest products for at
least the next 15-20 years. The major imports are coniferous sawn timber
(mainly from Honduras and the U.S.), wood-based panels and pulp/paper products.
The FAO Forestry Department has projected demand to reach the following levels
by 1994:
Sawnwood                   190,000 m3s
Wood-based panels           61,800 m3s
Paper and paperboard      164,500 tons
These projections are equivalent to total roundwood requirements of over
1,000,000 m3r p.a. as compared to removals of about 60,000 m3r in 1977. Wood
for pulp/paper production makes up about 60% of the projected demand and it
is apparent that'Jamaica, even with the planting program envisaged, will not
satisfy its requirements.



- 10 -
2.18       In addition to the principal products, there is unsatisfied demand
for a number of commercial by-products associated with forestry and sawmilling,
as follows:
(a) Utility poles. The Jamaican electric utility has estimated that
it will need well over 120,000 utility poles in the next ten years.
Because of limited supplies of mature timber, however, utilization
of roundwood for poles would reduce commensurately its availability
for sawnwood. In addition, transportation of long (over 25 feet)
poles over extremely twisting public roads to the processing plant
is difficult.
(b) Pinebark mulch. Pole manufacture involves removal of the bark,
which can be processed easily into a mulch to satisfy the demands
of the growing exotic-plant and tropical-flower industries.
(c) Fence posts. Thinning and clearcutting operations involve the
extraction of very large quantities of smallwood, which is cut
up into two-meter lengths and manufactured into fenceposts.
At present the demand for this product far exceeds the supply.
(d) Particleboard. FIDCO is now actively promoting the establishment
of a cement-bonded particleboard plant in the hope of producing
a cheaper building material which can be utilized in publicly-
financed construction of low- and moderate-income housing. With
technical assistance from the German company whose process combines
cement and sawmill wastes to make the particleboard, FIDCO has
erected a model house to test market acceptability and construc-
tion costs.
F.    Noncommercial Forestry
2.19       The main emphasis for forest development at this time is on commer-
cial forestry, principally for economic reasons but also because of personnel
limitations. However, the government is mindful that the noncommercial acti-
vities of FD must not be neglected. These noncommercial activities are divided
into two principal sections: maintenance of noncommercial forestry reserves
in five regions, each with a regional officer in charge, and forestry extension.
Forestry extension is divided into four subsectors: utilization, watershed
management, recreation and resource planning. With assistance from UNDP and
Norway, the government intends to begin to assess the country's soil-
conservation needs, which might lead to forest establishment for this purpose.
2.20       While there is a reasonable nucleus of professional forestry staff
in FD, there are already shortages of professionals in the regional areas, and
the establishment of FIDCO as a separate operation may in the short term lure
some technical staff from FD into FIDCO, so that regional forestry may well
continue to suffer problems in attracting a qualified professional cadre.
The ministry intends to make up for this deficit by active recruitment and
training, which the project would help assist by the recruitment of senior
internationally-recruited training officers and the establishment of a training
program.



- 11 -
2.21       A potentially important, but until now overlooked, aspect of
forestry in Jamaica has been the possibility of using wood, either in its
natural form or converted into charcoal, as fuel, particularly in rural areas.
Such application would provide employment in the non-pine forestry regions
as well as further reducing imports of oil-based fuels. For these reasons,
the project would include funds for an initial study to determine the present
consumption and possible future demand (no reliable estimates now exist) for
fuelwood and to investigate the possibilities for meeting those demands.
3. EXECUTING AGENCIES
3.01      Most of the project would be executed by FIDCO, which was established
in August 1978 (para 2.16). FIDCO will assume all the operations previously
under FIDU (except possibly the cement-bonded particleboard operation, whose
ownership remains to be determined by the government once the decision is
taken to proceed with it) and the industrial-plantation activities previously
under the responsibility of FD. All FIDCO's shares are held by Jamaica
National Investment Company Ltd. (JNIC), which is a subsidiary of and funded
by the Capital Development Fund, whose principal source of income is the
bauxite levy. Both JNIC and the Capital Development Fund are under the
Ministry of Finance.
3.02       Responsibility for other forestry activities would remain with FD.
In addition, FD would be responsible for project components which overlap its
and FIDCO's domains, viz research and training; in this way, it is intended
that the non-FIDCO forestry development areas may be capable of absorbing
external financial assistance in a possible future operation.
3.03       While a subsidiary of JNIC, FIDCO will also be accountable to the
Minister of Agriculture, as follows:
(a) All information submitted to JNIC accounting for FIDCO's
operations and finances will also be provided to the Ministry
of Agriculture.
(b) JNIC will consult with the Minister of Agriculture in nominating
the chairman and board members of FIDCO, to include one member
of the staff of the Ministry and one representative of JNIC.
(c) The Minister will hold periodic reviews with FIDCO management
to discuss operational, financial and program targets of the
company.
(d) The Minister will remain responsible for all aspects of national
policy and programs affecting forestry and forest industries.
(e) The Ministry will continue to provide financial support for
various activities which it designates, insofar as they affect
national forestry-development functions, and will continue to
review such activities regularly.



JAMAICA - FORESTRY PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF THE FORESTRY SECTOR AND OF
FOREST INDUSTRIES DEVELOPMENT COMPANY, LTD (FIDCO)
Ministry of                          Jamaica National
Agriculture                      Investment Company Ltd.
ors                                  Forestry                                     C
Forest                               Development              _            Board of Directors
Department                              Committee
Managing Director.
Finance and
Administration
Financial Controller
Forestry, Logging, Transport
F  ------_                    _ * Deputy Managing Director
*                             * Planning Engineer
Forestry
Non-Commercial             Research                 Industrial            Harvesting and       Maintenance Division      Sawmills Division
Forests              and Training         Plantations Division      Roading Division
Facilities
*     Forest              0  Research        * Plantation Manager    e   Logging and          0 Workshop Manager
Conservators              Director                                    Transportation
*  Training                                      Supervisor                                 Twickenham Park
__________________Director                                            SuevsrSawmill
Sawmill Manager
Buff Bay Sawmill
Sawmill Manager |3
rt
W.Wk
World Bank -19941



- 13 -
3.04       FIDCO's relationship to other governmental organizations and its
organization chart are shown on Chart 3.1, and its organization is described
more fully in Chapter 5. It is expected that expansion of the company's acti-
vities will require a more complicated organizational structure, with more
delegation of authority, by the end of the project-execution period. FIDCO
has applied for exemption from import duties, which are low on all items
except passenger vehicles. While subject to income taxes, the company does
not expect to incur income-tax liability in the next decade.
4. THE PROGRAM AND PROJECT
A.    Project Origin
4.01       As a result of FD's accomplishments in establishing pine planta-
tions (para 2.04) and initial operation of its training/demonstration sawmill
at Twickenham Park (para 2.10), the government in early 1977 requested UNDP
to investigate the possibility of improving and augmenting forestry and related
industrial development. The resultant mission, which included FAO and IBRD
personnel, identified several areas where external financing could assist the
sub-sector, including establishment of further industrial plantations, improve-
ment and expansion of sawmilling, logging and log transport. As a direct
result of that mission, an FAO/UNDP project was started to assist FD and the
then newly-established FIDU. The project provided two resident advisors: one
for forestry and the other for forest industries.
4.02       A further result of the initial mission was a request from the
government to IBRD to consider the possibility of providing Bank financing for
the proposed industrial plantations, sawmilling and logging. A joint FAO-CP/
IBRD mission visited Jamaica in September 1977 to confirm that the proposals
could form the basis of a project for IBRD financing; it was then agreed that
FAO-CP would assist the government with project preparation, which it did by
means of a preparation mission in April/May 1978. Project preparation revealed
a higher financing requirement, particularly with respect to local-currency
needs, than had previously been expected or than the Bank and government could
provide, so that the government invited the Commonwealth Development Corp.
(CDC) to participate in project financing in July. The draft FAO-CP prepara-
tion report was published in August and formed the basis for the joint CDC/Bank
field appraisal, which took place in September/October 1978. As a result of
initiatives by FD and the UNDP resident advisor, the government in August
requested assistance from the UK Overseas Development Ministry (ODM) in
financing the services of forestry officers whom it would recruit.
4.03       The areas of concentration of the three external financing agencies
thus evolved as follows: ODM would finance technical assistance related to
forestry development; CDC would finance most of the local-currency requirements
of the industrial plantation; and the Bank would assist in financing a small
portion of the forestry development and most of the related activities--roading,
harvesting, sawmills, institution-building, and studies of future projects--
which have a relatively high foreign-exchange content.



- 14 -
B.    Goals and Objectives
4.04       Jamaica's ultimate goal is to achieve a high degree of self-
sufficiency in wood and wood products, particularly softwood. This would be
accomplished by maximizing afforestation of Caribbean pines in areas suitable
to their cultivation. Because most of the island's area is not suitable for
pines, it is not expected that Jamaica will become a significant net exporter
of pine wood and derived wood products. Except for areas suitable for pine
cultivation, the government does not have clearly-defined goals other than the
generally-desirable hopes for improved conservation, watershed protection,
employment and recreation. The research program (see para 4.06) would help
define more specific goals.
4.05       The principal purpose of the pine-plantation program, then, is to
transform the forestry-related activities in Jamaica, heretofore established
as demonstration, training or pilot schemes, into a commercial undertaking.
The program, of which the project is an integral part, would be the country's
first cohesive step toward its ultimate goal of self-sufficiency in wood-
related products. While the program (see para 4.07) is concerned with the
long-term development of pine plantations and establishment of downstream
activities over a 25-year period, the project focuses on the initial steps,
particularly bringing forestry and related industrial activities to economic
efficiency.
4.06       While the project would not include direct investments in other
forestry activities (that is, in areas not conducive to pine cultivation), its
research and training components would be carried out by FD for both FD and
FIDCO purposes, and the studies concerning the next project might well lead
to direct IBRD participation in forest development other than pine plantations.
In addition, provision in the project of research and inventory components and
a study of the energy potential of forest development would assist the govern-
ment in defining the future role of the country's forests. Moreover, the
training component of the project is intended to enable the development of
sufficient quantities of trained manpower to manage the country's forest
resources--both commercial plantations and non-commercial forest reserves--
optimally.
C.    The Industrial - Plantation Program
4.07       The plantation component of the proposed project would be the
second phase of the country's long-range industrial forest development program
in the eastern region, which follows:



- 15 -
Table 4.1
Pine Plantation Program (New Planting)
Area (ha)
Cumulative
Phase                      Time Slice         Periodic       Total
(No. of Years)
I    (Pre-Project)              until 1978            7,250       7,250/
II    (Project)                   1979-84  (6)         9,250      16,500
III    (Post-Project)              1985-89  (5)         8,500      25,000
IV    (Post-Project)              1990-94  (5)         3,700      28,700
V    (Post-Project)              1995-99  (5)         3,700      32,400
VI    (Post-Project)              2000-04  (5)         3,600      36,000
/1    About 1,200 ha of these are located in the central region.
4.08       Such a program would assure a long-term supply of sawlogs for
sawmill development, eventually attaining a sustained level of 375,000 m3
per year, while at the same time providing upwards of 300,000 m3/annum
of pulpwood from commercial thinings, smallwood and sawmill residues. This
volume of roundwood production would eventually support a sawmilling industry
with an annual capacity of 180,000 m3 of sawnwood and a pulp and paper industry
with a capacity of 75,000 tons/a. Production at these levels, plus projected
sawnwood and paper production in Jamaica outside the program, would still fall
short of projected domestic demand (para 2.17).
4.09       The plantation program as described in this report is based on all
plantations being harvested at sawlog rotation (20 years); however, in the
future, this system may be modified to include some areas at pulpwood rotation
(12 to 15 years) if financial and economic considerations make such an altera-
tion desirable.
D.    The Project Area (For Pine Plantation Establishment)
4.10       The main project area lies between the Junction Road (which connects
Kingston and Annotto Bay) and the ridge east of the Newcastle-Buff Bay Road,
encompassing a total area of 59,000 ha (see map). Up to 1978, about 2,000 ha
in this area had been planted with pine, all on government land. Additional
land lots suitable for pine planting covering at least 10,000 ha (net area)
within the project area are available for sale by private owners or are
already government-owned. The post-project plantation development would
include some 2-4,000 ha east of the project area and a further 15,000 ha on
the southern slopes of the Blue Mountains&to make up the global target area
of pine plantations of 36,000 ha.



- 16 -
4.11       The area is mountainous with most of the plantable land below
1,200 m. Slopes are steep to very steep, and those available for forestry
are in the range of 200 to 40 . The mountain soils, which are of variable
depth and are derived from shales and conglomerates, are suitable for
pines, while the soils on the lower slopes toward the coast are of limestone
origin and therefore unsuitable. Much of the area has been cleared at some
time in the past for unsuccessful attempts at agriculture/stockraising and
is now under grass or light shrub cover ("ruinate" forest), but heavy stocking
with natural, albeit degraded, forest is characteristic for the higher slopes.
A detailed vegetation cover survey of the area would form part of the project
(para 5.11).
4.12       The rainfall in the project area varies from 1,800 mm p.a. on the
lower slopes to some 3,600 mm at higher elevations. Although there is rainfall
every month, marked wet periods occur in May-June and October-November.
Within the area there is considerable micro-climate variation, which will affect
the timing of planting operations. For example, in St. Andrew's Parish there
is a marked dry season between December and March with a consequent fire risk.
The mean daily temperature at sea level averages 270C, being considerably
cooler in the mountain areas. Seasonal temperature variations are moderate.
While the island is located in the hurricane belt, hurricanes occur infre-
quently (the last one in 1951), and the broken terrain reduces the risk of
major storm damage to plantations.
4.13       The project area is well-served by access roads.  The western
boundary is the Junction Road, which is the main link between Kingston and
Annotto Bay on the north coast. The Newcastle-Buff Bay road provides the
second, more easterly south-north link. The existing road network is adequate
for initial project transportation needs. The coastal towns of Buff Bay,
Annotto Bay and Port Antonio are important activity centers for the area, and
it is from these--in addition to Kingston--that most goods and services are
provided. There are good coastal roads and rail communication between these
centers.
4.14       The population in the project area totals about 11,000, but almost
all the inhabitants live in the lower slopes which are not to be afforested.
The number of occupied farms whose land would be affected by afforestation is
small--about 250 families. Government policy is to relocate these farmers on
more productive land (e.g., under Project Land Lease - para 1.04) or to direct
them to alternative employment, which the project would provide. In a Plan of
Action for project execution (Annex 1), the government would confirm that it
would provide the Bank with a schedule for relocation and employment of all
affected families in the project area under existing programs by December
1979.
E.   Description of the Project
4.15      The project would be the second phase of the industrial-plantation
establishment program (para 4.07), related timber-harvesting, transport and
processing investments and institutional strengthening, as follows:



- 17 -
dedication to FIDCO's use of about 6,000 ha of public land and
about 7,000 ha of already-established pine plantations; and
acquisition of about 14,000 ha (gross areas) of privately-owned
land for plantation development;
establishment and maintenance of about 9,250 ha of new pine
plantations mainly in the project area (see para 4.20) and replant-
ing with pine of about 690 ha to be harvested during the project-
execution period (net areas);
maintenance of about 7,000 ha of pine plantations already estab-
lished in (about 2,000 ha) and around (about 5,200 ha) the project
area through 1978;
improvement of the Twickenham Park sawmill to increase its output
from 2,500 m3 of sawnwood per annum to 12,500 m3;
construction of a new pine sawmill of eventual output capacity of
17,500 m3 of sawnwood per annum;
establishment of logging and timber transport units associated
with the two sawmills and of a maintenance workshop for the
equipment used in forest establishment, logging, transport and
sawmilling operations;
infrastructure improvements, consisting mainly of forest roads;
institutional strengthening, including research, training of Jamaican
personnel in FIDCO and FD and the engagement of internationally-
recruited expert personnel to provide initial managerial support
to FD and FIDCO; and
technical assistance, including a forest inventory, engineering
assistance for the present project and studies for future develop-
ments, including potential utilization of fuelwood in rural areas
(para 2.21).
Details of the principal project components follow:
4.16       Industrial Plantations.  The project would include the entire pine
plantation program for the six-year period, i.e. 9,940 ha, of which 9250 ha
would be new plantations and 690 ha replanting. The major effort would be
concentrated in the project area but, in order to maintain momentum and a
nucleus of trained staff and workers south of the project area, provision
would be made to continue new planting there on a small scale (5% of new
planting). Over 90% of the replanting would be in the latter area. The
project would also include the maintenance of the existing pine plantations
(7,250 ha) as well as of the newly-established ones. A major part of the
investment required (J$4.8 million) would be for land acquisition, not only
for land to be planted during the project period, but also for the two first



- 18 -
years of the next phase (see para 5.15). Equipment requirements for planta-
tions are mainly vehicles for supervisory staff and crew transport. The
project would also provide 12 buildings for staff and labor housing, office
space and a new nursery. Given the labor-intensive nature of the plantation
work, the largest single cost item is wages and salaries (J$15.5 million).
4.17       Plantation-establishment activities would include surveying of the
land (para 5.11), seedling production, land clearing, planting or replanting,
beating up, and weeding (para 5.19). Plantation-establishment roads would be
built prior to planting, but as these would also serve for timber-extraction
purposes, they will be the responsibility of the Harvesting and Roading
Division (para 5.20). Plantation maintenance would include pruning, non-
commercial thinning and fire, pest and disease control.
4.18       Roading, Harvesting and Transport (r/h/t).  The project would
provide for the commercial harvesting of about 220,000 m3 of timber during
the six-year period, 120,000 m3 of which would be sawlogs and 100,000 m3
timber of smaller dimensions. These volumes would be extracted from 690 ha
to be clear cut and 860 ha to be commercially thinned. Harvesting activities
would include road layouts in accordance with felling plans, construction
of logging roads (paras 5.20 and 5.21), felling and extraction (para 5.22) and
transport of the timber to the mill (para 5.23). The project would provide
for the construction of 195 km of new roads, 149 km of which would immediately
be built to extraction-road standards, and 46 km plantation roads to be
upgraded later for extraction purposes. The project would maintain the new
roads as well as the 109 km of existing roads already in the project area.
The approximate equipment requirements for roadbuilding, harvesting and log
transport are itemized in Annex 2.
4.19       Workshop.  To maintain the fleet of mobile equipment and the other
equipment involved in plantation establishment, roading, harvesting and
transport activities, a permanent fully-equipped workshop would be established
near the Twickenham Park sawmill, which it would also service. The workshop
would be furnished with field servicing units (repair truck, fuel truck and
chain-saw maintenanance shops).
4.20       Sawmills.  The project would provide for the rehabilitation and
expansion of the Twickenham Park sawmill through extension of buildings (mill
building, lumber shed), installation of new stationary and mobile equipment
(log deck, carriage, edger, trimmer, conveyors, lumber wagons, lift-truck,
loader, small truck) and of some equipment already on site, together with some
repair and relocation of equipment. The project would include the establish-
ment at the mill of a small millwright's workshop, major repair work being
the responsibility of the main workshop or being contracted to local machine
shops. The project would also provide for the installation of sawnwood planing
facilities as well as for the relocation of a timber impregnation plant,
already in the Kingston area, to increase Twickenham Park's treatment capacity.



- 19 -
4.21       The project also includes construction of a new sawmill on the
North Coast (probably in the Buff Bay area) as soon as the wood raw
material situation allows, i.e. around 1983. The mill would have planing
and impregnation plants. The exact location of the mill would be decided
during the first half of the project-execution period after a thorough assess-
ment of the wood resource and of roads.
4.22       Inventory and engineering services.  To enable planning for the
most economic land acquisition, road building and forest establishment to be
carried out, the project includes a Landsat survey, aerial photography and
forest inventory and mapping services for the project area. To assist FIDCO
in design of the sawmills and workshop and in providing technical specifica-
tions for sawmill, workshop, roadbuilding, harvesting and transport equipment
to be acquired through tender, the project provides for engineering services.
4.23       Studies.  Significant amounts of pulpable wood raw material will
become available over the entire plantation/industry development period
(Annex 1). Such wood would be suitable for pulp and paper production, and the
volumes available could lead to the establishment of a pulp/paper mill soon
after the project-execution period. The project would include provisions for
a phased study by consultants for the development of a pulp and paper industry,
comprising a prefeasibility study (1980), laboratory and pilot plant tests
(1980/81), feasibility study (1981/82) and basic mill design (1982/83). The
commissioning of each phase would be contingent on positive findings in the
preceding phase. Other studies which would be included in the project are:
a study of the demand for and utilization of wood for fuel, particularly in
rural areas; and preparation of the next stage of forestry development in
Jamaica, which might address the needs of the rest of the country as well as
continuing pine forestry.
4.24       Other institution-strengthening.  The project includes the services
of the internationally-recruited managers and advisors identified in para 5.05,
totalling about 45 man-years, and a research/training program for FD and FIDCO
personnel. Preparation of a research/training program, which would include
research on genetics, cultivation and harvesting to be carried out in Jamaica,
courses and on-the-job training by international experts in Jamaica and
professional and technical training for Jamaicans at institutions outside the
country, would be the responsibility of the ODM-financed training officers and
their FD/FIDCO counterparts, and disbursements from the loan account for this
component would be conditioned to receipt of a satisfactory research/training
program.
F.   Project Costs and Financing
4.25      The project's estimated cost is US$31.7 million with a US$12.2
million foreign component, as summarized below. In the cost estimate, consul-
tants' services for technical assistance have been designated as foreign costs,
since it is expected that most, if not all, consultants would be non-Jamaican.
While Jamaican manufacturers may win some bids (see para 4.35), the estimated
costs of all material and equipment to be procured under international com-
petitive bidding (ICB) is shown as foreign. No local-cost component for the
research/training program is included because such costs are part of the
ongoing expenses of FD and FIDCO.



- 20 -
Table 4.2
Estimated Project Cost
J$ millions                       US$ millions
Local    Foreign   Total          Local    Foreign   Total
Industrial Dlantation:
Land                                                 4.83        -        4.83         2.76        -         2.76
Housing and other buildings                          0.43      0.11       0.54         0.24       0.06       0.30
Vehicles, tools and equipment                        0.27      0.95       1.22         0.16       0.54       0.70
Nursery formation                                    1.15      0.18       1.33         0.66       0.10       0.76
Forestry maintenance                                 1.35        -        1.35         0.77        -         0.77
Other establishment costs                           13.53      0.55      14.08         7.73       0.32       8.05
Total plantations                              21.56       1.79      23.35        12.32       1.02     13.34
Roading, logging, and transport:
Roading, logging and transport equipment              -        2.95       2.95          -         1.69       1.69
Other road establishment                             3.10      2.28       5.38         1.77       1.30       3.07
Total roading, logging and transport            3.10       5.23       8.33         1.77       2.99      4.76
Workshop and sawmills:
Buildings                                           0.47       0.15       0.62         0.27       0.09       0.36
Equipment                                            0.36      2.07       2.43         0.20       1.18       1.38
Total workshop and sawmills                     0.83       2.22       3.05         0.47       1.27      1.74
Inventory, engineering and studies:
Project area inventory and mapping                    -        0.26       0.26          -         0.15       0.15
Engineering - workshop, sawmills, logging
& transport                                       0.02       0.17       0.19         0.01       0.10       0.11
Studies-  pulp/paper mill                             -        1.04       1.04          -         0.59       0.59
wood for energy                            -         0.12      0.12           -        0.07       0.07
future project                             -        0.18       0.18          -         0.10       0.10
Total inventory, engineering & studies          0.02       1.77       1.79         0.01       1.01       1.02
Institutional strengthening:
Plantation, research and training officers            -        2.06       2.06          -         1.18       1.18
Operational management                                -        1.68       1.68          -         0.96       0.96
Financial director                                    -        0.26       0.26          -         0.15       0.15
Research training program                             -        1.58       1.58          -         0.90       0.90
Total institutional strengthening                -         5.58       5.58          -         3.19      3.19
Total baseline cost                            25.51      16.59      42.10        14.57       9.48     24.05
Physical contingencies                          2.55       1.66       4.21         1.46       0.95      2.41
Price contingencies                             6.04       3.17       9.21         3.45       1.81      5.26
Total project                                  34.10      21.42      55.52        19.48      12.24     31.72
Note: 1. The land is to be purchased by the government and leased to FIDCO
2. The research/training officers and program are to be the resnonsibility of FD.
3. All other components are to be the responsibility of FIDCO
4. Import duties and similar taxes are negligible.



- 21 -
4.26      Foreign-cost estimates are based on recent quotations obtained
by the preparation mission, FIDCO and/or the appraisal team together with
allowances for price increases up to March 1979. To these have been added
allowances for engineering, insurance and shipping to arrive at the base-cost
estimate. Local-cost estimates are based on prices of local materials and
labor rates, also updated to March 1979, plus local transportation of imported
goods and customs duties estimated at current rates, which average about 5%
of the CIF value of most imported goods. Technical assistance (totalling 162
man-months of consultancy and 45 man-years of resident manager/adviser effort)
costs are calculated on the basis of US$5,000/month plus travel expenses for
consultancy assignments and US$45,000 p.a. plus relocation for residency
assignments. Physical-contingency allowances of 10% of the base cost have
been included to allow for minor modifications in project design. Price-
contingency allowances of 6% p.a. have been used for all project components.
In recent years the supply of construction labor and equipment has far exceeded
the demand for their services, and unit-price increases for civil works have
been no more than 6% p.a. in US$ terms. This situation is not expected to
change during the project-execution period. Local price inflation has run
well ahead of worldwide inflation in recent years, leading to a series of
Jamaican currency devaluations since 1976. It is impossible to predict future
rates of local inflation; instead it is expected that local inflation in
excess of worldwide rates will be reflected in further adjustments to currency
valuation.
4.27      The project would be financed as indicated in the following table:



_ 22 _
Table 4.3
Estimated Project Financing
Percent of
total financing
in J$ millions                           in US$ millions                 requirement
PROJECT COSTS                                                Local        Foreign      Total           Local      Foreign       Total
IBRD Portion
Industrial plantation - Total cost
of certain components:
Nursery                                           1.15         0.18         1.33           0.66         0.10         0.76
Maintenance                                       1.35          -           1.35           0.77          -           0.77
Subtotal                                     2.50         0.18         2.68           1.43         0.10          1.53
Other - foreign costs only:
Plantation tools, equipment and
vehicles                                        -          0.95         0.95             -           0.54         0.54
Roading, logging and transport equipment           -           2.95         2.95            -           1.69         1.69
Other road establishment                           -           2.28         2.28            _           1.15         1.15
Workshop and sawnill buildings                     -           0.15         0.15            -           0.09         0.09
Workshop and sawmill equipment                     -           2.07         2.07            -           1.18         1.18
Engineering, and studies                           -           1.77         1.77            -           1.01         1.0I
Operational management                             -           1.68         1.68            -           0.96         0.96
Training programs                                 _            1.58         1.58            -           0.90         0.90
Total baseline costs                              2.50        13.61        16.11           1.43         7.78         9.21
Physical contingency                              0.25         1.36         1.61           0.14         0.78         0.92
Price contingency                                 0.60         2.68         3.28           0.35         1.52         1.87
Total IBRD                                   3.35        17.65        21.00           1.92        10.08         12.00            33.5
CDC Portion
Balance of industrial plantation, excluding
land                                              14.24         0.66        14.88           8.13         0.38         8.51
FIDCO financial director                               -           0.26         0.26            -           0.15         0.15
Total baseline costs                             14.2          0.92        15.16           8.13         0.53         8.66
Physical contingency                              1.42         0.09         1.51           0.81         0.06         0.87
Price contingency                                 3.39         0.17         3.56           1.94         0.09         2.03
TotalCDC                                    19.05         1.18        20.23          10.88          0.67        11.56            32.3
0DM Portion
Baseline cost: plantation research and
training officers                                   -           2.06         2.06            -           1.17         1.17
Physical contingency                                   -           0.20         0.20            -           0.12         0.12
Price contingency                                      -           0.33         0.33            -           0.19         0.19
TotalODM                                                   2.59          2.59            _           1.48         1.48             4.1
FIDCO/Government Portion
Baseline cost: balance of project                     8.78          -           8.78           5.01          -           5.01
Physical contingency                                  0.88          -           0.88           0.50          -           0.50
Price contingency                                     2.04          -           2.04           1.17           -          1.17
Total FIDCO/government                       11.70           -         11.70            6.68          _           6,68            18.7
Total Project                                34.10        21.42        55.52           19.48        12.24        31.72
OTHER FINANCING REQUIREMENTS
(for FIDCO/government financing)
Interest on CDC loan charged to forest
development                                            -          4.44         4.44             -           2.54         2.54
FIDCO working capital and start-up costs              2.70           -          2.70            1.54          -           1.54
Total other                                  2.70         4.44         7.14            1.54         2.54         4.08             11.4
Total financing requirements                         36.80        25.86        62.66           21.02        14.78        35.80           100.0



- 23 -
4.28      If the government contribution of past commercial-forestry invest-
ments and the Crown land to be dedicated to FIDCO's use were to be included
as project costs, the FIDCO/government contribution would increase to about
J$ 35.2 million, or 45% of the total project value of J$ 79 million.
4.29      The proposed US$12 million Bank loan would be made to the government
at the current Bank interest rate and a 17-year term, including four years of
grace. The government would re-lend the portion of the loan relating to FIDCO
activities (US$10.8 million, representing the cost of all components under the
proposed loan except research/training and related contingencies) to FIDCO.
The sub-loan would be denominated in US currency, bear an interest rate of
10% p.a. and have the same amortization and grace terms as the proposed Bank
loan. A condition of loan effectiveness would be that the government and
FIDCO had executed a subsidiary loan agreement acceptable to the Bank. The
government would bear the exchange risk between US currency and currencies
disbursed under the loan.
4.30      The CDC loan (about US$11.5 million equivalent, expressed in
sterling) would be made directly to FIDCO, bear 6.75% p.a. interest and have a
term of 25 years including six years of grace. CDC and FIDCO, which would
bear the foreign-exchange risk, have concluded negotiations on the loan, the
effectiveness of which is conditioned on effectiveness of the proposed Bank
loan. A further condition of loan effectiveness would be that CDC and FIDCO
had concluded arrangements regarding the CDC loan.
4.31      The ODM portion is to be provided through a grant to the Jamaican
government. The portion of the grant related to the two officers assigned to
FIDCO (plantation manager and inventory officer) is conditioned to CDC and the
Bank concluding arrangements on their loans.
4.32      The balance of the financing requirements associated with the
project would come from FIDCO's net internal cash generation during the
project-execution period and government contributions. As detailed in para
7.09-10, FIDCO's net internal cash generation would amount to only J$5.3
million (US$3 million). To prevent its debt/equity ratio from becoming too
high, government contributions to FIDCO would be in the form of equity (see
para 7.14).
G.   Retroactive Financing
4.33      For project execution to begin in a reasonable period of time, a
number of actions must begin prior to loan signing, which is expected late in
the second quarter of CY 79. The most important of these are a thorough recon-
naissance of the project area (including aerial photography and inventory/
mapping services) during the dry season which ended in March 1979. In addi-
tion, the four internationally-recruited managers to be financed by the
proposed Bank loan should be on site as early in 1979 as possible, consulting
engineers should be hired immediately after the arrival of the internationally-
recruited management, and vehicles must be imported to ensure the mobility of
the managers, consulting engineers and land-acquisition team. Spare parts
are needed to keep the harvesting and sawmill equipment operating, and



- 24 -
communication equipment (including a small repeater station) is needed to
enable the harvesting and transport operations to function efficiently;
otherwise, the sawmill will have shortages of roundwood. Finally, the main-
tenance of already-established plantations is overdue, and seedlings must be
produced in 1979 so that full-scale planting can get under way in 1980. Con-
sequently, retroactive financing is recommended as follows (in US$ thousands):
Items                                   Amounts
Survey of project area                                   148
Internationally-recruited management and
engineering services (through June 1979)               100
Spare parts                                               50
Communication equipment                                    20
Vehicles                                                   92
Maintenance and nursery operations
(through June 1979)                                     70
480
Contingencies of about 15%                                 70
Total                                               550
4.34      The proposed Bank loan would finance approximately US$2 million of
local costs, all related to plantation establishment. Because the foreign-
cost component of forestry projects generally is low, the Bank has accepted
the necessity of providing an element of local-cost financing when conditions
warrant. In this case it is recommended that the Bank loan include this
extent of local-cost financing because: (a) the proposed CDC loan is about
10% of its worldwide lending program this year and is the maximum amount
CDC could include in this operation; (b) CDC has indicated that it would
not wish to participate in financing the project if the Bank loan were less
than its own; and (c) 30% of the total financing requirements are to come
from local sources.
H.   Procurement
4.35      Because of the urgency of acquiring the film for aerial photography,
communication equipment, and the vehicles for internationally-recruited staff
and land-acquisition team, FIDCO has acquired these items through "local
shopping," obtaining three bids from local suppliers where possible. Spare
parts are to be acquired from manufacturers of the original equipment; the
Landsat survey, from the US National Aeronautics and Space Administration;
and the seed, from Honduras; the respective sources are the only practical
ones. All other contracts for tools, materials, equipment and vehicles
(including initial spare parts) to be financed by the proposed Bank loan would
be contracted following ICB in accordance with the Bank's guidelines for
procurement. Jamaican manufacturers of equipment and materials would be
entitled to preferences of 15% or the applicable tariff, whichever is lower,



- 25 -
in bid evaluation. Local manufacturers may be in a position to win contracts
for miscellaneous tools and small items of equipment used in plantation
establishment, with a total estimated cost of about US$0.5 million. Because
of Jamaica's shortage of foreign exchange and import-control policies, all
imports must be licensed. Assurances have been obtained from the government
that import licenses for all imported items to be financed by the proposed
loan would be granted promptly.
4.36      All forest establishment, including the nursery and forest mainte-
nance operations to be financed by the proposed loan, and certain operations
in road-building (clearing, stabilization and grading) would be done by force
account. FIDCO already has equipment and trained personnel to carry out these
activities, which have been executed successfully over the past four years.
The other road-building operations (sub-grading, rock work, culverts, bridges,
retaining walls, surfacing and construction of log landings) and construction
of workshop and sawmill buildings would be done by local contractors engaged
through local contracting procedures acceptable to the Bank. The small size
of individual operations in these categories and the availability of local
contractors in comparison with the demand for their services make it unlikely
that non-Jamaican contractors would be able to compete with local bids for
these components.
I.   Disbursement
4.37      Disbursements from the loan account would finance:  (a) 100% of the
nursery and maintenance operation (US$1.4 million); (b) 40% of expenditures
for road-building and construction of sawmill and workshop buildings, such
percentage representing the foreign-cost component (US$1.4 million); (c) 90%
of the ex-factory costs of tools, materials, equipment and vehicles in cases
where Jamaican manufacturers win contracts or 100% of foreign expenditures
for tools, materials, equipment and vehicles and installation/erection super-
vision for imported goods (US$3.5 million); (d) 100% of foreign expenditures
or 90% of total expenditures for internationally-recruited management or
consultant services (the latter percentage to be applied to services of
Jamaican individuals), estimated to cost US$2.0 million; and (e) 100% of the
foreign costs of the research/training program (US$0.9 million). All expendi-
tures except those for force account would be fully documented. Force account
expenditures would be disbursed against statements of expenditures. The
Borrower and FIDCO would be obliged to preserve the supporting documents cover-
ing statements of expenditures and to make them available to Bank's supervision
missions.
4.38      Estimated loan disbursements are presented in Annex 3.  The closing
date would be June 30, 1985, giving the government and FIDCO six months to
finalize acceptance of and payment for equipment acquired during the final
year of the project-execution period.



- 26 -
5. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION. TECHNOLOGY AND PRODUCTION SPECIFICATIONS
A.   Implementing Agencies
5.01      FD would be responsible for project activities which are related to
both industrial-plantation development and non-commercial forestry, viz
research, inventory and training. A forestry development committee, composed
of the FAO/UNDP advisers and representatives of FD, FIDCO and the Ministry
of Agriculture, has been established to oversee the carrying out of such
matters, advise the Minister of Agriculture on policy matters, engage in
pilot and demonstration work, and undertake other activities that affect
forestry development in Jamaica. An administrative secretary would be engaged
to provide support for the committee. In the Plan of Action, the government
and FIDCO would confirm that the committee had been established by March 31,
1979 and would meet regularly during the project-execution period.
5.02      Responsibility for execution of the rest of the project would lie
with FIDCO.
B.   FIDCO Organization and Management
5.03      FIDCO's board of directors has twelve positions, eight of which have
been filled by: the managing directors of JNIC and FIDCO; the permanent
secretary in the Ministry of Agriculture; FIDCO's director of forestry; and
four individuals from the private sector, one of whom is the company's chairman.
5.04      FIDCO's managing director and his deputy will be responsible for
execution of day-to-day operations. The managing director had previously been
director of FIDU, and before that, of FD. The deputy managing director served
as acting director of FD prior to the establishment of FIDCO; serving as FIDCO's
director of forestry, he will be primarily responsible for the industrial plan-
tations division, leaving to the managing director overall direction of forest
industries. These two individuals are enthusiastic and capable of leading the
newly-established corporation.
5.05      Beyond that, however, FIDCO requires considerable institutional
strengthening. While the training program would be designed to accomplish
this over the long run, engagement of qualified internationally-recruited
manager/advisers (part of whose responsibility would be on-the-job training
of Jamaican counterparts) is required now. In total, the services of ten
such manager/advisers for three to five years each are required; FIDCO and
government authorities endorse this assessment. ODM would second or recruit
five individuals (manager of industrial plantations, research officer, inven-
tory officer, two training officers) to assist with forestry development. CDC
would finance employment of FIDCO's financial controller through its loan, and
the Bank loan would finance three- to five-year contracts for the following:
planning engineer with roading experience; logging superintendent; workshop
manager; sawmill manager. FIDCO has begun recruiting these five manager/
advisers with the hope of getting them on the job during the second or third
quarter of 1979. The need for internationally-recruited manager/advisers
required for the project is caused by two factors: the lack of a forestry



- 27 -
tradition in Jamaica and resultant lack of related training; and the general
shortage of professional and managerial talent, caused in large part by
emigration in recent years. Provision is made for replacement of most
of the internationally-recruited management personnel during the project-
execution period (see below). With the assistance of these internationally-
recruited manager/advisers, the company would be capable of carrying out the
project in accordance with specifications discussed in subsequent paragraphs.
Assurances have been obtained that the government would issue work permits for
all internationally-recruited personnel promptly.
5.06      While a large number of internationally-recruited personnel is
necessary for the initial stages of project execution, the continued employ-
ment of most of them after an initial three- to five-year period would be
highly undesirable from a national development viewpoint, and FIDCO is aware
of the necessity of engaging nationals to understudy the internationally-
recruited management at the earliest possible stage. FIDCO management has
tentatively identified at least one possible understudy for eight of the ten
internationally-recruited management or professional officers identified above,
but locating an assistant workshop manager and assistant financial controller
may be more difficult; local recruitment for these two posts has begun. In
addition, the company intends to recruit a property-security, a marketing and
a procurement officer.
C.   Commencement of Corporate Activity for FIDCO
5.07      While FIDCO has been legally established and initial directors'
meetings have been held, it has not yet become fully operational. Forestry
operations during the past year and a half have been severely curtailed by
various restrictions on FD and FIDU as governmental units; e.g., lack of
funds, land, machinery, equipment and spare parts; and salary structures
unsuitable to attract qualified personnel. For successful project execution
it is vital that FIDCO come into being in fact as well as in name. In a
letter dated March 2, the Minister of Agriculture authorized: the transfer
of all property, plant, equipment and the assignment of personnel necessary
for commercial forestry and forest-industry operations to FIDCO; and the
dedication to FIDCO of the exclusive use of forest reserves designated as
commercial. JNIC has approved funding for FIDCO's operations through CY 79;
while the authorizations by the Minister of Agriculture are adequate interim
steps, more binding actions are still required for successful project execution:
the provision to FIDCO of a leasehold interest in the 7,000 ha designated
as commercial forest reserves and the placement of the personnel on the FIDCO
payroll. Recommended conditions of loan effectiveness would be that these
actions had been completed. To facilitate the transfer of employees to
the FIDCO payroll, assurances have been obtained that the government would
provide for the accumulated pension rights of the transferred employees.
5.08      A major problem facing agricultural, industrial and commercial
establishments in Jamaica today is theft. This problem is of particular
concern to a forestry enterprise: large volumes of harvested sawlogs and
smallwood remain untended by the side of forest roads; increasing quantities
of small tools, spare parts, fuel, materials and supplies are and will be



- 28 -
dispersed in a number of locations; high-value sawnwood requires strict
security. To protect its resources, FIDCO would confirm in the Plan of Action
that it would provide the Bank with a property-security program and put the
program into effect by March 31, 1980.
5.09      In its initial period, FIDU's sales activities were concentrated
on sawnwood. While sawnwood is expected to remain as FIDCO's main revenue
source during the project-execution period, increased revenues from small-
wood and by-product sales will be necessary if the company is to attain profit-
ability (see para 6.03). To achieve this, FIDCO needs to complete a market
study for by-products which would:
(a) quantify the demand for fenceposts, utility poles, pine-bark
mulch and sawmill slabs;
(b) assess FIDCO's ability to meet the demand in view of constraints
on raw-material availability and road dimensions (para 2.18); and
(c) propose steps to maximize sales of by-products within the above
constraints.
FIDCO would confirm in the Plan of Action that it would provide this study to
the Bank and take the recommended steps by March 31, 1980.
5.10      One of the principal operating problems facing FD and FIDU (being
agencies of the Ministry of Agriculture) was the difficulty in achieving satis-
factory performance (in terms of hours actually worked and output per man-hour)
from its labor force, mainly because civil-service regulations do not provide
sufficient rewards for high performance or penalties for unsatisfactory
performance. FIDCO is not bound by such regulations. While FD made some
progress in increasing the productivity of its logging crew, considerable
improvement in output per man-hour is desirable in all operational aspects
under FIDCO's responsibility. To accomplish this, FIDCO would confirm in the
Plan of Action that it would: apply the productivity standards in the Plan
of Action to its operations; present incentive-payment schemes for all its
activities to the Bank and put such schemes into effect by September 30, 1979.
D.   Planning
5.11      Mapping and Surveying.  The entire project area and the existing
commercial plantations outside its confines would be covered early in 1979 by
new aerial photos at a scale not smaller than 1:12,500. Proper ground control
would be established in order to provide a base for the preparation of detailed
operational/planning maps with contour intervals of 10 m. Landsat images
covering all of Jamaica would be acquired in 1979 and ground truthing conducted
for accurate quantification of ground cover and soil classes to assist the
land-acquisition program and obtain a rapid check on area and location of the
existing plantations.
5.12      Forest Inventory.  Based on the new air photos, a relatively inten-
sive forest inventory of the existing pine plantations was initiated in the
first quarter of 1979 to assess such features as area, volume, growth, terrain,
and spatial concentration of mature timber for harvesting. Based on the



- 29 -
inventory results, new yield projections would be made, which in turn would
provide the basis for a detailed recalculation of future wood supply by
industrial supply areas.
5.13      Plans and Layouts.  Once planning activities have caught up with
the initial bacKlog, the following minimum lead times would be applied between
routine planning and implementation:
-    plans for acquisition areas:  3 years ahead of planting and
1 year ahead of acquisition;
-    general plans for planting and logging:  2 years ahead of
operations;
-    detailed plans for planting and logging, including road layouts:
1 year ahead of operations;
E.   Land Acquisition
5.14      The potentially-available net planting area (para 4.10) in the
project area consists of 4,700 ha of government land as well as 5,400 ha of
private land. The total of 10,100 ha adequately covers the planting target
under the project of 9,250 ha. However, because proper planning requires a
land bank that is about two years ahead of planting, the land-acquisition
program in the last two project years would move outside the project area.
If land acquisition were to concentrate mainly on plantable land and attempt
to minimize acquisition of pieces of land which are unplantable due to steep-
ness and broken terrain, a net/gross proportion of 100/120 ha could be achieved.
This, however, may not be a practicable acquisition policy as it would tend
to leave out lots with a relatively high proportion of unplantable land,
leading to irregular rather than contiguous blocks of forest land to be
administered by FIDCO. Therefore, a proportion of 100 ha net to 150 ha gross
has been adopted for planning purposes and the acquisition budget.
5.15      While FIDCO should have a two-year "land bank" available for indus-
trial plantations, it now has virtually none, nor does it have a definite plan
for land acquisition and forestry development. Because of the difficult
terrain and consequently high roading costs, it is essential that land acqui-
sition, road construction and plantation establishment be accomplished ration-
ally. To do this, FIDCO, with the Bank's concurrence, has already contracted
for aerial photography and the forest inventory of the project area, and it
has begun efforts to recruit a planning engineer with steep-terrain roading
experience. A Landsat survey would be undertaken as soon as possible. An
eight-man team of land-acquisition officers has been assembled to acquire land
from private owners, who have already made offers of about 2,500 ha (6,000
acres). In his March 2 letter (para 5.07) the Minister of Agriculture also
authorized the provision to FIDCO of about 2,900 ha (7,300 acres) for planting;
a recommended condition of loan effectiveness would be the execujtion of a
lease for at least 49 years between the government and FIDCO for this area.
In addition, agreement has been obtained from the government that all Crown
lands in the project area (estimated to be about 5,500 ha - 14,000 acres -
including the 2,900 ha already assigned) would be leased to FIDCO on similar
terms by December 31, 1982.



- 30 -
5.16      While FIDCO has begun making a plan of its land-acquisition, road-
building and forest-establishment activities, completion of the plan must
await the internationally-recruited planning engineer's assumption of duties.
A condition of disbursement of the plantation and road-building components
would be the presentation of a satisfactory plan to the Bank.
5.17      Even with the above actions, a major project risk would be that land
acquisition will fall behind schedule. The CDC appraisal team has indicated
that it would recommend conditioning disbursements for plantation establish-
ment to FIDCO's meeting an agreed-upon land-acquisition schedule. Assurances
have been obtained that annual disbursements from the proposed loan for planta-
tion and road establishment and maintenance would be conditioned on the cumula-
tive land-acquisition targets for the end of the previous year having been met.
Those targets, itemized in section III A.2 of the Plan of Action (Annex 1) are
summarized as follows:
Land to be Acquired
(in gross ha - para 5.14)
Year                   During Year          By End of Year
1979                      5,5C0                    5,500
1980                      2,200                    7,700
1981                      2,5CO                   10,200
1982                      3,150                   13,350
1983                      3,150                   16,500
1984                      3,150                   19,650
The planning engineer, in cooperation with the industrial-plantation manager
and the logging/transportation supervisor and sawmill manager, would be in
charge of all planning activities.
F.   Plantation Development
5.18      Species and Yield.  Industrial-plantation development is based
mainly on Carib pine (Pinus caribaea), an exotic pine well adapted to the
edaphic and climatic conditions of large parts of the Island. Under the
project, only pine would be planted. Carib pine is an accepted species in the
sawmilling industry in Jamaica and elsewhere in the world, and it also holds
good potential as a fiber for pulp and paper making.  The project proposes
growing pine on a 20-year rotation to produce sawlogs with an average dbh
of 30 cm.  Under these proposals, the total net yield over each rotation is
estimated at 340 m3/ha, corresponding to an mai of 17 m3/ha.  Approximately
35 m3/ha would be felled at thinning about nine years after planting.  The
final cut is expected to provide 305 m3/ha, of which 215 m3 would be logs and
90 m3/ha smallwood. Up to 1987/88, i.e., .during the entire project-execution
period, unthinned stands would have to be clear-cut because of a lack of
sufficient thinning in the past; during this period, the expected total yield
would be lower: 275 m3/ha divided into 172 m3 of sawlogs and 103 m3/ha of
smallwood.



- 31 -
5.19      Plantation Establishment and Maintenance.  The plantation would be
established on land cleared from ruinate forest or abandoned farm land, which
consists mainly of small-sized hardwood trees and shrubs (light clearing--about
60% of the net planting area), or from degraded natural hardwood forest which
is of denser stocking (heavy clearing). A system of firebreaks, consisting of
two parallel hoed strips, each 6 m wide, with the area between them control
burned, would be constructed at a density of 14 m/ha to supplement natural
firebreaks and the road net, which in itself forms a firebreak. The cleared
vegetation would be burned in the dry spell before planting. Seed for nurse-
ries would be imported, mainly from Honduras. A 2-ha nursery would be set up
in 1979/80 in the approximate geographical center of blocks of land to be
planted. Seedlings would be manually planted at a horizontal spacing of 2.8
x 2.8 m. "Beating up" would be carried out in the second wet spell, i.e.,
within half a year from planting. Weeding would be a manual operation of
about 3 years' duration and of decreasing intensity over the years. A low
pruning, mainly to allow access and to reduce the fire hazard, would be carried
out in year 6. In the long run, the thinning in year 9 (para 5.18) would be
to stump only, i.e. non-commercial, over 50% of the area, with thinnings to
be extracted for commercial utilization over the other 50%. Because of initial
market constraints, commercial thinning during the project period would cover
only 20% of the stands reaching age 8. During 1979-81, some 1,100 ha of
backlog thinning would be carried out in addition to normal thinning. Fire-
breaks would be constantly maintained.
G.   Road Development and Harvesting
5.20      Roads.  Forest roads would be constructed to the present standards,
which are satisfactory. There would be three categories of roads; (a) main
plantation and extraction roads, which would be built to a permanent all-
weather standard in the year before planting and would serve as the main access
system of the area; (b) secondary plantation roads to provide initial access
for plantation establishment and maintenance, which would be built to a lighter
standard (particularly in respect to surfacing, number of culverts and bridges,
and extent of retaining walls per km) and would be upgraded to the main-road
standard prior to harvesting; and (c) secondary extraction roads which would
densify the logging-road network prior to the main harvest. All categories of
roads would be regularly maintained, including clearing and checking of the
drainage structures. Log landings would be planned and constructed in con-
junction with extraction road construction.
5.21      In large-size, contiguous blocks of plantations, initial plantation
roads would be put in at a density of 8 m/ha of gross plantation area, or
12 m/ha of net plantation area. For extraction purposes, roads amounting to
an additional 18 m/ha of net plantation area would be constructed in year 19.
Total road density at the end of one rotation would be 30 m/ha of net planta-
tion area. Due to the patchy nature of the earlier age classes of the exist-
ing plantations, the extraction road development program for the project
period covers considerably less area per kilometer of road than what is proposed
for new plantation areas.



- 32 -
5.22      Extraction.  The harvesting sequence would be scheduled according
to a detailed short-term and a more general medium-term felling plan which
would fit in with the log requirements of the mills and the extraction road
development plan. Because of the difficult terrain conditions, the logging
layout and harvesting sequence must be properly plotted and identified on a
large-scale topographic map. Thinnings would be extracted mainly by light
cable yarder (80% of the area of commercial thinning), and manual extractior
wo)ld be limited to narrow strips close to the road (20%).  Felling and bucking
to short lengths would be by chain saws. In cable thinning, the tree lengths
would be bucked at the road side after yarding, and- in manual logging before
extraction. Cable-thinning crews would consist of 7 men each and would log
about 16 m3/day; manual thinning crews would have 5 members and a productivity
of 7 - 5 m3/day. For the extraction of timber from the final cut, terrain and
ground condition dictate the use of cable logging systems almost exclusively;
only 10% of the volume is considered extractable with rubber-tired skidders.
The main extraction equipment would be a tractor- or truck-mounted medium-size
cable yarder with a maximum reach of 750 m; average extraction distances,
though, would be kept considerably shorter. Felling and top-lopping prior
to yarding and bucking into logs after yarding would be by chain saws. Logging
crews for the final cut would consist of 5 men and produce an average 50 m3/day
from thinned stands and 36 m3/day from unthinned stands. By the end of the
project period, there would be 5 medium-yarder and 2 light-yarder crews as
well as I skidder and I manual-extraction crew in operation.
5.23      Transport.  Loading of logs onto trucks would be performed by
hydraulic loaders mounted on tractors (2 units by 1984). The truck fleet
would consist of 10-ton payload single-axle vehicles, which can transport
9-10 m3 of wood (solid measure). During the project-execution period, the
fleet would be expanded from 4 to 15 units. The weighted average haul distance
to Twickenham Park for 1979-84 is 50-55 km one-way, averaging 2 loads per day,
and for the Buff Bay sawmill, 25-30 km one-way.
H.   Sawmill Development
5.24      The basic design of the Twickenham Park sawmill suits the size and
type of pine logs sawn, but some of the main equipment is not suitable for
sawing small-diameter logs efficiently. Main recommended renovative actions
are to:
- install a new live log deck closer to the bandmill, thereby
shortening the "dead" distance for log carriage movement.
- replace the existing slow stop-n-loader and log turner
assemblies with lighter and faster units designed for small
logs.
- replace the existing manually-operated log carriage with a
remote-controlled automatic carriage.



- 33 -
- install a fast carriage feedworks to replace the existing
slow one.
- repair and improve the return conveyor system at the resaw.
- replace the 2-saw board edger with a combination edger having
a 2-saw board side and a 6" gangside for the breakdown of
small cants.
- relocate the lumber sorting table (green chain) and install
a 2 saw "Canadian" type trimmer.
- mechanize the main lumber conveyors and transfers;
- install sawdust-extraction equipment;
- acquire more mobile equipment for handling the logs and
lumber in the mill yard.
- acquire the necessary equipment for normal mechanical and
electrical maintenance by millwrights.
Production parameters are as follows: saleable sawnwood yield (air-dry) has
been assessed at 48% of log volume input. A daily shift is defined as 7-1/2
hours; there are 250 operating days per year. It is anticipated that following
the rehabilitation in 1980, the sawmill would go from a 1-shift operation to
two daily shifts, reaching its full annual capacity of 12,500 m3 of sawnwood in
1982.
5.25      Buff Bay sawmill would be of conventional softwood sawnmill design
with similar production parameters. In accordance with log availabilities, the
new mill would operate at one shift during 1984-88 with an output capacity of
6,250 m3 of sawnwood per annum, moving to two shifts in 1989 (12,500 m3/a). In
1994, the mill's output capacity would be expanded to 17,500 m3/a.
I.   Project Implementation, Monitoring and Evaluation
5.26      The Plan of Action (Annex 1) includes:  a schedule of dates by which
key project components would be accomplished, estimated year-by-year goals for
forestry establishment, logging and sawmill production; parameters for
employment and utilization of skilled and unskilled manual labor, and expected
completion dates for other undertakings by FIDCO and the government:
(a) preparation and implementation of a schedule to offer to relocate
and provide employment opportunities for families in the area
to be afforested (para. 4.14);
(b) establishment of a forestry development committee (para. 5.01);
(c) implementation of procedures to control inventories (para. 5.08);



- 34 -
(d) implementation of a plan to organize sales of by-products
(para. 5.09);
(e)  preparation and effectiveness of incentive-pay schemes (para. 5.10);
(f)  employment of a marketing manager (see para. 6.03);
(g)  establishment of system of accounts (see para. 7.02); and
(h)  review of income-tax regulations affecting forestry (see para. 7.17).
The parameters in the Plan of Action would be used in monitoring project
execution. Effectiveness of the proposed loan would be conditioned to confir-
mation by the government and FIDCO that they would carry out the project in
accordance with the Plan of Action.
6. PRODUCTION AND MARKETING
6.01      FIDCO's annual production goals, detailed in the Plan of Action
(Annex 1), are summarized below:
Table 6.1
Annual Production Goals
(m3 x 103)
Total
1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1979-1984
Sawlogs                  5.2      7.0    19.5    26.0    26.0    35.1         118.8
Smallwood                6.9      8.0    15.4    19.4    21.9    28.0          99.6
Sawnwood:
Twickenham Park    2.5      3.4      9.4    12.5    12.5    12.5          52.8
Buff Bay             -       -        -       -  -   -        4.4          4.4
Total         2.5      3.4      9.4    12.5    12.5    16.9          57.2
6.02      When both sawmills attain full output levels (i.e. in 1989, when round-
wood availability will permit the Buff Bay sawmill to go on two-shift operation),
combined sawnwood output will be 25,000 m3 p.a., less than one quarter of
Jamaica's sawnwood consumption in 1975 and about 13% of consumption projected for
1990 (para. 2.17). Output of privately-owned existing sawmills is not expected to
exceed substantially the levels attained in recent years, i.e., 23,000 m3 p.a.;
it is therefore expected that all sawnwood production from the project sawmills
can be easily absorbed by the country.



- 35 -
6.03      Rough estimates of annual fencepost demand in Jamaica have arrived
at a need of about 300,000 units p.a. Smallwood available from thinning and
clear-cutting operations would be roughly equal to these demands in the
first two years of the project-execution period. Beginning in 1981 small-
wood would become available for the pulpmill or such other uses as would
be established by the market study outlined in para. 5.09. If FIDCO is
unable to develop commercial outlets for smallwood, its thinning and
clear-cutting operations would change noticeably from patterns assumed
in this appraisal, viz by thinning to waste and not transporting smallwood
from clear-cut areas. While decreased felling and hauling operations of
this nature would reduce costs from levels included in the forecasts,
revenues would decrease even more with a negative effect on overall
profitability. Hence, if FIDCO is to become commercially successful, it
must adopt the marketing orientation that a private-sector company would
have. The first steps in such orientation would be the conclusion of the
market study outlined in para. 5.09, and the setting-up of a sales organi-
zation within FIDCO to systematize its marketing effort. FIDCO would con-
firm in the Plan of Action that it would engage a marketing manager by
March 31, 1980.
7. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A.   Background
7.01      Prior to the establishment of FIDCO, FD operated under conventional
governmental accounts. Expenditures were matched against budgeted funds,
classified only by the nature of the expenditure, e.g. salaries, travel,
utilities, materials and supplies. There was no breakdown of costs by
forest compartment or purpose. Revenues were not recorded in the accounts.
While this accounting may have been acceptable for governmental purposes, it
is not at all satisfactory for a commercial enterprise.
B.   FIDCO Accounts and Audit Arrangements.
7.02      To enable its management to control operations, the cost of each
FIDCO operation must be budgeted and recorded so as to permit analys.'is of
each segment of the company's operating results. In addition, detailed
knowledge of the cost of forest establishment, analyzed by operation and
compartment, is necessary both to determine the stumpage value and to
monitor the efficiency of the forest-establishment process. While itemized
classification of costs is necessary for any commercial enterprise, special
care must be taken in designing an accounting system for a forestry company
because of the inherent problem of forestry accountancy: the disparity be-
tween the normal accounting cycle and the tree-harvesting cycle. Because
of this disparity, procedures must be established to align the costs of
growing trees with the realization of income from the trees, which occurs
only when they are harvested. It is expected that the internationally-
recruited financial controller will be sufficiently experienced in forestry



- 36 -
accountancy to design and install a detailed system of accounts. In the Plan
of Action, FIDCO would confirm that it would present its system of accounts
to the Bank and classify all financial data according to that system of
accounts by December 31, 1979.
7.03      Now that the transfers of property, plant, equipment, standing timber
and land rights have been authorized to FIDCO (para. 5.07), it is possible
for the company to prepare a meaningful balance sheet. So that the Bank
may have a reliable indication of the financial situation of FIDCO, assurances
have been received that the company would submit its audited balance sheet as
of June 30, 1979 to the Bank by September 30, 1979.
7.04      A key value in any forest-company balance sheet is the value of
standing timber. To ensure that its financial statements reflect the company's
real worth, revaluation of all assets, particularly standing timber, should be
done periodically. Assurances have been received from FIDCO that it would
revalue its assets according to the following criteria:
(a) standing timber - annually, based on computed growth characteristics
and current world market prices for sawnwood and other end-products
expected to be derived from the standing timber with a forest
inventory no less frequently than every five years to re-assess
the growth characteristic assumptions used in the revaluation;
(b) other assets - at the end of any future fiscal year during which
general price levels as measured by an indicator satisfactory to
the Bank had increased 25% or more from levels existing at the
most recent previous revaluation date.
7.05      Further assurances have been received from FIDCO that its financial
statements would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank
and that such statements, along with auditors' reports, would be sent to
the Bank within four months of the end of FIDCO's fiscal year.
C.   Forecast Financial Results
7.06      FIDCO's forecast financial results (income statement, balance
sheets, sources and applications of funds statement, and assumptions used
in the forecast) are included in Annex 4. Underlying details are in-
cluded in staff working papers.
7.07      The most important assumptions used in the forecast are the
following:
(a) all expenditures related to forestry development throughout
the growing period of the trees are charged to the standing-
timber asset account;



- 37 -
(b) in addition to the direct costs of forestry establishment and
maintenance, the interest on the loans incurred to finance
forestry development is also charged to that asset. While
this accounting procedure is often not used in industrial
enterprises (as opposed to public utilities, where its usage
is common), it is necessary in this case to avoid distortion
of the income accounts;
(c) the standing-timber account is credited with the stumpage
value for timber when it is harvested.
7.08      The key financial ratios derived from these forecast financial
statements are shown below:



-38 -
Table 7.1
Key Financial Ratios of FIDCO
Total
1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984    1979-84
Operating income as a
percent of:
sales                          -37    -32      4       8      3       6         1
average net assets             - 3    - 3      1       1       1      1         -
Debt-service coverage
(gross internal cash
generation as percent
of debt service):
debt service charged
to operations                   85      73   311    350    153    145         185
Total debt service              54      44   176    181      90      88       108
Contribution to expansion:
Net internal cash genera-
tion as percent of expan-
sion program                      0      -1    17      24      8      11        10
Debt/equity ratio              1:3.5   1:1.7   1:1   1.4:1  1.8:1   2:1
7.09              FIDCO's summary sources and requirements of funds for the project-
execution period are shown below:



- 39 -
Table 7.2
FIDCO - Summary Sources and Reauirements of Funds 1979-84
millions
J$               US$            %
Requirements of funds:
The project-excluding interest                   44.3               25.3
Interest charged to forest
establishment                                    4.4                2.5
Total project                                 48.7              27.8           95
Organization costs and working
capital                                          2.7                1.6            5
Total requirements                       51.4              29.4          100
Sources of funds:
Operating income                                  0.2                0.1
Depreciation and sturpage (A)                      11.4               6.5
Gross internal cash generation           11.6               6.6
Less debt service charged to operations           6.3                3.6
Net internal cash generation              5.3               3.0           10
Borrowings:
Proposed IBRD loan                       18.9              10.8
Proposed CDC loan                        20.2 _11.6
Total                                    39.1              22.4           76
Government investment in equity                   7.0                4.0           14
Total sources                           51.4               29.4          100
Note (A) As noted in para. 7.07 (c), stumpage is credited to the standing-
timber account and charged to operating expenses when the timber is
harvested.



- 40 -
7.10      As indicated in the above tables, FIDCO's operating results would
improve from very unsatisfactory levels in 1979-80 (before rehabilttation of
the Twickenham Park sawmill is complete) to barely positive levels in the
last four years of the project-execution period. Under normal circumstances,
the following would be interpreted as indications of financial weakness:
(a)  the company's overall financial return on assets would remain
extremely low - about 1% p.a. - for most of the project-execution
period and increase to only 2% in 1985;
(b)  FIDCO would be able to provide only 10% of its total funds
requirements through internally-generated cash;
(c)  While FIDCO would be able to cover the debt-service requirements
which are allocated to operations once the Twickenham Park sawmill
renovation is complete, its gross internal cash generation would
fall short of debt service on its total outstanding borrowings
for most of the project-execution period;
(d) FIDCO's debt/equity ratio would increase from total equity pre-
project to 2:1 at the end of the project-execution period.
However, the use of such traditional measures of financial performance is not
entirely appropriate for an integrated forestry/forest industries company in
its early years, when most of its assets are not producing revenues. Such
measures are more usefully employed when the area the company plants is about
equial to that which it harvests. For the initial stages, the overall rate of
return may be a better indicator; as shown in para 8.04, FIDCO's estimated
internal rate of return for the project is a satisfactory 14%. Even though
the key financial ratios are not altogether appropriate, they still indicate
its relative performance on a year-by-year basis, and FIDCO would confirm in
the Plan of Action that it would use the designated key financial ratios to
.nonitor its financial performance.
7.11      To measure more properly FIDCO's income-producing potential and
the extent of the distortion caused by its extensive investment in the early
stages of forestry, a hypothetical income statement has been estimated on
the assumption that FIDCO was only a logging/sawmilling company, not respons-
ible for roads or forest development and paying stumpage charges to a separate
forest entity. Under this assumption, FIDCO would have an annual rate of
return on assets of 7 to 13% once rehabilitation of the Twickenham Park
sawmill was complete, which would be satisfactory.
D.   Proposed Financial Undertakings
7.12      To ensure that local funding required to complete the project is
forthcoming, assurances have been received that the government would provide
as an equity investment in FIDCO the funds requirements which FIDCO needs
to proceed with project execution on schedule but cannot meet from its net
internal cash generation, which are expected to be at least:



- 41 -
Amount
Year                  (US$ equivalent in millions)
1979                               1.1
1980                              0.8
1981                              0.2
1982                                -
1983                              0.9
1984                              1.0
Total                        4.0
7.13      While the above commitment would enable FIDCO to meet its total
financial requirements through the project-execution period, the company's
internal cash generation would not be sufficient to meet its debt service
on both project loans from 1985 until at least 1989, when the Buff Bay
sawmill would go into full operation. Assurances have been received from the
government that it would provide sufficient funds as equity investments in
FIDCO to enable the company to meet the debt-service requirements of both
project loans from 1985 through 1998. While "topping-up" cash infusions of
this nature are not now foreseen to be necessary after 1989, these assurances
ensure that FIDCO will be in a position to meet its obligations until 1999,
when trees planted under the project would begin to be harvested.
7.14      Even with these contributions, FIDCO's projected debt/equity ratio
at the end of the project period is as high (2:1) as is prudent for an enter-
prise with a large proportion of illiquid assets. Assurances have therefore
been received from FIDCO that it would not issue long-term debt without Bank
agreement if its debt/equity ratio exceeds 2:1. The purpose of this provision
is not to prohibit FIDCO from incurring debt but rather to enable the Bank,
FIDCO and the government to discuss financing alternatives in the event of
a high debt/equity ratio.
E.   Government Accounts
7.15      From 1979 through 1996, the government's outflows (including the
value of standing timber and other property contributed to FIDCO amounting to
about J$14.5 million) would total about J$30 million. These outflows would
be more than offset by FIDCO's net internal generation of more than J$120
million from 1989 through 2004, as shown in Annex 5.
7.16      Assurances have been received from the government that it would:
establish and maintain accounts to record the cost of project components
for which it is responsible, have such accounts audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank and send such statements along with the
auditors' report to the Bank within four months of the end of its fiscal
year.



- 42 -
F.   Income-Tax Implications
7.17      Jamaican income-tax laws and regulations do not provide incentives
for investment in forestry: revaluation is not permitted and loss carry-
forwards are limited to five years. As well as penalizing FIDCO, present
regulations would strongly discourage the private sector from investing
in forestry. To provide equitable treatment for forestry investment, the
government would confirm in the Plan of Action that it would study the
income-tax regulations with a view towards forestry and discuss its study
with the Bank by December 31, 1982. The study would be part of its overall
review of income-tax regulations.
8. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS, OTHER BENEFITS AND RISKS
8.01      The principal quantifiable benefits of the project are:  increased
sawnwood production from the rehabilitated Twickenham Park sawmill and the
sawmill at Buff Bay; increased roundwood availability from investments in
roads and harvest/transport equipment; and mature trees from the industrial-
plantation component.
8.02      As already noted, the project is designed as a part of a long-term
national forest-development program which includes significant post-project
investments in additional industrial plantations, other sawmills, and
appropriate harvesting facilities. The components of the project are there-
fore separable and are so considered in the economic analysis.
A.   Assumptions
5.03      Specific assumptions and derivations of values used in cost and
benefit streams for the individual project components are itemized in the
working papers. The more important of the assumptions are the following:
(a) the wholesale market price of sawnwood represents the cif price
of imported sawnwood plus handling cost of State Trading : J$280
and J$300/m3 for rough and dressed sawnwood at the time of project
appraisal. Bearing in mind that international market prices of
sawnwood are volatile, the prices utilized are representative of
prevailing price levels. The Bank has aot yet projected world
price levels of softwood (as opposed to hardwood, which is seldom
substitutable); extrapolation of increases in softwood prices
during the past decade (on the order of 1-1.5% p.a.) would
increase the project benefits, which leads to the conclusion that
the project's calculated rates of return are conservative.
Because the project would result in import substitution, no
effect on over-all supply - and hence on price levels - is
expected.



- 43 -
(b)  the market for smallwood will be sufficient to absorb 50% of the
available thinnings and smallwood available from the final cut.
This assumption depends primarily on the establishment of a
pulp/papermill in the early 1980s or development of alternative
outlets. If these do not eventuate, the thinning/transport
cost assumptions (as well as the revenue assumptions for
smallwood) would be decreased, with an overall lowering of
net project benefits.
(c) Two internal transfer prices have been developed - stumpage at
$51.5/m3, representing the transfer between the industrial-
plantation component and the r/h/t component and roundwood value
at J$97/m3, the transfer between the r/h/t and sawmill components.
To a large degree these transfer prices were developed empirically,
based on cost and volume data presented in designs of the respective
components.
(d) Costs were based on market prices expected in March 1979 plus
a 10% physical contingency allowance. In the efficiency-price
calculation, the cost of unskilled labor in all components was
shadow-priced at 50% of its market price, representing the
benefits derived from the utilization of otherwise unemployed
labor. This shadow-pricing is standard for Jamaican projects.
(e) No shadow pricing of foreign exchange was used, reflecting
current Bank policy in analysis of projects in Jamaica.
(f) A 25-year period, representing one harvest of the industrial-
plantation component, was used.
(g) The stumpage value of pre-project investments was included as an
opportunity cost to the r/h/t component so as not to distort that
component's rate of return and to represent the value of the
government's contribution of immature standing timber to the project.
(h) The value of land was not included as a project cost because
there is no alternative use for such land.
(i) Because the r/h/t component had to be designed with the entire
industrial-plantation program in mind and because it is virtually
impossible to identify the portions of that 20-year component
which pertain to the project, it was possible only to calculate
the rate of return for the long-term r/h/t component.
(j) A "worst case" assumption of a 30% increase in cost levels and
10% decrease in benefit levels has been assumed to take into
account the possibility of costs exceeding the assumptions
measurably and the historical tendency of the value of wood
products not to decrease.



- 44 -
B.   Results of the Analysis
8.04      The estimated rates of return of the project components and the
entire project under varying assumptions of increased costs and decreased
benefits as well as the "most likely" levels are arrayed in Annex 6 and
summarized below:
Table 8.1
Internal rate of return of project and components
Market                 Efficiency
price                    price
Most        Worst        Most          Worst
likely        case       likely          case
Entire project                           14.7           7.9        17.4           9.6
Components:
Industrial plantation               10.1           7.9       12.7           10.4
Roading/harvesting/transport        13.7           4.0       15.1            5.3
Twickenham Park sawmill             47.2            A        47.2             A
Buff Bay sawmill                    14.4            A        14.8             A
Entire project without smallwood
benefits or costs                      12.9-          7.0        15.1           8.6
A=lower than -20%
8.05      Among the individual project components, the estimated rate of return
of the Twickenham Park sawmill is abnormally high. This is typical of rehabili-
tation projects, which involve a significant increase in incremental output
resulting from a much lower increase in operating costs and a relatively low
investment. As is typical of agro-industries, the rates of return of both saw-
mills are extremely sensitive to decreases in benefits and increases in the
cost of raw materials.
8.06      The project's rate of return would be higher if revenues from other
products, such as poles, had been included or a longer (e.g. two- or three-cut)
benefits period had been assumed, since replanting costs are much lower than
original establishment costs.
C.   Other Project Benefits
8.07      While the rate-of-return calculations include the foreign-exchange
effect of the project, it is worth noting that the project is expected to
result in net foreign-exchange savings for the country.



- 45 -
8.08      Also of importance to a country with a high (approximately 25%)
unemployment rate, the project would provide employment of 4,500 man-years
for unskilled labor during the project-execution period for forestry establish-
ment and about 50 full-time man-years p.a. for unskilled roading, harvesting
and sawmilling labor. The employment benefits have been included in rate-of-
return calculations. Assuming that forest establishment continues, the
employment of unskilled labor in this activity would also be maintained.
8.09      From a long-term development viewpoint, the study components of
the project would provide Jamaica with further opportunities for foreign-
exchange savings and large-scale employment. The possible establishment of
a pulp/paper mill would reduce the country's almost-entire dependence on
imported paper, and the studies of utilization of forestry sources for energy
could conceivably provide some substitution for presently-imported fuel. The
latter, by providing a commercial outlook for forest products in the non-pine
areas, would enhance employment opportunities in interior regions throughout
the island.
D.   Ecological Impact
8.10      To the extent that the project has an effect on the ecology, it
would be favorable, since establishment of forest reserves in areas unsuitable
for other purposes would prevent utilization of such areas for those purposes,
which might result in erosion or other detrimental effects to the ecology.
E.   Project Risks
8.11      The project's main execution risk is that FIDCO will not be able
to acquire sufficient amounts of contiguous land quickly enough to plant and
log efficiently. Proposed covenants (paras. 5.15, 5.17) would reduce but not
eliminate this risk. Even if the industrial-plantation area is limited to
little besides Crown lands, however, sufficient roundwood supplies would be
available to supply the two project sawmills on a continuous basis.
8.12      The project's major operational risk is directly linked to its funda-
mental institution-building purpose - the conversion of a governmental depart-
ment into a relatively efficient commercial undertaking at a time when managerial
talent is in extremely short supply. Without proper management, productivity
of the forest resource and efficient utilization of manpower could easily de-
crease to levels where the project would be economically marginal; hence the
inclusion of substantial institution strengthening under the project. For
these reasons, it is vital that adherence to the operational coefficients in
the Plan of Action be assured and that FIDCO be run on sound commercial lines.



- 46 -
9. RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01      The proposed Loan Agreement provides assurances that the government
would:
(a) issue import licenses promptly for imported goods related to
the project (para. 4.35);
(b) issue work permits promptly for internationally-recruited
personnel necessary for project execution (para. 5.05);
(c) provide for the accumulated pension rights of employees transferred
from its payroll to FIDCO's (para 5.07);
(d) lease all Crown lands in the project area to FIDCO before 1983
(para. 5.15);
(e) invest in FIDCO's equity sufficient funds (estimated to be at
least US$4 million equivalent) to enable FIDCO to complete its
portion of the project (para. 7.12);
(f) invest in FIDCO's equity sufficient funds to enable the company to
meet interest and amortization requirements from 1985 through 1998
on loans under the project (para. 7.13); and
(g) provide audited financial statements and audit reports pertaining
to its portion of the project (para. 7.16).
9.02      The proposed Project Agreement provides assurances that FIDCO would:
(a) submit its audited balance sheet as of June 30, 1979 to the
Bank by September 30, 1979 (para. 7.03);
(b) revalue its assets according to the criteria established in
para. 7.04;
(c) provide audited financial statements and audit reports by
independent auditors annually (para. 7.05); and
(d) seek Bank agreement to undertake long-term debt if its debt/
equity ratio exceeds 2:1 (para. 7.14).
9.03      The proposed Loan Agreement includes conditions of disbursement as
follows:
(a) disbursements on the research/training component would not take
place until the Bank had received a satisfactory research/training
program (para. 4.24);



- 47 -
(b)  disbursements for plantation and road-building components would
not take place until the Bank had received a satisfactory
land-acquisition/road-building/forest-establishment plan (para
5.16); and
(c)  annual disbursements for plantation and road-building components
would be conditioned on FIDCO having met the cumulative land-
acquisition targets for the end of the previous year specified in
para. 5.17.
9.04      Proposed conditions of loan effectiveness would be that:
(a)  the government and FIDCO had executed a satisfactory subsidiary
loan agreement (para. 4.29);
(b)  CDC and FIDCO had concluded arrangements on the CDC loan
(para. 4.30);
(c)  FIDCO had obtained a leasehold interest of at least 49 years
on about 7,000 ha of forest reserves already planted and designated
as commercial (para 5.07) and about 2,900 ha of lands authorized
to be provided to FIDCO for planting under the project (para 5.15);
(d)  the personnel necessary for commercial-forestry and forestry-
industry operations had been placed on FIDCO's payroll
(para 5.07); and
(e)  the government and FIDCO had confirmed that they would carry out
the project in accordance with the Plan of Action (para. 5.26),
including acceptance of the operational and financial parameters
as targets for monitoring project execution.
9.05      With the assurances enumerated above, the proposed project would
constitute a suitable base for a loan to the government for US$12 million,
of which approximately US$10.8 million would be re-lent to FIDCO. The loan
would include retroactive financing of up to US$550,000 for acquisition of
materials, equipment and services which must take place prior to loan sign-
ing if full-scale planting is to get underway in 1980 (para. 4.33) and would
have a term of 17 years, including 4 of grace, with interest at the rate
prevailing at the date of loan approval.
April 27, 1979



- 48  -                         ANNEX 1
Page 1
JAMAICA
FORESTRY PROJECT
Plan of Action
I. SCHEDULE OF UNDERTAKINGS BY MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
A. Establishment of Forestry Development Committee
jointly with FIDCO                                             March 31, 1979
B. Engagement and settling-in of personnel recruited
by ODM (industrial plantations manager, research
officer, training officers, inventory officer)                 Jun/December,1979
C. Submission to IBRD of training program for FD and
FIDCO personnel                                                October 31,1979
D. Submission to IBRD-of schedule for relocation and
employment of families affected by project affores-
tation under existing programs.                                December 31,1979
II. SCHEDULE OF UNDERTAKINGS BY FIDCO
A. Establishment of Forestry Development Committee                  March 31, 1979
jointly with FD
B. Engagement and settling-in of internationally-recruited
personnel (planning engineer, logging superintendent,
workshop manager, sawmill manager, financial comLptroller)    June-December,1979
C. Inventory, survey and mapping services:
1.  Inventory draft report                                       July 31, 1979
2.  Preliminary maps                                             September 30, 1979
3.  Remainder of photography                                     November 30, 1979
4.  Complete maps                                               January 31, 1980
5. Short-term (1980-85) and long-term
timber-supply plans                                         March 31, 1980
D. Engineering services:
1.  Engagement of internationally-recruited consultants and
engineers for design and/or preparation
of technical specifications:
a. Equipment, tools and vehicles for
plantation, roading, logging and log
transport                                              December 1979
b.  Workshop equipment                                      December 1979
c. Twickenham Park sawmill building
modifications and equipment                            December 1979
d. Buff Bay sawmill location study,
buildings and equipment                                January 1982
2. Engagement of internationally-recruited
consultants and engineers for studies:
a.  pulp/paper mill                                        April 30, 1980
b.  use of wood for energy                                  March 31, 1982
c. feasibility of next phase of forestry
and forest industry development                        March 31, 1982



-  49  -                                   ANNEX 1
Page 2
E.  Construction of roads                                                         Buff Bay
and buildings under local        Needed          Needed         Workshop    sawmill
bidding procedures              for 1980      subsequently       building    building
1.. Delivery of bidding do-
cuments to IBRD for
review                                      2/28/80          2/28/80      6/31/82
2.  Public invitation to
tender                        5/15/79       3/31/80          3/31/80      8/31/82
3.  Receipt of tenders            6/15/79       5/31/80           5/31/80    11/31/82
4.  Submission of bid eva-
luation to IBRD               7/15/79       6/30/80          6/30/80      1/31/83
5.  Signing contract              7/31/79       7/31/80           7/31/80      3/31/83
Tools,materials,equipment and
F.  Acquisition and installa-    vehicles for plantation estab.
tion of equipment under in"  roading,logging,sawmill
ternational competitive          Needed          Needed          Equipment         Buff Bay
bidding                         for 1980      subsequently    for workshop  sawmill equipment
1.  Delivery of bidding
documents to IBRD
for review                    5/31/79        2/28/80          2/28/80         5/31/82
2.  Public invitation
to tender                     6/15/79        3/31/80          3/31/80         6/30/82
3.  Receipt of tenders            8/15/79         5/31/80          5/31/80         9/30/82
4.  Submission of tender
evaluation to IBRD           .9/15/79        6/30/80          6/30/80        11/30/82
5.  Placement of orders          10/15/79         7/31/80          7/31/80        12/31/82
6.  Delivery of equipment         2/15/80        12/31/80          2/28/81         9/30/83
7.  Installation of equip-
ment and breaking in            NA           6/30/81          6/30/81         3/31/84
G. Completion of studies
1. Pulp/paper mill:
a. prefeasibility study completion (phase 1)        September 30. 1980
b. decision to proceed with phase 2                 November 30
c. laboratory and pilot plant tests (phase 2)    February 28, 1981
d. decision to proceed with phase 3                 April 30
e. feasibility study (phase 3)                      February 28, 1982
f. decision to proceed with phase 4                 June 30
g. basic design                                     January 31, 1983
2.  Use of wood for energy                                 September 30,1983
3. feasibility of next phase of forestry
development                                            September 30, 1983



ANNEX 1
-  50  -                                 Page 3
H. Internal Improvements
1. Delivery to Bank and putting into effect
of property-security program                          March 31, 1980
2. Delivery to Bank of study on by-product
marketing                                             March 31, 1980
3. Delivery to Bank of system of accounts and
classifying costs in accordance with
system                                                December 31, 1979
4. Delivery to Bank and putting into effect
of incentive-pay schemes for all produc-
tion-related employees                                September 30, 1979
5. Engagement of marketing manager                        March 31, 1980



ANNEX I
- 51 -                             Page 4
III. PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
A. Plantation Development
Unit   1979    1980    1981    1982    1983        1984   Total
1. Surveys
Existing Plantations        ha    6,000   1,300    -          -       -         -      7300
(planted through 1977)
Planned Plantations         ha    1750    2420    3350    3350    3350         3000   17220
2. Land Acquisition
Public Land                 ha    5000      700       -       -        -               5700
Private Land                ha      500    1500    2500    3150    3150        3150   13950
5500    2200    2500    3150    3150       3150   19650
3. Nursery
Nursery Formation          No.                 1
Seed Required               Kg       60-/    90      120     120      120      100      610
Seedling Production    Million
Plants       0.35    1.4       2.6     3.5      3.5     3.5   14.85
4. Plantation Establishment
Land Clearing - Heavy       ha      550      800    1100      600     600       550    4200
- Light      ha      550      800    1100    1600    1550       1200    6800
Planting - gross area       ha      310    1380    2460    3380    3380        3310   14220
net area         ha     200      900    1600    2200    2200       2150    9250
Replanting of Clear
Cut Areas                  ha       30      41      113     151      151      204      690
Beating up                  ha      230     941    1713    2351    2351        2354    9928
Weeding 1st year            ha      230     941    1713    2351    2351        2354    9928
2nd year            ha     540      230     941    1713    2351       2351    8126
3rd year            ha     910      540     230      941    1713      2351    6685
5. Firebreak
Formation                   km        3       13      24       33      33        33     139
Maintenance                 km       70       73      86      110     143       176     658
6. Plantation Maintenance
Pruning               b/    ha      750      850    1000    1000      600       230    4430
Thinning - Total Area-      ha      650     650      650      650    1000      1100    4700
- Of Which Non-
Commercial
Thinning        ha     520      520     520      520     800       870    3750
Fire Control                ha    7800    8000    8900   10500   12700    14900   62800
Pest and Disease Control   ha    7800    8000    8900   10500   12700    14900   62800
at For Planting 1979 and 1980.
b/  Including 1,200 ha of backlog thinning of 1968-70 plantings during 1979-81.



- 52 -
ANNEX 1
Page 5
B. Road Construction and Maintenance
1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984        Total
1. Road construction (km)
Main                                12    18      23     23      23     22        121
Secondary plantation                 4      7      9      9       9      8         46
Secondary extraction                 4     5       4      4       5      6         28
2. Road maintenance (km)              109   129    159    195    231    268         1091
C. Extraction
1.  Thinning
Area (ha)3      3                 120   120    120    120    180    200          860
Volume (m  x 10 )                 3.8   3.8    3.8    3.8    6.3    7.0         28.5
2.  Clear cut
Area (ha)3                         30    41    113    151    151    204          690
Volume (m x 10 )
-  smallwood                  3.1   4.2   11.6   15.6   15.6   21.0         71.1
-  sawlogs                    5.2   7.0   19.5   26.0   26.0   35.1        118.8
Total                8.3  11.2   31.1   41.6   .6 6   56.1        189.9
D.  Sawmilling
3     3
1.  Sawnwood production (m  x 10 )
-  Twickenham Park                2.5   3.4    9.4   12.5   12.5   12.5         52.8
-  Buff Bay                        -     -       -      -       -     4.4        4.4
2.  Sawnwood recovery
(both mills) - %                   48    48      48     48      48     48         48
IV. MANPOWER UTILIZATION
A. Plantation Establishment
1.  Man-days (ha by task unit)
Land Clearing - Heavy                           28 man-days/ha
Land Clearing - Light                           17 man-days/ha
Planting                                        18 man-days/ha
Replanting                                      13.5 man-days/ha
Beating up                                      1 man-day/ha
Weeding 1st Year                                30 man-days/ha
2nd Year                               19 man-days/ha
3rd Year                               12.5 man-days/ha
Firebreak Formation                             57 man-days/km
Firebreak Maintenance                           29 man-days/km
Pruning                                         7.5 man-days/ha
Thinning (at stump only)                        11 man-days/ha
Fire Control                                    0.5 man-days/ha
Pest & Disease Control                          0.3 man-days/ha



ANNEX 1
Page 6
2. Man-years by task
1979   1980   1981   1982   1983    1984    Total
Land clearing - heavy            62      90    123      67     67       61      470
Land clearing - light            37     54      75    109    105        82      462
Planting                         15     65    115    158    158        155      666
Replanting                        2      2       6       8      8       11       37
Beating up                        1       4      7       9      9       10       40
Weeding 1st year                 28    113    206    282    282        282     1193
2nd year                41      17     72    130    179       179      618
3rd year                45.    27      11      47     87      117       334
Firebreak formation               1       3      4       8      8        8       32
Firebreak maintenance             8      8      10     13      17      20        76
Pruning                          22     26      30      30     18        7      133
Thinning                         28     29      29     29      44       48      207
Fire control                     16     16      18     21      25       30      126
Pest and diseaae control          9      9      11     13      15       18       75
Total             315    463    717    924   1022    1028        4469
3. Plantation management and supervision (number ofi individuals)
1979   1980   1981    1982   1983   1984    Total
Counterpart Plantation
Manager, Industrial
Plantations Division           1       1       1       1       1      1         7
Unit Managers                     5      5       6        6      7       7       36
Forest Supervisors                3       3      4        4      4       4       22
Foresters                         7       7      8        8     10      10       50
Foreman/Headmen                  30     50    .50       50      50     50       280
Drivers                           6       7      8        9     10     10        50
Clerical Field Staff              5      6       7        7      8       9       42
Total              57      79     84       85     90      91      487
B.  Roading, Logging and Transport (man-years)
1. Road construction
1.1 Management and supervision        8      8       8        8      8       8       48
1.2 Skilled labor                     8       8      8        8      8       8       48
1.3 Unskilled labor                  14     21      21      21      21      22      120
Total              30     37      37       37     37      38      216



ANNEX 1
Page 7
- 54 -
2. Logging and Transport   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   Total
2.1 Management and
supervision               8      8       9      9      11     11       56
2.2 Technicians and clerks   6         6      6       6      9       9      42
2.3 Skilled labor             19     23      32      37     43      50     204
2.4 Unskilled labor           11      13     15      17     20      22      98
Total              44      50     62      69     83      92      400
3. Number of men per logging crew (all years):
cable thinning   7
manual thinning 5
final cut         5
4. Daily production goals per crew (all years):
from unthinned stands - 50 m 3 r
from thinned stands  - 36 m  r
C. Sawmiling (number of employees)
Management,
Supervision,   Skilled       Unskilled
Clerical       Labor         Labor        Total
1. Twickenham Park
One-shift operation        12           28              6           46
Two-shift operation        15           44             10           69
2. Buff Bay
One-shift operation        12           24              6           42
V. FINANCIAL INDICATORS
Total
1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984    1979-84
Operating income as a
percent of:
sales                          -37    -32      4       8       3       6        1
average net assets             - 3    - 3       1      1       1       1        -
Debt-service coverage
(gross internal cash
generation as percent
of debt service):
debt service charged
to operations                   85      73   311    350    153    145         185
Total debt service              54      44   176    181       90      88  .   108
Contribution to expansion:
Net internal cash genera-
tion as percent of expan-
sion program                      0      -1    17      24       8      11        10
Debt/equity ratio at year-   1:3.5   1:1.7   1:1   1.4:1  1.8:1   2:1
end



- 55 -
Annex 2
Page 1 of 4
JAMAICA
FORESTRY PROJECT
TOOLS, VEHICLES, MATERIALS AND EQUIPMENT REQUIRED
(Amounts in J$ x 103)
Unit
Quantity          Price        Total
A. Forest establishment
Four-wheel drive short-wheel
base vehicles (SWB)                      7               15.8          111
Pick-up trucks                            7                12.2          85
Five-ton trucks                          13               16.0         338
Motorcycles                              18                 1.5          27
Chainsaws                                28                0.7           20
Hand tools                                                             350
Pesticides and chemicals                                                 85
Polipots                                                                136
Firelighting equipment                                                   20
Initial spares                                                          54
Total forest establishment                                   1,226
B. Road Building
Grader                                    1              134.0          134
Roller                                    1               21.0          21
Initial spares                                                          31
Total road-building                                            186
C. Log harvesting and transport
Light yarder                              2               61.0          122
Medium yarder                             5               126.0         630
Skidder                                   1              101.0         101
Log loader                                2               62.0          124
Chainsaw                                 78                0.74          58
Log truck without crane                  15                35.0         525
Log truck with crane                      2                58.5         117
Crew cab (A)                             12                12.8         154
Pick-up truck (A)                        14                12.2         171
Motorcvcles (A)                          12                 i.5          18
SWB (A)                                   9                12.8         115



Annex 2
_  56  -                    Page 2 of 4
Log harvesting and transpDrt (con't)                        Unit
Quantity          Price         Total
Radio system (A)                                                            109
Firefighting equipment                                                       40
Initial spares                                                              390
Total harvesting and transport                                       2,674
(A) To be used in roadbuilding as well
D. General-purpose vehicle (to be aequired
through local shopping)
SWB                                           8             12.8             102
Pick-up Truck                                 1             12.2               12
Automobiles                                   2             10.0               20
Initial spares                                                                25
Total general purpose                                                 159
E. Workshop
1. Main workshop:                                         Total
Overhead 3-ton crane                                     20
Hydraulic hose press                                      6
Air compressor                                           11
Drill press                                               1
Electric hand drills                                      1
Portable electric welder                                  7
Lathe                                                     8
Hacksaw machine                                           2
Other equipment (welding, blacksmith,grinders,
taps and dies, thread-cutting,tire-changing,
greasing, 15-ton jacks, vises, small tools,
wrenches, socket sets)                                  22
Sub-total main workshop                            78
2. Field workshops:
Two power-saw maintenance facilities
(including a small air compressor, vise,
electric drill, grinder, files, gauges and
tools)                                                  60



- 57  -                     Annex 2
page 3 of 4
3. Mobile equipment:
One mobile shop truck with
crane, welding equipment, vise, grinder,
compressor and tools                                       36
Replacement truck                                             20
Fuel  and lubrication truck                                   30
Sub-total                                            224
4. Initial spares,                                                32
Total workshop equipment                             256
F.Twickenham Park sawmill
Mechanized log deck                                                32
Log carriage feedwork                                              23
Automatic carriage                                                 64
Driven cant transfer to resaw                                      19
Improving and extending merry-go-round                            10
2-saw/6" multiple saw combination edger with in and
out feed tables and gravity in-feed decks                        54
2-saw trimmer with transfer chain                                 38
Relocating green chain                                              5
Roller conveyors from headrig and resaw to trimmer transfer    23
Second air-compressor                                             11
Ten green chain wagons                                             15
Installing sawdust extraction system                              40
Electric power distribution and instaliation                       76
equipment and material
Maintenance tools                                                   9
Sawblades                                                           9
Log loader (5 ton)                                                 61
Lumber lift-truck (5-ton)                                          35
Pick-up truck                                                      12
Klein bus                                                          12
Installation of planing mill (already on site)                    33
Installation, supervision                                         26
Initial spares                                                    24
Total Twickenham Park                                  631



Annex 2
-  58  -                  Page 4 of 4
G. Buff Bay sawmill
Sawmill                                                        799
Planing mill                                                   189
Impregnation plant                                             180
Mobile equipment                                               229
Installation  supervision                                      150
Total Buff Bay sawmill                               1,547



59   -                     ANNEX 3
JAMAICA
FORESTRY PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
(in US$millions)
Semester                                During             Cumulative at
Ending                                  Semester           end of semester
December 1979                              1.0                    1.0
June 1980                                  1.2                    2.2
December                                   1.4                    3.6
June 1981                                  0.8                    4.4
December                                   0.9                    5.3
June 1982                                  0.9                    6.2
December                                   0.9                    7.1
June 1983                                  1.5                    8.6
December                                   1.6                   10.2
June 1984                                  0.9                   11.1
December                                   0.9                   12.0
June 1985                                   -                    12.0
Assumptions: Loan presentation and signing - May 1979
Loan effectiveness              - August 1979



- 60 -
Annex 4
JAMAICA                                        Page 1
FORESTRY PROJECT
Forest Industries Deve1lenent CompanY Ltd. (-IDCO)
Income Staterents 1979-85
(JS x 103)
Total
1979       1980      1981      1982      1983      1984  1979-84        1985
REVENUES:
Sawnwood and sawmill residues:
Twickenham Park                               783      1,051    2,934    3,912    3,912    3,912   16,504    3,912
Buff Bay                                       _-                   - _                  -      1,369    1,369    1,956
Smal .wood                                       682        792    1 529    1,925    2,167    2,772    9,867    3,267
Total                                       1,465      1,843               5,837    6,079    8,053   27,740    9,135
OPERATING EXPENSES:
Direct expenses
Extraction and transport - thinning            82         82        82        82        135       151       614       201
- final cut        115        155       429       574       574       774    2,621         682
Logging supervision                           153        153       153       153        211       211     1,034       211
Road maintenance                               48         57        70        86        102       118       481       115
Sawmill operations - Twickenham Park          314        330       605       664        664       664    3,241        664
- Buff Bay                -          -         -         -          -        346       346       381
Smallwood processing                          360        418       806    1,015    1,143    1,462    5,204    1,723
Administrative                                386        428       470       510        656       656    3,106        656
Total direct                             1,458  1,623   2 ,615    3,                485       ,382   16,647    4,633
Stumpage
Sawlogs                                       268        360    1,004    1,339    1,339    1,808    6,118    2,008
Smallwood                                      86        100       192       242        274       350    1,244        412
Total stumpage                             354        460    1,196    1,581       1,613    2,158       7,362    2,420
Depreciation
Expatriate services                            -          -         -        194        194       194       582       194
Roads                                          87        105       128       152        177       201       850       224
Logging and transport equipment                56        130       179       227        265       287    1,144        314
Workshop                                       18         44        51         51        51        51       266         51
Twickenham Park sawmill                        30         67       103        103       103       103       509        103
Buff Bay sawmill                               -          -         -         -          -        212       212       212
Total depreciation                        191        346       461      727        7       1,048 =13,563
Total operating expense                        2,003      2         4,272    5,392    5,888    7,588   27,572    t,15
Operating income                               - 538      - 586        191       445       191       465        168       98'-
Non-operatinc expense: interest
charged to income                                     65     _ 382        617       811     1,146    1,374    4,395        1,35^
Net income                                     - 603      - 968    - 426    - 366    - 955    - 909  - 4,227    - 375
January 1979



- 61 -
Annex 4
JAXAICA                                        Page 2
FORESTRY PROJECT
Forest Industries Development Company Ltd. (FIDCO)
Estimated Balance Sheets at December 31, 1978-84
(J$ x 103)
1978     1979      1980       1981      1982      1983      1984
ASSETS
Current assets                                             -         300       400    1,000    1,400    1,400    2,100
Fixed assets                                            16,000   20,672   26,250   32,033   38,562   49,150   56,566
Less accumulated depreciation                         1,500    1,691    2,037    2,498    3,225    4,015    5,063
Net fixed assets                                     14,500   18,981   24,213   29,535   35,337   45,135   51,503
Intangibles:  starting costs                               -       1,000    L9P0       1,000    1,000    1,000  ___2l000
Total assets           .14,500   20,281   25,613   31,535   37,737   47,535   54603
LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL
Current liabilities:
Current portion of long-term debt                                                     -         727    1,453    1,985
Other curreat liabilities                               -          50        75       175       300       300       400
Total                                                   -          50        75       175    1,027    1,753    2,385
Long-term liabilities                                      -       4,536    9,515   15,397   21,343   29,587   34,960
Total liabilities                     -       4,586    9,590   15,572   22,370   31,340   37,345
capital
Share capital                                        14,500   16,298   17,594   17,960   17,730   19,513   21,485
Retained earnings                                       -      -  603   -1,571   -1,997   -2,363   -3,318         4
Total capital
Total capital                     14,500   15,695   16,023   15,963   15,367   16,195  E7258
Total Liabilities and Capital                           14,500   20,281   25,613   31,535   37,737   47,535   54,603
Note A:  Attachments 10 and 13 to Hartman report on sawmills.
January 1979



- 62 -
JAMAICA                                      Annex 4
Page 3
FORESTRY PROJECT
Forest Industries Development Company Ltd. (FIDCO)
Estimated Sources and Applications of Funds 1979-84
(J$ x 103)
Total
1979     1980     1981      1982     1983      1984   1979-84
SOURCES OF FUINDS
Internal cash generation                                                                   -
Operating income                                   - 538    - 586       191      445      .191      465        168
Non cash expenses:
Stumpage                                           354    _460    1,196    1,581    1,613    2,158         7,362
Depreciation                                       191      346       461      727       790    1,048      3,563
Road maintenance                                    48       57        70       86       102      118        481
Total non cash expenses                         593      863    1,727    2,394    2,505    3,324    11,406
Gross internal cash generation                   55      277    1,918    2,839    2,696    3,789    11,574
Debt service charged to Operation:                                                                     -
Interest                                            65      382       617      811    1,146    1,374       4,395
Amortization                                                -         -        -         618    1,235      1,853
Total debt service                               65      382       617      811    1,764    2,609       6,248
Net internal cash generation                        - 10    - 105    1,301    2,028      _932    1,180       5,326
Borrowings:
Proposed loans - IBRD                              3,039    2,928    2,583    2,788    5,017    2,545    18,900
- CDC                               1.497    2,051    3,299    3,885    4,680    4,813    20,225
Total                          4,536    4,979    5,882    6,673    9,697    7,358    39,125
Government contribution                              1,798    1,296       366    - 230    1,783    1,972       6,985
Total sources                  6,324    6,17U    7,549    8,471   12,412   10,510    51,436
APPLICATIONS O0 FUDS
The rroject                                          5,037    5,850    6,576    7,438   11,186    8,202    44,289
Debt service charged to forest development              37       245      473       758    1,226    1,708      4,447
Total project                                 5,074    6,095    7,049    8,196   12,412    9,910    48,736
Start-up costs                                      l1,000                                                     1,000
Working capital requirements                           250        75      500       275      -         600     1,700
Total applications            6,324    6,170    7,549    8,471   12,412   10,510    51,436
January 1979



- 63 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4
Assumptions Used in Financial Forecasts
In the forecast of FIDCO's financial situation during the project-
execution period, a number of assumptions were made to estimate FIDCO's income
reasonably, as explained below. The most critical of these assumptions deal
with the classification of expenditures between those charged to assets--
forest establishment--and to operations. It should be noted that variations
in accounting for such expenditures occur. A new company, such as FIDCO,
would tend to classify expenditures as assets to the maximum extent possible
so as to show some operating income, whereas an established company with
little or no expansion of forest territory might tend to classify some of the
same costs as annual operating expenses, particularly if it could reduce its
income-tax burden by doing so.
Assumption Group I: Classification of Expenditures
a. All forest-establishment costs, both initial preparation/planting/
weeding and subsequent thinning, are charged to forest development.
b. The forestry account is credited with "stumpage" based on the long-
term forest development cost included as Table 21 of Working Paper 2. As
shown in that study, the stumpage values used for smallwood and sawlogs are
J$ 12.5/m3 and J$ 51.5/m3 respectively.  Part of the stumpage value repre-
sents the use of the land, the ownership of which is to remain with the
government. While payment of the land-rent portion of stu;npage to the govern-
ment is not included during the project-execution period (because it would
merely increase the amount of governmental contributions which FIDCO would
require), such payments may be required in the future.
c. All road construction is charged to assets and depreciated over
40 years (two growth cycles). Road depreciation is charged to operating
expense. Road maintenance is also charged to operations. In practice, part
of the amounts representing road depreciation and maintenance costs should
probably be charged to forest establishment because of the dual purpose of
the roads. This would require a study of the purpose and use of each type
of road to allocate depreciation and maintenance between forest establish-
ment and operations, which study is well beyond the scope of this report.
It is expected that FIDCO's financial controller will allocate road depre-
ciation and maintenance according to their purpose. Purchases of road-building
equipment are charged to an asset account and depreciated in accordance with
the expected life of each type of equipment. The annual depreciation provision
is charged to road establishment.
d. Acquisition of logging and transport equipment is also classified
as an asset, depreciated over the useful life for this type of equipment,
and depreciation provisions are charged to operations.



- 64 -
ANNEX 4
Page 5
e.   The direct extraction/transport and logging supervision costs
which originate in Working Paper 3 do not include depreciation of equipment
used for these operations. In practice, FIDCO's accounting system may well
include depreciation in the calculation of the standard charge per m .
f. Except for depreciation, workshop costs are assumed to be absorbed
in maintenance charges, which are in turn reflected in the roadbuilding, logging
and transport costs developed in Working Paper 3. In the forecasts, deprecia-
tion of workshop buildings and equipment is charged directly to operations.
In practice, the workshop charge to be applied to equipment maintenance
should probably include depreciation of workshop buildings, machinery and
equipment, as well as all other direct costs of the workshops' operation.
g. The cost of managerial assistance by internationally-recruited
experts is charged to an asset account on the grounds that such assistance
will benefit FIDCO for a period after their employment. Accordingly, those
costs are amortized over a ten-year period beginning 1982.
h. As the direct costs of forest establishment are assumed to be
charged accordingly, so service on the debt incurred to pay for those costs
is also assumed to be charged to forest development. This includes all debt
service on the CDC loan and the portion of the IBRD loan financing forest
establishment - about 15%. While this accounting procedure is often not
used in industrial enterprises (as opposed to public utilities, where its usage
is common), it is necessary in this case to avoid distortion of the income
accounts.
Assumption Group 2: Revenues
i. Sawmill costs and sawnwood revenues are taken directly from working
paper 4.
j. Smallwood revenues are based on 90% of the available volume being sold.
Costs shown for smallwood are incremental, i.e. after extraction and transport
costs, which are lumped together with extraction/transport costs of sawlogs.
In 1979-80, it is expected that the demand for fence posts will absorb the
entire smallwood supply. After 1980, however, supply may well exceed the
demand for fence posts, which will require FIDCO to find other outlets for
smallwood: either export or other use. If the smallwood is used for other
purposes, such as raw material for a particle-board factory or pulp mill,
costs would diminish principally because no impregnation would be necessary.
However, revenues per m would presumably diminish as well, and the re-
sultant equivalent contribution to operating profit is assumed to be the
same. The main determinant of FIDCO's profitability in the project-
execution period will be its ability to utilize smallwood profitably, that
is to sell it rather than having to thin to waste.



-  65  -
ANNEX 4
Page 6
k.  The forecasts do not include separate revenues for impregnation
treatment against insects and rot of sawnwood. At the present time impreg-
nation chemicals and labor cost almost as much as the 15% surcharge levied for
this service; FIDCO should study the possibility of increasing the surcharge so
as to make a reasonable profit on its investment in impregnation cylinders.
The other reason for not including such revenues is FIDCO's lack of definition
as to its plans for acquiring additional cylinders.
1. Although the demand for utility poles is as strong as or stronger
than that for sawnwood, the forecasts do not include potential revenues from
poles.  There are two reasons for this.  First, a sawlog used for a pole sub-
tracts from the sawmill supply. Since a principal purpose of the project is
to get an efficient sawmill operating at full capacity and since there is no
excess supply of mature timber, it is assumed that all available sawlogs will
be converted to sawnwood during the project-execution period. Second, the
volume (classified by length) of poles which can be delivered over forest
roads and connecting public roads is unknown. As a result the financial
forecasts are somewhat conservative. For the approximately 15% of the
sawlogs which would be suitable for pole manufacture, FIDCO could expect
prices of up to three times that of the corresponding volume of sawnwood.
Consequently this assumption understates the company's potential revenues
by as much as 30%.
Assumption Group 3: Expenses
m. The costs of extraction/transport and sawnmilling have been taken
directly from working papers 2 and 3 respectively.
n. The administrative expense forecasts (Table 9) include an overhead
loading of 100%, which is higher than normal for an operating entity to pro-
vide some element of contingency.
o. No provision is made for income tax because FIDCO is not expected to
have net income during the project-execution period. Even if the company did
achieve positive net income (for example by increasing revenues through manu-
facture of utility poles), it would be possible to reduce its taxable income
as compared to its income per books.
p. Debt Service. Assumptions on the CDC loan are: denomination-sterling;
interest - 7% p.a.; term - 25 years including 6 of grace; amortization payments -
level semi-annual, beginning in second half of 1985. IBRD loan (portion
relent to FIDCO): denomination - US dollars; interest - 10% p.a.; term - 17
years including 4 of grace; amortization payments - level semi-annual, beginning
in second semester of 1983.



JAMAICA
FORESTRY PROJECT
GOVERNMENT CAeH FLOW
(J$ a 10 )
1999
1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990   1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996    1997    1998    2004    total
OUTFLOWS FROM GOVERNMENT
Portion of proposed project
outside of FIDCO's responsibility
(land and training)                    0.2      1.0     1.5     1.8     2.0      2.1                                                                                                                                8.6
Contribution to FIDCO2
during project-execution period (A)  16.3      1.3     0.3    -0.2      1.8     2.0                                                                                                                                21.5
after project-execution period
(debt service on project loans)                                                         0.4     0.9     0.8      0.5                                                                                               2.6
Difference between FIDCO debt
service to government and
gover-nent's to IBRD                                 -0.1    -0.1   -0.2    -0.2   -0.1   -0.2   -0.2   -0.1    -0.1            -       -        0.1     0.1     0.1      0.1     0.1                             -0.8
Portion of IBRD 1loa retained
by goveronent                                -0 .4    0.4     0.4      0. 4    -0.5                                                                                                                               -2.1
Total outflows                   16.5    1.9     1.3      1.1     3.2     3.4     0.3      0.7     0.6     0.4     0.1     -        -       0.1     0.1    0.1      0.1    0.1     -        -       _        29.9
CAH INFLOWS                                                                                                                                           01      01     01       01     012.
FIDCO net internal cash generation,
(after replacement of equipment
included in prosed project) avail-
able for future projects or for pay-
eent of land rent or dividends to
government                                                                                                               0.6     1.2      2.3     2.3     2.4      1.5     2.6   2.6     2.7      2.8    100.0    121.0
(A) Includes contribution of pre-project investments valued at $14.5



- 67 -
JAMAICA                                  ANNEX  6
FORESTRY PROJECT                              Page 1 of
Market-price rates of return for project components under
costs and benefit assumption shown
Most likely      Percentage increase in cost or decrease in
costs and        benefits from "most-likely" levels
benefits         10           20             30              50
Industrial plantation                     10.1
Increase in establishment costs                        9.5         9.0              8.5           7.6
Decrease in smallwood stumpage                        10.0          9.9             9.9           9.7
Decrease in sawlog stumpage                            9.6         8.9              8.3           6.6
Decrease in all stumpage                               9.5          8.7             7.9           5.9
Increase in establishment cost
with 10% decrease in stumpage
value                                                 8.9         8.4              7.9           7.0
Increase in establishment cost
with 20% decrease in stumpage
value                                                 8.2          7.6             7.2           6.3
Increase in establishment cost
with 30% decrease in stumpage
value                                                 7.4          6.8             6.4           5.5
Increase in establishment cost
with 50% decrease in stumpage
value                                                 5.4          4.8             4.4           3.5
Roadine/harvestina/transDort             13.7
Increase in road establishment
and maintenance(ex equipment)                        13.0        12.2             11.6         10.4
Increase in harvesting and
transport (ex equipment)                            12.7         11.6            10.5           8.2
Increase in equipment                                 12.9        12.1             11.3          9.8
Increase in all costs ex
equipment                                            11.9        10.3             8.7           5.9
Increase in all costs                                 11.1          8.8             6.7           3.1
Decrease in smallwood revenues                        11.8          9.8             7.6           2.6
Decrease in sawlog revenues                           12.8         11.8            10.8           8.8
Decrease in all revenues                              10.8          7.7             4.3       -  3.8
Increase in all costs with 10%
decrease in revenues                                  8.3          6.0             4.0           0.5
Increase in all costs with 20%
decrease in revenues                                  5.3          3.1             1.1         - 2.3
Increase in all costs with 30%
decrease in revenues                                  1.9        - 0.2           - 2.1         -5.
Increase in all costs with 50%
decrease in revenues                                - 6.0        - 7.9           - 9.5         -12.3



-68-
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 4
Most likely      Percentage increase in cost or decrease in
costs and        benefits from: "most-likely" levels
benefits         10            20             30             50
rvickenham Park sawmill
rehabilitation                           47.2
Increase in sawlog costs                              34.5           19.3       - 0.3             A
Increase in other operating costs                     45.0           42.8         40.6           36.0
Increase in all operating costs
and working capital                                  30.6           11.2        -10.6            A
Increase in investment costs ex
working capital                                      44.0           41.2         38.8           34.5
Increase in all costs                                 28.3            8.0        -11.4            A
Decrease in revenues                                  26.1         -  2.6          A              A
Increase in all costs with 10%                         3.2         - 16.4          A              A
decrease in revenues
IuffBay sawmill                          14.4
Increase in sawlog costs                               7.3         -  1.9       - 17.2            A
Increase in other operating costs                     12.6           10.6          8.7            4.3
Increase in all operating costs
and working capital                                   4.8        -  9.0           A              A
Increase in investment costs
working capital                                      13.2           12.0         11.0           9.2
Increase in all costs                                  3.9        -  9.5           A              A
Decrease in revenues                                   2.7         - 19.6          A              A
Increase in all costs with 10%
decrease in revenues                              -13.6               A           A              A
Total project                            14.7
Increase in investment costs                          13.5           12.4         11.4           9.8
Increase in operating costs                           14.0           13.3         12.6          11.3
Increase in all costs                                 12.8           11.2          9.7           7.2
Decrease in all benefits                              12.6           10.4          8.1           2.5
Increase in costs with 10%
decrease in benefits                                 10.8            9.3          7.9           5.5
Increase in costs with 20%
decrease in benefits                                  8.7            7.2          5.9           3.6
Increase in costs with 30%
decrease in benefits                                  6.5            5.0          3.7           1.4
Increase in costs with 50:
decrease in benefits.                                 1.0          - 0.4        - 1.7         - 3.9
A = Lower than - 20%



- 69 -
JAMAICA                             ANNEX 6
FORESTRY PROJECT                          Page 3 of 4
Efficiency-price rates of return for project components under
cost and benefit assumptions shown
Most likely      Percentage increase in cost or decrease in
costs and        benefits from "most-likely" levels
benefits         10           20             30              50
Industrial plantation                     12.7
Increase ia establishment costs                        12.1          11.5           11.0           10.1
Decrease in smallwood stumpage                         12.6          12.5           12.4           12.2
Decrease in sawlog stumpage                            12.1          11.5           10.8            9.1
Decrease in all stumpage                               12.0          11.3           10.4            8.4
Increase in establishment cost
with 10% decrease in stumpage
value                                                 11.4          10.9           10.4            9.5
Increase in establishment cost
with 20% decrease in stumpage
value                                                 10.7          10.1            9.6            8.8
Increase in establishment cost
with 30% decrease in stumpage
value                                                  9.9           9.3            8.8            8.0
Increase in establishment cost
with 50% decrease in stumpage
value                                                  7.8           7.3            6.8            5.9
'Roading/harvesting/transport            15.1
Increase in road establishment
and maintenance(ex equipment)                         14.3          13.6           12.9           11.8
Increase in harvesting and
transport (ex equip-ent)                             14.1          13.0           11.9            9.7
Increase in equipment                                 14.2          13.3            12.5           11.0
Ircrease in all ccsts ex
equipment                                            13.3          11.6           10.1             7.3
Increase in all costs                                  12.4          10.0            8.0            4.3
Decrease in smallwood revenues                         13.2          11.1            8.9            4.0
Decrease in sawlog revenues                            14.1          13.1           12.1           10.0
Decrease in all revenues                               iz.1           9.0            5.6         - 2.5
increase in all costs with 10%
decrease in revenues                                   9.6           7.3            5.3            1.8
Increase in all costs with 20,
decrease in revenues.                                  6.5           4.3            2.4          - 0.9
Increase in all costs with 30%
decrease in revenues                                   3.2           1.1         - 0.8           - 4.0
Increase in all costs with 50%
decrease in revenues                               -  4.6         - 6.5          - 8.1          - iO.9



- 70 -
ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 4
Most likely      Percentage increase in cost or decrease in
costS and        benefits from: "most-likely" levels
benefits         10            20             30             50
wiickenham Park sawmill
rehabilitation                           47.2
Increase in sawlog costs                               34.5          19.3        - 0.3              A
Increase in other operating costs                      45.0          42.8         40.6             36.0
Increase in all operating costs
and working capital                                   30.6          11.2       - 10.6              A
Increase in investment costs ex
working capital                                       44.0          41.2         38.8             34.5
Increase in all costs                                  28.3           8.0       - 11.4              A
Decrease in revenues                                   26.1        -  2.6           A               A
Increase in all costs with 10%
decrease in revenues                                   3.2        - 16.4           A               A
luffBay sawmill                         14.8
Increase in sawlog costs                                7.8        -  1.2      - 16.0               A
Increase in other operating costs                      13.0          11.1          9.1             4.8
Increase in all operating costs
and working capital                                    5.3        -  8.1           A               A
Increase in investment costs ex
working capital                                       13.5          12.4         11.4             9.6
Increase in all costs                                   4.4        -  8.8           A               A
Decrease in revenues                                    3.2        - 18.3           A               A
Increase in all costs with 10%
decrease in revenues                                -12.6             A            A               A
rotal project                           17.4
Increase in investment costs                           16.0          14.7         13.6            11.7
Increase in operating coats                            16.6          15.7         14.9            13.3
Increase in all costs                                  15.2          13.3         11.6             8.9
Decrease in all benefits                               15.0          12.4          9.8             3.7
Increase in costs with 10%
decrease in benefits                                  12.9          11.1          9.6             6.9
Increase in costs with 20%
decrease in benefits                                  10.5           8.9          7.4             4.8
Increase in costs with 30%
decrease in benefits                                   8.0           6.4          5.0             2.5
Increase in costs with 502
decrease in benefits.                                  2.1           0.6        - 0.8           - 3.2
A=Lower than - 20%



- 71 -
ANNEX 7
JAMAICA
FORESTRY PROJECT
Background Documents and Data Available in Project File
BACKGROUND DOCUMENTS
1.   Agricultural sector survey:  report of the forestry sub-sector, 1973 -
Dr. Garnett Brown et al
2.   Annual reports:
Capital Development Fund: years ending December 31, 1975, 1976, 1977
Jamaica National Investment Company Ltd.: years ending December 31, 1975,
1976, 1977
Forest Department: years ending March 31, 1977, 1978
3.   Government Five-year Development Plan 1978-82
4.   Draft Report of the Jamaica Forestry Development Project (two volumes):
Report N0 43/78JAM. 6 of FAO/CP
WORKING PAPERS
!.   Economic Data
2.   Industrial Plantation:  Tables (Keil)
3.   Timber Harvesting and Roads (Holmsen)
4.   Sawmill Development (Hartman)
5.   Proposed Studies to Establish a Pulp and Paper Mill (Hartman)
6.   Cement-Bonded Particleboard Mill Project (Hartman)
7.   Financial Analysis (Graves)
8.   Economic Analysis (Graves)
9.   Draft Terms of Reference for Internationally-recruited Manager/Advisers
(combined IBRD/CDC appraisal mission)






_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _             IB R D   139 95
~~~~        7?00'                                     TELES                                                                                     I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANUARY 197
Geif of Mv-co                                                                                  [                                                                                               rv ;. *. .    ,?    1    l    7 0  AREA    MP770'  76 4M-A
\~~ ~~~~~~ *                                                                                                                                                     HAOe .AES TIE LA  '1                vPmI,|      *_Mgnr
MEXICO                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~JAMAICA                          ~*-*\J.-..POTA.
FORESTRY  PROJECT                                                                               1
OSRTA   A             j        V~ENEZUELA   0 _  , *Zf  Sr      
OCHO RIOS_
ST. ANN
XS   /? .-0 0RBIADNGGE0RS   W                         /                                                                                                           -\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11 B
T ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lT
;    :
X ~ ~~ H .                         ___-__:? f  <                           -        PROJECT ROUNh'RYT                                   FOREST COMPARTMENTS.:                             
C   <. -..  I-  M      9 --             4                               '(mml  FOREST RESERVES                       O   HARDWARE GA4P    -      ~            FORt GECIRGE
ST1.      4   ;>s=                              =I i_PINE SOIILS                                                                 CLYDESDALE                      Q)CHREPSTOWE /CLIFTON RRLLSIITRLET CASTLE
N D R E  W   a-   c V .    S   A                                *~~~~~~~~~ PROJECT SAWfMILLS                  TRUMPET TREE / HALBEERSTAMT     (j FRIENL1SHIP FILL    
| : . = ~~~~~~~~~~~~A                                      P  r  OSSIBLE FUTURE SAWMILL   (        )ORCNAED/ BELLEVUE              13 CAPE CLEAR 
MT AMES .t . t \ ~ ........  r7'4S                        '          P   OSSIBLE FUTURE PULFI PAPER MILL  i SERGE ISLAND            (3MILLBAN / WINDSOR                             1745
18- :> :.s  \\   es  05. .N/   U r                          (i) DUNROBIN                          @SPRING HILL
KMAIN ROADS                        GSTO    LIN CASTLE NEWTON               3ULL HEAD
s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*.p.R T.A. 
.RJC  ARE        NA   A            HEIT                                     --    RAILROiADS                               MT. JAMES  TDAL
AROECS PANRED TO            .   OENETOWE   AD                                -    -  INTERPIAT>IOAL BONAIS]10                                                                  20             *',seM Sh*4fTRd
..  REA  PLNTE TOEND 19777w ; PRIVATE LANDSOWE  LAD                                               BOUNDRIESS ID                                                     20ahSs
PILOMETERS    ~ ~ MORANT SAY P.                            o
,0 I            2, MiEs  op o eter _E w
.  .  .                                    : ~~~~~~~~~~~7751V                           7b642                                             7b-t)2                                        . 



