Document of
The World Bank
Report No.  14912-CHA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
CHINA
DISEASE PREVENTION PROJECT
NOVEMBER 8, 1995
Rural and Social Development Operations Division
China and Mongolia Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of July 1995)
Currency Name   =   Renminbi (RMB)
Currency Unit   =   Yuan (Y)
Y 1.00          =   US$0.12
US$1            =   Y 8.4
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIDS           -      Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome
BCG            -      Baccille Calmette-Guerin
BRFSS          -      Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System
CAPM           -      Chinese Academy for Preventive Medicine
CDC            -      US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
DALY           -      Disability Adjusted Life Year
DCD            -      Disease Control Department
DPT            -      Diphtheria, Pertussis and Tetanus
EPI            -      Expanded Program on Immunization
EPS            -      Epidemic Prevention Station
FLO            -      Foreign Loan Office
HIV            -      Human Immunodeficiency Virus
ICB            -      International Competitive Bidding
IDA            -      International Development Association
IEC            -      Information, Education and Communication
IMR            -      Infant Mortality Rate
MCH            -      Maternal and Child Health
MIS            -      Management Information System
MMR            -      Maternal Mortality Rate
MOF            -      Ministry of Finance
MOH            -      Ministry of Health
NCB            -      National Competitive Bidding
NCD            -      Non-Communicable Disease
NIHE           -      National Institute for Health Education
PCG            -      Project Coordination Group
PIA            -      Project Implementation Agreement
PIP            -      Project Implementation Plan
PPP            -      Project Preparation Plan
SDR            -      Special Drawing Right
SOE            -      Statement of Expense
SPC            -      State Planning Commission
STD            -      Sexually Transmitted Disease
TFR            -      Total Fertility Rate
UNICEF         -      United Nations Children's Fund
WDR            -      World Development Report
WHO            -      World Health Organization



CHINA
DISEASE PREVENTION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 The People's Republic of China
Beneficiaries:           Provinces and Autonomous Regions of Gansu, Guangxi,
Guizhou, Hebei, Henan, Hubei, Shaanxi, Shanxi, Xinjiang,
and Yunnan; Cities of Beijing, Chengdu, Liuzhou, Luoyang,
Shanghai, Tianjin, and Weihai; and the Ministry of Health and
the Chinese Academy of Preventive Medicine.
Poverty:                  Program of Targeted Interventions
Amount:                   SDR 67 million ($100 million equivalent)
Terms:                    Standard, with 35 years' maturity
Commitment Fee:          0.50 percent on undisbursed balances, beginning 60 days after
signing
Financing Plan:           See Table 3.2
Economic Rate
of Return:             Not applicable
Project ID Number:       CN-PA-3589






- .1 -
CONTENTS
1.     Disease Prevention in China               ..........................  1
A.  Population, Health and Nutrition Status.                                                 1
B.  Vaccine-Preventable Diseases.                                                            2
C.      Non-Communicable Diseases, Sexually Transmitted Diseases and HIV .3
D.     Bank Group Assistance Strategy and Project Rationale.                                 5
E.   Bank Group Experience and Lessons Learned.                                              5
2. Project Background.                                                                               8
A. Project Development.                                                                      8
B. Project Areas.                                                                            9
3.     The Project  ................................................ 1
A. Project Objectives .11
B. Project Description .11
C.  Project Costs and Financing .14
4.  Project Organization and Implementation                  ..16
A.  Organization and Management .16
B. Implementation Plan .18
C. Procurement .19
D. Disbursements .21
E. Accounts and Audits .23
F.  Project Monitoring and Evaluation .23
G. Impact on Environment .25
5.   Benefits, Risks, and Project Sustainability .26
A. Benefits .26
B. Risks .27
C. Sustainability .28
6.  Agreements Reached and Recommendation                     ..29
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited China in June/July 1995, comprising Messrs./Mmes.
Jagadish Upadhyay (Task Manager), Janet Hohnen, Darren Dorkin, and Shaikh Hossain (EA2RS); Mary Young (HDD); Zhao
Hongwen (RMC); Mauno Erkkila and Alan Schnur (WHO); John Quinley, Vivian Lin and Karen Webb (Consultants); and
Karen Hill (AusAID). Messrs./Mme. Eugene Boostrom (AFTHR), Salim Habayeb (SA2PH), Caby Verzosa (HDD), and
Richard Bumgarner (WHO) were the peer reviewers. Mr. Joseph Goldberg is the Division Chief and Mr. Nicholas C. Hope is
the Department Director.



- iii -
TABLES IN TEXT
1.1:   Immunization Coverage  .                        .........................................  3
2.1:       Basic Indicators of Immunization Component Project Areas                              ..................    10
3.1:      Summary of Cost Estimates    ......................................    14
3.2:      Financing Plan    .            .............................................                                                    15
4.1:  Procurement Arrangements .                            ....................................... 20
4.2:       Project Outcome Indicators   .......................................   24
ANNEXES
1.        Immunization Component  ........................................    32
2.         Health Promotion Component   .....................................    38
3.         National-Level Component   .......................................    50
4.        Replacement and Long-Term  Sustainability of the Cold Chain    .................   59
5.        Project Implementation Provisions    ..................................    65
6.   Summary of Project Costs .                             ....................................... 68
7.         Estimated Credit Disbursement Schedule    ..............................    70
8.        Project Implementation Schedule    ...................................   71
9.        Project Performance Monitoring                   ...................................    72
10.       Project and Economic Analysis    ....................................    75
11.       Proposed Project Supervision Plan    ..................................    82
12.       Questionnaire Concerning Review  of OED  Reports   ........................    83
13.       Documents Available in the Project File   ...............................    87
MAP
IBRD No. 27285



1. DISEASE PREVENTION IN CIUNA
A. Population, Health and Nutrition Status
1.1        Population Status. China's population is estimated to have reached 1.2 billion in
February 1995. Family planning efforts, starting from the early 1970s, have resulted in a decline in
the total fertility rate to about 2.0 per woman in the early 1990s. In 1990, China's crude birth rate
was estimated at 1.8 percent and death rate at 0.6 percent, resulting in an annual rate of natural
increase of 1.2 percent. The current population has a high proportion of younger adults. Rapid
economic growth during the 1980s has benefitted most of the population. Yet, nearly 100 million
people (8.6 percent) were in absolute poverty in 1990, and the Government has instituted special
programs for their benefit.
1.2        Health Status. Since 1949, China's achievements in health have been remarkable, and
by the 1980s it had reached mortality levels comparable to middle-income countries. The 1995 World
Development Report (WDR) indicates that, in 1993, China's average life expectancy at birth was 69
years, compared to 62 years for low-income countries, and the infant mortality rate (IMR) was 30 per
1,000 live births compared to 64 for low-income countries. A young and healthy adult population
gives China an overall burden of disease that is less than that found anywhere outside the established
market economies and the former socialist economies of Europe.
1.3        China's successes in disease prevention are based on successes in improving educational
standards, in lifting most of the population out of absolute poverty and in creating a comprehensive
"three-levels" network of health services covering all counties. The network consists of a general
hospital, an epidemic prevention station (EPS) and a maternal and child health (MCH) station at the
county level, a small hospital (average 15 beds) at the township level, and rural (formerly,
"barefoot") doctors and other health workers at the village level responsible for basic curative and
preventive services. By the 1970s, the three level system covered most of China, making at least
limited health care accessible to nearly everyone.
1.4        Specific health education and disease prevention programs were able to build on the
political and health systems established in China. Epidemic and endemic diseases, such as plague,
cholera, malaria, smallpox and schistosomiasis, which were uncontrolled in the first half of this
century, were reduced to very low levels or even eradicated. Other infectious diseases, such as
common childhood respiratory and diarrheal illnesses and adult tuberculosis, while still important
public health problems, have been greatly reduced.
1.5        Nutritional Status. Average food consumption in China compares well with other
developing countries. The National Nutrition Survey of 1982 indicated that the average energy intake
per capita was 2,085 calories (102 percent of recommended daily allowance or RDA) including 67
grams of protein (92 percent of RDA). Since then, rural reforms and enormous increases in
agricultural production have markedly improved food intake on a broad scale. Significant
micronutrient problems of China have included iodine, vitamin A and iron deficiencies. Considering
that about one third of the population lives in iodine deficient areas, the Government has embarked on
universal iodization of salt, which will be significantly helped by the Iodine Deficiency Disorders
Control Project approved in June 1995 (Cr. 2756-CHA; Ln. 3914-CHA). Vitamin A deficiency is a
relatively less prevalent problem with seasonal deficiency in some areas and control measures are in



- 2 -
an experimental stage. Iron deficiency anemia remains widespread in children and women, and many
experimental as well as large scale efforts have been launched to address this problem.
B. Vaccine-Preventable Diseases
1.6        Strengths. Emphasis on preventive care, particularly immunizations against childhood
diseases, has been a key factor in China's success in the health care of its population. In 1981, China
joined the World Health Organization (WHO)-coordinated Expanded Program on Immunization (EPI)
against tuberculosis, diphtheria, pertussis, tetanus, polio and measles. The Government provided
political and financial support for immunization services at every leve] and started major efforts to
expand coverage. During the 1980s, the Government as well as international organizations also made
large investments in the transport and refrigeration facilities with the objective of establishing a "cold
chain" for vaccines, allowing for at least six vaccination sessions per year even in poor rural areas.
Consequently, coverage of the four basic vaccines1' reached 80 percent in each province by 1988,
and it reached 80 percent in nearly all counties by 1990 (with an average county level of 95 percent).
These achievements resulted in dramnatic reduction in the incidence of major diseases; for example,
between 1978 and 1993, for every 100,000 population, pertussis decreased from 126 to 1, diphtheria
from 2 to 0.01 and measles from 250 to 10. As a result of special campaigns, polio cases have been
reduced by two-thirds in the period 1992-1994. The Government has now added new vaccines to the
immunization program and set the targets to: (a) eradicate polio and to reduce neonatal tetanus to one
per 1,000 live births by 1995; and (b) immunize 80 percent of infants against hepatitis B in urban
areas, and expand coverage in rural areas.
1.7        Weaknesses. In spite of the past remarkable achievements, China's disease prevention
programs, especially the immunization program, now face several stubborn problems and challenges.
First, the immunization program has been an unintentional victim of China's recent economic reforms
with declines in resources available for preventive care since the mid-1980s. While the overall
economy and the total expenditures on health have been growing rapidly, the real per capita
Government expenditures on health have stagnated and even declined, from 4.9 RMB per capita in
1982 and 6.6 RMB in 1986 to 5.9 RMB in 1993. As a result, the condition of immunization
infrastructure, especially the vital cold chain, remains poor and most systems are in need of
replacement. Similarly, operating budgets for the program are inadequate, causing serious shortages
of syringes, needles and sterilization equipment, particularly in poorer provinces. Second, there is a
wide discrepancy in coverage and quality of inmmunization programs between the poorer and richer
provinces and between urban and rural areas, as shown in Table 1.1 below. In many poor areas,
major system breakdowns occurred in 1993 and 1994, as many counties could not meet the minimum
number of yearly immunization rounds, resulting in inadequate protection for many children.
1' Includes: BCG (baccille Calmette-Guerin, against tuberculosis), DPT (against diphtheria, pertussis and
tetanus), polio and measles.



- 3 -
Table 1.1: IMMUNIZATION COVERAGE
(%)
BCG   Polio   DPT  Measles
National          90      88     86       85
Urban             95      94     93       85
Rural             85      86     84       73
Shanxi            65     66      62       49
Guizhou           72      74     67       53
Source:     Preliminary results of National Child Survey,
State Statistical Bureau, 1994.
1.8         Third, the dismantling of rural cooperatives has created a vacuum in the rural health
insurance system. The payments to health workers based on work-points are now abolished, so that
they have to rely on curative services for much of their income; this has reduced incentives to provide
preventive care. In some areas the immunization services are paid for by the provinces or local
communities, but most areas charge user fees either for each immunization or through a local contract
system. There is an urgent need to establish a viable and affordable system to finance immunization.
In particular, there is a need to establish a system to finance expensive new vaccines like hepatitis B,
particularly important for China because about 10 percent of the population are carriers. Fourth, the
immunization workers lack sufficient technical and management skills. Training has become even
more important because of the departure of a large number of experienced health workers to pursue
private practice or leave the profession altogether. Fifth, immunization coverage data are not reliable,
and the system needs improvement so that better quality data can be obtained for management
decisions. Finally, there is a lack of health education for families to increase their demand for
essential immunization.
C. Non-Communicable Diseases, Sexually Transmitted Diseases and HIV
1.9        Health Transition. With increasing life expectancy, a declining overall rate of death
and of illness caused by infectious diseases, and a rapidly growing economy, China is experiencing a
dramatic health transition. The proportion of older persons has been increasing fast and steadily: 12
percent of the population will reach age 60 or over by 2010 and 20 percent by 2030. In Shanghai,
over 35 percent of the population is already over 40 years old and 14 percent over 60 years; in
Beijing and Tianjin, the proportions are 30 percent and 10 percent, respectively. Consequently,
disease patterns have also undergone dramatic changes, and non-communicable diseases (NCDs)
already account for over three-quarters of all deaths in China. The World Bank's last health sector
report!' indicated that the annual probability of death from infectious disease for adult men and
women in China (ages 15 to 60) was just over one percent. In contrast, the death rate from chronic
2' China: Long-Tenn Issues and Options in the Health Transition (No. 7965-CHA), 1990.



- 4 -
disease, injury and suicide was almost 15 times greater for men and 10 times greater for women
(when compared with infectious disease).
1.10       Changing Risk Factors. Smoking, hypertension, poor diet, overweight and obesity and
pollution are now the most important health risk factors in modern China. Over 70 percent of men
and 7 percent of women smoke, making China the world's largest consumer of cigarettes. The
consumption of cigarettes is growing, especially among women. The prevalence of hypertension is
also increasing: from 5.11 percent (or 30 million people) in 1959, to 7.73 percent (60 million) in
1979 and to 11.88 percent (90 million) in 1991. The rate is over 20 percent in some urban areas.
Over 10 percent of the Chinese population carry the hepatitis B virus, which is a major cause of liver
failure and cancer. China's environmental pollution is very high, contributing to a chronic
obstructive lung disease rate that is among the highest in the world. Industrial pollution, accidents
and work-related injuries are also high and rising. Finally, China's increased economic and social
openness have contributed to a very dramatic rise in sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) with
associated risk of transmission of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV).
1.11       Non-Communicable Diseases. According to recent reports (1990, 1991 and 1992) of
the National Disease Surveillance Points (DSPs), NCDs accounted for 79.8 percent of deaths, and in
one urban area for 89.4 percent. The most important causes were heart diseases, stroke, lung
diseases, and cancer. The death rate from stroke and hypertension (mainly heart diseases) was
150/100,000 and rates of increase were 5 percent and 8.7 percent, respectively. The cancer death
rate was 83.74/100,000, mainly of stomach, liver and lung. The death rate of lung cancer increased
by 4.5 percent per year. The incidence of these diseases is expected to continue to increase
dramatically in the absence of effective prevention measures.
1.12       Sexually Transmitted Diseases and HlV/AIDS. The population's increased mobility,
economic freedoms and changing behavior have been accompanied by a resurgence in a variety of
STDs and in increased HIV. Though still relatively very low in prevalence, the numbers of
STDs/HIV cases have been increasing fast each year, with a real potential for explosive growth.
While there is a lack of reliable data on STDs, the STD cases are believed to have risen from 2
reported cases in 1979 to a cumulative total of over 1.13 million in 1994. The main STDs are
gonorrhea, syphilis and pointed wart; the adjusted rate for gonorrhea is estimated at 41 per 100,000
population. The first HIV positive case in China was reported in 1985 and, as of June 1994, over
1,600 HIV cases have been reported, including nearly 40 cases of Acquired Immunodeficiency
Syndrome (AIDS).
1.13       Government Policies and Programs on NCDs, STDs and lIV. The Government is
fully alert to the challenges and potential threats posed by NCDs, STDs and HIV. On NCDs, the
Government has prepared a National Outline of NCD Control outlining its strategies based on multi-
sectoral involvement and primary prevention. The main approaches are to include community-based
prevention, training of general practitioners and improvements in primary health care. Concerning
STDs and HIV, the Government emphasizes preventive measures with four main strategies: (a)
information and education to promote safe sex and other healthy behavior and to discourage
intravenous drug abuse; (b) effective STD case management regimes to control the spread of
STDs/HIV; (c) screening of blood donations; and (d) promotion of condom use. A large number of
small experiments and pilot programs have been taken up by the Government itself and with external
cooperation. Many of these programs are directed toward high-risk groups and areas.



D. Bank Group Assistance Strategy and Project Rationale
1.14       The Bank Group's Country and Sector Strategies. The project proposed by the
Government is in line with China's "8-7 Plan", which aims to eliminate extreme poverty by the year
2000 and to narrow the widening health gap between the poorer rural and richer urban areas of China
(see para. 2.7 for the selection of project areas). The project is also in line with the Bank Group's
country and sector strategy. The Bank Group's Country Assistance Strategy for China (Report No.
14454, May 1995) is to help China meet its two major challenges: (a) achieving macroeconomic
stability while maintaining rapid (and more efficient) growth; and (b) sustaining this growth by
shifting resources toward priority areas, including poverty reduction, human resource development,
infrastructure, and environmental protection, that are currently under-funded. For the health sector,
Bank assistance will focus on helping the Government: (a) to meet the basic health needs among the
rural population, particularly those living in absolute poverty; and (b) to reinvigorate initiatives in
disease prevention, by retaining the gains made against infectious and endemic diseases and by
implementing innovative programs against non-communicable and chronic disease. The proposed
project seeks to prevent vaccine-preventable diseases in ten of the poorest provinces of China and to
lay a base for effective, sustainable and replicable programs against non-communicable and chronic
diseases.
1.15       Rationale for IDA Involvement in the Project. IDA support for the proposed project
is justified by the project's close alignment with the Bank Group strategies for its country and health
sector assistance. In addition, as a result of our involvement, provincial resource allocations for
immunization will improve substantially, reversing the recent declining trend in financing disease
prevention. Finally, the Association's involvement will enable China to benefit from the best
international experience, technical knowledge and practices. This is particularly relevant in the case
of health promotion to control chronic and non-communicable diseases, STDs and HIV, in which
China's experience is limited.
E. Bank Group Experience and Lessons Learned
1.16       Lessons learned from previous Bank Group projects in China and elsewhere have
benefited the design of this project. In addition, non-Bank experience in the fields of imnmunization,
communication, health promotion and management of chronic diseases, HIV and AIDS has been
considered. Close attention has likewise been given to experience of the Government and other
agencies in relevant fields in China. Lessons learned from Bank Group financed health projects
implemented worldwide and summarized in OED reports are detailed in ANNEX 12.
1.17       Lessons from Bank Group Experience in China. The Bank Group has supported
seven health projects in China since the early 1980s. The first two projects -- the Rural Health and
Medical Education Project (Cr. 1472-CHA) and the Rural Health and Preventive Medicine Project
(Cr. 1713-CHA/Ln. 2723-CHA) -- have been completed except for the vaccine production component
of the second project. Four health projects are currently being implemented. The Integrated
Regional Health Development Project (Cr. 2009-CHA) focuses on improved planning of health
services, and includes a disease prevention component. The Infectious and Endemic Disease Control
Project (Cr. 2317-CHA) supports national programs for control of tuberculosis and schistosomiasis.
The Rural Health Workers Development Project (Cr. 2539-CHA) focuses on improved planning and
training of the rural health work-force. The Comprehensive Maternal and Child Health (MCH)



- 6 -
Project (Cr. 2655-CHA) will improve basic MCH services, training and management in eight of the
poorest provinces of China. Finally, the Iodine Deficiency Disorders Control Project (Cr. 2756-
CHA; Ln. 3914-CHA), approved in June 1995, would help the Government's goal to eliminate iodine
deficiency disorders in China by the year 2000. Two additional projects, the Medium-sized Cities
Development Project (Cr. 2201-CHA; Ln. 3286-CHA) and the Second Rural Water Supply Project
(Cr. 2336-CHA), also include health components. Financing preventive health care, including
childhood immunization, is a main issue being addressed under the ongoing Health Care Finance
Study.
1.18       The main lessons from earlier health projects in China include the need to ensure: well-
organized and adequately staffed project management offices at all levels; advance planning to ensure
adequate counterpart financing; and flexible project design that can respond to changing
circumstances, which is especially important in China's rapidly transforming economy. The project
design has fully taken these lessons into account. Almost all provinces and cities have already
established project management offices and have designated key staff. The central Ministry of
Finance (MOF) has already obtained full commitment from all project provinces and cities for
budgetary provisions for necessary counterpart funding. Written commitments to these and other
critical steps have been required as conditions of participation by the provinces and cities in the
proposed project.
1.19       Lessons from Experience in Disease Prevention. There is a large storehouse of
experience, both inside and outside China, on the design and implementation of immunization
programs. The major lessons considered in this project include: that strong national commitment and
target-setting can result in a high level of achievement, but there may be a risk of over-reporting; that
coverage of certain sections of the population (especially the poorest) can be inadequate in the absence
of special targeting; and that it is important to include an effective communication strategy.
1.20       The proposed project would not only strengthen China's immunization surveillance
system, but it would also include three special cluster surveys -- at the start, at the middle and at the
end of the project. Special steps would be made to ensure that the poorest and the migrating
("floating") families would be adequately covered (para. 5.7). To respond to the need for improved
communications for the immunization program, the project would include a separate information,
education and communication (IEC) sub-component that would build on the experiences of similar
projects in the Philippines, Bangladesh and Ecuador. This project component's communication
strategy, aimed at increasing immunization coverage and child survival, would include: (a)
identifying the target audience; (b) understanding the factors in low compliance; (c) choosing desired
and appropriate media mix; and (d) selecting the means to change behavior.
1.21       As China's experience in health promotion for the prevention of chronic diseases, STDs
and HIV is limited, the project draws heavily from the Bank's and other international agencies'
worldwide experience. On chronic diseases, the project design has benefited from the international
findings of the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), and the successful Finnish and
Australian experience. The behavioral risk factor assessment, the IEC programs and on-site
intervention programs will all benefit from such experience. In HIV/AIDS prevention, Bank
experience in Brazil, Burkina Faso, India, Uganda, Zaire and Zimbabwe has particularly guided the
development of the following project components: (a) surveillance and evaluation; (b) institutional
development for inter-sectoral coordination and improved program management and laboratories' staff



- 7 -
skills; and (c) improved management of STDs. Finally, based on the lessons learned, attempts were
made to keep the project design simple and flexible.



- 8 -
2. PROJECT BACKGROUND
A. Project Development
Project Design
2.1        The proposed project was designed to meet two distinct disease prevention objectives:
(a) to improve immunization coverage to reduce vaccine-preventable infectious diseases in poor areas
of China, making a significant contribution toward achieving the Government's goal of alleviating the
impact of poverty; and (b) to enhance China's capacity to plan and implement programs to control the
rising prevalence of NCDs, STDs/HIV and injury. The first objective would be addressed through
the Immunization Component, which would improve the access, coverage and quality of
immunization throughout ten of China's poorest provinces. The program would be based on well-
established domestic and world-wide experience and practices. This component involves about 85
percent of the project cost. The second objective would be addressed through an innovative Health
Promotion Component, which would be implemented in seven cities and, to a more limited extent, in
Yunnan Province. These areas' diverse characteristics are expected to lead to wider replication of
this component elsewhere. Because of its innovative nature, the design of this component has
benefitted from a considerable amount of international technical assistance, which is expected to
continue well into the implementation phase. Some of the interventions under the Health Promotion
Component would be designed and developed only after the start of project implementation and in
light of findings of the behavioral risk factor surveys (para. 4.31) and the initial experience under the
project. This component accounts for less than 15 percent of the project cost. Finally, a National-
level Component would be included, with an allocation of about two percent of the project cost, to
coordinate the implementation of both components, to provide policy guidance and technical
assistance to the cities and the provinces, and to eventually disseminate the lessons learned under the
project.
Project Preparation Process
2.2        The preparation of this project was entirely managed and implemented by Chinese
officials at various levels. During the Identification Mission, the Ministry of Health (MOH) officials
and Bank Group staff identified a long list of activities which might fit the project objectives. MOH
also identified two provinces (for the Immunization Component) and two cities (for the Health
Promotion Component) to start the project preparation process. Following field visits and detailed
discussions between Bank Group staff and Chinese officials, a detailed project preparation plan (PPP)
was agreed upon, specifying the roles and responsibilities of various parties, technical assistance
requirements and schedule.
2.3        During the Preparation Assistance Mission, project proposals prepared by two sample
provinces, four counties and two cities were reviewed, further joint field visits were made, and the
PPP was revised. During the Pre-appraisal Mission, project proposals from all ten candidate
provinces and seven candidate cities were reviewed, plans and progress of special studies and surveys
were reexamined, and additional field visits were made. The PPP was further revised and converted
into an outline of the project implementation plan (PIP). The MOH completed a comprehensive PIP
for the appraisal, based upon the project proposals prepared by each of the project provinces and



cities. After necessary revisions, the PIP became the most comprehensive of the project documents
and a basis for project implementation.
Stakeholder Participation
2.4        Stakeholder involvement in the preparation process has been very high. First, each of
the ten candidate provinces prepared proposals for the Immunization Component, based upon county
proposals and other inputs from the lower levels. Similarly, each of the seven cities and Yunnan
Province prepared its plans under the Health Promotion Component. Most of the provinces and cities
were visited by joint teams from MOH and the Bank for discussions. Finally, three comprehensive
project preparation and review workshops were carried out for each of the two main components
(immunization and health promotion). These workshops provided productive forums and
opportunities for: (a) thorough examination of the findings and recommendations of the joint MOH-
IDA missions; (b) exchange of views among the local officials and between the Chinese and
international experts; and (c) provision of feedback to the MOH-IDA teams to improve the project
design. In addition to the workshops held in connection with the IDA mission, MOH also held a
number of workshops with domestic experts and a few with external specialists.
Exposure to International Experience
2.5        A major highlight of the preparation process was the interaction between the Chinese
experts and top-level international experts in the relevant fields. For the preparation of the
Immunization Component, technical assistance was provided by experts from WHO, CDC and others.
The design of the Health Promotion Component benefitted from technical collaboration of experts
from prominent sources, including WHO, CDC, the Finnish National Public Health Institute and
Australian health agencies. Considerable technical assistance is also anticipated for this component
during project implementation.
B. Project Areas
Selection Criteria
2.6        Poverty alleviation by improving the health status of the poorest population of China was
the main criteria of selecting the project provinces under the Immunization Component, which
involves about 85 percent of the project costs. To select the provinces under this component, all
Chinese provinces were ranked on the basis of a set of indicators including per-capita income,
percentage of population under the poverty line and disease incidence, and a list of the 15 most
disadvantaged provinces was determined. The list was further reduced by excluding those with very
small population size, a low level of interest, and recent experience with other Bank-assisted health
projects in China. Finally, the ten provinces ranked as the most disadvantaged under these criteria
were selected for the project. For the selection of Health Promotion Component cities, the main
emphasis was on: (a) diversity (in size and location) to allow wider replication; (b) health risk
factors; and (c) capacity and commitment to implement the project.



- 10-
Project Areas
2.7         For the Immunization Component, the ten provinces selected are: Gansu, Guangxi,
Guizhou, Hebei, Henan, Hubei, Shaanxi, Shanxi, Xinjiang and Yunnan. Together, they represent a
total population of 430 million. They also cover two-thirds of the nationally designated poverty
counties: 392 out of 592 counties, and a total poor population of 53 million out of 80 million.
Comparison of the provincial basic indicators are presented in Table 2.1. For the Health Promotion
Component, seven cities were selected: Beijing, Chengdu, Liuzhou, Luoyang, Shanghai, Tianjin and
Weihai. Beijing, Shanghai and Tianjin are directly administered municipalities (province-level cities),
Shanghai has the highest level of technical and institutional preparedness and experience, and Tianjin
has experience with a Bank-supported chronic disease control experiment. Chengdu is the provincial
capital of China's most populous province, and Liuzhou and Luoyang represent medium-sized cities
from poorer inland provinces, and Weihai is a medium-sized coastal city. In addition to the seven
cities, Yunnan Province, which has the highest concentration of HIV/AIDS in China, would
participate in the Health Promotion Component only with respect to the prevention and control of
STDs/HIV, with policy reform, training and interventions to promote inter-sectoral collaboration,
increase community awareness, promote condom use and improve case management of STD.
Table 2.1: BASIC INDICATORS OF IMMUNIZATION COMPONENT PROJECT AREAS
Income     Rural          Immunization Coverage          Infant
Province  Population    Per    Income Per              (1/100)              Mortality Rate
(million)    Capita   Capita    DPT    Me         Pol    BCG    (1/1,000 live
(RMB)    (RMB)        PT     Mals       oio     CG       birts)
Gansu         23.19    1,158      551      82.30     69.86   88.52  89.47        54.20
Guangxi       44.39    1,115      892      80.15     72.52   86.26  90.84        53.51
Guizhou       34.09     823       580      67.31    53.21   73.72  72.44         68.71
Hebei         63.34    1,515      803      96.46     84.96   96.46  94.69        30.10
Henan         89.04    1,154      695      88.89    81.48   94.44  94.44         29.63
Hubei         55.90    1,502      783      88.81    81.82   86.21  90.21         39.65
Shaanxi       34.43    1,179      653      72.14     61.19   82.59  85.08        23.60
Shanxi        30.13    1,362      718      62.35    49.41   65.88  64.74         35.85
Xinjiang      16.05    1,878      778      85.16    77.42   87.42  88.39         60.00
Yunnan        38.85    1,168      675      82.82    68.10   92.03  89.57         53.29
Source:   MOH, 1995.



- 11 -
3. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
3.1        The project has two objectives:
(a)     Prevent and control vaccine-preventable diseases to reduce morbidity,
disability and mortality, especially in the poorest provinces of China. This
would be carried out by improving the immunization services and by
introducing policy measures to improve vaccine quality and to ensure access
of all population groups, and to add new vaccines to the Expanded Program
on Immunization; and
(b)     Improve the capacity of the health sector to design and implement health
promotion programs to prevent and control the rising prevalence of NCDs,
STDs/HIV and injury. This would be accomplished through policy and
institutional improvements and by implementing pilot programs, including
surveillance, staff training, health education and other health promotion
interventions, at selected locations.
B. Project Description
3.2        The project comprises three main components: (a) immunization; (b) health promotion;
and (c) the national-level programs. Detailed descriptions of these components can be found in
ANNEXES 1. 2 and 3. A summary description is given below.
Immunization
3.3        The Immunization Component would be implemented in ten of the poorest provinces of
the country - Gansu, Guangxi, Guizhou, Hebei, Henan, Hubei, Shaanxi, Shanxi, Xinjiang and
Yunnan. The component consists of four sub-components: (a) cold chain improvement; (b) health
workers' training; (c) management and surveillance; and (d) information, education and
communication.
3.4        A majority of cold chain equipment for storage and transport of vaccines at all levels is
now either damaged or approaching the end of its expected service life. Any breakdown in the cold
chain can seriously damage vaccine potency. To ensure the sustainability of the immunization
program, a 20-year needs assessment has been prepared for new installation and regular replacement
of equipment. The proposed project would finance the first five years' requirements, including
urgently needed replacements of aging equipment, new installations in deficient areas, and spare parts
and maintenance. The cold chain replacement program is described in ANNEX 4. The project
would improve technical and managerial skills of all staff involved in the immunization program, at
all levels of the epidemic prevention network, by establishing a system of regular in-service trainiing.
The project's short-term (one week) and long-term (3 to 6 months) training would cover village and
township EPS workers as well as middle and senior level managers. The management improvement



- 12 -
activities would include training, development of guidelines and manuals, improvements in program
supervision, monitoring, reporting and verification of vaccine coverage, and surveillance of measles
and neonatal tetanus. Finally, the IEC sub-component would identify behavioral factors and attitudes
that contribute to lower immunization coverage and implement a suitable program to counteract them
and to increase community awareness and participation.
3.5        A number of complementary policy reform measures will be essential if the project
objectives are to be attained to the fullest extent. For example, as stated above, it will be necessary
for each participating province to have a definite plan for regular replacement of the cold chain if the
project is to yield a lasting benefit. Similarly, the project would not benefit the poorest families
unless satisfactory plans are prepared to ensure the affordability of immunization to these groups.
Some of the policy measures will be identical in all provinces, and others will have to be tailored to
the specific needs of the provinces. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the participating
provinces would take key policy measures (para. 3.10). The details of these policy measures are
specified in the Project Implementation Arrangements (PIAs) included in ANNEX 5. They include
that each province would: (a) continue to make free provision throughout the project period of
sufficient EPI vaccines to cover the whole population; (b) prepare a long-term strategy for cold chain
replacement, in accordance with the terms of reference acceptable to the Association, with a view to
its adoption upon completion of the project; (c) implement measures to increase immunization access
for the poorest families, and carry out six rounds of vaccination sessions each year; (d) ensure that all
children, regardless of their registration status, have suitable access to its immunization programs; and
(e) procure only reusable syringes and needles, rather than disposable ones, except in those urban
areas which follow safe utilization and disposal practices, consistent with the recommended policy of
WHO, and ensure that all syringes and needles are sterilized and disposed of in a manner consistent
with this policy.
Health Promotion
3.6        The Health Promotion Component would be implemented in seven cities spread
throughout the country, including Beijing, Shanghai, Tianjin, Chengdu (Sichuan Province), Liuzhou
(Guangxi Province), Luoyang (Henan Province), and Weihai (Shandong Province). The STD and
HIV control part of this component would be implemented in Yunnan Province. The project would
be the first phase of a long-term plan to develop capacity and gain experience in implementing
effective health promotion strategies and interventions to control NCDs, STDs/HIV and injury, as
part of a comprehensive health policy. This component will consist of the following sub-components:
(a) institutional development and policy reform; (b) human resources development; (c) surveillance,
especially behavioral risk factor surveillance; and (d) community-based interventions.
3.7        The institutional development and policy reform sub-component will improve
institutional and coordination arrangements, help mobilize multi-sectoral participation, and establish a
policy environment for the behavior changes necessary for reducing NCDs, STDs/HIV and injury.
Major risk factors to be addressed include: smoking, hypertension (salt intake), unsafe sexual
practices, and use of a safety belt. The human resources development sub-component would help
improve knowledge and skills in health promotion for health workers and for relevant personnel in
non-health sectors and the community. Support would also be given to improve the capacity of local
institutions for ongoing training in health promotion skills. The project would also help each city to
establish a sustainable system for surveillance of behavioral and environmental risk factors for the
target population, and to improve monitoring and analysis of health trends. Finally, the community-



- 11 -
3. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives
3.1        The project has two objectives:
(a)     Prevent and control vaccine-preventable diseases to reduce morbidity,
disability and mortality, especially in the poorest provinces of China. This
would be carried out by improving the immunization services and by
introducing policy measures to improve vaccine quality and to ensure access
of all population groups, and to add new vaccines to the Expanded Program
on Immunization; and
(b)     Improve the capacity of the health sector to design and implement health
promotion programs to prevent and control the rising prevalence of NCDs,
STDs/HIV and injury. This would be accomplished through policy and
institutional improvements and by implementing pilot programs, including
surveillance, staff training, health education and other health promotion
interventions, at selected locations.
B. Project Description
3.2        The project comprises three main components: (a) immunization; (b) health promotion;
and (c) the national-level programs. Detailed descriptions of these components can be found in
ANNEXES 1. 2 and 3. A summary description is given below.
Immunization
3.3        The Immunization Component would be implemented in ten of the poorest provinces of
the country -- Gansu, Guangxi, Guizhou, Hebei, Henan, Hubei, Shaanxi, Shanxi, Xinjiang and
Yunnan. The component consists of four sub-components: (a) cold chain improvement; (b) health
workers' training; (c) management and surveillance; and (d) information, education and
communication.
3.4        A majority of cold chain equipment for storage and transport of vaccines at all levels is
now either damaged or approaching the end of its expected service life. Any breakdown in the cold
chain can seriously damage vaccine potency. To ensure the sustainability of the immunization
program, a 20-year needs assessment has been prepared for new installation and regular replacement
of equipment. The proposed project would finance the first five years' requirements, including
urgently needed replacements of aging equipment, new installations in deficient areas, and spare parts
and maintenance. The cold chain replacement program is described in ANNEX 4. The project
would improve technical and managerial skills of all staff involved in the immunization program, at
all levels of the epidemic prevention network, by establishing a system of regular in-service training.
The project's short-term (one week) and long-term (3 to 6 months) training would cover village and
township EPS workers as well as middle and senior level managers. The management improvement



- 12 -
activities would include training, development of guidelines and manuals, improvements in program
supervision, monitoring, reporting and verification of vaccine coverage, and surveillance of measles
and neonatal tetanus. Finally, the IEC sub-component would identify behavioral factors and attitudes
that contribute to lower immunization coverage and implement a suitable program to counteract them
and to increase community awareness and participation.
3.5        A number of complementary policy reform measures will be essential if the project
objectives are to be attained to the fullest extent. For example, as stated above, it will be necessary
for each participating province to have a definite plan for regular replacement of the cold chain if the
project is to yield a lasting benefit. Similarly, the project would not benefit the poorest families
unless satisfactory plans are prepared to ensure the affordability of immunization to these groups.
Some of the policy measures will be identical in all provinces, and others will have to be tailored to
the specific needs of the provinces. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the participating
provinces would take key policy measures (para. 3.10). The details of these policy measures are
specified in the Project Implementation Arrangements (PIAs) included in ANNEX 5. They include
that each province would: (a) continue to make free provision throughout the project period of
sufficient EPI vaccines to cover the whole population; (b) prepare a long-term strategy for cold chain
replacement, in accordance with the terms of reference acceptable to the Association, with a view to
its adoption upon completion of the project; (c) implement measures to increase immunization access
for the poorest families, and carry out six rounds of vaccination sessions each year; (d) ensure that all
children, regardless of their registration status, have suitable access to its immunization programs; and
(e) procure only reusable syringes and needles, rather than disposable ones, except in those urban
areas which follow safe utilization and disposal practices, consistent with the recommended policy of
WHO, and ensure that all syringes and needles are sterilized and disposed of in a manner consistent
with this policy.
Health Promotion
3.6        The Health Promotion Component would be implemented in seven cities spread
throughout the country, including Beijing, Shanghai, Tianjin, Chengdu (Sichuan Province), Liuzhou
(Guangxi Province), Luoyang (Henan Province), and Weihai (Shandong Province). The STD and
HIV control part of this component would be implemented in Yunnan Province. The project would
be the first phase of a long-term plan to develop capacity and gain experience in implementing
effective health promotion strategies and interventions to control NCDs, STDs/HIV and injury, as
part of a comprehensive health policy. This component will consist of the following sub-components:
(a) institutional development and policy reform; (b) human resources development; (c) surveillance,
especially behavioral risk factor surveillance; and (d) community-based interventions.
3.7        The institutional development and policy reform sub-component will improve
institutional and coordination arrangements, help mobilize multi-sectoral participation, and establish a
policy environment for the behavior changes necessary for reducing NCDs, STDs/HIV and injury.
Major risk factors to be addressed include: smoking, hypertension (salt intake), unsafe sexual
practices, and use of a safety belt. The human resources development sub-component would help
improve knowledge and skills in health promotion for health workers and for relevant personnel in
non-health sectors and the community. Support would also be given to improve the capacity of local
institutions for ongoing training in health promotion skills. The project would also help each city to
establish a sustainable system for surveillance of behavioral and environmental risk factors for the
target population, and to improve monitoring and analysis of health trends. Finally, the community-



- 13 -
based intervention program would design, implement and evaluate a number of pilot measures to
control NCDs, STDs/HIV and injury in different settings such as schools, work-places and
neighborhoods as well as city wide. Many of these interventions would have to be designed and
finalized only after analyzing the results of the behavior risk factor surveillance and the experience
gained during project implementation. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that: (a) each
participating local entity would submit to MOH its annual plan of the health promotion interventions
to MOH by October 31 of each year; and (b) MOH would furnish to the Association the summnaries
of such plans by November 30 of each year for review before those interventions are implemented.
3.8        Complementary policy reform measures will be critical to the success of the health
promotion programs against NCDs, STDs/HIV and injury. Some of these reforms will be the same
for all project areas and others will vary according to local conditions and priorities. Assurances
were obtained at negotiations that the participating iurisdictions would take key policy measures (para.
3.10). These measures, which are stated in detail in ANNEX 5, are a part of the PIAs and include
annual plans to control and reduce smoking, to ensure a policy of anonymity in the treatments of
sexually transmitted disease and HIV patients, and provide training to private practitioners treating
STDs and HIV patients.
National-Level Program
3.9        The national-level program, which would be implemented by MOH (para. 4.1), would
provide necessary coordination among the many provinces and cities and their health agencies
involved in this project, and it would supervise and monitor the progress of various components of
the project. It would also be responsible to provide technical assistance to project entities, to carry
out activities of common interest, and to disseminate the lessons learned from the project to other
areas of the country. National-level policy guidance and leadership would be particularly important in
developing new surveillance systems and health promotion human resources. For the Health
Promotion Component, a network of participating areas and the center would also be formed to share
development tasks and ensure that all benefit from the experience and capacity in each location.
Project Implementation Arrangements
3.10       As described in paragraph 2.7, the project areas selected for the Immunization
Component are the provinces of Gansu, Guangxi, Guizhou, Hebei, Henan, Hubei, Shaanxi, Shanxi,
Xinjiang and Yunnan; and the project areas for the Health Promotion Component are the cities of
Beijing, Chengdu, Liuzhou, Luoyang, Shanghai, Tianjin and Weihai. In addition, the STD and HIV
control programs of the Health Promotion Component would be implemented in Yunnan Province.
The programs included in the project preparation documents were appraised and found satisfactory for
inclusion in the proposed project. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Borrower would
make credit proceeds available to each of these entities under Proiect Implementation Arrangements
between the Borrower and the entities, which would include the undertakings described in ANNEX 5.
Making PIAs between the Borrower and at least seven local entities carrying out the Immunization
Component and at least five entities carrying out the Health Promotion Component would be a
condition of credit effectiveness. Making PIAs with the remaining entities would be a condition of
disbursement for that entity's respective part of the project.



- 14 -
C. Project Costs and Financing
3.11         Project Costs. The total cost is estimated at $162.62 million, including taxes and duties
of about $8.28 million. Detailed cost estimates are in ANNEX 6. A summary is given below in
Table 3.1.
Table 3.1: SUMMARY OF COST ESTIMATES
Y million                  $ million         % Foreign    %
Exchange   Total
Local   Foreign   Total    Local  Foreign   Total               Base
Costs
A. Immunization Component
1. Cold Chain                 235.18   237.54    472.72   28.00    28.28    56.28      50      42
2. Training                   104.85     5.87    110.73    12.48    0.70    13.18       5      10
3. IEC                         55.97     1.46     57.42    6.66     0.17     6.84       3       5
4. EPI Management             275.17    38.73    313.90    32.76    4.61    37.37      12      28
Subtotal Immunization         671.18   283.60    954.78   79.90    33.76   113.66      30      85
Component
B. Health Promotion Component
1. Institutional Development &  10.98    3.17     14.15     1.31    0.38     1.68      22       1
Policy Reform
2. Human Resources              7.46     2.74     10.21     0.89    0.33     1.22      27       1
Development
3. Surveillance                32.14     5.08     37.23     3.83    0.61     4.43      14       3
4. Interventions               79.29     7.86     87.15     9.44    0.94    10.38       9       8
Subtotal Health Promotion     129.88    18.86    148.73    15.46    2.24    17.71      13      13
Component
C. Central Component
1. Immunization                 5.15     3.05      8.20    0.61     0.36     0.98      37       1
2. Health Promotion             4.99     3.85      8.84    0.59     0.46     1.05      44       1
Subtotal Central Component     10.14     6.90     17.04     1.21    0.82    2.03       40       2
Total Baseline Costs          811.19   309.36  1,120.55    96.57    36.83   133.40     28    100
Physical Contingencies             40.56    15.47    56.03     4.83     1.84     6.67     28       5
Price Contingencies               173.61    15.87    189.47    20.67    1.89   22.56       8      17
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS         1.025.36   340.69  1,366.05   122.06    40.56   162.62    25      122
Note:        Columns may not add up due to rounding.
3.12         The project costs are based on July 1995 prices. Physical contingencies of 5 percent
have been applied to the base costs for all components. To provide for inflation during project
implementation, the following annual escalation rates have been applied: for local expenditures, 10.5
percent for 1996, 8.5 percent for 1997, 7.0 percent for 1998, 6.5 percent for 1999, and 6.2 percent
for 2000; for foreign expenditures, 2.5 percent for 1995 through 2000.
3.13         Project Financing. The proposed IDA credit of $100 million equivalent will finance
about 62 percent of the total project costs, including all foreign exchange. The project's financing
plan is shown in Table 3.2 below.



- 15 -
Table 3.2: FINANCING PLAN 3/
($ million)
Local    Foreign     Total    Percent
Government of China,
Provinces and Counties          62.62       0.00     62.62     38%
IDA                             59.44      40.56    100.00    62%
TOTAL                122.06     40.56    162.62    100%
3.14       The Government would: (a) allocate $2.24 million equivalent to the National-level
Component; (b) make available $86.87 million equivalent to the provinces participating in the
Immunization Component at not more than 1.1 percent per annum for 20 years, including a 5 years'
grace period; and (c) make available $10.89 million to the jurisdictions participating in the Health
Promotion Component at not more than 2.5 percent per annum for 20 years, including a 5 years'
grace period. The provinces would allocate part of their proceeds to the counties under similar terms.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Borrower would make available the credit proceeds
to the: (a) provinces participating in the Immunization Component at not more than 1.1 percent per
annum for 20 years, including a grace period of 5 years, and each province would make the proceeds
available to its counties on a grant basis or on terms at least as favorable to the counties as the terms
on which it receives funds from the Borrower, and the provinces would bear the foreign exchange
risks: and (b) jurisdictions participating in the Health Promotion Component at no more than 2.5
percent per annum for at least 20 years. including a grace period of 5 years, and each of these
iurisdictions would make the p2roceeds available to their counties on the same terms as they receive
the funds from the Borrower, and the jurisdictions would bear the foreign exchange risks.
3/ The Government has been exploring the possibility of obtaining a small grant ($700,000 equivalent) from
AusAID to finance a part of the technical assistance under the National-level Component. At this time, no
formal commitments have been made, but if they materialize, the funds would be reallocated to other project
activities.



- 16 -
4. PROJECT ORGANIZATION AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
National-Level
4.1        Management and Coordination. The MOH would be responsible for the overall
direction, coordination and oversight of project implementation. To carry out these responsibilities,
the Government has established a Project Leading Group, under the Chairmanship of the Minister of
Health and including the Directors of the MOH Disease Control Department (DCD), the Foreign
Loan Office (FLO), and the Departments of Planning and Finance, Science and Technology and
Education. DCD will be responsible for all aspects of the project, especially for all technical matters.
FLO will act as the secretariat of the Leading Group and will carry out operational aspects of the
project. FLO has long experience in implementing Bank-assisted health projects in China and is well-
equipped to coordinate and oversee the implementation of the proposed project. Since the project
would require coordination among different sectors, a Project Coordination Group (PCG) has been
established under the Leading Group, jointly chaired by the Directors of DCD and FLO and
comprising senior officials of DCD, FLO, the Chinese Academy of Preventive Medicine (CAPM) and
the National Institute for Health Education (NIHE). CAPM and NIHE are autonomous specialized
agencies working directly under and closely with MOH, which draws on their technical expertise
whenever necessary. CAPM has a large staff with high-level domestic and overseas training, and is
responsible for providing technical guidance in the field of disease prevention and control. NIHE is
responsible for guidance in the field of health education, and the design and implementation of
policies and programs in related fields.
4.2        The Expanded Program on Immunization Division and Non-Communicable Diseases
Division of DCD are the principal participants in the proposed project at the central level, as most of
the project activities will fall under DCD's responsibility. Two Project Offices have been established
with full-time experts under these two DCD Divisions -- the Immunization Project Office and the
Health Promotion Project Office. These Offices will oversee implementation of program activities
under the National-level Component. Finally, a Technical Unit has been established with full-time
staff and attached to the Health Promotion Project Office to provide technical guidance to the
participating areas in planning and implementing of community-based interventions. Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that the Borrower would maintain the Project Leading Group. the Project
Coordination Group, the Project Offices and the Technical Unit throughout the project period, with
memberships, terms of reference. staffing and resources acceptable to the Association.
Provincial and Prefectural Level (Immunization Component)
4.3        The provincial organizations mirror those of the Center. Each province has established
a Leading Group under the Vice Governor, comprising senior representatives of the provincial finance
and planning bureaus and the heads of the departments or bureaus dealing with Public Health,
Education, the Women Federation, and the Economic and Trade Committee. Each province has also
established a Provincial Project Office, headed by a project director responsible to the director of the
provincial health bureau, to be responsible for project implementation and project management.
Officials at the prefecture level would also participate in project coordination and supervision.



- 17 -
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that each participating province would maintain the
provincial Leading Group and the Project Loan Office, with membership, terms of reference and
resources acceptable to the Association, throughout the project period.
County Level (Immunization Component)
4.4        Present Preventive Care Responsibilities. At the county level, immunization services
are provided by the Epidemic Prevention Station under the County Health Bureau. The EPS is
responsible for the overall planning and supervision of immunization activities in the county; training
of township and village level EPS workers; health education; handling of vaccines; and disease
morbidity and mortality reporting related to communicable and endemic diseases. The EPS is also
responsible to operate the cold chain within the county, and most immunizations take place at the
village level except for limited cases carried out at the townships.
4.5        Project Coordination and Implementation. The major part of proposed project
implementation is expected to take place at the county level and below. Each county would maintain
a Project Leading Group of senior officials, including planning, finance and health officials, under the
chairmanship of the head or deputy head of the county government. Each county would also maintain
a Project Office, located in the County EPS, headed by the director of the Station, and staffed by a
section chief and members of the EPI section. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that each
participating province would maintain at the county level the Project Leading Group and a county
Proiect Office, with membership, terms of reference and resources acceptable to the Association,
throughout the project period.
City Level (Health Promotion Component)
4.6         Each city has established an Inter-sectoral Policy Guidance Committee under the vice
mayor responsible for the social sector to develop leadership capability in planning, implementing and
evaluating health promotion activities. Committee members include senior officials from bureaus for
health, finance, planning, education, culture and sports, environment protection, industry, commerce,
security and related agencies.
4.7        Within each city health bureau, a Project Leading Group has been established under the
direction of a deputy director to ensure coordination from relevant areas of the health sector.
Members would include staff from divisions of disease prevention, health education, medical
administration, science technology and education, planning and finance, personnel and foreign affairs.
4.8        Each city health bureau has also established a Project Office to coordinate all aspects of
project implementation, including accounting, local procurement, reporting on progress and other day-
to-day administration of the project. The Project Office would report to the Project Leading Group.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the municipal health bureau of each participating city
would maintain throughout the proiect period: (a) an Inter-sectoral Policy Guidance Committee; (b) a
Project Leading Group: and (c) a Project Office.
4.9        The responsibility for implementing specific activities would mainly rest with the NCD
office of EPS, the health education institute, and the STD Prevention Center. In most cities the EPS
would take the lead role in the surveillance sub-component, the health education institute would lead



- 18 -
the interventions sub-component, and the STD Center would be involved in all aspects of STD work.
Minor variations are expected among the cities.
B. Implementation Plan
4.10       Project Implementation Plan (PIP). MOH has prepared a PIP describing the Project
Implementation Arrangements in considerable detail. The PIP was the main basis of the project
appraisal and will become an important reference document for project implementation and
monitoring. The main PIAs are summarized in the following paragraphs.
4.11       Immunuization Component. The responsibility to implement all sub-components under
this component would lie with the participating provinces, prefectures and counties, with technical
guidance and coordination from the national-level organizations. The improvement of the cold chain
and the immunization program is mainly the responsibility of the health bureaus at provincial,
prefecture and county levels, while the procurement of equipment would be overseen by FLO. The
overall responsibility for planning and improving the health workers' training, including the review
and finalization of training materials, would rest with DCD at the center, but the implementation of
the training program would be carried out by each province. The management improvement program
involves additional training to be carried out together with the rest of the health workers' training
program, and the incremental provision of equipment, materials and program support expenditures
included in the project. The surveillance improvement would be carried out in two ways: (a)
through the adoption of improved reporting and better management and monitoring of the ongoing
regular surveillance system; and (b) by implementing three cluster surveys to be carried out under the
supervision of PCG at MOH. Finally, the IEC program would be designed under the guidance of
PCG and implemented by individual provinces.
4.12       Health Promotion Component. Implementation responsibility for all four sub-
components would rest on the health bureau of the concerned jurisdiction, coordinated by the
respective Inter-sectoral Policy Guidance Committees and the Project Office (paras. 4.6 to 4.9). The
program contents as well as their implementation arrangements are expected to vary among the
participating project areas under this component. Because of its innovative nature, the role of the
national level is expected to be very significant, in arranging and providing technical assistance, in
facilitating exchanges among the project areas and in coordinating various activities under the
component. The project would also provide technical assistance to enable project areas to benefit
from international best practices in health promotion. Part of the international technical assistance is
expected to be arranged through a qualified consulting firm or institution. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that the Borrower would employ, as a condition of disbursement for the Health
Promotion Component, a consulting institution, with terms of reference. gualifications and experience
satisfactory to the Association.
4.13       National-Level Component. Implementation responsibility for the National-level
Component rests on DCD and FLO under the Project Coordination Group and assisted by the two
Project Offices and the Health Promotion Technical Unit (paras. 4.1 and 4.2). To carry out their
technical assistance functions, these central organizations would draw heavily upon outside expertise,
both domestic and external. The main domestic technical assistance sources would be CAPM, NIHE
and other institutions; a part of the external technical assistance for the health promotion component



- 19 -
would be provided and coordinated by a qualified international institution, and the remainder through
direct recruitment (para. 4.12).
C. Procurement
4.14       FLO would be responsible to oversee the procurement under this project including the
responsibility to ensure that the Bank Guidelines are followed. Items to be procured and financed
partly or wholly with credit proceeds include equipment, vehicles, materials development, vaccines,
training, technical assistance, and program support. Civil works are not financed under the project.
4.15       Equipment, Vehicles, Vaccines and Materials Development ($83.03 million) would
largely consist of cold chain equipment for the immunization program, other medical equipment,
health education and training related items, and hepatitis B and tetanus toxoid vaccines. Most
individual equipment and other goods to be procured for the provinces will be consolidated centrally
to permit bulk procurement of at least $300,000 or equivalent. Contracts estimated to cost $300,000
or more will be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding (ICB) procedures, in
accordance with the Bank Group's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits,
January 1995. Contracts estimated to cost between $50,000 and $300,000 equivalent, in aggregate
not exceeding $9.19 million, may be procured through national competitive bidding (NCB)
procedures acceptable to the Association. International suppliers may compete in these procedures.
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 per contract, and in aggregate not exceeding $6.11 million,
may be procured through shopping procedures under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of
price quotations obtained from at least three eligible foreign or local suppliers. Contracts for
proprietary items and items required for the purpose of standardization, subject to the approval of the
Association on a case-by-case basis, may be awarded after direct negotiations with suppliers, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association (estimated to cost less than $25,000 up to an
aggregate of $5.22 million). Under ICB, local manufacturers would be eligible for a margin of
preference in bid evaluation of 15 percent or the prevailing rate of custom duty, whichever is lower.
4.16       Most of the cold chain equipment and vehicles will be procured in three batches, and
spread over the first four years of the project. Equipment will be grouped, to the extent possible, to
form packages in excess of $300,000 for each contract. Proposals from the provinces and cities will
be forwarded to FLO for bulk purchases by eligible tendering agencies, which have experience with
ICB procedures using Bank Group Procurement Guidelines. FLO will coordinate procurement under
NCB procedures acceptable to IDA and use other procurement procedures including national
shopping. IDA's standard bidding documents for ICB procurement of goods with the agreed China
Special Conditions will be used.
4.17       The list of the cold chain equipment was prepared by the provinces and reviewed by
MOH and IDA. The standardized equipment lists, with details for each level, have been included in
ANNEX 4.



- 20 -
TABLE 4.1: PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
($ million)
Project Element                           Procurement Method                          TOTAL
ICB        NCB         Others    Consulting      NIF
Services
A.  Equipment, Vehicles,        61.34        9.19       11.33         -            1.17        83.03
Vaccines & Materials      (46.45)      (6.95)       (5.72)                                (59.12)
Development
B.  Training
1. Local Short-Term         -           -          17.13         -            -            17.13
(8.61)                                 (8.61)
2. Local Long-Term          -           -           0.03         -            -             0.03
(0.01)                                 (0.01)
3. Foreign Long-Term        -           -           1.35         -            -             1.35
(1.35)                                 (1.35)
4. Study Tour               -           -           1.18         -            -             1.18
(1.18)                                 (1.18)
C.  Technical Assistance
1. Local Specialists        -           -           -           0.60          -            0.60
(0.60)                     (0.60)
2. Foreign Specialists      -           -            -          0.67          -             0.67
(0.67)                     (0.67)
D.  Program Support              -           -          53.67         -            -           53.67
(28.46)                                (28.46)
E.  Operation & Mainten.         -           -           -            -            4.96         4.96
TOTAL                 61.34        9.19       84.69         1.27         6.13        162.62
of which IDA            (46.45)      (6.95)      45.33)       (1.27)                   (100.00)
Notes:      (1) Figures in parentheses are the amounts financed by IDA.
(2) Others: includes shopping and direct contracting.
(3) NIF: Not IDA financed.
4.18         Training ($17.16 million local and $2.53 million overseas). Local training activities
will be carried out by existing institutions on the basis of the training program as described in
ANNEXES 1 and 2. Approximately 50.0 percent of the local training costs will be financed by IDA
and the remaining will come from counterpart financing.
4.19         Technical Assistance ($1.27 million). Technical assistance under this project is likely
to involve individual as well as institutional contracts, both local and international. To the extent
possible, employment of local experts will be encouraged. Consultants will be hired in accordance
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the Bank Group's
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants, August 1981.
4.20         Progran Support ($53.67 million). The program support expenditures under the
Immunization, Health Promotion, and National-level Components will be financed by IDA subject to



- 21 -
standard Association reimbursement requirements. Program support includes costs of surveillance
and monitoring services, logistical support, medical and other supplies, transportation,
acconmmodations, meals and allowances for health staff. This program support is critical to reverse
recent declines in the availability of funds for the management and maintenance of preventive health
care programs. In addition, by demonstrating the benefits of adequate program support, the project
would increase internal support for such expenditures in the Government.
4.21       Prior IDA review of bidding documents, bid evaluation reports, and "no objection"
would be required before contracts could be awarded and signed for equipment, vehicles, materials
development, and vaccine contracts of more than $300,000 equivalent, estimated to cover about 80
percent of the total value of all such contracts. ICB procurement is expected to take place through
several tendering exercises each year, with most equipment and vehicles included in a single tender
exercise. Vaccine tenders would provide for phased delivery to protect against spoilage. Because of
the small size and highly diversified nature and location of the technical assistance services for
different research and monitoring activities for this project, contracts with firms of $100,000
equivalent or more and contracts with individuals of $50,000 equivalent or more will require IDA
prior review and approval of budgets, short-lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports, and contracts. IDA would have the right to review smaller contracts on an ex-post
basis during supervision. Sample post-reviews of other bidding documents, bid evaluation reports,
contracts and of direct purchases would be carried out during regular supervision missions.
D. Disbursements
4.22       The proposed Credit of SDR 67 million ($100 equivalent) would be disbursed over a
period of five years. Disbursements would be made against the following categories of expenditures:
(a)      For the Immunization Component in participating provinces:
(i)    equipment, materials, vehicles, and tetanus toxoid and hepatitis
vaccines: 100 percent of foreign expenditures, 100 percent of local
expenditures (ex-factory cost), and 65 percent of local expenditures for
other items procured locally;
(ii)   overseas and local training: 100 percent and 50 percent of
expenditures, respectively;
(iii) consulting services: 100 percent of expenditures; and
(iv)   program support: 55 percent of expenditures.
(b)      For the Health Promotion Component in participating cities and Yunnan
Province:
(i)    equipment, materials and vehicles: 100 percent of foreign
expenditures, 100 percent of local expenditures (ex-factory cost), and
40 percent of local expenditures for other items procured locally;



- 22 -
(ii)   overseas and local training: 100 percent and 50 percent of
expenditures, respectively;
(iii)   consulting services: 100 percent of expenditures; and
(iv)   program support: 40 percent of expenditures.
(c)      For the centrally implemented component of the project:
(i)    equipment, materials and vehicles: 100 percent of foreign
expenditures, 100 percent of local expenditures (ex-factory cost), and
80 percent of local expenditures for other items procured locally;
(iv)   overseas and local training: 100 percent and 90 percent of
expenditures, respectively;
(v)    consulting services: 100 percent of expenditures; and
(vi)   program support: 80 percent of expenditures.
4.23        Statements of expenditure (SOEs) would be used for: expenditures of less than
$300,000 equivalent against contracts for equipment and materials, expenditures of less than $100,000
equivalent and $50,000 equivalent against consultants' contracts for firms and individuals,
respectively, and all expenditures for training and program support. This limit is justified based upon
previous experience, and the nature and complexity of the project. Documentation supporting SOEs
would be retained by FLO in MOH and the Project Offices in the provinces and cities and made
available for review by IDA supervision missions.
4.24       The project implementation period is shorter than the disbursement profile for human
resource projects in China. First, the proposed project finances the first five year time slice of the
20-year needs for cold chain replacement and related activities, which comprises the majority (85
percent) of total project base cost. Second, MOH is now very experienced with Bank Group practices
for project implementation, which will greatly facilitate execution of project activities and
disbursement. The disbursement profile is shown in ANNEX 7.
4.25       Special Account. A Special Account with an authorized allocation of $6 million, based
on four months' average expenditures, would be established in a bank satisfactory to the Association.
Applications for replenishment of the Special Account would be submitted monthly or whenever the
Account has been drawn down by about 50 percent of the initial deposit, whichever occurs first.
4.26       Retroactive Financing. To ensure timely start of the project, retroactive financing of
up to SDR 4.7 million ($7 million) would be available for payments made for eligible expenditures
incurred after July 1, 1995.



- 23 -
E. Accounts and Audits
4.27       Separate accounts showing expenditure for project activities would be maintained by
each province under the Immunization Component and each jurisdiction under the Health Promotion
Component. Assisted by MOF, a total project account would be maintained by FLO in two books,
one for project provinces and cities and the other for category of expenditures for the whole project.
MOF would maintain a separate account showing amounts expended under SOEs for each fiscal year
and would maintain the Special Account. Project accounts would be audited by the State Audit
Administration and/or its local offices in accordance with standard practices in China, which have
been found acceptable to IDA. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Borrower would
submit to the Association, within six months after the end of each fiscal year. an annual audit report,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Association, including an audit of the Special Account and a
separate opinion on the SOEs. Each local entity would also have its project accounts audited by
acceptable independent auditors and consolidated in the Borrower's report to the Association.
F. Project Monitoring and Evaluation
4.28       Implementation Schedule. The proposed project would be implemented over a five
year period. The project is expected to be completed in December 2000 and closed on December 31,
2001. A project completion report would be submitted by FLO to IDA within six months of the
closing date. A chart of the implementation schedule is shown in ANNEX 8.
4.29       Performance Monitoring. Effective monitoring of performance is particularly
important for this type of health project. Therefore, considerable attention has been paid to the
design of a comprehensive, meaningful and practical performance monitoring system with full
participation of the Borrower, the project provinces and the cities, and with assistance from a number
of international experts. The system would have three parts: special surveys; regular monitoring of a
set of performance indicators; and special studies and mid-term evaluation. It would measure
performance during different stages and cover all important aspects.
4.30       Special surveys for the Immunization Component would include a population based
assessment of vaccine coverage (modified WHO cluster survey) to validate the routine reporting
system, which would be carried out in all project provinces at the beginning of the project to establish
the baseline, and repeated again at the middle and the end of the project. For the Health Promotion
Component, performance monitoring arrangements would be based on the behavioral risk factor
surveillance system (BRFSS). A major, augmented BRFSS survey in the first 8 months of the project
would provide baseline data for the project. The BRFSS would provide for continuous monitoring of
behavior change. It would be supplemented by point-in-time surveys of additional variables at the
mid-term and conclusion of the project.
4.31       To monitor the progress of the project and conduct evaluations, four sets of performance
indicators have been discussed and prepared with MOH during project preparation. These are: (a)
input indicators, which track planned investment in terms of time (e.g., staff-weeks and staff-months);
(b) process indicators, which assess desirable improvement in management and quality of programs
(e.g., increase in immunization coverage); (c) output indicators, which track items to quantify
completion rates by a given date during the project cycle (e.g., number of training modules and
number of mass media programs); and (d) outcome indicators, which monitor progress toward



- 24 -
meeting development objectives (e.g., health status and risk factors). Project provinces and cities as
well as FLO would ensure that data for the input, output and process indicators are collected and
analyzed semi-annually. Outcome indicators, summarized below in Table 4.2, would be analyzed
periodically. For the Immunization Component, the coverage data will come from the three cluster
surveys (para. 4.30) since existing information is not adequately reliable. The health promotion
information will be obtained from the BRFSS (para. 4.30) and other sources such as health service
data and surveys. Finally, special studies and surveys would be conducted for specific purposes and
for the mid-term evaluation (para. 4.32). A detailed description of project performance monitoring,
including a set of regular monitoring indicators, is given in ANNEX 9. The project supervision plan
is detailed in ANNEX 11. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Borrower would prepare
and furnish to the Association semi-annual progress reports, including the national level as well as
province and city levels, in accordance with the performance monitoring indicators acceptable to the
Association.
Table 4.2: PROJECT OUTCOME INDICATORS
By Project Component
Immunization Component
Immunization Coverage of the Following Vaccines:
BCG
DPT
Polio
Measles
Hepatitis B
Tetanus Toxoid
Disease Incidence of:
Polio
Measles
Neonatal Tetanus
Health Promotion Component
-    Smoking rates in different age groups
-    % Health staff that are non-smokers
# Doctors trained with standard STD
management
% Schools, work sites and hospitals with
non-smoking signs and implementing a non-
smoking policy
Note:     The above indicators will be reviewed
and decided after the finalization of
the cluster surveys and the BRFSS.
4.32        Mid-Term Evaluation. Comprehensive evaluation of the project objectives and their
implementation is particularly important in this project, because of the large size of the Immunization
Component and the innovative nature of the Health Promotion Component. Therefore, in addition to



- 25 -
the regular project and progress evaluation activities, a special mid-term evaluation would be carried
out after completion of two years of project implementation. The mid-term evaluation, which would
be planned and carried out jointly by the Government and IDA, would review the relevance and
progress of all parts of the project to meet the basic project objectives. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that, not later than December 31. 1998. the Borrower would carry out a mid-term
evaluation of the project and provide a report to the Association indicating progress and continued
relevance of each activity under the project. and consolidating mid-term reports from each local
entity.
G. Impact on Environment
4.33       The environmental category assigned to this project is "C". The project would have no
adverse environmental impact, although the immunization program would add to the total amount of
needles and syringes that would have to be collected and disposed. Participating project provinces
will collect and dispose of needles and syringes separately from general household wastes using
special procedures in accordance with WHO's recommended policy. Training in disinfection and
destruction of needles and syringes to be discarded is included in the project as well. The Health
Promotion Component is expected to contribute to significantly better urban environments because of
the health education programs, particularly those involving smoking bans and cessation campaigns.



- 26 -
5. BENEFITS, RISKS AND PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
A. Benefits
5.1        Through the Immunization Component (85 percent of the total project base cost), the
project would most directly benefit about six million infants born each year in ten of China's poorest
provinces by more effectively protecting them against mortality and morbidity caused by measles,
polio, pertussis, diphtheria and tuberculosis. The project will also make tetanus toxoid and hepatitis
B vaccines more accessible to families, reduce the risk of death due to neonatal tetanus, and protect
the population from the long-term consequences of hepatitis B infection. The project will support 36
percent of nationally identified tetanus toxoid counties in its National Plan of Action for Elimination
of Neonatal Tetanus. The main beneficiaries would be those who currently have the least access to
satisfactory quality immunization services. The project will not only help China narrow the health
gaps between the poor and rich and between urban and rural populations, it will also help
significantly to reverse the declines in resource allocations to preventive health care that have resulted
in reduced coverage and quality of immunization in China. Furthermore, by reversing the declining
trend in resource allocation for preventive health, it will build a strong foundation for the preventive
health care system.
5.2         The project also includes specific interventions designed to improve planning and
management capacity of the national, provincial, and county governments to prepare and implement
immunization programs, hence reducing unnecessary wastage of vaccines. Furthermore, the project
addresses the need for periodic in-service training, operational costs of preventive programs and
program management and, at least in part, alleviation of the problem of inability to pay for essential
disease prevention services, all of which are expected to demonstrate to the government the value of
maintaining such recurrent costs.
5.3        Economic Benefits. The project will reduce the burden of communicable diseases by
about 60 percent. The benefits of the project are quantified as disability adjusted life years saved
(DALY) or healthy years of life gained from the immunization program. Based on epidemiological
data, vaccine efficiency, and the target population, the results indicate that immunization would save
about 4.8 million DALY annually in the ten project provinces, and approximately $622 million in lost
income and treatment costs; reflecting a significant return on the investment. See ANNEX 10 for
details.
5.4        Cost-Effectiveness. The cost-effectiveness of the immunization program is calculated
against program alternatives. Comparing estimates of DALY saved per RMB from vaccines with
alternative programs of outpatient care demonstrate clearly that immunization programs are much
more cost-effective. For instance, for a fixed amount of resources, vaccination against measles and
DPT would save 13 and 7 times more healthy life years, respectively, than would outpatient
treatment. Thus, immunization services that have few acceptable private alternatives would have a
particularly large payoff to the public (ANNEX 10).



- 27 -
Health Promotion Component
5.5        The Health Promotion Component of the project (13 percent of the total project base
cost) will spearhead a program to improve China's capacity to develop and implement effective
measures to control and prevent NCDs, STDs, HIV/AIDS and injury. While impossible to quantify
with precision, it would benefit the entire population of seven major cities and, to a more limited
extent, in Yunnan Province, through exposure to health promotion policies and programs. Eventual
benefits would accrue to residents of other cities as the project experience spreads. The project's
benefits will be greatest for those at risk for chronic diseases, STDs, HIV/AIDS, injury and those in
work-places or other locations with specific intervention trials.
5.6        The component would help combat STDs, which is one of the most effective strategies
for inhibiting the spread of HIV. Similarly, the project is expected to help control rising trends in
mnortality and morbidity from a number of chronic diseases over the long-term following the
implementation of a strategy to decrease smoking, alcohol consumption and unhealthy diets. Added
gains in efficiency and more effective care will result from the improved professional training and
health services management techniques through the project. These measures will contribute to control
China's health expenditures in the long run.
B. Risks
5.7         Several measures have been built into the project design to minimize the effects of
possible risks foreseen at this stage. First, there is a risk that some provinces or cities will not
provide adequate counterpart financing for the project. The central MOF is fully aware of this risk
and, therefore, has taken the initiative to thoroughly discuss the funding requirements with each
province and city participating in the project to ensure that provision of counterpart funding does not
become an impediment to project implementation. The project provinces and cities are highly
motivated to reverse the recent decline in disease prevention activities by taking advantage of the
technical and financial resources that would be obtained from the proposed project. Therefore, this
risk is not considered excessive. Second, there is a risk that coordination and implementation of the
project activities would be inadequate. To minimize this risk inherent in a project with multiple
components, all key institutional arrangements have been put in place and key staff have been
recruited. Third, there is a risk that the jurisdictions participating in the Health Promotion
Component will not have adequate technical guidance for capacity building and program
implementation. To minimize this risk, a strong National-level Component has been included in the
project, MOH has established a separate Health Promotion Division in its Disease Control
Department, and arrangements have been made to contract a team of international consultants to
advise DCD as well as the project jurisdictions on a regular basis. Fourth, the project is quite
sensitive to changes in coverage of vaccinations for BCG and hepatitis B and it is not a cost-effective
option if the coverage falls short of the target by 20 percent (ANNEX 10). It is highly unlikely that
the coverage will fall by that degree considering the longstanding record of immunization programs in
China complemented by a high level of political commitment. Finally, there is a risk that the poorest
and migrating ("floating") families may not be able to benefit fully from the improved immunization
program. Although special care has been taken to ensure that the provinces incorporate specific
measures to prevent this risk, the situation will be continuously monitored through regular reporting
and special studies.



- 28 -
C. Sustainability
5.8        The project's sustainability has been examined in detail, and the following factors
received particular attention: (a) the amount of recurrent expenditures that each province and city
government will need to allocate; (b) the financial burden on the governments to maintain the project
supported activities after the project investment is completed; and (c) the concerned governments'
willingness and ability to sustain these costs.
5.9        The amount of post-project recurrent expenditures requirements created by the new
investments has been estimated and then examined in relation to projected recurrent expenditure
constraints in health budgets. For the operating cost in the sixth year and thereafter, the project
jurisdictions would need a total of $4.93 million annually (RMB 40.9 million at a 1995 exchange
rate). Thus, the financial burden on the jurisdictions will be quite negligible because this figure
represents only about one percent of the projected total recurrent government health budget of RMB
4.5 billion in 2000 in the project jurisdictions. The governments' willingness and ability to sustain
these costs are already demonstrated by increased contributions to preventive care in their health
budgets. Other measures including community risk sharing and user fees have been introduced in all
provinces, confirming that the incremental recurrent cost will be well within sustainable limits.
5.10       Immunization Component. The Immunization Component will involve substantially
increased investments to replace the old cold chain equipment, improve management and surveillance,
and train health workers. Since the programs are similar among provinces, the size of the
incremental costs will vary mainly by the size of the population and the geographical conditions.
Cold chain equipment is the single most expensive item in this component, because the proposed
project would finance the costs of cold chain replacement and maintenance during the first five years
of the 20-year needs estimate, when the cost will be the highest due to the present poor condition of
the cold chain. The annual operating cost from the sixth year and thereafter for the Immunization
Component is $3.1 million (RMB 25.7 million at a 1995 exchange rate), representing only 0.5
percent of projected government recurrent budgets for the ten project provinces.
5.11       Health Promotion Component. At the end of the project, the operating cost to
maintain the Health Promotion Component would require only $0.56 million annually (RMB 4.6
million at a 1995 exchange rate). Thus, the operating cost of the Health Promotion Component will
place no significant financial burden on the governments. It is worth pointing out that most of the
activities under this component will be carried out by more affluent local governments, such as
Shanghai, Beijing and Tianjin. Of the total investment in this component, community-based
interventions account for nearly two thirds, and the rest is accounted for by institutional development.
Since the activities under this sub-component will be implemented by financially independent
enterprises and affluent urban communities, no problem in meeting funding requirements is foreseen.
5.12       National-Level Component. The remaining $1.27 million in recurrent expenditures
would cover incremental operating costs associated with central government supervision and
management of immunization and health promotion activities.



- 29 -
6. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.1        At negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Borrower would:
(a)     make available the credit proceeds to the: (a) provinces participating in the
Immunization Component at not more than 1.1 percent per annum for 20
years, including a grace period of 5 years, and each province would make the
proceeds available to its counties on a grant basis or on terms at least as
favorable to the counties as the terms on which it receives funds from the
Borrower, and the provinces would bear the foreign exchange risks; and (b)
jurisdictions participating in the Health Promotion Component at no more than
2.5 percent per annum for at least 20 years, including a grace period of 5
years, and each of these jurisdictions would make the proceeds available to
their counties on the same terms as they receive the funds from the Borrower,
and the jurisdictions will bear the foreign exchange risks (para. 3.14);
(b)     maintain the Project Leading Group, the Project Coordination Group, the
Project Offices and the Technical Unit throughout the project period, with
memberships, terms of reference, staffing and resources acceptable to the
Association (para. 4.2);
(c)      submit to the Association, within six months after the end of each fiscal year,
an annual audit report, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association,
including an audit of the Special Account and a separate opinion on the SOEs.
Each local entity would also have its project accounts audited by acceptable
independent auditors and consolidated in the Borrower's report to the
Association (para. 4.27);
(d)     prepare and furnish to the Association semi-annual progress reports, including
the national level as well as province and city levels, in accordance with the
performance monitoring indicators acceptable to the Association (para. 4.31);
and
(e)      not later than December 31, 1998, carry out a mid-term evaluation of the
project and provide a report to the Association indicating progress and
continued relevance of each activity under the project, and consolidating mid-
term reports from each local entity (para. 4.32).
6.2        At negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Borrower that it would make Project
Implementation Arrangements with each province participating in the Immunization Component
whereby the province would undertake to:
(a)      continue to make free provision throughout the project period of sufficient EPI
vaccines to cover the whole population (para. 3.5);



- 30 -
(b)      prepare a long-term strategy for cold chain replacement, in accordance with
the terms of reference acceptable to the Association, with a view to its
adoption upon completion of the project (para. 3.5);
(c)      implement measures to increase immunization access for the poorest families,
and carry out six rounds of vaccination sessions per year; (para 3.5)
(d)      ensure that all children, regardless of their registration status, have suitable
access to its immunization programs (para. 3.5);
(e)      maintain the provincial Leading Group and Project Loan Office, with
membership, terms of reference and resources acceptable to the Association,
throughout the project period (para. 4.3); and
(f)      maintain at the county level the Project Leading Group and a county Project
Office, with membership, terms of reference and resources acceptable to the
Association, throughout the project period (para. 4.5).
6.3        At negotiations, assurances were obtained from the Borrower that it would make Project
Implementation Arrangements with each entity participating in the Health Promotion Component
whereby the entity would undertake to:
(a)      submit, by October 31 of each year, its annual plans and proposals for
implementation of the health promotion interventions to the Borrower for
review and approval. The Borrower would submit a summary of the plans to
the Association by November 30 of each year, before those interventions are
implemented (para. 3.7);
(b)      include in its annual plan a plan designed to control and reduce smoking of
tobacco products (para. 3.8);
(c)      ensure that the treatment of patients with STDs and HIV shall be based on a
policy of anonymity (para. 3.8);
(d)      provide training to private practitioners treating STDs and HIV patients (para.
3.8); and
(e)      maintain at each municipal health bureau an Inter-sectoral Policy Guidance
Committee, a Project Leading Group, and a Project Office, throughout the
project period (para. 4.8).
6.4        The following provision would be an additional condition of Credit Effectiveness:
(a)      making Project Implementation Arrangements with at least seven out of ten
provinces carrying out the Immunization Component and at least five out of
eight entities carrying out the Health Promotion Component (para 3.10).



- 31 -
6.5        The following provisions would be additional conditions of Credit Disbursement:
(a)      making Project Implementation Arrangements with each entity would be a
condition of disbursement for that entity's respective part of the project (para
3. 10); and
(b)      employment of a consulting institution, with terms of reference, qualifications
and experience satisfactory to the Association, would be a condition of
disbursement for the Health Promotion Component (para 4.12).
6.6         Subject to the above agreements, the proposed project is suitable for an IDA credit of
SDR 67 million ($100 million equivalent) to the People's Republic of China on standard IDA terms
and with 35 years' maturity.



- 32 -                               ANNEX 1
IMMUNIZATION COMPONENT
1.    The objective of the Immunization Component is to prevent and control vaccine-preventable
diseases to reduce morbidity, disability and mortality, especially in the poorest provinces of China.
This objective would be attained by improving the quality of and access to immunization services
through improvement of the cold chain, the upgrading of technical and managerial skills of preventive
care health workers, the strengthening of the management of immunization services, and improving
information, education and communication (IEC) about immunization. In addition, a number of
complementary policy reform measures would also be implemented.
2.    The Immunization Component comprises four sub-components: (a) cold chain improvement;
(b) health workers' training; (c) management and surveillance; and (d) IEC.
Cold Chain Improvement
3.    The objectives of this sub-component are to: (a) ensure the quality of vaccines during storage
and transportation; and (b) establish a system of regular replacement of the cold chain which is
sustainable beyond the project period. The main activities supported by the project are described
below. Additional information on the cold chain sub-component are in ANNEX 4.
4.    Cold Chain Replacement. It is estimated that within the remaining years of this decade, the
funding needs for replacement and, to a certain extent, expansion of the cold chain would amount to
two thirds of the total value of the existing cold chain equipment. A breakdown in the cold chain can
seriously damage vaccine potency, hence diminishing the effectiveness of the immunization program
(and, in the worst case, destroy the whole program). A majority of cold chain equipment for storage
and transport of vaccines at all levels in each province was installed in the late 1980s. Much of this
equipment is now either damaged or approaching the end of their expected service life. Although the
local governments as well as some donor agencies have provided replacement equipment, a shortage
of funds has hindered the timely replacement of equipment. Thus to ensure the continuation of the
program, a 20-year needs assessment was prepared during the preparation of this project, based on a
review of the current status of equipment in each project province. The proposed project will support
replacement requirements for each level of the EPS network, from village to provincial level during
the first five years that fall within the project period.
5.    Cold Chain Replacement System. As stated above, a 20-year assessment for cold chain
equipment replacement was prepared and agreed with the provinces during this project's development
which would sustain supply after the project. At negotiations, it was agreed that each province would
prepare a long-term strategy for cold chain replacement with a view to adopt it after project
completion. MOH is expected to cause the provinces to carry this out, if necessary by providing the
required technical assistance.
6.    Improvement in Cold Chain Quality. To improve the quality of the cold chain, simple
modifications will be introduced that would enhance the performance of vaccine storage equipment.
The project will also establish a system to routinely monitor the quality of cold chain by using



- 33 -                                ANNEX I
chemical indicators developed for this particular purpose.
7.    Maintenance. The project will help strengthen selected provincial cold chain equipment
repair centers. In counties which are not covered by the provincial centers, a budget will be allocated
to cover the cost of repair services obtained from local markets.
8.    Sterilization of Needles and Syringes. To ensure proper sterilization of needles and
syringes, steam sterilizers will be provided to village and township level health workers engaged in
vaccination activities. In addition, a supply of needles and syringes will be provided to village and
township staff to implement the one sterile needle and one sterile syringe per injection policy under
the project.
9.    Implementation Unit. Overall responsibility for this sub-component will be with the
provincial Health Bureau of each province. The Procurement division of the FLO will work in close
collaboration with the provincial Health Bureaus to prepare the equipment procurement documents
and activities.
Health Workers' Training
10.   The objective of this sub-component is to improve the technical and managerial skills of all
staff involved in the immunization program at all levels of the epidemic prevention network by
establishing a system of regular in-service training. The project activities are described in the
following paragraphs.
11.   Primary Workers. The project would provide short-term training on basic technical and
managerial skills to primary level preventive care workers (one village doctor from each village and
two staff from each township health center).
12.   Mid-Level Workers. It would provide short-term training to mid-level managers of
preventive services (five staff from each county and prefectural epidemic prevention stations) on
planning, management of cold chain, surveillance, disease reporting, evaluation of vaccine coverage
and supervision skills. In addition, prefectural level staff will receive training for data entry and
analysis in order to establish a computerized management information system (MIS) on the
immunization program.
13.   Senior Managers. The project would provide short-term training to senior managers (ten
persons from each provincial EPS) on topics including planning, management, and repair of cold
chain, surveillance, supervision, and monitoring and evaluation of vaccine coverage. Domestic long-
term courses will be provided to senior managers (six persons from provincial EPS) on such technical
topics as epidemiology, management, and health statistics. Courses are available at selected
universities and institutes, the Beijing Medical University, Huaxi University, CAPM and Guangxi
Cold Chain Repair Training Center.
14.   Study Tours. The project would organize six overseas study tours, coordinated at the central
level, for the benefit of provincial level staff. Topics include surveillance of measles, polio, and
neonatal tetanus control, IEC, and management of immunization programs including routine reporting
of immunization coverage, coverage of floating populations and MIS.



- 34 -                                ANNEX 1
15.   Materials Development. In support of the training activities, arrangements will be made to
revise existing training materials and design and prepare new materials, covering topics not yet
included in existing materials. Content of short-term training modules are grouped in the following
categories: EPI management, cold chain management and logistics, supervision, IEC, surveillance,
and technical issues related to vaccines and vaccine-preventable diseases.
16.   A set of existing training modules will be used for the primary and mid-level workers. These
modules cover basic EPI management and service delivery, cold chain and logistics, injection and
sterilization procedures, and vaccine coverage and disease reporting. Revision of the existing
modules and development of additional modules will be done by experts from the EPI Expert
Advisory Committee comprising members from CAPM, DCD, provincial experts and representatives
from the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, WHO, JICA, and UNICEF under the
supervision of DCD. As appropriate, each module revision or development will follow a sequence of
activities: review, edit, pretest, revise, retest, revise and finalize. The materials will then be made
available to the provinces for mass printing and dissemination.
17.   A list of new and supplementary materials for primary, mid-level and senior level EPI staff
has also been identified and will be designed and produced during the project. Materials will be
compiled into six modules, two for primary level health workers, two for mid-level managers and two
for senior level managers. New topics related to the additional vaccines (hepatitis B and tetanus
toxoid) in the inununization services such as the knowledge and technical training of hepatitis B and
tetanus toxoid vaccines, and measles surveillance strategy and methodology, use of steam sterilizers,
disease reporting, monitoring and supervision will be prepared.
18.   Training of Trainers. Based on a cascade style of training level by level, central level staff
will train the provincial "trainers," and the provincial staff will train the prefectural and county level
staff. The county level staff will be responsible to train township and village staff. An effort will be
made to maintain effectiveness and quality of training by preparing and issuing a manual containing
training guidelines to the trainers for each module used, and providing short refresher "Training of
Trainers" courses for the provincial level trainers.
19.   The project will finance development, improvement, production, and dissemination of training
materials, guidelines for trainers on use of training materials and visual aids, training equipment
(overhead projectors), and the cost of operating the training courses.
20.   Implementation Responsibility. Overall responsibility for this sub-component rests with
DCD in MOH. Implementation of this sub-component will be carried out by the province's Health
Bureau, Epidemic Prevention Station at provincial, prefectural, county and township levels and village
health stations. The DCD will map out an overall training implementation plan, organize the revision
of existing training modules and design new modules. DCD has designated a full time staff from
CAPM to coordinate the training preparation activities. The project office in each provincial Health
Bureau will be responsible to produce the materials and to implement their training plan. The
provincial EPS staff will be responsible to supervise and evaluate the training activities.
Management and Surveillance
21.   The objective of this sub-component is to improve the management and implementation of the



-35 -                                  ANNEX 1
immunization program at all levels, particularly in the areas of cold chain and logistics, service
delivery, collection and utilization of immunization coverage and disease data, and supervisory
support between levels. The activities supported by the project are follows:
(a)    Increase and sustain immunization coverage
(i)    devise and implement effective methods to increase affordability and access of
immunization services to the poorest families in the project provinces;
(ii)    monitor frequency of immunization sessions at each level (counties, township
and villages) and maintain at least six sessions per year (as a condition to
participate in the project);
(iii)   monitor vaccine coverage at each level; county EPS collect data by vaccine
doses, by age, population of counties, townships and village;
(iv)   improve access to immunization services by combining fixed immunization
posts and outreach delivery strategies to increase opportunities for
immnunization for hard to reach population groups at all levels; and
(v)    implement universal child immunization recording and certificate system
especially for special groups (unregistered children). Increasing the effective
demand for immunization services will be addressed through the IEC sub-
component. The provinces will reaffirm MOH instruction for universal
immunization regardless of registration status.
(b)    Improve quality of immunization services
(i)    ensure safe injections by following national policy of one sterile needle and
one sterile syringe per injection. The project will provide steam sterilizers
and a set of needles and syringes for all village clinics and will establish a
system for monitoring the quantity and status of injection equipment at all
levels;
(ii)   improve cold chain management by introducing standardized reporting on cold
chain equipment inventory, and individual equipment records. The guidelines
will be prepared and disseminated by the national level; and
(iii)  improve handling of vaccines by implementing temperature surveillance of the
cold chain system, using vaccine cold chain monitors to routinely monitor
temperature during transport and storage.
(c)    expand EPI services to include hepatitis B and tetanus toxoid vaccines through
provision of subsidies to poor counties. The project will support incorporation of
hepatitis B vaccine to reach 85 percent coverage of urban and 50 percent of rural
infants in each province. The project will finance part of the cost of hepatitis B
vaccines to enable the provinces to provide subsidies on a sliding scale reaching an



- 36 -                                ANNEX 1
equivalent of a 50 percent subsidy for the poorest 25 percent of the provincial
populations. Each province will prepare a fmancing plan to assist the poorest
counties. In support of the National Plan of Action for Elimination of Neonatal
Tetanus, the project will provide two doses of tetanus toxoid for women of child-
bearing age, in 196 designated high risk counties at a subsidy of 0.2 yuan per capita.
Subsequent to the initial mass campaign, the high risk counties will introduce routine
tetanus toxoid vaccination to new cohorts entering child-bearing age and pregnant
women. This would complement the Comprehensive Maternal and Child Health
(MCH) Project (Cr. 2655-CHA), which has initiated similar activities on elimination
of neonatal tetanus.
(d)    Improve reporting, monitoring, and supervision
(i)    implement the use of revised reporting forms, giving information by antigen,
dose, and age at each level. MOH will review its reporting guidelines with a
view to meeting the requirements;
(ii)   develop guidelines and checklists for supervision for each level;
(iii)   set up a computerized registry of immunization coverage by county data to be
compiled and computerized at prefectural and provincial levels;
(iv)   introduce in all counties measles surveillance to include routine collection of
age and vaccination status of each reported measles case;
(v)    develop surveillance of neonatal tetanus by improving the reporting of
neonatal tetanus cases and investigating the reported cases;
(vi)  improve system of monitoring side effects following immunization as a means
to monitor correct sterilization and injection techniques; and
(vii)  in order to evaluate the performance of the immunization program, a baseline
coverage cluster survey will be carried out to estimate the situation in the ten
provinces at the beginning of the project, a second cluster survey will be
carried out at project mid-term, and a third survey will be carried out at
project completion. Technical guidance will be provided by CAPM to assist
the provinces to carry out the three surveys.
22.   The project would finance: (a) program costs, including subsidy to hepatitis B and tetanus
toxoid vaccines; (b) supervision vehicles, management related equipment, including computers and
printers, and software; (c) operating costs of increased supervision and evaluation activities; and (d)
local and foreign technical assistance.
23.   Implementation Responsibility. Overall responsibility for this sub-component rests with
DCD in MOH and project offices in each province. Implementation of this sub-component will be
carried out by the National EPI Center of CAPM, and provincial EPSs in ten project provinces. The
EPI department of provincial EPSs will be responsible to implement the surveillance activities.



- 37 -                                ANNEX 1
Information, Education and Communication (IEC)
24.   The objectives of this sub-component are to: (a) promote public awareness and knowledge on
EPI vaccine-preventable diseases; and (b) generate demand for immunization services and knowledge
on EPI vaccine-preventable diseases through implementation of a communication strategy. The
activities included in this sub-component are follows:
(a)    research on attitude and perception to EPI acceptabilty and identify factors that
contribute to low coverage;
(b)    prepare a communication strategy based on the above research which indicates
behavior change required, potential obstacles and methods to overcome problems;
(c)    each province's detailed plan based on needs of the minority and target groups;
(d)    design message and materials through coordination and technical inputs from the
central level and adaption of message to local cultural needs by each province;
(e)    produce IEC materials at central and provincial levels;
(f)    conduct training on the use of materials, messages, and material options for each
target group identified;
(g)    conduct commnunity IEC activities in settings such as market-fair day for minorities,
exhibits, classes, religious meetings, designed for specific groups and conduct one-to-
one education during routine immunization sessions. Various channels will be used:
TV, radio, and newspaper, to increase general public awareness. IEC activities will
also be scheduled before and during special events such as National Immunization
Days and EPI Publicity Day. Each province is expected to negotiate with local TV
stations a subsidized or free prime time to screen EPI messages; and
(h)    evaluate the IEC program at project mid-term and completion. Program managers
will evaluate the pre- and post-campaign results of knowledge, attitudes, and practices
to assess access to the messages, attitudes about the EPI diseases and the vaccines,
and behavior changes after the communication program was initiated.
25.   Implementation Responsibility. DCD in MOH will be responsible to prepare a
communications plan, coordinate design and development of mass media materials, and organize
evaluation of IEC. DCD will be supported by the national expert technical working group. The
Epidemic Prevention Division in the provincial Health Bureau will prepare a detailed provincial
communication plan to address particular communication needs (including approaches to reach
specific groups of people) and to develop specifically targeted messages and materials. Production of
these materials will be done either at the national or provincial level depending on efficiency and
economies of scale.
26.   The project will finance the design and production of mass media materials, training and
program cost for the initial research, and post-program evaluation.



- 38 -                               ANNEX 2
HEALTH PROMOTION COMPONENT
1.    The objective of the health promotion component is to improve the capacity of the health
sector to design and implement health promotion programs to control the rising prevalence of NCDs,
STDs, HIV and injury. These objectives will be attained by improving the capacity of local
governments to prevent NCDs, STDs/HIV and injury, by providing experience in design,
implementation and evaluation of community based interventions to control NCDs, STDs/HIV and
injury, and by disseminating the project experience to other parts of China. The project will be
implemented in the cities of Beijing, Chengdu, Liuzhou, Luoyang, Shanghai, Tianjin and Weihai; in
addition, Yunnan Province would participate in the project's STDs/HIV activities.
2.    The Health Promotion Component comprises four sub-components: (a) institutional
development and policy reform; (b) human resources development (HRD); (c) surveillance; and (d)
interventions. Coordination, technical support and dissemination of experience will be managed
through the project's National-level Component.
Institutional Development and Policy Reform
3.    The aim of this sub-component is to develop government policies and an institutional
environment required for successful health promotion programs. The objectives are to: (a) develop a
strategic plan for health promotion; (b) define, strengthen, coordinate arrangements to carry out
health promotion activities; (c) mobilize inter-sectoral and community participation in health
promotion; and (d) institute policy measures which support prevention work and healthy behavior
change.
4.    The activities supported by the project under this sub-component are as follows:
(a)    prepare a strategic plan for health promotion, through a process which would involve
and commit both health and non-health sector agencies to specific policies and actions.
The plan will be publicized and discussed in the media in two stages: (i) at the start
of the project, the plan for the project period will be publicized, including objectives
and activities for STDs/HIV which follow the National Strategy; and (ii) toward the
end of the project, by year four, a comprehensive five year health promotion plan will
be finalized defining strategies and directions after the project's completion, and
covering: (1) key health problems, risk factors and knowledge and attitude about risk
factors; (2) recommended solutions and strategies for various population groups; (3)
assessment of current gaps and resource availability; and (4) priorities for action and
strategies for implementation (including further institutional development, policy
reform, health service measures, city-wide public information and interventions in
particular settings). Technical assistance and study tours will be arranged for
policy makers to obtain first hand experience on health promotion policy
planning and development. The responsible implementation unit is the Health
Bureau of each city and the Yunnan provincial government.



- 39 -                                 ANNEX 2
(b)    develop leadership capability in planning, implementing and evaluating health
promotion activities. An Inter-sectoral Policy Guidance Committee will be established
at the city level, chaired by the vice mayor responsible for social sector. Within each
city's Health Bureau, a Project Leading Group will be established to coordinate inputs
from within the health sector (i.e., epidemic prevention, health education, medical
administration, science technology and education, policy and law, finance). Each city
will also establish technical groups to provide guidance in: community health,
epidemiology, health education, nutrition, NCDs, STDs/HIV, health economics,
social and behavioral sciences, and communication and public relations. The health
promotion activities will be implemented through expanding the roles of existing
organizations, and enhancement of capacity and improved coordination among existing
institutions. The three key health units are: the NCD Control Office in the EPS; the
City Health Education Institute (HEI); and the STD Control Office. Responsibilities
of each unit are described in the PIP (ANNEX 7). The HEIs will expand their
functions beyond the current focus on production of education material, to closer
coordination with mass media and community organizations and to provide guidance,
training and quality control for district and county level workers on health promotion
interventions. A group of health promoters will be recruited and trained (5-10 staff)
to assist in designing, implementing, and evaluating community based interventions.
Specific content areas would include: STD prevention, community nutrition, tobacco
control, school health, workplace health promotion, and social marketing. The
project will support the expansion of functions and responsibilities for the EPS
and HEI by providing training for staff, necessary equipment including
transportation, and program support cost.
(c)    Policy Reform. Each city will select priority policies for development and enactment
during the project period. The topics include smoking control (bans on advertising,
smoking in public places and sales to youth; labelling), STDs/HIV control (increased
availability of condoms; improved clinical services for STDs with anonymous
treatment, training and licensing of private doctors; and sex education in schools),
health education (curriculum for primary and secondary schools), physical fitness
(exercise breaks at schools and workplace), and injury control (traffic restrictions, seat
belt and helmet regulations). The project will support incremental expenses for
meetings, workshops and other events and dissemination of policy documents.
Responsible implementation unit: Health Bureaus.
5.     Monitoring Indicators. Specific environmnental indicators will be used to monitor the impact
of the policy reforms and implementation. Changes such as number of non-smoking places and signs,
percent of workplaces with no smoking policies, the availability and sales of condoms, minutes of
health content during prime time TV, frequency and accuracy of health columns in newspapers, and
prevalence of health messages in public areas of hospitals will be used. The behavioral risk factor
surveillance system, planned as part of the project, will provide the baseline and monitoring
information throughout the project period. Responsible: EPS (Project office), NCD Center, STD
Control Offices, HEI.



- 40 -                                 ANNEX 2
Surveillance
6.     The objectives of this subcomponent are to: (a) establish a system for surveillance of the
behavioral risk factors for NCDs, STDs/HIV and injury; (b) establish a system of monitoring
environment factors which support a healthy lifestyle; (c) upgrade mortality reporting; and (d)
improve the interpretation and use of this data to monitor health trends and to plan and evaluate health
promotion activities.
7.     The activities supported by the project under this sub-component are as follows:
(a)    establish a city based behavioral risk factor surveillance system (BRFSS) for
continuous and standardized collection, analysis and dissemination of information on
behavioral and environmental risk factors and related attitudes and knowledge. The
BRFSS will collect a common core of data on knowledge, attitudes and practice or
behavior (KAP) from a sample of the general population in each participating city.
Questions related to STDs and HIV will be included. Within 8 months from the start
of the project, an expanded survey will collect data to serve as project baseline.
BRFSS data will be used for the design and monitoring of health promotion
interventions. CAPM will be responsible to develop, manage and supervise the
implementation of the system in the cities and for collation and feedback of results.
The EPS in each city will implement the BRFSS. The project will support the
recruitment of incremental staff, training for a team of interviewers in BRFSS
administration, data management (data analysis and processing), programmers, and
supervisors, necessary equipment (tape recorder, motorcycle or transportation cost and
computer and statistical software), and cost of meetings, publication and dissemination
of the results. Implementing agency: HEI (Beijing, Shanghai), EPS (Tianjin,
Chengdu, Luoyang), and NCD Center (Liuzhou).
(b)    establish in each city an environmental monitoring mechanism to capture key elements
in the environment which influence individual behavior and which relate to proposed
policy reforms (para. 5). The system will be implemented at beginning, middle and
end of the project. The results will be used to focus targets for policy interventions
and for public education as well as for assessment of policy effectiveness. The project
will support the development and implementation of the system, including training,
data collection, and analysis and dissemination of results. Implementing agency: HEI
(Beijing, Shanghai), EPS (Tianjin, Chengdu, Luoyang, Weihai), and NCD Center
(Liuzhou), and Yunnan Province.
(c)    improve current death reporting systems in five cities and introduce the new system in
the other two cities (Liuzhou and Weihai). The mortality surveillance system will be
standardized and refined through: addition of "place of death", case data entry, and
improved coding of cause of death, using the international classification of disease
(ICD-9). The project will provide in-service training for doctors and registration
offices on the use of ICD-9 in each city. Implementing agency: EPS at the city
level, EPS and related hospitals at county and township levels and vital statistics
registration offices.



- 41-                                  ANNEX 2
(d)    evaluate the quality, cost, and application of the current morbidity surveillance
systems in Tianjin and Chengdu. CAPM will assist the EPS in the two cities to
conduct the evaluation. The project will support foreign and local technical assistance
(4 weeks) to assist with the evaluation and dissemination of findings.
8.    Monitoring and Performance Indicators. CAPM will monitor activities and problems in the
implementation of the surveillance systems on an ongoing basis.
Human Resources Development
9.     The objectives of this subcomponent are to: (a) improve and maintain the competence of
those people who carry out health promotion and related activities, both inside and outside the health
sector; (b) ensure that sufficient competent people are available to manage and conduct all project
activities; (c) improve and maintain skills in project management, supervision and evaluation; and (d)
increase the capacity of local institutions to provide training in health promotion subjects on a long-
term basis.
10.   The project would support the following activities under this sub-component:
(a)    prepare, during the first two years of the project, short- and long-term plans for
training in health promotion.
(b)    conduct the in-service training required for implementing each project sub-component
and for project management; including training of health and other personnel in skills
for leadership and institutional development, policy reform, surveillance and health
promotion interventions in a community settings, through workshops and short in-
service courses to update knowledge of NCDs, STDs/HIV and injury, and provide
relevant health promotion skills as well as capability for project supervision and
management. Trainers for specific topics will be from the health bureau, clinical
facilities or other relevant institutions. Training materials and guidelines will be
developed or adapted. Trainees will be health staff and managers from city, district
and neighborhood levels as well as staff of other government sectors and members of
the community. Specific training, associated with licensing agreements, will be
provided to improve services provided by STD clinics. Training of trainers will focus
on participatory methods for teaching practical skills relevant to the health promotion
work or tasks of the trainees.
(c)    assisting training institutions to upgrade or introduce training in topics relevant to
health promotion, based on a comprehensive assessment of HRD needs and resources
in the cities to be conducted in the second year of the project. The project will
improve the capacity of selected local training institutions to conduct training in the
core skills of health promotion in the long term, particularly after the project is
completed. Staff of these training facilities will be trained in relevant subject areas
and in modern participatory methods for teaching and learning. Improvements of
curricula and teaching methods will be made in consultation with the concerned
authorities.



- 42 -                                 ANNEX 2
(d)    arrange for training of up to three months at appropriate institutions in other parts of
China, and a limited amount of short term overseas training and study tours. Foreign
and local technical assistance will be arranged through the central level to ensure
appropriate content and quality of training, especially for training of trainers, HRD
needs assessment, and training management and evaluation.
11.   The project will finance: development of training curricula, new materials and visual
aids; revision of existing training materials; production of training materials; operational costs of
training courses and events; regional and overseas study tours to see IRD for health promotion;
technical assistance (domestic and foreign) to improve planning, implementation and evaluation
of training initiatives and capacity building; and training equipment.
12.   Implementation Arrangements. In each project city, the project office or another suitable
division or institution is responsible for overall organization, coordination and monitoring of HRD
activities. A full time qualified training coordinator will work closely with managers of other sub-
components to ensure that the training program meets the needs of the other project areas. District
and county level health bureaus will also assign one staff member to manage local training and liaise
with the city level. For each major technical area, a core team of trainers will be formed from both
the technical divisions and training institutions.
13.   National level guidance and supervision will be provided by the HRD coordinator of the
project's technical unit in CAPM. This unit will coordinate a HRD network of all participating cities
with the following functions: (a) to share tasks in training preparation such as curriculum
improvement, training of trainers and materials development, including drafting, testing, revision,
final design and production; and (b) to share experiences and technical expertise, including external
and national experts. For training in subject areas not yet well established in China, appropriate
curricula from other countries will be adapted to meet the need.
14.   The National-level Component will also: coordinate local and foreign technical assistance,
study tours and foreign training; provide quality assurance for materials and training prograrn
development; provide training of trainers; and include progress monitoring and feedback.
15.   Each city and the national level will develop an HRD plan for the project period and annual
workplans, in coordination with the managers of other sub-components and approved by the city's
Project Leading Group. In the second year of the project, a needs assessment of HRD in health
promotion will be carried out, and used to adjust the remaining three years of the plan, with increased
emphasis on capacity building in health promotion training.
16.   Monitoring Indicators. The HRD activities and progress will be monitored through brief
reports of all training events which will be collated by the training coordinator. Summary progress
reports will be prepared twice a year and forwarded to the national level technical unit for collation.
Interventions
17.   The objectives of this sub-component are to: (a) provide experience in the design,
implementation, and evaluation of a range of community-based health promotion interventions; and
(b) reduce risk factors and prevent or control NCDs, STDs/HIV and injury in selected settings.



-43-                                    ANNEX 2
18.    Activities. Under this sub-component, cities will plan and implement a wide range of
activities aimed at reducing critical behavioral and environmental risk factors for NCDs, STDs/HIV
and injury. In the first two years, all cities will address smoking, STDs/HIV, diet, and physical
activity, while some cities will also deal with injury, hypertension and cancer during that period. By
year three, all cities will have started interventions dealing with each of these risk factors/conditions.
The priority dietary risk factors to be addressed will be further defined by the Food, Hygiene and
Nutrition Institute and CAPM, to ensure that the work of cities on nutrition is directed to important
diet-related aspects of NCD prevention in China.
19.    The interventions will be carried out city-wide and in four types of community settings: (a)
schools; (b) work units; (c) hospitals; and (d) neighborhoods. The activities themselves fall into one
of three categories: (a) local policy and environmental change; (b) public information; and (c)
enhancement of individual and family skills for behavior change. Improvement of health services for
STDs/HIV and hypertension control will also be carried out. Community development activities will
be undertaken, particularly in neighborhoods and with some special groups.
20.    During the first two years, each city will conduct a core of activities in each of the four
settings and city-wide, but with flexibility in the methods and emphasis. Core activities are those
with high potential to reach a substantial proportion of target groups, and to have a greater impact on
risk factors. The city-wide core activities will be directed to local policy and environmental change
and public information, such as smoking bans, increased distribution of condoms, and targeted
messages to special groups about risk factors. In schools, core activities include policies and
incentives related to non-smoking, physical activity and healthy foods, along with improved school
curricula and teacher training in health education.
21.    Cities will also undertake optional activities from a menu to be agreed upon by the
Government and the Association. Two-year rolling plans for intervention activities will be developed
by each city and reviewed and approved annually by MOH.
22.   Implementation Arrangements. At the city level, either the HEI or the EPS will be
responsible for the implementation of this sub-component. Intervention managers and training
coordinators will be appointed in each city to develop operational plans, implement and supervise the
activities, supported by the city's project office and leading group. The Central-level Project Office
will develop guidelines for interventions, and assist with design of messages and materials. Public
information materials that support the interventions will be developed by the HEIs in each city.
District level intervention coordinators will be designated to coordinate the implementation of
interventions in each of the four settings in each city.
23.    For most cities, the implementation will be phased, beginning with a small number of
intervention sites in each setting, pilot testing and refining the interventions in the first two years, and
subsequently expanding to more sites.
24.    Training will be arranged for intervention managers, training coordinators, district-level
intervention coordinators, and key people in the intervention sites such as local leaders, teachers, food
service personnel, and peer educators (lay leaders). Intervention managers and training coordinators
from each city will participate in study tours and national workshops on health promotion strategies
for particular risk factors, policy, practice and models, planning and evaluation, settings-based health



- 44 -                                 ANNEX 2
promotion, and adult education principles and practice.
25.    The project will rmance: training; technical assistance; development and operational
costs; materials; and equipment related to health promotion interventions.
26.   Monitoring and Evaluation. The interventions sub-component will be evaluated, using the
BRFSS and environmental indicators to monitor changes in randomly selected intervention sites and
target groups compared with similar measures in the general population of cities. In this type of
project, a quasi-experimental design is neither feasible nor desirable. Time series measures of
behavioral risk factor prevalence will identify secular trends in risk factors in a city population
sample, and may be compared to similar measures before and after intervention in more intensive
intervention sites. Changes in environmental indicators, such as number of no smoking signs posted in
selected types of public places, or the availability of low-fat dairy products in food shops will be
measured at least three times over the study period (i.e., baseline, middle and end of project). The
central project office will assist the cities in the design of the evaluation and of special additions to the
BRFSS to provide this information.



- 45 -                               ANNEX 2
Attachment 1
STD/HIV PROGRAM APPROACH
1.    This Attachment summarizes the project's approach to the prevention and control of sexually
transmitted disease (STD) and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). which together constitute one
topic area (along with non-communicable disease and injury) of the Health Promotion Component. In
each of the participating cities, initiatives related to STDs/HIV will be an integral part of each of the
four sub-components, as described below. In addition, the project will support efforts by Yunnan
Province to improve STDs/HIV prevention and control within Kunming city and on a province-wide
basis.
2.    Project initiatives for this topic area have been selected from the National Strategy for
Prevention of STD/HIV to the year 2000, through dialogue with experts from MOH and related
institutions, and in coordination with other activities being supported by the government and other
international organizations. The project will make use of information, guidelines and training
materials prepared through the National program, and the progress and experience of the project areas
will be reported to and disseminated through the National organization.
3.    The specific objectives of project initiatives in STDs/HIV are to: (a) increase awareness of
STDs/HIV in the general population and in special groups; (b) control the rising prevalence of
STDs/HIV through actions to reduce transmission; and (c) obtain experience in STDs/HIV prevention
at the city level and in Yunnan Province for dissemination to other parts of China.
4.    The main strategies that will be used are: (a) provision of information, education and
communication (IEC), to support healthy and preventive behavior; (b) promotion of condom use; and
(c) improved access and quality of diagnosis and case management of STD for both men and women.
5.    The above-mentioned objectives and strategies for the control of STDs/HIV will be
implemented through the programs incorporated in the four sub-components of the Health Promotion
Component of the project. These four sub-components are elaborated earlier in ANNEX 2. While a
number of activities under the STDs/HIV control program will be developed and finalized during the
project period, the program is expected to include the activities which are described below.
I.    INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND POLICY REFORM
(a)    The project's Inter-sectoral Policy Guidance Committee will be responsible for overall
direction and progress review for STDs/HIV as for other topic areas.
(b)    Each city will nominate a suitable health facility or unit to give technical leadership
and coordination as needed, e.g., the STD control center of EPS or a clinical facility
for STD control and training (IEC activities would be managed as for the other topic
areas in each city).
(c)    Each city will prepare an action plan for STDs/HIV control.



- 46 -                                ANNEX 2
Attachment 1
(d)    The following policy reforms will be implemented during the project: (i) anonymity
of people coming for STD treatment. Records will not need to include the names of
patients; (ii) affordability of STD advice and treatment. Cities will be asked to
provide a plan of how to make STD clinic services affordable; (iii) wider distribution
of condoms, including availability of condoms at all STD treatment points used by
men and women, such as specific STD clinics, general clinics and MCH and
gynecology clinics; (iv) improved management of public and private clinics, including
the training (see III (d) below) and licensing of private practitioners; (v) screening of
blood donors for HIV; and (vi) sex education in schools.
II.    SURVEILLANCE
(a)    Questions related to STDs/HIV will be incorporated into the baseline questionnaire of
the Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS), and in surveys aimed at
specific groups in the community, e.g., the youth behavior survey.
III. HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT
(a)    Training and briefings for leadership development for project leading and coordination
groups and administrators at all levels, to improve inter-sectoral awareness among
opinion leaders and gain high level support.
(b)    Training of managers of the STDs/HIV prevention program.
(c)    Training and workshops in development of the IEC strategy and plan for STDs/HIV.
(d)    Training in diagnosis and management of STDs, including interpersonal
communication, and reporting requirements for doctors in government and private
practice and other health workers. Cities will be asked to prepare a plan for training
of private doctors.
IV. COMMUNITY-BASED INTERVENTIONS
(a)    Health education in three broad target categories: (i) for the general public -- to
improve knowledge of STDs/HIV and prevention measures in the whole city, through
mass media, propaganda days, competitions, community and workplace consultations,
hot lines, etc.; (ii) for schools -- including high schools, training colleges, vocational
schools and universities, including relevant topics in the health education curriculum;
and (iii) for special groups -- young people, the migrating ("floating") population,
people detained in prison or reeducation centers, hotel workers, commercial sex
workers, drivers, businessmen, male and female STD patients. In Yunnan Province,
intravenous drug users (IDUs) will also be specifically targeted. Methods will include
holding workshops, videotape watching, interpersonal communication, peer education,
print materials, etc.



-47-                                 ANNEX 2
Attachment 1
(b)   Improved effectiveness, quality and patient satisfaction with STD diagnosis and case
management, to achieve higher attendance and higher one-time cure rates for STD,
through: (i) introduction of standard case management protocols, based on the
national guidelines or official city versions, e.g., Shanghai; (ii) introduction of the
syndromic approach to STD case management at the neighborhood level and by
private practitioners, after the national pilot is completed (by July 1996); (iii) training
of doctors and other health workers (see III (d) above); (iv) certification of
competence to provide STD treatment and advice; (v) improved clinical supervision of
STD services, both public and private; (vi) provision of a patient-friendly environment
by improving clinic location and hours, privacy and confidentiality, having condoms
and medicines available at treatment point, and controlling fees and charges; and (vii)
the National STD Reference Group, with feedback from participating cities, will
develop a composite set of criteria for assessment of the quality of STD clinics,
covering skills, services, privacy, IEC, charges, etc. The project will aim to increase
progressively the number and proportion of clinics and treatment points in each city
which meet these criteria.
(c)   Increased condom availability and affordability. National and city level coordination
groups will decide ways to achieve this and include them in the STD/HIV action plan.
One important principle agreed on is that condoms should be available and offered to
men and women at the time they receive STD treatment and advice on prevention of
spread and recurrence. Pricing arrangements will be tested to increase condom use.
For example the cost of the condoms can be included in the consultation fee so that
they do not appear as an extra cost for the patient at that time.
6.    Financing by the Project. The project would finance: preparation of the city's STD/HIV
action plan and annual progress review workshops; technical assistance; training; additional materials
development if needed (taking into account other national initiatives); management and specified
additional inputs to health education campaigns and events; selected equipment; and the costs of
distribution of condoms (social marketing). The recommended equipment for diagnosis of STDs at
each level has been based on advice from the National Center for STD Control, MOH and WHO.
These costs for each of the inputs mentioned have been included in the cost estimates for each project
sub-component.
7.    Implementation Arrangements. At the central level a small STD/HIV advisory group,
comprising representatives of DCD, CAPM, and the National STD Center at Nanjing will provide
advice as needed to the project's central leading and coordination groups, and links to the National
STD/HIV program. At the city level, implementation of STDs/HIV activities will be managed under
the four sub-components. Appropriate technical support and coordination for each activity will be
specified in the action plan (see I (c) above) and annual workplans for the component.
8.    Monitoring and Evaluation. Arrangements for monitoring progress in achieving the
objectives for STD/HIV control under the project will be finalized by the National STD/HIV advisory
group, with feedback from the participating cities, within the overall project monitoring framework.
The list of indicators is presented here, including some milestones of planning, management and
policy reform, and some quantitative indicators of output and outcome. For each quantitative



- 48 -                               ANNEX 2
Attachment 1
indicator, the definition, method and frequency of collection, reporting mechanism, and responsibility
will be decided by the project launch and the first supervision of the project. The first collection of
data, which will form the baseline for the project interventions, will be conducted within the first
project year. It is proposed that the information will be compiled at the city level at least at six
month intervals, and the results publicized and discussed within the city to generate public awareness,
understanding and support, and obtain feedback to assist with planning improvements.
9.    INDICATORS for STD/EIiV
Process Indicators
(a)    5 year and annual plans prepared.
(b)    Progress reports prepared every six months, with report on media dissemination.
(c)    Policy reforms prepared and announced or implemented.
(d)    Number of meetings conducted with policy makers, training completed compared with
target.
(e)    Develop a set of criteria for assessment of the quality of STD clinics (see IV (b)
above).
Output Indicators
(f)    Number (%) of STD treatment centers meeting "standard management" criteria.
(g)    Condom distribution points compared with target.
(h)    Number of "anonymous cases reported" using one-time cure management protocols.
(i)    Number of practitioners trained.
Outcome Indicator
(j)    Trends in Incidence of STDs.
Yunnan Province
10.   In addition to the seven cities that include STDs/HIV prevention in the Health Promotion
Component, Yunnan Province will also conduct a special sub-component on STDs/HIV. Yunnan has
been included because of its particular place in the HIV epidemic in China. It is a large,
mountainous, poor province in southwest China with a population of 38 million and shares a long
international border with Burma, Laos and Vietnam. It was the first Chinese province to record HIV
infection and AIDS, and in 1993 accounted for 85 percent of all HIV positive cases in China,
predominantly among IDUs in a few border counties. HIV is spread among IDUs by practices such
as needle sharing, and from this group to the general community through sexual transmission.
Therefore IDUs and the communities in which they live represent a special target group for health
education and other interventions to reduce risky behavior.
11.   Kunmning, the capital of Yunnan, is seen as an important focus for the project because it is the
commercial and demographic center of the province, to which and through which many people travel,
including those moving from the border areas to other parts of China. Kunming is estimated to have



-49-                                  ANNEX 2
Attachment 1
10,000 drug users and a thriving "entertainment" industry, including commercial sex, concentrated in
one or two wealthy urban districts. The city also has a wide representation of minorities, including
designated minority districts.
12.    Several projects to reduce HIV transmission are under implementation in Yunnan's border
areas, with assistance from international agencies, including a four country project along the Mekong
river, coordinated by UNDP. Yunnan has established a provincial office for AIDS control and
prevention, and a network of screening laboratories and surveillance points. The province has
prepared a plan for HIV control up to the year 2000, giving priority to inter-sectoral cooperation,
public education, improved organizational arrangements, and increased international cooperation.
13.   Under the project, Yunnan Province will adopt the same objectives, strategies and activities as
described above for the participating cities with broader geographic scope. Many of the activities in
Yunnan will be designed and finalized during project implementation.



- 50 -                                 ANNEX 3
NATIONAL-LEVEL COMPONENT
I.    Introduction
1.    The efficient management of the project and ultimately the need to disseminate the
experiences gained through the project to other provinces and cities in China call for investment in a
National-level Component.
2.     The need for a National-level Component is reinforced by the complexity of the project (i.e.,
two distinct components), the number of participating entities (10 provinces and 7 cities), new policy
developments in immunization (e.g., tetanus toxoid and hepatitis B), and the newness of health
promotion as a field of public health practice in China.
3.     Therefore, the National-level Component is the driving force for the entire project. The
technical assistance (TA) requirements for health promotion are unparalleled in previous projects.
This TA is crucial both for the initial stages of project development and implementation and for
evaluation at the conclusion of the project. Insofar as the experience gained in the seven project cities
will inform future policy and practice in the control of NCD, STDs/HIV, and injury in China, the
National-level Component is critical to meeting project objectives.
4.     For provinces involved in the Immunization Component, there is central development of a
national EPI management information system, national policy and implementation strategy for tetanus
and hepatitis B immunization, and support for institutional capacity building in IEC.
5.     For cities involved in the Health Promotion Component, there is a need for central
development of the behavioral risk factor surveillance system (BRFSS), coordinated development of
training materials and of curriculum for education of health promotion specialist, and coordination of
policy developments, leadership training, and TA. As health promotion is a new area of public health
practice for China, there is the need for capacity building and institutional development at the national
level to ensure that project cities receive appropriate guidance and evaluation and that the experiences
are disseminated to other parts of China.
6.     The objectives of the National-level Component are to:
(a)    provide national policy guidance;
(b)    provide national leadership in surveillance system and human resources development;
(c)    coordinate activities across provinces and cities and across several national institutions
as needed and to disseminate project experience;
(d)    provide or coordinate provision of TA; and
(e)    ensure efficient and effective project implementation.



- 51-                                ANNEX 3
II.    Functions of National-Level Component
7.    The major functions to be performed centrally are:
(a)    Project management, supervision, implementation assistance, reporting, evaluation and
dissemination. It is necessary to ensure that the project objectives are met and
implementation is consistent across the large number of provinces and cities. The
FLO disbursement and audit requirements and other procedures as detailed in the
implementation plan. Liaison will be necessary with WHO, the State Planning
Commission, the Ministry of Finance as well as the World Bank. The Disease
Control Department (DCD) will provide implementation assistance (particularly for
cities in the Health Promotion Component and counties in the Immunization
Component), monitor progress in cities and provinces against performance indicators,
undertake evaluation of project and disseminate project results. The Chinese
Academy of Preventive Medicine (CAPM) and the National Institute for Health
Education (NIHE) will be providing and coordinating technical guidance.
(b)    Policy development, coordination and dissemination. A coordinated approach to
policy development and implementation is necessary to ensure a consistent framework
across different levels of government. DCD will coordinate the development and
dissemination of national policies and guidelines and support provinces and cities in
policy reforms at the local level. For the Immunization Component, this will be
focussed on introduction of tetanus toxoid (in high-risk areas) into the regular
immunization program, and expansion of hepatitis B vaccines, on covering the
migrating ("floating") population and unregistered children, and to improve access for
the poorest families. Appropriate forms, guidelines and operational manuals will be
developed. In addition, mechanisms for EPI financing and replacement of cold chain
equipment will need to be established. For health promotion, this will involve
guidance on implementing the national strategy on HIV/AIDS and the standard
protocols for diagnosis and treatment of STD, the development of national NCD
strategy, and promotion of national policies on tobacco control, nutrition, and
financing of prevention. In addition, protocols for developing, conducting and
evaluating interventions will be centrally provided. The need to develop and
coordinate operations research will also arise.
(c)    Training, materials development, and IEC coordination. There is a need to
improve IEC skills of immunization personnel and to improve knowledge and skills of
those working in health promotion and control of NCD, STDs/HIV, and injury. To
ensure appropriate training and IEC materials development, research will be needed
on effective channels for health communication and on attitude, perception and
practices that influence acceptability of immunization. Protocols for IEC will be
centrally developed. Assistance will be required for provinces and cities to refine
training plans. Existing training materials need to be reviewed and, where necessary,
revisions made and new ones developed. Training to the provincial and city-level
trainers will be needed. Because of the newness of health promotion, curriculum for
education of health promotion specialists would need to be reviewed to ensure that the
courses meet contemporary international standards. Coordination of curriculum and



- 52 -                               ANNEX 3
teaching materials development will also be needed to incorporate knowledge and
skills on health education and control of NCD and STDs/HIV into health worker
education. A national human resources development working group for health
promotion will work on a network basis to draw on locally available expertise and
ensure responsiveness to meeting local needs. The national-level training program is
expected to be developed during the first two years of the project.
(d)    Surveillance system development and coordination. The project will initiate the
development of two national surveillance systems. Both systems are fundamental to
the monitoring of the project and will require national approaches to their
development and implementation, including establishment, system administration,
training of provincial/city staff, and data analysis. For the Immunization Component,
the EPI management information system will provide information on immunization
coverage, cold chain operation, and morbidity and mortality of vaccine-preventable
diseases. The central level will also coordinate the implementation of three cluster
surveys. For the Health Promotion Component, the BRFSS, along with
Environmental Indicators Surveillance, will provide information on knowledge,
attitudes, practices, behaviors and environmental factors related to NCDs and
STDs/HIV. City and provincial level staff will require support for form and
questionnaire development, data collection and entry, analysis, and reporting and
feedback procedures. In addition to establishing these new systems, the central level
will provide assistance on standardization and refinement of death reporting (including
implementation of the system in Weihai and Liuzhou) and to evaluate the cost, design
and usefulness of morbidity reporting systems in Chengdu and Tianjin.
(e)    Technical Assistance (TA). For the EPI component, the central level will provide
TA or act as a reference point for local TA. The Health Promotion Component will
require substantial foreign TA for designing and implementing various aspects of the
project and the most cost-efficient approach is for a coordinated approach. The
project would support needed input for health promotion, e.g., overseas short-term
training, study tours and foreign TA, on a nationally coordinated basis. Some TA
will also be provided by the national technical units and expert committees for the
Health Promotion Component.
(f)   Institutional Development and Capacity Development. For the Immunization
Component, the development of high-level planning and management expertise at the
national and provincial levels is needed, within the Health Bureau generally and for
EPS and Health Education Institutes specifically. Mid-level staff will benefit
particularly from short-term overseas training and practical placements in related
agencies overseas. For the Health Promotion Component, the appropriate
organizational framework will be established at the national level to provide guidance
to the cities and to other areas beyond the project period. There is a need to ensure
development of the full range of expertise required for effective control of NCD,
STDs/HIV and injury, particularly the development of social science,
communications, and program evaluation expertise. Furthermore, there is a need to
ensure that leaders at national and provincial levels fully appreciate the nature,
complexity, and importance of control of NCD, STDs/HIV, and injury. Training and



- 53 -                               ANNEX 3
development of leaders as well as senior health professionals can be effected through
seminars and study tours.
8.    Links with other donors and international organizations will be important throughout the life
of the project. In particular, WHO has had ongoing involvement as well as current projects in
immunization, health promotion and HIV/AIDS. Coordination will avoid unnecessary duplication of
developmental efforts and maximize training and TA opportunities. In addition, project participants
should share information and exchange experiences with an expanded network of provinces and cities.
Ill.   Organization of National-Level Component
9.    Overall direction of the project will be provided by a Leading Group, chaired by the Minister
of Health and comprising directors of concerned departments/units, namely DCD, FLO, Planning and
Finance, Science Technology and Education, and the Patriotic Health Campaign Committee. The
secretariat will be provided by FLO.
10.   Under the Leading Group, a Project Coordination Group is responsible for overall planning
and implementation of the central component activities. The Group is co-chaired by the Directors of
FLO and DCD and consists of Chiefs of the EPI, NCD and STD Divisions of DCD and the Project
Division of FLO, and the Directors of CAPM and NIHE.
11.   Detailed planning of National-level Component activities for both components will be
undertaken by CAPM which has established two technical units of full-time professional staff, one on
immunization and the other on health promotion. The health promotion technical unit will work
closely with the NIHE on providing TA and guidance to the cities on intervention design and
evaluation, with the CAPM Institute for Food Hygiene and Nutrition for nutrition aspects of the
project, and with the CAPM HIV Unit and the National STD Center in Nanjing on STD/HIV issues.
The CAPM units are accountable to MOH through DCD and will coordinate input and involvement of
other experts and technical agencies, such as universities and the inter-city cooperative network for
health promotion human resources development. An adequate level of staffing with coverage of
appropriate range of expertise is crucial to project success and identifiable teams have been
established within CAPM for health promotion interventions, human resources development and
surveillance. It is noted that the technical units will become part of a proposed permanent Center for
Disease Control and Prevention to be established within CAPM.
12.   Administrative and operational requirements of the project will be the responsibility of the
FLO. FLO will liaise with provinces and cities on these matters. Technical guidance and
implementation assistance to provinces and cities on all other aspects of program activities and overall
monitoring of the project activities will be the responsibility of DCD.
13.   Expert committees on EPI and Health Promotion have been set up to advise on policy
formulation, development of training materials, and project implementation and evaluation. They will
report to the Project Coordination Group.



- 54 -                               ANNEX 3
IV.   Key Activities
14.   The attached table sets out key activities and responsible unit(s) according to function and
project component.



NATIONAL-LEVEL COMPONENT ACTIVTIES
Function                Immunization            Responsible  I       Health Promotion          Responsible
l______________  l________________J    Unit                                       Unit
Policy development,      - Prepare national control   -MOH/DCD        -Develop National NCD Control  -MOH/DCD
coordination and         strategies and guidelines for                Strategy
dissemination            tetanus toxoid (TT) and                      - Disseminate and implement    -MOH/DCD
hepatitis B                                 National STD/HIV Strategy
- Prepare training manual for   -MOH/DCD    - Disseminate and implement    -MOH/DCD
mass campaign on TT                         protocols for STD diagnosis and
- Follow-up surveillance and    -MOH/DCD    treatment
case reporting                              - Promote national level policy   -MOH &
- Develop and coordinate    -MOH/DCD &   development for tobacco control  PHCC
operations research as needed   CAPM        - Establish national guidelines    -MOH/DCD &
for nutrition improvement and    CAPM                   LA
promote national level food and
nutrition policy
- Develop policy on financing    -MOH/PFD
for prevention
P



Function               hImmunization         | Responsible  |       Health Promotion          Responsible
Unit                                          Unit
Supervision,             - Establish procedures and  -MOH/DCD        - Provide guidance on design   -CAPM &
implementation assistance,  guidelines for supervision at            and implementation of          NIHE
reporting, evaluation, and   each level, from province to            interventions
dissemination            village                                     - Assist cities with special  -CAPM &
- Monitor progress on project  -MOH/DCD     investigation and pilots as   NIHE
implementation                              needed
- Provide reports to World  -MOH/FLO        - Undertake evaluation of     -CAPM
Bank                                        interventions
- Conduct mid-term and      -MOH            - Monitor progress on project    -MOH/DCD
project completion review and               implementation
evaluation                                  - Provide reports to WB       -MOH/FLO
- Disseminate project results  -MOH &
through newsletters, annual   CAPM
conferences, etc.
On
Training, materials      - Conduct research on       -CAPM           - Conduct qualitative research    -NIHE
development, and IEC     attitude, perception and                    on effective channels of health
coordination             practices that influence                    communications
acceptability of immunization               - Set up national HRD Working   -CAPM
- Develop communication     -CAPM           Group on a network basis
strategy and design                         - Coordinate development of    -CAPM
communication program                       and provide quality assurance
alternatives to address various             for training materials
population groups                           - Develop protocols for       -CAPM &
- Review existing training  -MOH/DCD &   intervention design, evaluation    NIHE
materials and revise or     CAPM            and IEC activities
develop new materials as                    - TOT for city-level personnel   -CAPM
necessary                                   - Review university curriculum    -CAPM, PHCC
for health promotion          & MOH/STE
w



Function                Immunization           Responsible          Health Promotion          Responsible
[                        I                                  Unit                                          Unit
Surveillance system      - Coordinate three cluster   -CAPM          - Set up BRFSS and             -CAPM
coordination             surveys                                     Environmental Indicators
- Improve national EPI      -CAPM           Surveillance in project cities
management information                      - Provide training to cities on  -CAPM
system                                      surveillance system
- Provide training in data  -CAPM          implementation and analysis
collection and analysis                     - Undertake initial data analysis  -CAPM
- Provide training on basic    -CAPM        and disseminate results for
computer skills                             BRFSS
- Establish measles         -MOH/DCD &   - Assist Liuzhou and Weihai in   -CAPM
surveillance system         CAPM            establishing death reporting
system
- Standardize and refine death    -CAPM
reporting system
- Assist Chengdu and Tianjin in  -CAPM
evaluating morbidity reporting
system
TA and foreign training  - Provide & manage TA and   -MOH/DCD &   - Coordinate foreign TA,          -MOH/FLO &
and study tour           Coordinate provincial level  CAPM           training and study tours for   CAPM
coordination             study tour/TA                               cities
- Provide/arrange local TA    -CAPM



Function                 Immunization         | Responsible  1       Health Promotion        |  Responsible
Unit                                           Unit
Institutional/leadership  - Organize development of    -MOH/DCD &   - Develop appropriate structure   -MOH, CAPM
development and capacity-  planning and management     CAPM            and process at national level for   & NIHE
building at national and  expertise for senior national                project period and beyond
provincial levels         and provincial officials                     - Develop and implement        -MOH, CAPM
- Upgrade technical capacity   -CAPM         communications strategy for    & NIHE
on data analysis including                   project
coverage and program                         - Develop expertise currently  -CAPM
management                                  lacking at national level, e.g.
social sciences, evaluation
research, communications
- Undertake workforce planning   -MOH
to meet future health promotion
needs
- Organize national high-level    -MOH/DCD &
policy seminars for leaders    CAPM                    00
-Organize management training   -MOH/FLO &
and study tours for senior     CAPM
officials and leaders
- Assess capacity building     -MOH/DCD &
(including training) effectiveness  CAPM



- 59 -                               ANNEX 4
REPLACEMENT AND LONG-TERM SUSTAINABILITY OF THE COLD CHAIN
1.    Justification. During the 1980s, as part of its participation in the Expanded Program on
Immunization (EPI) and its commitment to the Universal Childhood Immunization goal for 1990,
China with international assistance embarked on the establishment of a complete cold chain system
extending from the vaccine factories to village level immunization posts. Most of the vehicles and
equipment used in this cold chain were purchased and installed in the late 1980s. In the rush to
expand capacity, inadequate provisions were made by the government at each level for the inevitable
need to replace equipment as it wears out. Although some replacement purchases have been made
and a limited amount of donations are still provided, the current levels are inadequate to prevent
serious deterioration in the cold chain in the next few years, including breakdowns of the system in
some areas. Assistance is needed while the government establishes a more sustainable long-term
replacement program. In addition to replacement of the current cold chain, some expansion and
changes in standards are needed, both to improve quality and to accommodate new vaccines, in
particular the routine use of hepatitis B vaccine.
2.    Standards. In order to calculate the requirements for cold chain replacement and expansion,
both for the project period and in the future, a series of standards were established based on
experience in China and international standards used by the World Health Organization. These are as
follows:
(a)  The standard types and quantities of cold chain equipment needed at province,
prefectural, county, township and village level depending on the size of the units and the
organization of immunization services within them (See Table A4-1). Due to the need to
improve sterile technique at the immunization point level, steam sterilizers, needles and
syringes are included in the list even though they are not "cold chain" equipment per se.
(b)  The estimate unit costs for appropriate equipment of each type, and the proportion of the
standard quantity for each type and level that will need to be provided during the next
five years in order to restore and expand the cold chain. This proportion is based on a
review of the current situation in China and the expected working life of each type of
equipment.
3.    Calculations. Based on the above standards, equipment replacement during the project was
calculated.
(a)  First, provinces provided information on the number and characteristics of each level of
their immunization services (province, prefecture, county, township and village).
(b)  Second, replacement quantities were calculated by multiplying the number and types of
service units in each province by the equipment standards for that level and the
replacement proportion under the project. Numbers of equipment were rounded up to
the nearest integer.



- 60 -                                ANNEX 4
(c) Third, costs of equipment replacement were estimated by multiplying equipment
numbers by equipment unit costs (See Table A4-2 and ANNEX 6 for summary costs).
4.     Sustainability. In order to avoid repeating the mistake of not planning for long-term
replacement, the average life-expectancy of each type of equipment was estimated and overall
replacement needs for each of three five year periods after the project were calculated, preparing the
needs assessment for a total of 20-year plan for the cold chain. The costs of the three five year
periods after the project will need to be borne entirely by the government. Although costs vary
between periods, the overall cost can be estimated as equivalent to about 0.14 RMB per capita per
year, including the costs of replacing sterilizers, needles and syringes. While not negligible, such an
amount is well within the capacity of all project provinces. Each province was requested to establish
a system for meeting these costs both in terms of counterpart funds during the project and full costs
after the project.
5.     During appraisal all provinces agreed with the long-term needs assessment for the cold chain
replacement program. In some provinces measures to ensure financial support for the long-term have
already been initiated, including increased government budget allocations, and designation of some of
the funds collected from EPI contracts or rural taxes to support cold chain replacement. The project
provinces have also proposed, but not yet adopted, additional measures including financing from rural
cooperative medical insurance, pre-financing of future needs by establishing an equipment
depreciation fund, charges on health care institutions that fail to provide EPI services, use of funds
previously allocated to special polio national immunization days, solicitation of donations for major
items, and a request that national finance department guidelines be established making cold chain
replacement a standard line item in the health budget.



- 61-                              ANNEX 4
Table A4-1: COLD CHAIN EQUIPMENT LIST AND REQUIREMENT STANDARDS
By Level
ITEM                   USAGE                          VOLUME & QUANTITY
1.   PROVINCE
-20C freezer room    storing OPV, MV for 6 mo             15M/1500m pop.
15+30M or both
+5C cold room         storing BCG, DPT, HB, TT for 12  15M/600m pop.
months, OPV & MV for short time   15+30m or both
standby generator    provide power supply for cold    1 unit
(if necessary)        chain equipment when power
supply not available
+5C refrigerated      transport vaccine for lower         2 units (8M)
vehicle               level sectors
ordinary van          supervision, transport equipment 2 units
2.   PREFECTURE
2.1 PREFECTURE OF >500M POPULATION
-20C freezer room    storing OPV, MV for 6 mo             15M (1 set)
+5C cold room         storing BCG, DPT, HB, TT for 6   15M (1 set)
months
-20C freezer          making & storing icepack           1 set
standby generator    provide power supply when            1 set
(if necessary)         power supply not available
+5C refrigerated      transport vaccines for county    4M (1 unit)
vehicle               level
ordinary van          transport equipment, supervision 1 unit & maintenance
cold box (25 icepacks) for emergency                       25L/set/60m pop.
spare icepack         for ice-lined refrigerator          25 icepacks/60m pop.
2.2 PREFECTURE OF 300-500M POPULATION
-20C freezer            storing OPV, MV for 6 mo             300L/set/lOOm pop
+5C cold room           storing BCG, DPT, HB, TT for 6 mo  15M (1 set)
-20C freezer            making & storing icepack               2 sets
standby generator       provide power supply when power        1 set
(if necessary)           supply not available
vaccine trans-          transport vaccines                     1 unit
portation vehicle
ordinary van            transport equipment, supervision    1 unit
& maintenance
cold box (25 icepacks) transport vaccines                      25L/set/15m pop
spare icepack           for emergency                      25 icepacks/12m pop



- 62 -                             ANNEX 4
ITEM                   USAGE                          VOLUME & QUANTITY
2.3 PREFECTURE OF c300M POPULATION
-20C freezer            storing OPV, MV for 6 months   300L (set)/lOOm pop.
+5C refrigerator        storing BCG/DPT/HB/TT for 6 mo   300L (set)/75m pop
-20C freezer            making & storing icepack               2 sets
standby generator       provide power supply when power        1 set
(if necessary)           supply not available
vaccine transport       transport vaccines                     1 unit
vehicle
ordinary van            transport equipment, supervision    1 unit
& maintenance
cold box (25 icepacks) transport vaccines                      25L/15m pop.
spare icepack           for emergency                      25 icepacks/12m pop
3. COUNTY
3.1 COUNTY LEVEL (only transport vaccine for township level, township
can make icepack)
-20C freezer             storing OPV, MV for 3 mo          300L (set)/200m pop
+5C refrigerator         storing BCG/DPT/HB for 3 mo    300L (set)/150m pop
-20C freezer             making and storing icepack           1 set
standby generator        provide power supply when power   1 set
(if necessary)            supply not available
ordinary van             transport equipment, supervision, 1 set
personnel, vaccines
cold box (25 icepacks)  transport vaccines                  25L (set)/15m pop
spare icepack            for emergency                      25 icepacks/6m pop
3.2 COUNTY LEVEL (transport vaccine for township level, provide ready
to use icepack; no power supply or unstable power supply at
township level)
besides all equipment listed under item 3.1, add cold box, used for
transport ready-to-use icepacks, 75 icepacks per cold box, 1 set of 25L
cold box every 10 villages
4.   TOWNSHIP
4.1 TOWNSHIP LEVEL (provide immunization per village)
+5C refrigerator          storing vaccines                  75L (set)/township
-20C freezer              making & storing icepack         100L (set)/township
vaccine carrier (with    for immunization at village    2 sets/village
8 icepacks)               level
spare icepack              for ice-lined refriger.      4 pcs/vaccine carrier



-63-                               ANNEX 4
ITEM                   USAGE                          VOLUME & QUANTITY
4.2 TOWNSHIP LEVEL (provide immunization per township)
+5C refrigerator          storing vaccines                  75L (set)/township
-20C freezer              making & storing icepacks        100L (set)/township
vaccine carrier (with    for immunization at township   5 sets/township
8 icepacks)                level
spare icepack              for ice-lined refriger.       4 pcs/vaccine carrier
sterilizer                                                  2 sets/township
stove                     for sterilization                 1 set/township
syringe                                                200 pcs (lml)/township
needle                                                   48 pcs (26G)/township
(only for BCG)
needle                                                  168 pcs/township
(only for DPT, MV, HB)
forceps                                                     1 pc/sterilizer
5.   VILLAGE
5.1 VILLAGE LEVEL (provide immunization per village)
sterilizer (alum.) sterilization at village level double rack sterilizer/
village; plastic basin/
village (at least steri-
lizing 80 syr./needles
stove                  for sterilization                   1 set/village
syringe                                                  100 pcs (lml)/village
needle                                                     24 pcs/village
(only for BCG)
needle                                                     84 pcs/village
(only for DPT, MV, HB)
forceps                                                    1 pc/sterilizer
5.2 VILLAGE LEVEL (provide immunization per township)
not provide sterilization & immunization equipment
Notes:
(1)  The standards are made on the basis that all equipment
will be out of order after 5 years of operation; project
provinces should implement the standards according to
their actual situations; the volume of each kind of
equipment is the net volume for storing vaccines.
(2)  c: stands for celsius centigrade.
(3) M: stands for cubic meter.



- 64 -                             ANNEX 4
Table A4-2: COLD CHAIN EQUIPMENT REPLACEMENT/RENEWAL COST
(1996 - 2015)
By Type of Equipment and by Five Year Period
Replacement Period and Cost            Service
Type of Equipment                    (US$ million)                   Life/Years
1996 - 2000  2001 - 2005  2006 - 2010 _J2011 - 2015
Walk-in Freezer            0.243       -           -           0.243      15
0.240                                             l 
Walk-in Cooler             0.445       -           -           0.445      15
0.297       -
Chest Freezer              6.940       -           -           6.940      15
-       ~~2.480      - 
Refrigerator               6.024       -           6.024        -         10
4.016       -           4.016
Cold Box                   0.518       -           0.518        -          8
0.689       -           0.689
Vaccine Carrier            5.806       -           5.806        -          8
5.806       -           5.806
Standby Generator          4.131       -                       4.131      15
Refrigerated Van           0.760       -           0.760        -          8
0.280       -           0.280
Ordinary Van              10.755       -          10.755        -          8
10.755       -          10.755
Steam Sterilizer           6.334       -           6.334        -         10
Immunization Equipment     6.334       6.334       6.334       6.334       6
48.290       6.334      36.531      18.093
TOTAL                          24.563       -          21.546
48.290      30.897      36.531      39.639



- 65 -                               ANNEX 5
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
The project areas were selected based on the criteria specified in paragraph 2.6 of this Staff
Appraisal Report and the programs proposed for those project areas were appraised. For the
Immunization Component, the project areas included the provinces of Gansu, Guangxi, Guizhou,
Hebei, Henan, Hubei, Shaanxi, Shanxi, Xinjiang and Yunnan. For the Health Promotion
Component, the project areas included the cities of Beijing, Chengdu, Liuzhou, Luoyang, Shanghai,
Tianjin and Weihai, and the province of Yunnan. Each of these project entities would be required to
undertake to carry out the following:
PART A - Immunization Component
Financial Provisions
(a)     Each participating province would make the Credit proceeds available to its counties,
as far as possible on a grant basis, otherwise on terms at least as favorable as the
terms on which the province receives the funds from the Borrower.
Project Management
(b)    Each province shall:
(i)   maintain throughout the project period, a Project Leading Group, chaired by a
Vice Governor and including officials from the health and finance bureaus and
the planning committees and other relevant sectors;
(ii)  maintain throughout the project period, a Project Office with a full-time
director;
(iii) maintain at the county level a Project Leading Group, a Project Office headed
by a project director; and
(iv) carry out regular project monitoring and reporting in accordance with agreed
formats and frequencies.
Policy Measures
(c)     Each province shall:
(i)  continue to provide, free of charge, sufficient EPI vaccines (against
tuberculosis, diphtheria, pertussis, tetanus, polio and measles) to cover the
whole population of the province throughout the project period;



- 66 -                                  ANNEX 5
(ii)   prepare, in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Association,
a long-term strategy for the replacement of cold chain equipment with a view
to its adoption after the project completion;
(iii)  carry out at least six rounds of vaccination sessions each year;
(iv)  implement measures acceptable to the Association designed to increase access
of the poorest families to its immunization programs, and ensure that all
children shall have access to its immunization programs regardless of their
registration status; and
(v)   procure only reusable syringes and needles, rather than disposable ones,
except in cases of those urban areas where safe disposal practices are followed
consistent with the policy recommended by the World Health Organization,
and sterilize and dispose all syringes and needles in accordance with this
policy.
PART B - Health Promotion Component
Financial Provisions
(a)     Each participating province would make available Credit proceeds to its cities or
counties on terms and conditions which would be at least as favorable as the terms
on which it receives the funds from the Borrower.
Project Management
(b)     Each participating city or province shall:
(i)   establish, and maintain throughout the project period, an Inter-sectoral Policy
Guidance Committee, a Project Leading Group within the health bureau, and
a Project Office within the health bureau to coordinate project implementation,
each with membership, terms of reference and resources satisfactory to the
Bank; and
(ii)   maintain throughout the project period: a working group for interventions; a
full-time interventions manager; and a full-time training coordinator.
Policy Measures
(d)     Each jurisdiction shall:
(i)   submit its annual plans and proposals for implementation of the health
promotion interventions to the Borrower for review and approval and provide
a summary for the Association's no objection before those interventions are
implemented;



- 67 -                                ANNEX 5
(ii)  include in its annual plans, a plan designed to control and reduce smoking of
tobacco products;
(iii)  ensure that the treatment of patients with STDs and HIV shall be based on a
policy of anonymity; and
(iv)  provide training to private practitioners treating STD and HIV cases.



SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
Table 1: EXPENDITURE ACCOUNTS BY COMPONENTS - BASE COSTS
(S million)
Health Promotion
Immunization              Institutional    Human                                      Central                   Physical
Cold                       EPI    Development &  Resources                                          Health             Contingencies
Chain  Training   IEC   Management Policy Reform  Development Surveillance  Interventions  Immunization Promotion   Total  %    Amount
I. Investment Costs
A. Equipment
Cold Chain Equipment               35.42                                               -           -                   -            -              35.42     5.0    1.77
Other Equipment                     2.33        -       -                     0.10        0.29        0.70          0.94         0.25      0.16     4.77     5.0    0.24
Subtotal Equipment                   37.76                -          -          0.10       0.29         0.70          0.94         0.25      0.16    40.20     5.0   2.01
B. Vehicles
Vehicles and Vans                  14.14        -       -          -          0.12          -         0.25          0.63            -      0.05    15.18     5.0    0.76
Refrigerated Vehicles               0.99        -       -          -             -          -                                                       0.99     5.0    0.05
Subtotal Vehicles                    15.13        -       -          -          0.12          -         0.25          0.63            -      0.05    16.17     5.0    0.81
C. T.T. & Hep. B Vaccines
Tetanus Toxoid                         -        -       -       0.28                                -                        -                -     0.28     5.0   0.01
Hepatits B                             -        -       -       8.95             -          -            -             -           -         -      8.95     5.0    0.45
Subtotal T.T. & Hep. B Vaccines                   -       -       9.22                  -            -            -            -               -     9.22     5.0    0.46   oc
D. Training
Local Short-Term                       -    12.46                  -          0.06       0.07         0.29          0.50         0.08        -    13.46     5.0    0.67
Local Long-Term                        -     0.02                                            -            -                  -          -          0.02     5.0    0.00
Foreign                                -     0.38       -          -          0.09       0.18         0.17          0.17         0.06      0.12     1.15    5.0   0.06
StudyTour                              -     0.32       -          -          0.18        0.06        0.11          0.14         0.11      0.09     1.01     5.0    0.05
Subtotal Training                        -    13.18       -          -          0.33       0.31         0.56          0.81         0.24     0.21    15.64     5.0    0.78
E. Technical Assistance
Local TA                                        -    0.02          -          0.03       0.02         0.04          0.08         0.14     0.16     0.47     5.0    0.02
Foreign TA                                           0.17                     0.01       0.02         0.01          0.03         0.14      0.19    0.57     5.0    0.03
Subtotal Technical Assistance            -        -    0.19          -          0.04       0.04         0.05          0.10         0.28     0.34     1.04     5.0    0.05
F. Materials Development                 -        -       -          -         0.54        0.28         1.40          3.89           -         -     6.11     5.0    0.31
Total Investment Costs                 52.88    13.18    0.19       9.22         1.13        0.91         2.96          6.37        0.77      0.75    88.37     5.0    4.42
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Program Support
Program Support                        -        -    6.65      26.58          0.54       0.28         1.40          3.89         0.19     0.28    39.80     5.0    1.99
T. T. Program Support                  -        -       -       1.56             -          -            -             -                           1.56     5.0    0.08
Subtotal Program Support                 -        -    6.65      28.15         0.54        0.28         1.40          3.89        0.19      0.28    41.37     5.0   2.07
B. Equipment O&M                      2.53        -       -          -         0.01        0.02         0.05          0.07        0.02      0.02     2.72     5.0   0.14
C. Vehicles O&M                       0.86        -       -          -          0.01          -         0.02          0.05           -         -     0.93     5.0    0.05
Total Recurrent Costs                   3.39        -    6.65      28.15         0.55        0.30         1.47          4.00        0.21      0.30    45.02     5.0    2.25.
Total BASELINE COSTS                    56.28    13.18    6.84     37.37          1.68        1.22         4.43        10.38         0.98      1.05   133.40     5.0   6.67
Physical Contingencies                2.81     0.66    0.34       1.87          0.08       0.06         0.22          0.52         0.05     0.05     6.67       -       - 
Price Contingencies                   5.44     2.83    1.67       8.42          0.35       0.24         0.94          2.32         0.17     0.18    22.56     4.8     .
Total PROJECT COSTS                     64.53    16.67    8.85     47.66          2.12        1.51         5.60        13.21         1.19      1.29   162.62     4.8    7.74
Taxes                                 7.99        -       -          -          0.03        0.00        0.07          0.17         0.00     0.01     8.28     4.8   0.39
Foreign Exchange                     30.90     0.81    0.20       5.15          0.43       0.38         0.68          1.05        0.42      0.53    40.56     4.8    1.93



SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS
Table 2: COMPONENTS PROJECT COST SUMMARY
%     % Total
(RMB Ten Thousand)                  (USS Million)       Foreign   Base
Local      Foreign       Total      Local  Foreign   Total  Exchange  Costs
A. Imrnunization
Cold Chain                                     23,518.20    23,753.91    47,272.12    28.00   28.28    56.28       50      42
Training                                       10,485.41      587.41     11,072.82    12.48    0.70    13.18        5       10
IEC                                             5,596.83      145.53      5,742.36    6.66    0.17      6.84        3       5
EPI Management                                 27,517.17    3,873.33     31,390.50    32.76    4.61    37.37       12      28
Subtotal lrwnunization                           67,117.61    28,360.18    95,477.80    79.90   33.76   113.66       30      85
B. Health Promotion
Institutional Development & Policy Reform       1,097.95      316.82      1,414.78    1.31    0.38      1.68       22       1
Human Resources Development                       746.28      274.39      1,020.67     0.89    0.33     1.22       27       1
Surveillance                                    3,214.38      508.26      3,722.65     3.83    0.61     4.43       14       3
Interventions                                   7,928.96      786.06      8,715.03    9.44    0.94    10.38         9       8
Subtotal Health Prormotion                       12,987.58    1,885.54     14,873.12    15.46    2.24    17.71       13      13                     '
C. Central
Immunization                                      514.76      304.88       819.64     0.61     0.36     0.98       37       1
Health Promotion                                  499.15      384.94       884.09     0.59    0.46      1.05       44       1
Subtotal Central                                  1,013.91      689.82      1,703.73    1.21    0.82      2.03       40       2
Total BASELINE COSTS                              81,119.10    30,935.54    112,054.64    96.57   36.83   133.40     28      100
Physical Contingencies                          4,055.96    1,546.78      5,602.73    4.83    1.84      6.67       28       5
Price Contingencies                            17,360.75    1,586.62     18,947.37    20.67    1.89    22.56        8      17
Total PROJECT COSTS                              102,535.80    34,068.94    136,604.74   122.07   40.56   162.62     25      122
0%



- 70 -                                ANNEX 7
ESTIMATED CREDIT DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
Bank      Semester          China         Annual   Cumulative   Annual   Cumulative
FY        Ending
Overall  Health         ($ million)            (% of total)
Sector
1996    July-Dec 1995        0       0
Jan-June 1996       3        3        5.0        5.0       5.0%          5.0%
1997    July-Dec 1996        6       6       11.2        16.2      11.2%         16.2%
Jan-June 1997      14       10       14.2       30.4      14.2%         30.4%
1998    July-Dec 1997      26       14       16.2        46.6      16.2%        46.6%
Jan-June 1998      38       18       12.1       58.7      12.1%         58.7%
1999    July-Dec 1998       50      22       17.1        75.8      17.1%        75.8%
Jan-June 1999      62       30        9.1       84.9       9.1%         84.9%
2000    July-Dec 1999       70      38        8.1        93.0       8.1%         93.0%
Jan-June 2000      78       50        5.7       98.7       5.7%         98.7%
2001    July-Dec 2000       86      58         1.3      100.0       1.3%        100.0%
Jan-June 2001      90       66
2002    July-Dec 2001       94      74
Jan-June 2002      96       82
2003    July-Dec 2002       98      90
Jan-June 2003     100       94
2004    July-Dec 2003        -      98
Jan-June 2004       -      100
Notes:       The Bank Group's Health and Overall profiles are according to WB 1994's standard
disbursement profiles.



PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Calendar Year  1995            1996              1997              1998       |       199 9             2000               2001         2002
Bank Fiscal Year        1995              1997               198               1999              2000               2001              2002
Quarter Q3 Q4 QI Q2  Q3  Q4 QI Q2  Q3 Q4 QI  Q2  Q3 Q4 QI  Q2  Q3 Q4 QI Q2  Q3 Q4  Ql Q2  Q3 Q4 QI Q2
Civil WorksI
Design, Contracting & Construction
Warranty Period                  =T
Equipment & Vehicles
Prepaation of Bidding Documents 
Invitation for Bids
Contract Awards & Delivery
Warranty Period
Technical Assistance
Specialist Services                                .... .. .............- .
Operation Research
Loan Processing & Gen. Admin.
Negotiations                          X
Board Approval                        x
Credit Signing                 .    .    . x
Effectiveness                  .XII
Retroactive Financing          -
Announcement of GPN                            X
Mid-Term Review                                                                    ____X
Audit Reports due Dates                                          X                 _                  x                  X                 x                 x
Project Completion                                                                                                                x
Credit Closing                                                                                                                                      X
lmplementation Completion Report                                                                                                                       I |   X
go



- 72 -                               ANNEX 9
PROJECT PERFORMANCE MONITORING
1.    Actions to Monitor Outcome Objectives. Tracking key monitoring indicators is necessary to
measure the impact of the project inputs on the key development objectives. These indicators have
been prepared and will be monitored throughout the project cycle. At the mid-term review, the need
to fine-tune or restructure the project design will be based on the data received from these indicators.
2.    As the reduction of morbidity and mortality is the ultimate goal of the immunization program,
demonstration of a reduction in these two areas should provide final proof of success or failure. In
the context of the Health Promotion Component, outcome will be measured by behavioral changes
and environmental changes which will be conducive to eventual modification of risk factors. Many of
the ultimate outcomes, e.g., disease prevention and reduced mortality, may not decrease in the project
period, except perhaps injuries. Given the essential role program monitoring and evaluation play in
determining the impact of a given intervention on development objectives, three sets of indicators will
be used to monitor and evaluate progress during implementation of the Immunization and Health
Promotion Components: input indicators, process/output indicators and outcome indicators.
1. Immunization Component
A.    Outcome Indicators
3.    Outcome Indicators will track whether or not the development objectives of the project have
been met. Criteria for selection of these outcome indicators for health status are: (a) that the
indicator is known to be sensitive to the intervention introduced under the project; and (b) that data
will be readily available through routine collection on a county and provincial basis without special
surveys. Based on these criteria, outcome indicators selected include: (a) infant mortality rate; (b)
under 5 mortality rate; and (c) disease incidence trends for poliomyelitis, measles and neonatal
tetanus.
4.    Process indicators will enable the program managers and the Association to assess desirable
improvement in management and quality of immunization programs, e.g., increase in immunization
coverage, and improvements in management and quality of vaccine handling and distribution. Eight
process indicators will be tracked annually.
(a)    coverage of EPI (4 vaccines) (through review of immunization records by county EPI
supervisors annually, with estimations of coverage using both registered children and
estimated births for each township);
(b)    coverage of measles vaccine, annually for province, prefecture, and counties for
children under age 5;
(c)    number of counties reporting age and immunization status of all measles cases
(annually);
(d)    coverage of hepatitis B vaccine, urban and rural;
(e)    coverage of tetanus toxoid for women of childbearing age and pregnant women;



- 73-                                ANNEX 9
(f)    supervision rates from county to township (minimum 2x per year per township),
township to village (2x per year per village);
(g)    proportion of village doctors implementing single needle and single syringe policy;
and
(h)   the number of immunization sessions held annually.
5.    Evaluation of Coverage. In addition to the routine reports, population based assessment of
vaccine coverage (modified WHO cluster survey) will be carried out at the beginning, middle and the
end of the project to establish baseline coverage and validate routine reports. The cluster survey
provides an estimate of coverage by examining seven children within the target age-group in each of
30 randomly selected clusters. Provided that these 210 children are randomly selected, the evaluation
can, with 95 percent confidence, predict the antigen coverage being achieved within plus or minus 10
percent limits. The design of the cluster survey will be finalized by CAPM in a manner satisfactory
to the Association.
B.    Performance Indicators
6.    Input indicators will track planned investment in terms of time (staff-weeks and staff-months)
in training programs by level of health workers and procurement of goods (cold chain equipment and
other training and equipment -- disbursement rate). These indicators will be represented in standard
input tables of each major sub-component of the project.
7.    Output indicators will track items such as: (a) number of training modules that have been
revised and completed by a given date during the project cycle; (b) equipment or vehicles that have
been procured; (c) the number of village, township and county health workers that have been trained;
and (d) the number of prefectures, counties, and townships equipped with cold chain equipment.
These indicators will be tracked in output tables for each component of the project.
II. Health Promotion Component
A.    Outcome and Environment Indicators
8.    Outcome indicators can be used to monitor progress toward meeting development objectives
of the project. In the context of health promotion, these are: behavioral changes, knowledge, and
risk factor prevalence (smoking rates in the population by age, percentage of doctors that are non-
smokers), which can be measured through the BRFSS.
9.    Environment indicators measure outcomes in changes in policy, e.g., market shares of media
sports, implementation of no smoking in public areas and number of non-smoking signs in schools,
work-site and hospitals. These environmental indicators will be tracked during the project.
10.   Output indicators will track items such as: (a) the number of reports, policies implemented,
study tours and overseas training completed by a given date during the project cycle; (b) the number
of students trained; number of private doctors trained with standard STD management; number of
clinics providing condoms with STD management; (c) the equipment or vehicles that have been
procured; (d) response rate of questionnaires and timely report rate under the behavioral risk factor
surveillance; (e) number of persons covered under the intervention by setting; and (f) number of mass



- 74 -                                ANNEX 9
media programs and number of health columns in newspapers under the intervention sub-component.
These indicators will be tracked in standard output tables for each major sub-component of the
project.
B.    Performance Indicators
11    Input indicators are used to monitor progress toward meeting the implementation objectives of
the project. Input indicators will track planned investment in terms of contracting technical assistance
(staff weeks) and training activities and procurement of goods (disbursement).
12.   Input/Output Tables have been prepared for each sub-component of the project. These
tables will be finalized during the first supervision mission and will be used to monitor the
progress in project implementation. As part of project supervision undertaken by the
Association, the above input and output indicators will be monitored twice a year. Environment
indicators will be monitored three times during the project. In addition, a special coverage
survey will be carried out at the beginning, middle and the end of the project to establish a
baseline and to validate routine reports.



- 75 -                               ANNEX 10
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
I.    Introduction
1.    This section shows how epidemiological and demographic data are used to calculate the
benefits of the project as healthy years of life gained (HYL) or disability adjusted life years saved
(DALY) from immunization program. It then examines cost-effectiveness of the programn compared
with program alternatives in Section II, and assesses the fiscal impact of the project in Section III.
Section IV conducts a sensitivity analysis of different vaccine parameters. The penultimate section
succinctly describes the project's impact on poverty alleviation.
2.    Economic Benefits. The results show that the Immunization Component would save about
4.8 million DALY annually in the ten project provinces, reflecting about 60 percent reduction in the
burden of communicable diseases. This is based on such epidemiological data as the average age at
onset, case fatality rates, the duration of disability, and the incidence of diseases. The total disease
burden -- the sum of all DALY lost by the population in the ten project provinces -- is computed first
(Table 1)1'. It is clear that non-communicable diseases (NCDs) account for the bulk of the disease
burden -- 68 percent of total DALY lost -- followed by communicable diseases (22 percent) and
injuries (10 percent). Of the total DALY lost, malignant neoplasm and cardiovascular diseases steal
more than a half of healthy life years in these provinces (Table 2). Having estimated the loss in
DALY, the next step is to compute the gains in DALY that would be possible under the
immunization program. Based on the number of immunizations, their efficiency and the target
population, DALY saved per vaccination is calculated (Table 3). Multiplying column (2) by column
(5) generates DALY saved annually per immunization (column 6). The sum yields savings of about
4.86 million DALY per year.
3.    Furthermore, the Immunization Component would save approximately $622 million in lost
income and treatment costs, reflecting a significant return on project investment. Monetary values of
benefits -- the value of life saved from reduced illness time and deaths avoided, reduced expenditure
on treatment, and value of time spent in home care -- are estimated with data from several household
surveys. In this respect, a year of life saved is valued at annual per capita national income, and
treatment costs are adjusted for reduced use and coverage.
4.    It is worth pointing out that in some cases the data on the duration of disability and proportion
of permanent disability were not available from the project provinces. In such cases the national
social weights were assumed in the DALY calculations. Alternatively, social weights by age from
other countries with similar age patterns of mortality can be used, but they vary more widely across
cultures and social context than within a country. Indeed, DALY estimates vary significantly when
global weights are used.
1' For details on methodology to calculate DALY, see C.J.L. Murray and A.D. Lopez, "The Global Burden of
Disease," World Development Report, 1993; Background Paper.



- 76 -                               ANNEX 10
II.    Cost-Effectiveness and Program Alternatives
5.    The cost-effectiveness of the immunization program is calculated against program
alternatives --that is the cost and effect of outpatient care in the absence of the project (Table 4).
Estimates of DALY saved per RMB from vaccines are compared with alternative programs of
outpatient treatment. Data on costs per visit and average annual coverage of outpatient care are from
several surveys. Multiplying incidence with coverage and cost per visit yields total cost. Dividing
DALY saved per immunization from Table 3 by total cost gives DALY saved per RMB. The results
demonstrate clearly that immunization programs are much more cost-effective. For instance, for a
fixed amount of resources, vaccination against measles and DPT would save 13 and 7 times more
healthy life years, respectively, than would outpatient treatment. Thus, immunization services that
have few acceptable private alternatives would have a particularly large payoff to the public.
III.   Fiscal Impact (Project Sustainability)
6.    Whether the project has a positive fiscal impact overall depends largely on whether levels of
recurrent expenditures needed to operate new facilities after the project ceases are sufficient. The
additional recurrent costs requirements created by new investments are estimated and then examined
in relation to projected recurrent expenditure constraints in government health budgets. At the end of
the project, the total cost is $26.27 million, and the value of investment remaining at the end of
project is $15.51 million. Total cost less value of investment at the end of project is $10.76 million.
From these estimates, for operating cost in sixth year and thereafter, the government would need
$4.93 million annually (RMB 40.9 million at a 1995 exchange rate). This figure represents less than
one percent of projected total recurrent government health budget of RMB 4.5 billion in 2000. Since
cost sharing and other measures to reduce recurrent costs are now being introduced in many
communities of the ten project provinces, the incremental recurrent cost will be well within
sustainable limits.
IV.   Sensitivity Analysis
7.     Sensitivity of the project is analyzed with respect to changes in such parameters as the cost of
vaccines, the effectiveness of vaccines, and the population coverage of immunizations. The sensitivity
is tested with an increase of cost of vaccines from 10 to 25 percent; DALY saved per RMB did not
make any significant difference in Table 5. But the project is more sensitive to changes in the
effectiveness of vaccines. Thus, the successful implementation of the immunization program depends
largely on how the program is managed including the condition of cold chain, and the maximum
effectiveness depends on whether immunization is carried out according to a full schedule, e.g.,
second and third doses for DPT. In turn, effectiveness of vaccines is sensitive to the changes in the
vaccination rate. The project is also sensitive to changes in coverage of immunizations for
tuberculosis and hepatitis B. For instance, if the population coverage for BCG falls below 20 percent,
DALY saved per immunization falls significantly and is not a cost-effective option when compared
with outpatient care. Three important conclusions emerge from the sensitivity analysis. First, the
costs of vaccines are very low, and even significant cost increases will not reduce the marked gains in
healthy life years. Second, the management and surveillance of the cold chain are sensitive to the
design of immunization programs. Finally, hepatitis B and BCG vaccines should be administered
more effectively.



- 77 -                             ANNEX 10
V.    Poverty Alleviation
8.    Under the project the majority of beneficiaries (66 percent) belong to poor families in 392
poverty counties. Components to promote immunization and health would have both direct and
indirect effects on their welfare. Because these components would enhance the access of poor
children and mothers to EPI, thus preventing future illnesses directly, the components would also help
indirectly reduce the loss of income among working mothers due to illness, thus eventually
augmenting their productivity and income earning opportunities.



- 78 -                               ANNEX 10
Table 1: BURDEN OF DISEASES IN THE PROJECT PROVINCES
(Disability Adjusted Life Years Lost)
Diseases          |1993
DALY ('000)         As a Percentage of Total DALY
Communicable Diseases                    8,491                         21.6
Hepatitis                         4,230                         10.7
HIV                                 58                           0.1
Polio                               23                           0.1
Measles                            402                           1.0
Tetanus                            203                           0.5
Tuberculosis                      3,263                          8.3
Pertussis                           310                          0.8
Diptheria                            2                           0.0
Non-Communicable Diseases              26,801                          68.1
Malignant Neoplasms
Stomach Cancer                    3,648                          9.3
Liver Cancer                      6,493                         16.5
Trachea & Lung Cancer             2,329                          5.9
Breast Cancer                      615                           1.6
Cervix Uteri Cancer                128                           0.3
Leukaemia                         5,948                         15.1
Cardiovascular
Rheum Heart Disease                334                           0.8
Ischemic                          1,293                          3.3
Cerebrovascular                   6,013                         15.3
Injuries                                 4,077                         10.4
Transport Accidents               1,899                          4.8
Poisoning                           103                          0.3
Falls                               169                          0.4
Fire                               759                           1.9
Drowning                           912                           2.3
Drugs                              235                           0.6
TOTAL DALY                      39.369                        100.0
Source: Staff calculation (1995) from CAPM survey data (1993-94).



- 79 -                                ANNEX 10
Table 2: CHINA: BURDEN OF DISEASES BY CAUSE IN 10 PROVINCES
(Disability Adjusted Life Years Lost)
(1993)
Diseases/Episode                DALY Lost                       Rank
(')                                       l
Liver Cancer                               6,493                         1
Cerebrovascular                            6,013                         2
Leukaemia                                  5,948                         3
Hepatitis                                  4,230                         4
Stomach Cancer                             3,648                         5
Tuberculosis                               3,263                         6
Trachea & Lung Cancer                      2,329                         7
Transport Accidents                        1,899                         8
Ischemic                                   1,293                         9
Drowning                                    912                         10
Fire                                        759                         11
Breast Cancer                               615                         12
Measles                                     402                         13
Rheum Heart Disease                         334                         14
Pertussis                                   310                         15
Drugs                                       235                         16
Tetanus                                     203                         17
Falls                                        169                        18
Cervix Uteri Cancer                          128                        19
Poisoning                                    103                        20
HIV                                           58                        21
Polio                                         23                        22
Diptheria                                      2                        23
Source: Staff calculation (1995) from CAPM survey data (1993-94).



- 80-                               ANNEX 10
Table 3: CALCULATION OF DALY SAVED PER IMMUNIZATION
Immunization   DALY Lost       Vaccine       Population     Incidence    DALY Saved
('000)       Efficacy      Coverage         (%)            Per
(%)           (%)                     Immunization
('000)
(1)           (2)           (3)            (4)           (5)            (6)
Hepatitis B        4,230         0.85           0.70          0.60           2,517
Polio                 23         0.85           0.90          0.77              18
Measles              402         0.85           0.90          0.77             308
Tetanus              203         0.80           0.90          0.72             146
Tuberculosis       3,263         0.70           0.70          0.49           1,599
Pertussis            310         0.90           0.90          0.81             251
Diptheria              2         0.90           0.90          0.81               2
TOTAL           8,433                                                     4,841
Source: Staff calculation (1995) from CAPM survey data (1993-94).
Table 4: COST EFFECTIVENESS OF PROGRAM ALTERNATIVE
(RMB 1995)
I     ~         DALY Saved Per RMB
lProjet Immunization   T     Outpatient Care
Hepatitis B                             1,204                       210
Measles                                   35                          3
Neonatal Tetanus                          182                        60
DPT                                         3                         0.4
BCG                                     1,386                       809
Note:  DALYs are in lOOOs.



- 81-                                ANNEX 10
TABLE 5: SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
Immunuization          DALY Savings per RMB with Changing Vaccine Parameters
DALY Savings    Price Increase         Coverage          Reduced
Per RMB             (20%)           Reduction         Efficiency
(20%)             (20%)
Hepatitis B            (1,204)            1,100               980              1,000
Measles                   (35)               23                 18               16
Neonatal Tetanus         (182)              170                102              118
BCG                    (1,386)     1      1,263              1,051     T       1,153
Note:  DALYs are in lOOOs. The base numbers on DALY savings per RMB are in parentheses.



- 82 -                                  ANNEX 11
PROPOSED PROJECT SUPERVISION PLAN
Proposed                   Activities                    Expected Skill Requirement        Staff
Date                                                                                    Input
(SW)
July/Aug.   Project Launch Workshop                                                         6
1996
Review of project implementation plan,    Task Manager, Cold Chain Specialist,
preparation for training, retroactive financing    Procurement Specialist
work, project organization, procurement,
financial management and reporting
requirements.
Jan. 1997   Supervision Mission
Review progress of procurement, financial  Task Manager, Public Health           6
management, program activities, technical  Specialist, Procurement Specialist,
assistance, and implementation plans based on   Health Management Expert
the population-based assessment of vaccine
coverage (modified WHO cluster survey).
June 1997   Supervision Mission
Review of project progress: procurement,  Health Planner, Public Health          8
financial management, training, program   Specialist
activities, and implementation plans based on
the behavioral risk factor surveillance system.
Nov. 1997  Supervision Mission
Review of project progress: procurement,  Health Planner, Health Management      8
financial management, training, and program    Expert
activities.
Apr. 1998   Supervision Mission
Review of project progress: procurement,  Health Planner, Public Health          18
financial management, program activities,  Specialist, Health Management Expert
implementation plans based on the population-
based assessment of vaccine coverage, and
plans for the mid-term evaluation review.
1998-2001  Supervision Mission
Minimum of two missions per year and last  Health Planner, Public Health         8
mission to discuss with Borrow the preparation   Specialist
of an Implementation Completion Report



- 83 -                               ANNEX 12
QUESTIONNAIRE CONCERNING REVIEW OF OED REPORTS
INVESTMENT PROJECTS
1.    How many OED reports have been completed on projects in the same sector as the proposed
project for: (a) the same country: I; (b) the same region: 18 ; and (c) for all countries worldwide: 64
2.    What are the main technical lessons learned from the these reports?
From the OED reports and relevant IDA projects in the same sector in China, the lessons leamed
are as follows:
(a)    Project design and implementation arrangements should be flexible enough to adapt to
changing circumstances.
(b)    Vaccines should be maintained in cold chain equipment at the correct temperatures from
manufacturer to user. Adequate equipment maintenance is also a key factor for sustaining
project impact and project design, and measures should be included to encourage the
continuation of maintenance beyond the project period.
(c)    Clear and realistic project monitoring and evaluation guidelines and indicators should be
defined prior to effectiveness, which will allow the Government and the Bank to measure
which interventions are being effectively implemented, and which interventions require
modifications to better achieve the desired results.
(d)    Sensitivity to local culture is emphasized, especially in projects which address themselves
to the eradication of disease, and the project design should take into account the optimum
means by which interventions may produce the desired result.
(e)    Well-organized and staffed project management offices should be established at all
operational levels, which can significantly contribute to smooth implementation of the
project.
(f)    Certain sections of the population (especially the poorest) can be undercovered in the
absence of special targeting.
(g)    Regarding implementation of the AIDS/STDs sub-component, while Bank Group projects
are relatively new and formal evaluations have not been undertaken, several early lessons
emerge from these experiences: (1) collaboration among active donors (especially WHO)
is very important; (2) HIV and STDs should be addressed together, as STDs are both a
risk factor and a proxy for potential HIV infection; (3) social marketing of condoms brings
significant benefits; and (4) use NGOs and the private sector in implementation,
particularly to reach high risk groups, as they are better equipped than most governments
to reach many communities.



- 84 -                              ANNEX 12
3.    What are the main policy and institutional design lessons learned from these reports?
From the OED reports and relevant Bank Group projects in the same sector in China, the lessons
learned are as follows:
(a)    Even when a project is located in permanent institutions, such as MOH, sustainability
hinges on the government's commitment to support the new activities initiated by the
project.
(b)    Advance planning is decisive to ensure adequate counterpart financing.
4.    How has the proposed project design benefited from the above review of lessons learned?
(a)    The project contains a mid-term review, which requires revisiting all aspects of project
design to ensure their continued relevance. (2a)
(b)    Cold chain management training is programmed under the project to help ensure correct
vaccine temperature control. The project's design and the Government's 20-year plan for
new installation and replacement of cold chain equipment contain specific provisions for
equipment operation and maintenance, in the latter case beyond the life of the project. (2b)
(c)    The project's nature demands a strong and effective monitoring system. Therefore,
comprehensive, yet practical, performance monitoring and evaluation systems have been
specifically designed for both the Immunization and Health Promotion Components, which
will be carefully reviewed throughout the project period. (2c)
(d)    The goal of tailoring and maximizing public acceptance of project messages will be
achieved through the information, education and communication (IEC) sub-component.
(2d, 2h)
(e)    Almost all project provinces and cities have established project management offices and
designated key staff. (2e)
(f)    The project design includes special steps and targeting measures to ensure that the poorest
and migrating ("floating") families would be adequately covered. (2f)
(g)    Regarding the AIDS/STDs sub-component: (1) WHO, joined by additional international
expertise, has been very instrumental in project design; (2) special care was taken to
ensure that STD-related problems are addressed with a view to AIDS/HIV issues, and
interventions will help improve the management of STDs; (3) while condoms' distribution
is not part of the project, the issue of social marketing will be addressed through the IEC
strategy; and (4) the role of NGOs in China is relatively limited, but to the extent
available, the project intends to involve NGOs in health promotion activities. (2g)



- 85 -                              ANNEX 12
(h)    The project is a pivotal component of the Government's highest health priority and,
specifically, the Immnunization Component plays a critical role in the Government's 20-
year plan for cold chain. Full commitment by the Government, provinces and cities is
expected. (3a)
(i)    The Ministry of Finance is in the process of completing necessary counterpart funding
commitments and budgetary provisions. (3b)



- 86 -                                ANNEX 12
LIST OF PARTICULARLY RELEVANT BANK GROUP REPORTS
A.    OED Reports:
COUNTRY                 PROJECT                REPORT TYPE   REPORT   LOAN/CREDIT
& DATE   NUMBER   NUMBER
Bangladesh    Second Population and Family     PCR       1989       7792         Cr. 0921
Planning
Brazil       Northwest Region Integrated        PCR      1990       8469        Ln. 2061
Development Program (First Phase)
Health
Indonesia    Provincial Health                  PCR       1990      9133        Ln. 2235
Philippines    Second Population                PPAR     1991       9380         Cr. 0923
Yemen, PDR  Health Development                  PCR       1991      9926         Cr. 1377
Ghana        Health and Education Rehabilitation  PCR     1992     11080         Cr. 1653
Indonesia    Nutrition and Community Health     PCR      1993      11997        Ln. 2636
India        Third Population                   PCR       1993     12278         Cr. 1426
Peru         Primary Health                     PCR       1993     12494        Ln. 2211
Jordan       Primary Health Care                PCR      1994      13139        Ln. 2531
Colombia     Health Services Integration       PCR       1994      13574        Ln. 2611
Indonesia    Provincial Health                  PPAR      1994     13782        Ln. 2235
Indonesia    Nutrition and Community Health     PPAR      1994     13782        Ln. 2636
B.    Bank Group Reports on China:
World Bank   1984. Rural Health and Medical Education Project. SAR.
1986. Rural Health and Preventive Medicine Project. SAR.
1989. Integrated Regional Health Development Project. SAR.
1990. Long-Term Issues and Options in the Health Transition. Sector Report.
1991. Infectious and Endemic Disease Control Project. SAR.
1993. Rural Health Workers Development Project. SAR.
1994. Comprehensive Matemal and Child Health Project. SAR.
1995. Iodine Deficiency Disorders Control Project. SAR.
C.    Other Reports:
World Development Report, Investing in Health, 1993.



-87 -                                ANNEX 13
DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
1. Project Implementation Plan (PIP) for the Immunization, Health Promotion and National-level
Components (May 1994).
2. Proposed Disease Prevention Project: Identification Mission Aide Memoire (September 1994).
3. Proposed Disease Prevention Project: Preparation Mission Aide Memoire (December 1994).
4. Proposed Disease Prevention Project: Pre-appraisal Mission Aide Memoire (April 1995).
5. Proposed Disease Prevention Project: Appraisal Mission Aide Memoire (July 1995).
6. Provincial Project Proposals for Gansu, Guangxi, Guizhou, Hebei, Henan, Hubei, Shaanxi, Shanxi,
Xinjiang, and Yunnan for the Immunization Component
7. City Project Proposals for Beijing, Chengdu, Liuzhou, Luoyang, Shanghai, Tianjin and Weihai for the
Health Promotion Component.






IBRD 27285
x~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                                                                             20' ,~*%                  20                       '' 0G   'g  a  S.   3I
RUSSIAN
1%n..                                                FEDERATION   -  -j
KAZAKHSTAN                         )                _      -      -      >     .            t           l    .          ,                                          oo- i o4 g
.. -                     -           _           Ulcan-b"o ta                         /                            '- HEILONGJIANG
J   ~~~~~:   .  .       >,      > ~~~~~~~~Ulscnbaatsr                                            t                
UZBEKISTAN   Alma..
IZN          Ala 
I a                     /    ~ b0;i                                                                                                                   Horbin       ,,
KzBE4usoAN Alrn  v   s   3MONGOLIA                                                            (                            - -
C,       Jzf  69,-  *    _                 Kuyu                  _.                                                                                             Ch.ngch-n       S 
_A\.r.  Frunze       -.                     0                                                                                                 NrFt Cr    JILINc
*  _,,, fKYRGYZ T-<'--Ur-   .*                                                                                              1      /-.                                            ;
REPUBLIC                                     Uumq                                                                                   Ni!                      JLg
is   U    C  @_                             ~~~~~~oTucpoo      \:CGQ
TAJI KI STAN                                     > 9 5<                      S henyang (^.                                                                                                v                    JAPAN
-TAJIKISTAN                          t-                        ~          -_-. XNJAGLIAONING  /
XNJAN  oHot  UESHI-.                       ..,OF KOREA
. >_ / ___ _OD=I_   _D   PyonogyongSt
HEBEI 'T        IANJIN SHI       ---        Seoul
YAN nchSU n          T    n  Shi'.o.h.ng                                  REP OF
_  GANSU        ?                IsiyUan   3      -   X    -              cJw        KOREA
_<N tIA         SHANXI                        <0Qio.d_o
Xinig                    ToogoAc                   ANDONG->
N'"'  -                      0                                /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ou0x.h
The booodo,es, Polo's, dooo,,oooooos                                                     l                                                Jcoc '                                                                       Cnw3
=nd pny oTher ,ofo3rn,o.o inon hon 3r X_-L                                                jEq                           ,,,       engzhou  uh=
The WoNd donk Lroup =oy -p,gen-                                                                                                                        JIANGSU              ECst C5i!oc'
=n the legol ires of ony -e,.'ory, or                                                                                              HENAN   '                                   SEc
aoy ndo3rsenrep, o' ooceto,rce of sth                                                      -.7>                                     - SHAANXI  -AAHUI
'N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NU
-  -C"                         'N                        _, -,            .     - -_,_          He3fe3ioS        '7
-30'          a  ;'?  CX'ANG                          .                           ,                            -                   -  ,SHANGHAI SHI
cr10                              /                                     .        HUBEI  Wouhans'  og    _.  13zham
Lh-asahang                                                                                                 -,
NEPALK,                 00'                                        C ="bv-IC,'.U'AN ChoCg-mg   S      --                       ZHEJIANG
Chamgsho
CHINA                                                                                        H '  I 9UNAN    JIANGXI          Foohau
DISEASE PREVENTION PROJECT                                                i1                        GUIoZne,OU                                FUJIANo5Q0t -
HEBEI  ROJECT POVINCES I"UNIZATFON COMPONENI              YUNNAN    KuS  ng                                                              TAIAN
P5OJEC" '-EA oPALTTP0O0OTIONCOMPONENT                           Ct'                    o. *'JANGDC- NG   _                                                                          20
PRO.ECT C"ES HEALTP     COPONENT R TN C 4EGUANGXI   GuogzoujL'                                                 '
ELC-D 7C-T-OTE                             z        0N Jk~                                        Zhn~HONG KONG, U.K.______
e        COAj sLAPIrALS                                      5r w               6!iHanoi          -                 MACAO, PORT                  - rLOaTE5 0    PP0      '0      ooN o,a L,
PROVNCE -OUNOARIES                             PJ'    )L Eo PEOPLE'Sn   -                 LHeikou              032 C.-'rP
__ N u'--sHAILANEDEM   REPr                                                         PHILIPPINES 
11,01,1995  '3 jrO''    oD'  '        . '   N









I~~ ~ ~    ~                          t;, ,                  ;        a ^S   _
;     '   t   ,   .,   ; '



