                                       Document of
                                    The World Bank




                                                                Report No: 30613

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                               (TF-25197 IDA-27940 TF-52892)

                                           ON A

                                          CREDIT

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF US$100 MILLION

                                          TO THE

                               PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                                          FOR A

                              DISEASE PREVENTION PROJECT




                                       April 21, 2005




Human Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                        (Exchange Rate Effective December 2004)

                                Currency Unit = Yuan (Y)
                                        Y1.00 = US$ 0.12
                                    US$ 1.00 = Y8.4

                                      FISCAL YEAR
                                 January 1    December 31

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AIDS     Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome
AusAID   Australian Agency for International Development
BRFSS    Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CCDC     China Center for Disease Control
CDC      Center for Disease Control
CDC      Communicable Disease Center
DALY     Disability-Adjusted Life Years
DDC      Department of Disease Control
EPI      Expanded Program of Immunization
ERR      Economic Rate of Return
GAVI     Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization
HEI      Health Effects Institute
HIV      Human Immunodeficiency Virus
HRD      Human Resource Development
IDA      International Development Association
IEC      Information, Education and Communication
IMR      Infant Mortality Rate
MOF      Ministry of Finance
MOH      Ministry of Health
NCD      Non-communicable Diseases
PIP      Project Implementation Plan
PSR      Project Status Report
QAG      Quality Assurance Group
RMB      Renmimbi (currency of the People's Republic of China)
SAR      Staff Appraisal Report
SARS     Severe Acute Respiratory Sydrome
STDs     Sexually Transmitted Diseases
U5MR     Under-five Mortality Rate
WHO      World Health Organization

                               Vice President:   Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
                           Country Director:     David Dollar, EACCF
                             Sector Manager:     Fadia M. Saadah, EASHD
          Task Team Leader/Task Manager:         Shiyong Wang, EASHD

                                            CHINA
                                 Disease Prevention Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
6. Sustainability                                                                13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 15
8. Lessons Learned                                                               17
9. Partner Comments                                                              18
10. Additional Information                                                       26
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             27
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             31
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             35
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             36
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             38
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                39
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            40

Project ID: P003589                                                  Project Name: Disease Prevention (Health 7)
Team Leader: Shiyong Wang                                            TL Unit: EASHD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: April 21, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Disease Prevention (Health 7)                            L/C/TF Number: TF-25197; IDA-27940;
                                                                                                     TF-52892
   Country/Department: CHINA                                                              Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Health (98%); General public administration sector (1%); General
                            education sector (1%)
                  Theme: Other communicable diseases (P); Health system performance (S);
                            Population and reproductive health (S); Participation and civic
                            engagement (S); Gender (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 11/15/1994                                     Effective: 06/19/1996                06/17/1996
     Appraisal: 06/07/1995                                         MTR: 12/31/1998                  12/01/1998
      Approval: 12/12/1995                                      Closing: 12/31/2001                 06/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          PRC/MINISTRY OF HEALTH
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Russell Cheetam
Country Director:               David R. Dollar                                Nicholas Hope
Sector Manager:                 Fadia Saadah                                   Joseph R. Goldberg
Team Leader at ICR:             Shiyong Wang                                   Jagdish Upadhyay
ICR Primary Author:             Hope C. Phillips


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
In spite of China's remarkable achievements in disease prevention programs, particularly against
preventable childhood diseases, the immunization program faced several challenges during the 1980's and
1990's, including declines in resources available for preventive care as a result of economic reforms. One
of the unintended victims was the immunization infrastructure, especially the cold chain, as well as the
operating budgets required for the provision of syringes, needles and sterilization equipment, with the
poorer provinces being more affected. The dismantling of rural cooperatives created incentives for health
workers to rely on curative services for much of their income. While some provinces or local communities
paid for immunization services, most charged for this service. The departure of large numbers of
experienced health workers for better paying jobs, the lack of health education to increase demand for
essential immunization, and the unavailability of reliable data on immunization coverage, were also
identified as constraints to preventing and controlling vaccine-preventable diseases. Since 10% of the
population are carriers for hepatitis B, a system to finance this vaccine was identified as particularly
important.

While successes had been made in vaccine-preventable diseases, China's demographics also experienced a
dramatic transition: the proportion of older persons has been increasing steadily and rapidly. This has had
an impact on disease patterns with non-communicable diseases (NCDs) accounting for over 75% of all
deaths in China in the 1990's. Analysis from the China: Long-Term Issues and Options in the Health
Transition (Report No. 7965-CHA dated June 25, 1990) indicated that the annual probability of death
from infectious diseases for adult (ages 15-60) men and women in China was just over 1%, the death rate
from chronic disease, injury and suicide, when compared with infectious diseases, was almost 15 times
greater for men and 10 times greater for women. The most important health risk factors in modern China
were identified as smoking, hypertension, unhealthy diet, overweight and obesity, and pollution. With
economic freedom, changing behavior and a more mobile society, China saw a resurgence of a variety of
sexually transmitted diseases (STDs), and an increase in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). While
government had developed strategies that included community-based prevention, training of general
practitioners and improvements in primary health care, it was desirous of piloting health promotion
interventions in a variety of settings with a view to wider replication based on experiences gained.

This seventh project in support of the health sector of China had two distinct objectives:

    (a) prevent and control vaccine-preventable diseases to reduce morbidity, disability and mortality,
         especially in the poorest provinces of China, by improving the immunization services and by
         introducing policy measures to improve vaccine quality and ensure access of all population groups,
         and add new vaccines to the Expanded Program on Immunization (EPI); and

    (b) improve the capacity of the health sector to design and implement health promotion programs to
         prevent and control the rising prevalence of NCDs, STDs, HIV and injury through policy and
         institutional improvements, and by implementing pilot programs, including surveillance, staff
         training, health education, and other health promotion interventions.

The objectives were clear, and the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) noted that it was in line with the
government's "8-7 Plan" which aimed to eliminate extreme poverty by the year 2000, and narrow the
widening health gap between the poorer rural and richer urban areas of China. The project was important
for the Bank's third objective in the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) (Report No. 14454-CHA dated
May 4, 1995), which included sustaining growth by shifting resources toward priority areas, including



                                                      - 2 -

poverty reduction, human resource development, infrastructure, and environmental protection, which were
under-funded. Bank support in the health sector would focus on helping the government: (a) meet the basic
health needs among the rural population, particularly those living in absolute poverty; and (b) reinvigorate
initiatives in disease prevention, by retaining the gains made against infectious and endemic diseases and by
implementing innovative programs against non-communicable and chronic disease.

Given the changes in demographics China was experiencing, the focus on prevention and control of
vaccine-preventable diseases on the one hand, and increasing capacity to design and implement programs
which prevent and control the rising prevalence of NCDs, STDs/HIV and injury was appropriate, and fitted
in well with both the government and Bank strategies. Based on the geographic dispersion, and the number
of entities involved (one component covered 10 provinces, and the other component covered 7 Cities and 1
province) the project should be considered complex, particularly because of the various levels involved in
each province. On the other hand, the project was well served given institutional arrangements put in place
and outlined in the Project Implementation Plan (PIP), as well as the inclusion of the Ministry of Health's
(MOH) Foreign Loan Office, which had previous experience in implementing Bank-assisted health
projects.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
The Project had three components.

The Immunization Component with a total cost of US$137.7 million (IDA US$86.88 million) comprised
four sub-components: (i) cold chain improvement; (ii) health workers' training; (iii) management and
surveillance; and (iv) information, education and communication (IEC).

The objectives of the cold chain improvement sub-component, which was the responsibility of the Health
Bureau of each Province, were to: (a) ensure the quality of vaccines during storage and transportation; and
(b) establish a system of regular replacement of the cold chain which is sustainable beyond the project
period.

For the health workers' training, which fell under the Department of Disease Control (DDC) in the MOH,
the objective was to improve the technical and managerial skills of all staff involved in the immunization
program at all levels of the epidemic prevention network by establishing a system of regular in-service
training. Implementation was the responsibility of the provinces' Health Bureau, Epidemic Prevention
Station at provincial, prefecture, county and township levels and village health stations.

For management and surveillance, under the oversight by MOH DDC and project offices in each Province,
the objective was to improve the management and implementation of the immunization program at all
levels, particularly in the areas of cold chain and logistics, service delivery, collection and utilization of
immunization coverage and disease data, and supervisory support between levels. It was to be
implemented by the National Expanded Program of Immunization (EPI) Center and Provincial Epidemic
Prevention Stations.

The objectives of the IEC sub-component were to: (a) promote public awareness and knowledge on EPI
vaccine-preventable diseases; and (b) generate demand for immunization services and knowledge on EPI
vaccine-preventable diseases through implementation of a communication strategy. This sub-component
was also the responsibility of the DDC in MOH with support from the National Expert Technical Working



                                                       - 3 -

Group. Support under the Immunization component covered two-thirds (392 out of 592) of the nationally
designated poverty Counties, comprising 66% (53 million out of 80 million) of the poor population.

The Health Promotion Component with a total cost of US$22.43 million (IDA US$10.88 million),
included: (i) institutional development and policy reform; (ii) human resource development (HRD); (iii)
surveillance; and (iv) interventions (see description below).

The institutional development and policy reform sub-component objectives included: (a) developing a
strategic plan for health promotion; (b) defining, strengthening, coordinating arrangements to carry out
health promotion activities; (c) mobilizing inter-sectoral and community participation in health promotion;
and (d) instituting policy measures which support prevention work and healthy behavior change.
Responsibility for the component rested, depending on the activity, with the health bureau of each city and
the Yunnan Provincial Government, or the Epidemic Prevention Station (or project office), the
Non-Communicable Disease Center, STD Control Offices and HEI. For monitoring purposes, the
Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS) would provide baseline and monitoring information
throughout implementation.

The HRD sub-component expected to: (a) improve and maintain the competence of those people who carry
out health promotion and related activities, both inside and outside the health sector; (b) ensure that
sufficient competent people are available to manage and conduct all project activities; (c) improve and
maintain skills in project management, supervision and evaluation; and (d) increase the capacity of local
institutions to provide training in health promotion subjects on a long-term basis. Responsibility for this
sub-component would rest with the project office or the institution responsible for HRD overall.

The surveillance sub-component would: (a) establish a system for surveillance of the behavioral risk
factors for NCDs, STD/s/HIV and injury; (b) establish a system of monitoring environment factors which
support a healthy lifestyle; (c) upgrade mortality reporting; and (d) improve the interpretation and use of
this data to monitor health trends and to plan and evaluate health promotion activities. Responsibility for
this sub-component would rest with HEI, Epidemic Prevention Station, the Non-Communicable Disease
Center, or STD Control Offices.

The interventions sub-component objectives were to: (a) provide experience in the design, implementation
and evaluation of a range of community-based health promotion interventions; and (b) reduce risk factors
and prevent or control NCDs, STDs/HIV and injury in selected settings. Implementation responsibility
rested with either HEI or the Epidemic Prevention Station, with Central-level Project Office providing
assistance. Specific activities were identified for interventions relating to the prevention and control of
STDs and HIV. Seven cities, including two medium-sized cities from the poorer inland provinces, were
selected to participate in the health promotion component. Yunnan Province, with the highest concentration
of HIV/AIDS in China was also selected to participate in activities relating to the prevention and control of
STDs/HIV.

The National Component with a total cost of US$2.49 million (IDA US$2.25 million) would provide
support to the two other components, in recognition of the complexity of the Project (i.e., the distinct
components, the number of participating entities, new policy developments in immunization, and the
newness of health promotion in China). The activities, split between the Immunization and Health
Promotion components, included providing national policy guidance and national leadership in surveillance
systems and HRD, coordinating activities across provinces and cities and across several national
institutions as needed. The objectives were to: (a) provide national policy guidance; (b) provide national
leadership in surveillance system and HRD; (c) coordinate activities across Provinces and Cities and across


                                                      - 4 -

several national institutions as needed and to disseminate project experience; (d) provide or coordinate
provision of technical assistance; and (e) ensure efficient and effective project implementation.

The components were well related to achieving the objectives, and safeguards were built into the design,
including the preparation of a detailed PIP, taking into consideration the capacities of the implementing
agency for coordination, administrative and financial management. Lessons from previous support to the
health sector taken on board in the design included: (a) the need for well organized and adequately staffed
project management offices at all levels; (b) advance planning to ensure adequate counterpart financing;
and (c) a flexible project design which could respond to changing circumstances in a rapidly transforming
economy. As a consequence, key staff had been designated in almost all the provinces and cities prior to
effectiveness, and written confirmation from provinces and cities to provide the necessary counterpart
funding was a condition for their participation in the project. Lessons from disease prevention interventions
resulted in: (a) surveys designed to confirm results since there can be over-reporting because targets had
been set; (b) specific targeting measures and monitoring of the same to ensure coverage of some segments
of the population (particularly the poorest and those floating); and (c) an IEC subcomponent was included
in response to the recognition of the importance of having an effective communication strategy.
International experience informed the design of the health promotion component, given China's limited
experience in raising awareness for the prevention of chronic diseases, STDs, and HIV.

3.4 Revised Components:
The components were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
This project was not subjected to an assessment by the Quality Assurance Group (QAG) so their rating is
not available. The project, as noted above, was in line with the government's plan to narrow the widening
health gap between the urban and the poorer rural populations, and the Bank's strategy of reinvigorating
initiatives in disease prevention focusing on retaining gains against infectious and endemic diseases, and
implementing innovative programs against NCDs. The development objective was to the point, but not
overly ambitious, and the choice of instrument was appropriate. The preparation included extensive
stakeholder consultations, with representatives from various government levels, and included external
experts in the relevant technical fields. The appropriate mechanisms were in place for the fiduciary
aspects, and a detailed PIP was in place to guide implementation. The risks identified were appropriate,
and mitigation measures identified. Nonetheless, while adequate counterpart funds were made available by
the project cities for the health promotion component, periodic problems were encountered with counterpart
funding for the immunization component. Agreement was reached on a number of policies that each
province would follow, and this also paved the way for implementation. The selection of provinces and
cities to participate in the project was undertaken in a manner to ensure that the development objectives
would be met. All in all, the concept, objectives, approach and design were appropriate, and the quality at
entry is rated satisfactory.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The CAS for China (Report No. 25141, dated January 22, 2003) notes that challenges remain,
notwithstanding the substantial progress that has been made in poverty reduction during the previous
decade. Among other strategies, the Bank's assistance would be designed to address the needs of the
poorer, disadvantaged people, and lagging regions through investment lending in the social sectors. On the
basis of the current strategy, this project's development objectives remain relevant in the current context.
The outcome indicators selected by the project were appropriate since they were chosen on the basis of



                                                      - 5 -

being sensitive to the project interventions, and the data was being routinely collected without special
surveys; data collection included: (a) infant mortality rate (IMR); (b) under-five mortality rate (U5MR);
and (c) disease incidence trends for poliomyelitis, measles and neonatal tetanus.

Over the life of the project, both the IMR and U5MR dropped for all provinces, with the exception of
Henan Province's IMR, which rose slightly (by 1.6%) and Shaanxi's U5MR, which rose by 14.2%.
Otherwise, the range of decrease for the IMR was from a low of 1.9% in Shaanxi to a high of 45.9% in
Shanxi, with most provinces in the range of 20-45%. In the case of the U5MR, the range was from the
largest decrease in Gansu of 54.9% to the lowest in Henan of 7.0%. Again most were in the range of a
20-45% decrease. In all cases the rates were lower than the 1996 project province data reported, and when
compared with national data (from China Health Statistics Digest, 2004), by the end of the project only two
provinces (Shaanxi and Guizhou) had rates above the national averages for IMR (29.20) and U5MR
(34.90). Shaanxi's IMR was 34.45, and U5MR was 39.62, while Guizhou's IMR was 50.01 and U5MR
was 62.59. Unfortunately it is not possible to determine how much of the decrease in IMR and U5MR was
attributable to the improved immunization coverage, since there were reports of increases in some
vaccine-preventable diseases.

The external evaluation included incidence rates by province for neonatal tetanus, poliomyelitis, measles,
pertussis, cerebrospinal meningitis, Japanese B encephalitis, and hepatitis B. Data from the report indicate
that the incidences of measles, pertussis, cerebrospiinal meningitis, Japanese B encephalitis, and hepatitis B
all declined during the life of the project. For measles and neonatal tetanus, 7 out of 10 provinces reported
a drop in incidence rates. No cases of diphtheria were reported in any of the provinces over the life of the
project. The data for poliomyelitis, measles and neonatal tetanus indicate that there has been a decrease in
mortality rates except for Hubei and Shanxi which reported a slight increase in mortality. Incidence rates
for hepatitis B increased over the life of the project, while the average mortality remained steady. Despite
these increases, it is calculated that in 2003 there were 53% fewer Disability-Adjustable Life Years
(DALYs) lost due to vaccine-preventable diseases than in 1995.

Under the health promotion component, all cities, except for Kunming and Luoyang reported a drop in
smoking by male, female and teenagers. There were increases in blood pressure testing for those over 35
years of age, and only one city showed a drop in cholesterol testing for those over 40 years of age.
Awareness of how to prevent AIDS was reported at 50% for students in Chengdu to a high of 90% for
adults in Kunming (Yunan Province). Knowledge of some risk factors increased, as is evidenced by the
drop in smoking. Risk factors have increased since all cities reported a drop in physical exercise, and the
rate of obesity increased in all cities as well. However, the rate of increase in these project populations was
less than in the non-project populations. A number of policies were introduced, including the imposition of
no smoking areas in cities. Although not part of the project's original objectives, the establishment of a
national centre of chronic and non-communicable disease control (NCNCD) and the creation of the health
promotion network, Chinese Alliance of Health Promotion, are important achievements of the project.

Overall, the project improved immunization coverage, and the safety of immunizations as a result of
substantial improvements in the cold chain and in immunization procedures. There was success in
introducing important health promotion concepts, training and programs, especially those paving the way
for more HIV/AIDS programs. The project components were implemented largely as planned, and most
achieved their objective despite funding and procurement delays encountered in the early years of the
Project under the Immunization component. Overall the outcome is rated satisfactory.

Immunization Objective. Although the immunization coverage has been difficult to quantify precisely,
some 68,764 health workers were trained, and quality improved - as measured, for example, by the increase


                                                       - 6 -

in the use of single-use syringes from 28.9% to 75.5% and the decrease in the use of sterile needles for
more than one person from 39.6% to 9.8%, as well as the availability of cold chain equipment. In addition,
concerted efforts were made to reach difficult to reach populations, including floating populations. Finally,
there was a major expansion of hepatitis B immunization, which was added to the EPI with reduced or no
fees for the poorest populations. It received further assistance through the Global Alliance for Vaccines
and Immunization (GAVI) support beginning in 2002.

Health Promotion Objective. The health promotion component was highly successful in introducing, for
the first time, modern theory and practice of health promotion into the Chinese context. Of note under the
interventions sub-component was the tobacco control activities undertaken by a number of cities which was
particularly successful in raising awareness and reducing smoking in the project cities. The other
subcomponents of the health promotion strategy were less successful, but nevertheless did achieve some
worthwhile results with very limited funding. Again a large cadre of workers were trained in the principles
and practice of health promotion. The participation of Australian Agency for International Development
(AusAID) in the project was very helpful in the success of the health promotion component. Their funding
supported technical assistance, which contributed significantly towards increasing high level understanding
of health promotion concepts and towards improving the capacity to design and implement health
promotion programs. This increase in management commitment and technical capacity not only helped in
bringing about a good outcome for the project, but also helped to ensure the sustainability of the health
promotion efforts.

National-Level Program. While a higher level objective was not specified for the National-level
component, its successful implementation was necessary for achieving the project's development objectives.
This component was highly successful in achieving the objectives of coordination, technical assistance and
supervision. New national policies were developed in line with the project's objectives and outcomes ­
notably the widespread introduction of hepatitis B immunization, increased central funding for NCD and
the establishment of a central unit for dealing with NCD issues. The development of the surveillance
network and the creation of 31 national demonstration projects for health promotion are further evidence of
the national commitment to coordination and the dissemination of lessons learned.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Immunization Component. This was the largest component, and its objective was to improve
immunization services by improving access/coverage, improving vaccine quality, and adding new vaccines.
It was successfully implemented in 10 of China's poorest provinces (Gansu, Guangxi, Guizhou, Hebei,
Henan, Hubei, Shaanxi, Shanxi, Xinjiang, and Yunnan). While the increase in access, the addition of a
new vaccine (greatly assisted by GAVI), and quality improvement achievements were highly satisfactory,
the variability of reported coverage, the concerns about sustainability and the delays in implementation
merit a rating of satisfactory.

Coverage. While annual surveys were carried out in each Province showing large increases, the data from
the three (baseline, midterm and end of project) cluster surveys has been verified as being more accurate
and is reported on here. Data from the three cluster surveys using the multiphase method show large
increases in coverage, although the range is from 31.3% in Guizhou, to a high of 98%, with six provinces
attaining coverage rates above 70%. For BCG Hubei and Guangxi show a negative change from the
baseline; Henan, Hubei, Guangxi, Gansu and Xinjiang all showed a drop in coverage for OPV3, as did
Hubei, Guangxi, Gansu and Xinjiang for DPT3, and coverage for MV in Henan, Hubei, Guangxi, Gansu
and Xinjiang showed a decline. For the cluster surveys 840 children per province were surveyed and had to
meet specific criteria. The collection method used for the annual collection data is not known, although the
reviews highlighted the practice of utilizing administrative coverage rather than official birth rates for the



                                                     - 7 -

denominator in provincial reports, thereby giving rise to higher rates. Notwithstanding the possible
over-reporting of coverage (a universally common problem), of special note is the fact that specific efforts
were made to ensure coverage for some previously uncovered populations of floating and unregistered
children. The immunization coverage survey in 2003 found that the outreach efforts to find and register
these children and the provision of free or reduced-fee vaccinations had resulted in immunization certificate
coverage of 92.7% in urban areas and 81.3% in the most rural areas.

Quality. While the cold chain improvement was problematic during the first few years of the project due to
delays in procurement, performance improved dramatically in the last years of the project. In the end all of
the equipment was purchased and plans were developed in all provinces for the future renewal of
equipment. The issue which remains is whether sufficient funds will be made available in future for the
implementation of the renewal plans, although some provinces have begun to set up funds for that purpose.
Large numbers (68,764) of health workers were trained in immunization quality improvements, and
improved immunization protocols (covering safety, supervision and frequency of sessions) were developed.
While data on the current use of syringes is available, the quality and impact of the training was not
evaluated, and the training at county and local levels was constrained due to counterpart funding
requirements, due to the low disbursement rate for IDA funding. Another area of quality improvement,
which cannot be wholly attributed to the project, was the great increase in the use of disposable syringes
and needles. Unfortunately, at the time of project preparation, it was the norm in China to use re-usable
equipment and large quantities of re-usable equipment were purchased through the project and not used.
Nevertheless, the change during the project to disposables was an important quality improvement, and
while proper disposal of these has been identified as a potential problem, the project promoted the strict
management of medical waste, and GAVI support further improved the safe discarding of disposables.

Management of Immunization Programs. During the project, management was strengthened through the
establishment of coordinating mechanisms involving several government departments ­ Health, Planning
and Finance ­ which also helped to raise awareness beyond the health departments, about the importance of
immunization. This is evidenced by the establishment of a standard, country-wide surveillance system
which began operation in 2004. An EPI Center was also established in the new Communicable Disease
Center (CDC) at central level. A total of 6,405,301 pieces of IEC material was distributed, and periodic
surveys were conducted on knowledge, attitude and practice, providing feedback information.

New Vaccines. The increase in hepatitis B coverage was an impressive and important achievement, since
10% of the Chinese population are carriers for hepatitis B. The increased awareness of hepatitis B
immunization generated by the project and the availability of GAVI funding for the purchase of hepatitis B
vaccine served to spearhead the expansion of coverage throughout China.




                                                     - 8 -

Health Promotion Component. This component's objective was to improve the capacity of the health
sector to design and implement health promotion programs aimed at controlling the rising prevalence of
NCDs, STDs, HIV and injury. The component was a response to the growing importance of NCDs as the
population ages, becomes more sedentary, has high levels of smoking, and as urbanization and other social
factors bring changes in diet and sexual mores, and increased access to injecting drugs It was implemented
in the cities of Beijing, Chengdu, Liuzhou, Luoyang, Shanghai, Tianjin and Weihai. It focused on tobacco
control, STD/HIV, blood pressure and lipid screening, nutrition and physical activity. In addition, Yunnan
Province participated in the project's STD/HIV activities. Although the interventions were variable, the
surveillance was good, the institutional development was substantial, and the HRD had positive outcomes.
This component is rated highly satisfactory because, for the first time, international theories and methods
in health promotion, with adaptations to fit the Chinese context, were introduced and used systematically in
China.

Institutional Development. Through the HRD sub-component, the capacity to carry out health promotion
activities was strengthened. There was successful implementation of strategies for different settings in
tobacco control, and policies were enacted that supported both interventions and prevention (see paragraph
4.5 Institutional Development Impact for more detail).

Surveillance. An important achievement was the development and implementation of a surveillance
system- the BRFSS - for measuring changes in: (a) knowledge of behavioral risks; and (b) risk behavior.
This survey involved the development of appropriate indicators, and was carried out annually through
face-to-face interviews with a randomly selected sample of at least 2,400 people in each city. A
well-trained team is now in place, and this surveillance has been incorporated into the routine health work
across the country. There was some weakness in the analysis and use of the information generated by the
system. This was identified during the mid-term evaluation, and in some cases remained a problem
throughout the project. However, following the mid-term evaluation, there was some improvement in the
utilization of the BRFSS data: some cities (Beijing and Luoyang) began to use the data as a guide in the
planning and evaluation of interventions, and Chengdu began providing the data to the media for
discussion. Additional funds and training are needed to correct this deficiency, but overall this system is an
important advance and should be a valuable tool for measuring future progress and helping to perfect
health promotion programs. In addition to the BRFSS, community environment surveillance was carried
out three times in each city. These surveys described the policy environment with regard to NCD
prevention and STD/HIV management. Improvements were also made in the death reporting systems to
improve cause of death surveillance.

Human Resource Development. A highly satisfactory outcome of the project has been the training of a
large cadre of administrative, management and professional staff in the theory and practice (including
design, implementation and evaluation) of health promotion and disease prevention. This involved
approximately 100,000 person days of training during the project. The funding and technical assistance
from Australia was very helpful in this aspect of the project. Another useful outcome of the project is the
extensive development of training materials, health education materials, and standard protocols for
management of STD's and HIV which can be used in developing health promotion activities in other areas
of China. In addition, government leaders in the project cities and policy makers in health are now well
aware of the importance of health promotion.

Interventions

Tobacco Control. The greatest concentration of effort and the most impressive outcomes were achieved in
the tobacco control area. Both internal and external evaluations of this subcomponent have been largely


                                                     - 9 -

very favorable. The BRFSS recorded some increase in awareness of the dangers of tobacco over the life of
the Project, but the most impressive result in regard to individual behavior was the overall reduction in
smoking in the project cities from 34.6% of adults to 28.3%. In a non-intervention city (Kunming), where
this was measured for comparison, there was an increase from 28.2 to 30.2%. The decrease, in project
areas, among male smokers was particularly noteworthy as it decreased by over 20% in the 20-39 year age
group.

The tobacco component appears to have been successful because of its multi-pronged approach which
included city-wide strategies and strategies for neighborhoods, schools, hospitals and workplaces. In
addition to media campaigns, the city-wide approaches included bans on smoking in public places, bans on
sales to minors, bans on advertising (in five cities) and warning labels (in two cities). These city-wide
efforts were hampered by the lack of real power in the municipalities to enforce the policy changes and the
questionable quality of the media campaigns. However, the "quit and win" competition which was held
each year for three years and involved about 80,000 people in total, was highly successful, resulting in
findings that one year after participating, 28-45% (varying by year of measurement) of participants were
still non-smokers.

The more successful approaches, apart from the "quit and win" competition, appear to have been those
directed at neighborhoods, hospitals, schools and workplaces. The highest cessation rates were the result of
counseling by doctors, teacher cessation programs, medical staff cessation programs, and no smoking
policies in schools and workplaces. Since these programs were established only in pilot areas in each city,
population coverage would need to be greatly expanded in order to have a major population impact. More
assistance in cessation ­ such as nicotine gum or patches ­ might result in even greater success in these
programs.

Blood Pressure and Lipid Screening. Outcomes of the blood pressure and lipid screening programs were
also generally satisfactory. Before 2001, all cities showed an increase in the percentage of patients over
age 35 who had blood pressure measured at first visit ­ from 61 to 71%. However, in 2002 this dropped to
64.7%. All cities, except Tianjin, showed an increase in the percentage of patients over age 40 which had
lipid screening tests. Unlike the tobacco program, the screening program depended heavily on
administrative orders and lacked social mobilization efforts to engender support for the program. The
result was relatively poor compliance in hospitals and questionable sustainability of the success in
community settings.

STD/HIV Program. The STD/HIV component was quite successful in training staff and developing
standard treatment protocols, but other aspects of the strategy were unclear and coverage was limited. The
public education aspect had relatively little impact. At the outset, knowledge about the real means of
transmission was high, but there was wide-spread misinformation about the lack of risk in some situations
(e.g., shaking hands). There was some lessening of these misunderstandings during the life of the project
and that should lead to a better environment for developing future programs. There was an increase in
knowledge of the value of condoms in prevention ­ for males from 63.2 to 77.8% and for females from
59.8 to 76%. One problem which contributed to the limited success of this component was the difficulty in
accessing high-risk populations.

Nutrition and Physical Activities. The nutrition and physical activities component was quite limited and
not well-targeted. Although there was some change in physical activity in the right direction, the change
was not statistically significant ; and there was no impact on the intakes of sugar or fat and no change in
the rates of overweight and obesity. Unlike the tobacco program, this component lacked well-planned,
multiple intervention strategies, although in addition to educational efforts in schools and workplaces, there


                                                      - 10 -

were some improvements in urban design in some cities to encourage physical activity.

Injury. A significant achievement was the establishment of a multi-sectoral Road Safety Commission.
Although there was some increase in the awareness of the requirement for the wearing of seat belts, there
was no significant increase in their use during the project period. Education campaigns concerning traffic
safety, sports safety, safety in schools and workplaces were conducted but there were no measures of their
impact.

At the end of the project, under the immunization component, replacement plans for the cold chain had been
prepared, hepatitis B vaccine had been included in the EPI, and training had been put in place for safe
injections. Under the health promotion component, there were focused efforts for tobacco control and
protocols had been prepared for STDs, and HIV/AIDS. On this basis, the rating for achievement of sector
policies is substantial. The replacement of the cold chain equipment and vehicles merits a high for
physical accomplishments. The project's impact on poverty reduction is rated modest on the basis that
while the provinces participating in the immunization component had some of the lowest indicators for
rural income per capita and high rates of IMR, the data on coverage has not been disaggregated by
quintiles. The rationale for the institutional development rating of substantial is provided below.
Concerns, as discussed below, relating to the sustainability of the immunization activities warrant a rating
of modest for public sector management.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The Economic Rate of Return was not calculated at appraisal; instead the SAR approached economic
analysis solely for the immunization component through calculating the benefits of the project as healthy
years of life gained or Disability-Adjusted Life Years (DALYs). The analysis of DALYs has limitations
due to the single published disability weight assigned to cover the diverse array of post-disease problems
for each disease. Moreover, the SAR did not provide all the details needed to reproduce the analysis. The
team tried to examine this issue and despite the methodological limitations that were discussed at length
with Government, believe that the project may have accounted for a 53% savings in DALYs, as opposed to
57% savings in DALYs projected at preparation.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
This was not calculated at appraisal.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project has had a substantial impact on institutional development, some of which has been mentioned
above (see 4.2 Outputs by Components). For the immunization component, there has been a significant
improvement in the management of the cold chain. The development of renewal plans by all project
provinces and the setting aside of funds by some provinces to provide for future requirements are important
steps forward in effective management of resources. Although not envisaged at the time of the design, the
change to the use of disposable syringes and needles is an important improvement in the safety of the
program. The widespread addition of hepatitis B vaccine to the EPI, which was also supported by GAVI,
is also a very significant change in the program, which will lead to significant savings in treatment
programs in the future. Since NCDs, which are rapidly growing in importance in China, threaten the
sustainability of the health care system, actions are needed to reduce smoking and other risk factors and to
implement early screening and treatment programs for chronic conditions (i.e., hypertension and
hypercholesterolemia). As a result of the health promotion component, there has been increased attention
by policy makers at all levels to NCDs, and the creation of new administrative units to deal with NCD's.
These important institutional developments should result in long-term savings in costs and premature
deaths. The extensive training programs associated with both components have produced, at all levels, a



                                                     - 11 -

large cadre of well-trained workers who will be more effective in developing, implementing and evaluating
programs. Finally, the implementation of surveillance systems has created the potential for more effective
use of resources as the results are used to monitor and reshape programs over time.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The main factor outside the control of the government or the implementing agency was the Severe Acute
Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) epidemic. As a consequence virtually all activities under the project came
to a halt in 2003, necessitating a further extension of the closing date, from December 31, 2003 to June 30,
2004 to allow for the orderly completion of activities. Another factor outside their control was the
economic changes which occurred in China, resulting in an increased exposure to risk factors for NCDs.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Government put in place the necessary institutional arrangements to ensure smooth implementation of this
complex project and this is to be lauded. The delays experienced in procuring some of the cold chain
equipment, which affected the implementation period, were the result of government's internal decisions.
Provision of counterpart funding was variable across provinces and from year-to-year, largely the result of
heavy reliance upon local and provincial sources of funding which placed a significant burden on poorer
provinces/counties. The uneven provision of counterpart funds for the immunization component by
provinces, counties and communities could perhaps have benefited from central government intervention.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The implementing agency did an outstanding job of coordinating and facilitating this complex project,
which covered a large number of geographically dispersed implementers. Reporting by the participating
entities was by and large thorough and timely, and this should be attributed not only to the entities, but also
to the follow-up provided by the implementing agency. Reviews were well organized and took place in
different participating provinces, allowing participants to gain first hand insight into challenges faced by
separate localities. All-in-all their efforts were commendable.

5.4 Costs and financing:
This US$162.62 million project was funded from a Credit of Special Drawing Rights (SDR) 67 million
(US$100 million equivalent). The immunization component was expected to account for 85% of the base
costs, with the health promotion component accounting for 13% and the national component the remaining
2%. During the project there were three reallocations (May 18, 2001, December 20, 2002 and September
9, 2003) of the Credit. The Credit was fully disbursed, and the latest estimates of expenditures are
provided in Annex 2, and indicate the actual expenditures in US dollars were less than originally planned
by around 9% for IDA due to exchange rate fluctuations between the SDR and the US$, and 2% less than
originally anticipated for the Borrower. A trust fund (under discussion during the preparation of the
project) was made available after effectiveness through the AusAID. The trust fund (TF020942), managed
by IDA, was approved on December 9, 1996, and closed on March 21, 2003. An Implementation
Completion Memorandum (ICM) for this US$1.2 million equivalent trust fund rated the achievement of
objectives as highly satisfactory.

The SAR anticipated a five and a half year implementation period, and the project was completed in eight
years. The original closing date of the Credit was December 31, 2001, and this was extended twice: in
December 2000 for a two year period as a result of delays in procurement, and in September 2003 for a
one year period, as a result of the SARS epidemic. As of the original closing date, only 50% of the Credit
had been disbursed. Factors contributing to implementation delays were the inadequate provision of
counterpart funds at some province, prefecture and county levels, delays in submitting withdrawal



                                                     - 12 -

applications, but primarily delays by the government in the procurement of cold chain equipment, which
could not have been foreseen during project preparation. Notwithstanding the procurement delays, good
progress was made in other activities. As a consequence of delays under the immunization component,
agreement was reached that the mid-term review for this component be postponed to March 2000, and the
request for extending the closing date to December 2003 was finalized prior to the original closing date. By
April 2002, the health promotion component had disbursed 75%, and it was agreed that the final review of
the component would take place in Beijing in May 2003. By June 2002, the immunization component had
disbursed 79%; the slow pace of disbursements for training and consultant services were attributed to
delays in getting clearance from the State Planning and Development Commission. By January 2003, only
84% of the Credit had been disbursed, and the SARS epidemic affected all activities which necessitated an
extension of the closing date to June 30, 2004, by which time the Credit was 100% disbursed.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Immunization. There is concern about the sustainability of the EPI program in some provinces, especially
if provincial budgets for EPI staff salaries and operational costs continue to remain inadequate. Staff
might be compelled to divert attention to earn additional incomes as opposed to carrying out preventive
work. An additional concern is the impact on poor families of the policy of charging user fees for
immunization, as this could also affect the sustainability of the coverage achieved during the project.
While GAVI has committed funds for hepatitis B immunization which has expedited the expansion of
hepatitis B immunization, this support is not indefinite. Notwithstanding these concerns, a number of
positive steps have been taken by the Government:

        (a)      Central government made significant additional commitments for the remaining needs of
                 cold chain equipment, including a grant of RMB 20 million for the poor western provinces
                 and the poorer counties in many other provinces, and this amount rose to RMB120 million
                 in 2003;

        (b)      All provinces have prepared plans (some have even put aside funds) for long-term
                 sustainability of cold chain equipment to ensure replacements;

        (c)      Hepatitis B has been included in EPI, and the Ministry of Finance (MOF) had provided
                 RMB 36 million for this, and the provincial level is being required to bear the costs of
                 purchasing vaccines;

        (d)      the central government is in the process of preparing a Financial Sustainability Plan, to be
                 submitted to GAVI in early 2005 which should outline how the initial investments by
                 GAVI will be sustained in the longer term;

        (e)      Discussions have been held with MOH on findings from an analysis in two provinces
                 highlighting the challenges of providing safe injections, including the costs for disposable
                 and auto disposable syringes, and provides alternative strategies for injection material
                 disposal; and

        (f)      On the basis of the above, the prospects for sustainability of the immunization component
                 are likely.




                                                    - 13 -

Health Promotion. Rapid socioeconomic changes potentially have both positive and negative impacts on
the prospects for sustainability. On the positive side, they are likely to increase popular interest in
maintaining health. On the negative side, they are resulting in more sedentary lifestyles, more air pollution,
more advertising of tobacco, and changes in diet which have negative health effects. While it is expected
that there will be variation in the sustainability of some of the interventions undertaken in some of the
cities, a major achievement of the project has been to bring health promotion and prevention of NCDs to
the attention of policy makers at all levels. Their increased understanding and support for these activities
during the project augurs well for an improved policy environment for sustaining and enhancing the
outcomes. The likelihood of sustaining the achievements is enhanced not only by the new administrative
structures which have been put in place at local and central levels to deal with NCDs, but also because
there is now a large cadre of well-trained staff in this area ­ some of whom are now in leadership positions.
In addition, there has been a steady increase in the funds available for NCD work at local and central
levels. Overall, it is encouraging that there are now some 31 national NCD projects across the country
which suggests that the programs funded under this component are likely to be sustained and spread to a
wider population. The sustainability of the HIV subcomponent (which achieved less than other areas such
as tobacco control) has been helped for the present by a World Bank Loan (Health IX) for AIDS work.
The health promotion component's prospect for sustainability is rated as likely, based on the foregoing.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
As noted in previous sections, many of the changes instituted during the course of the project have already
been incorporated into the routine health work. This is certainly true of the activities in support of the
immunization objective where the improvements in cold chain management and the expanded coverage,
including hepatitis B immunization, have all become part of the routine work of the health sector. Injection
safety through the use of disposable syringes and needles, which had not been supported by the project,
continues to improve and is part of the MOH's routine. At central level, the National EPI Technical
Instruction Center has been established with responsibility for developing immunization policies, standards,
and strategies and for providing technical assistance, supervision and monitoring and evaluation. However,
as noted above, the main requirement for the improvements achieved during the project to become part of
the regular operations is for the funding to be made available to county and local levels to pay EPI staff
adequately and to reach special groups such as rural children, floating populations and minority
populations. Government's provision of grants in support of EPI is a positive sign. On-going surveillance
of coverage and vaccine preventable disease incidence, and review of the implementation of cold chain
maintenance plans will be useful in monitoring the long-term impact of the project.

With respect to health promotion, the picture is a bit more complicated. As noted previously, the mass
education efforts for selected public health interventions had more limited success and will require
considerable modification before becoming routine. The inclusion of health promotion activities as part of
the routine work for health workers in the project cities is encouraging, and the approach has been extended
to other areas, especially through the 31 national demonstration projects. The creation of administrative
units at central and local levels to deal with NCD has also ensured that at least some of the activities which
had been supported by the project will be continued as part of regular operations. As noted earlier, the
establishment of the NCNCD and the creation (with AusAID assistance) of the Chinese Alliance for Health
Promotion will contribute greatly to the maintenance of the project's health promotion efforts as part of
regular operations. In addition, an impact evaluation of the tobacco control activities is planned, and its
findings will be shared with the Borrower to better inform on future activities in this endeavor. Finally, the
continuation of the BRFSS will permit longer term monitoring of the maintenance and expansion of the
health promotion activities pioneered by the project.




                                                       - 14 -

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The project was requested by the government, and as noted above, in line with both government and Bank
strategies. Grant funds amounting to approximately US$500,000 were accessed from the Policy and
Human Resources Development (PHRD) fund (one government-executed, and one IDA-executed) to
prepare the project. These grants augmented available preparation resources through funding of
consultancies and study tours. The identification mission took place in September 1994, wherein a project
preparation plan was agreed upon and formed the basis of completing the preparation process. The
preparation process included discussions with over 120 public health and other government personnel, as
well as non-governmental organizations. Preparation missions included representatives from the Center for
Disease Control (CDC), the WHO, AusAID, and country office staff, among others. Selection into the
immunization component was on the basis of a set of indicators which included per capita income,
percentage of population below the poverty line and disease incidence. The initial list of 15 provinces was
further reduced to exclude those with small population size, a low level of interest, and recent experience
with other Bank-assisted health projects. For the health promotion component, selection of cities to
participate was on the basis of ensuring a variety of settings for learning purposes, and Yunnan Province
was selected to participate in this component with a focus on STDs/HIV, since it had the highest
concentration of HIV/AIDS in China at the time. This project, for environmental purposes, was rated
category "C", indicating that there would be no adverse environmental impact, which was appropriate.
Agreement was reached during negotiations that only reusable syringes and needles, rather than disposable
ones, would be procured, except for urban areas which followed safe utilization and disposal practices,
consistent with the recommended policy of the WHO. In addition, support was included for training in
disinfection and destruction of needles and syringes to be discarded. The identified risks and the mitigatory
measures were appropriate; particular emphasis was given for the Ministry of Finance (MOF), Provincial
Finance Bureaus, and city governments to ensure that participating provincial and city governments
understood their financial obligations under the project. In recognition of the project's contribution to
government's poverty alleviation objectives, the MOF was urged to use very soft on-lending terms to the
provinces as well as shouldering repayment responsibility for the poorest counties. Of particular note was
the specific inclusion of HIV/AIDS work in the health promotion component, paving the way for future
work in this important area. The preparation was comprehensive, included the appropriate skills, took into
consideration relevant lessons (both from the country and internationally), and the project was well placed
for smooth implementation. Based on the above, the preparation is rated satisfactory.

7.2 Supervision:
Implementation reviews of the project were, on average, undertaken at least every six months. Exceptions
include December 2000, January 2003, and in 2003 when the SARS epidemic caused disruption to project
activities. The Task Team Leader that prepared the project served in the capacity throughout the life of the
project, with the exception of the period 2000 to 2002. The technical skills represented in the reviews were
appropriate, and included participants from in-country and external staff of relevant donors, as well as
country office staff in the supervision of this complex project. The reviews were organized so that each one
focused on a component, with the exception of the review in February 2003, and the final review in June
2004 that covered both components. Given the diverse nature of skills required for each component, this
approach appears to have worked well. The team kept in regular contact with the implementing agency and
follow-up was appropriate. The issue of counterpart funding (to be provided by the provinces and below)
was identified from the outset as a constraint. This was flagged by the team for most of the project life,
although an improvement was noted towards the end of the project. It must be recognized that during the
life of the project, the Form 590 became the Project Status Report (PSR), and the reporting requirements



                                                     - 15 -

for these in turn also changed over time. Ratings given in the PSRs were appropriate, and the write-ups
conveyed the progress. However, Annex 1 was never filled in. With hindsight, it is recognized that for
reporting purposes, it would have been helpful if the indicators were reported on in a more structured
manner in the PSRs. This issue was highlighted by management on more than one occasion. While the
technical expertise which the Bank brought to the supervision of all components through the inclusion of
leading experts (including other donors) in their fields, and the arrangements made for domestic supervision
were very impressive, the failure to record progress against the indicators merits a rating of satisfactory.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Based on the above, the overall Bank performance is rated satisfactory due to the failure of Bank staff to
report on the indicators in a consistent manner.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The preparation of the project by the Borrower was participatory in nature, seeking to ensure the necessary
ownership by those participating in the project. Preparation and review workshops with stakeholder and
IDA participation were undertaken for each of the components, and additional workshops were called by
MOH and included participation of domestic experts and external specialists. For each of the components,
MOH identified two provinces (for the immunization component) and two cities (for the health promotion
component) to commence preparation activities. Detailed discussions between the Borrower and the Bank
formed the basis for a detailed project preparation plan which specified roles and responsibilities of various
parties, technical assistance requirements and schedule; candidate provinces and cities prepared proposals
which further informed the plan. The plan was converted into an outline of the PIP, and eventually
finalized to serve as the basis for implementation. As noted previously, government's inclusion of
HIV/AIDS under the health promotion component was a first step in facilitating future work in this area.
Based on the foregoing, the Borrower's performance in preparation is rated satisfactory.


7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Borrower met the conditions of effectiveness, namely that project implementation arrangements were
made with at least 7 out of 10 provinces covered by the immunization component, and 5 out of the 8
entities carrying out the health promotion component. Key managers were in place at all relevant levels
throughout implementation, notwithstanding a reorganization that took place at province level during
implementation. Delays of up to two years, however, were experienced in the procurement of key
equipment for the immunization component, casting a cloud over what was otherwise a sterling start,
highlighting the need to factor in time for Borrower's internal review processes. Records indicate that
government's internal review processes may also, at times, have contributed to delays in disbursement.
While assurances had been provided during negotiations, this project, like its predecessors in the health
sector, encountered problems with the provision of counterpart funds in some of the provinces, prefectures
and counties. This, in some instances, led to innovation in acquiring these funds and delays in
implementing activities. Notwithstanding the variable performance of the provinces and cities in the
provision of counterpart funds, and the delay in procurement, on the basis of the successful completion of
all of the components government's implementation performance is rated satisfactory.


7.6 Implementing Agency:
The MOH, as implementing agency of the project, was expected to provide coordination among the
provinces and cities; and their health agencies involved in the project, supervise and monitor the progress as
well. It was expected to provide technical assistance, as required, to carry out activities of common interest



                                                     - 16 -

and disseminate lessons learned to other parts of the country. On the basis of the following, the
implementing agency's performance is rated satisfactory. A comprehensive arrangement was put in place
for the management of the components, which included the DDC and China Center for Disease Control
(CCDC), with the Foreign Loan Office in the MOH having responsibility for the administrative and
operational requirements. The implementing agency managed the implementation effectively and facilitated
reviews by the Bank, discharging their responsibilities with minor exceptions. Fiduciary responsibilities
were discharged in a timely manner. While reporting for each of the components was regular, the veracity
of the data relating to vaccine coverage was highlighted during reviews. This underscores the need for
agreement on the identification and use of data sources to ensure accurate and comparable results within
and across provinces.


7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall Borrower performance, on the basis of the above, is rated satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

    (a)           A well-prepared PIP, which is designed in a participatory manner, contributes to
                  ownership and smoother implementation for many aspects of a project.

    (b)           A solution needs to be sought for the generic problem of counterpart fund provision.

    (c)           Good donor coordination helps to ensure a positive outcome by making it easier for the
                  borrower to make the most effective use of all available resources.

    (d)           For the immunization component:

                  (i)   Immunization is a public good for which adequate central and provincial funding is
                        essential.
                  (ii)  Planning and funding for cold chain maintenance is a key component of the program.
                  (iii) Social mobilization must be well-targeted, particularly for hard-to-reach
                        populations, and involve more than the distribution of pamphlets; and lessons from
                        the health promotion component would be very useful in this area.
                  (iv)  It is essential to reach agreement a-priori on the source of denominators used for
                        indicators.

    (e)           Health promotion, a field where many projects fail, in this instance was quite successful,
                  and the following lessons are critical:

                  (i)   Interventions must be evidence-based.
                  (ii)  It is essential to select an appropriate target audience for each intervention.
                  (iii) The target audience must be large enough to permit a significant impact and to allow
                        for evaluation of outcome.
                  (iv)  Multiple interventions against a single risk factor are more likely to have an impact
                        than single interventions.
                  (v)   Regulation and administrative orders are not likely to be enforceable unless the
                        target population understands the value of compliance. Therefore, social
                        mobilization is critical.




                                                       - 17 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The impacts of the project are the following: (a) H7 project strengthened implementation and running of
EPI program in 10 poverty provinces when implementation of nationwide EPI program was going down
with the influence of transit to market economy; and (b) the initiative HP subcomponent established the
good basis in various aspects of public health, including surveillance of risk factors, policy development
and the effect evaluation, especially capacity building, while facing the threat of NCD to the Chinese
population's health. The law of infection diseases control has been taken into effect since December 1,
2004. It regulated that the free injection of Hepatitis B vaccine to the all newborn infants, which make sure
the impact of Health VII project would be developed in future. The main text of the Government's ICRs
are in the files; Abstracts/Executive Summaries from three evaluations undertaken by the Government are
provided below:

                                                     Abstract
                                 (from Completion Report for EPI component)

The WB Loan Disease Control Project (Health VII Project) consists of two parts, namely, EPI Component
and Health Promotion Component. In 1994 and 1995, the pilot assessment was conducted in some
provinces and the project was inaugurated on March 19, 1996. The duration was planned to be five years
(1996-2000), but the project was extended three times to June 30, 2004. The total planned investment for
Health VII was RMB 1.394 billion yuan, 60% of which is WB loan and 40% of which is the counterpart
fund from governments at all levels in China (Quoted from the Approval Document of National Planning
Commission on the Feasibility Study Report on the Project). The project planned to use WB loan of 67
million SDRs, which was roughly RMB 820 million yuan. 58.5362 million SDRs were assigned to EPI
Component, which was roughly RMB 716.4597 million yuan, accounting for 87.37% of the total project
investment. The EPI project provinces are the 10 poorest provinces in China, which are Gansu, Guangxi,
Guizhou, Hebei, Henan, Shannxi, Shanxi, Hubei, and Xinjiang and Yunnan. The project included cold
chain equipment, health staff training, EPI management, surveillance and information communication and
social mobilization. With the support of governments at all levels and the active cooperation of the project
implementation organizations, the project has made significant achievements and fulfilled the expected
goals.

The general goal of the project is to prevent and control the vaccine targeted diseases to decrease the
incidence, cause disability rate and mortality among children through consolidating and developing the EPI
work in 10 poverty provinces. To achieve the above mentioned general goal, the project set up some
specific goals including conducting staff training, improving EPI service quality, establishing EPI financing
mechanism, extending EPI service scope, expanding EPI vaccines and so on.

The project has controlled the incidence, disability rate and mortality of vaccine targeted diseases
effectively in the project provinces through strengthening EPI work and has made significant achievements
in the following aspects: (a) the project has increased the financial input to the disease control as a whole
and the attention of leaders at all levels to the project by policy innovation so as to accelerate the resource
allocation at central level and each lower level, especially in the poverty areas; (b) the project has not only
provided the cold chain equipment needed urgently for the ten provinces, but also helped them to set up
long term and sustainable cold chain replacement mechanism; and (c) the project has improved the
technical level and management ability of EPI staff, enhanced the injection safety of vaccinations; improved
the Hepatitis B vaccine (HepB) coverage and accelerated the integration of HepB into EPI.




                                                       - 18 -

During these 8 years, the implementation of the project has achieved obvious results to keep high level EPI
vaccine coverage and control the incidence of vaccine targeted diseases. In 2003, in project provinces the
coverage of BCG, OPV, DPT and MV was 79.5%, which remained a relatively high level compared with
that at the beginning of project implementation and the coverage of Hep. B was 71.8%, a dramatic increase
over the baseline coverage (39.9%) at the beginning of the project in 1996. Since the project
implementation, the provinces had effectively controlled the incidences of EPI targeted diseases and
maintained polio free status. The incidences of measles, diphtheria, pertussis and NTT and other diseases
took on a declining trend. The project upgraded the cold chain equipment at province, prefecture (city),
county (district or county-level city), township (street committees) and village levels.

During the implementation period, the project got the support and cooperation of governments at all levels.
The project enhanced the knowledge and capability of EPI staff at all levels, improved EPI service quality
and accelerated EPI development by strengthening training.

During the implementation of the project, project provinces set up and improve the project management and
accumulated the project management experiences. For example, the project supervision method and EPI
IEC techniques into project management, and attention was paid to develop policy to set up the
sustainability mechanism of the project.

The project further maintained the EPI cold chain operation, especially in the western areas. Regarding
cold chain construction, the cold chain equipment furnishment standard set up by Health VII Project has
been recognized by the relevant departments at national level and integrated into equipment furnishment
standard of MOH. The attention at all level of governments to EPI has been enhanced by the
implementation of Health VII Project. The central financial department has provided 20 million RMB yuan
each year to construct the cold chain system since 2000, and the fund was increased to 120 million yuan in
2003.

The project popularized the EPI knowledge among the mass and increased the understanding of the mass to
the importance and necessity of EPI by conducting health education and social mobilization on EPI.

Concerning injection safety of EPI vaccination, at the beginning of the project, some project provinces
utilized glass syringes, but currently they use auto-disposable syringe to vaccinate HepB, which has
become an estalished policy.

The successful experiences gained from the project are mainly: (a) Government at all levels has attached
great importance to EPI work and an EPI financing mechanism with government financing as the main
channel has been established; (b) the coordination among different departments has been strengthened and
the roles of all the relevant departments have been defiend; (c) all the project provinces have replaced and
renewed the cold chain equipment and set up cold chain long term and sustainable development mechanism;
(d) standard training system has been established to improve the quality of EPI staff at all levels; (e) the
EPI management and surveillance work has been strengthened and EPI work quality has been improved; (f)
each level has accumulated rich experience and methods for project management; (g) the project has
enabled the CDCs at all levels and immunization units to better understand the importance of safe injection;
and (h) public awareness of EPI work has been improved through IEC and social mobilization.

The problems existing in the project are mainly: (a) the project implementation was slow; (b) EPI
financing is still far from adequate; (c) although the cold chain equipment was renewed during the project,
some equipment which was decided at the beginning of the project has become outdated or unsuitable for
the national or province situation; (d) during project implementation, the couterpart fund from the city and


                                                     - 19 -

county level could not be put into place in some provinces and the speed of reimbursement was very slow
and the responsibility of repaying the loan was not clear; (e) because of the inadequate financing and the
poor quality of EPI staff at grass root levels, the mangement and surveillance of EPI was not standardized;
(f) although the project provided support to training, few long-term training activities have been carried out
and the evaluation of the teaching content, methodology and effect has been inadequate; (g) safe
immunization should be strengthened; and (h) the methods of carrying out IEC and social mobilization were
simple and the evaluation of the work was not enough.

During the project implementation period, especially after SARS outbreak in 2003, the government at all
levels has attached more importance on disease prevention and control, strengthened the construction of
laws and regulations on EPI, established a comprehensive and stable long-term EPI organizational
structure, increased input into EPI work and created favorable conditions for the sustainable development
of EPI work.

The public health undertaking is the government responsibility and EPI work is the most cost-effective
social undertaking in controlling communicable diseases, which can benefit generations to come. It is
hoped that with the promulgation of the Law of Infection Diseases Control and relevant regulations,
government at each level can pay more attention to EPI work and increase their financing to EPI. With the
establishment of a sound EPI network at the grass root level, EPI in China will take on a new look.
However, owing to the fact that China is a vast country with a large population, the EPI work is facing
many challenges, especially in poor and remote areas and among floating children. China's EPI work still
needs the support and help from international community.




                                                     - 20 -

                                           The Executive Summary
                     (from the Internal Evaluation of the Health Promotion Component)


I.       Project Background

In 1994 when preparing and designing the World Bank's loan for the seventh health project (China Disease
Prevention Project), the Government of China decided a sub-component project of Disease Prevention and
Health Promotion be included. Rationale for including this component was based on the state of illness has
changed from the increase of chronic non-infectious disease and new infectious disease that have caused
severe social and economic burden to the country. After making sufficient preparations, this project was
formally commenced and implemented in 1996 and concluded in June 2004 with a total period of eight
years.

Ten years ago, there was no systematic approach using health promotion methods in prevention and control
of chronic diseases, STD/HIV AIDS and injury prevention; and at that time, a structure for national
chronic disease prevention and control had not been formed, and the surveillance system for morbidity had
been incomplete, requiring collection of information on behavior risks and effective evaluation mechanism
and methods. At that time, health professionals in China had little knowledge about health promotion
theories and practice and resources and manpower for health promotion programs appeared to be
insufficient. A nationwide, as well as, locally effective and supportive strategy environment had not been
shaped.

This project has applied advanced international practice in health promotion, with the etiological theories in
perspective, aiming at risk factors of chronic non-infectious disease, prevention and control programs
including smoking, imbalanced diet, insufficient physical activity, hypertension, unsafe sexual behavior and
injury prevention, representing different levels of economic and social development. Seven cities and a
province had been selected as the project's locations including the cities of Beijing, Tianjin, Shanghai,
Chengdu, Luoyang, Liuzhou, Weihai and Yunnan Province.

The general aims of this project are to reduce the burdens from mortality, morbidity and disability caused
by chronic non-infectious diseases, STD/HIV/AIDS and injury by developing health promotion programs.

The general structure of this project covers four major areas: (a) institutional development and policy
development; (b) human resources development; (c) surveillance (including setting up surveillance systems
for behavior risks factors, the surveillance system for community environment, improvement of the
surveillance systems of causes for deaths); and (d) comprehensive intervention on setting based behavior
risk factors. These four areas have amalgamated all issues of this project.

Total investment of this project was US$10.634 million, whereas the budget for institutional building and
policy development comprised 8.45%, the budget for human resources development comprised 5.74%, the
budget for surveillance comprised 24.75%, the budget for intervention comprised for 61.05%. Project
cities/province matched the same amount of budget in the ratio of one to one.

This project has been categorized at the central and the local levels, the Ministry of Health (MOH)
exercised the overall direction, coordination and supervision of the project's implementation at the national
level. A national project leadership group and a project expert committee were set up, and a central project
office was also set up, being responsible for the day-to-day routine work. A technical guidance team in the
central project office was responsible for the technical part of the project. All project cities have


                                                     - 21 -

established similar organizational structures, ensuring all functions of the project are implemented and good
running of this project.

Before the formal initiation of this project, pre-project assessment was made and after the project was
initiated, one project city was selected each year, the World Bank and the Ministry of Health exercised joint
supervision and instruction through site inspections and reviewing of work reports by project cities, existing
problems in the project and project's direction were proposed and comments for further improvement in
future were raised so that the quality of the project could be further enhanced and developed onwards.

Two comprehensive evaluation of the project were made twice during the life of the project, i.e., a mid-term
evaluation was done at the end of 1998 by using external evaluation methods and the project objectives,
certain issues and funds were adjusted after the mid-term evaluation. A final project evaluation was made
in 2003 by combining the internal and external evaluation methods.

In order to resolve the problem of shortage of human resources and technical expertise, aid assistance from
AusAID was given to the project between 1997 and 1999, worth 1.5 million Australian dollars. The
AusAID funds supported the following areas for the project: (a) to review the implementation of
intervention programs on an annual basis; (b) overseas technical training and study tours; and (c) domestic
technical training. The AusAID assistance has contributed to the project as per following: (a) a large
number of health professionals have been trained to command both health promotion theories and ability to
apply the theories in practice, forming a contingent of staff who have relatively strong capabilities to
implement the projects; (b) achieved primary capability in health promotion theories and practice at the
national level and among the project cities; and (c) improved project staff's theoretical level in health
promotion and hands-on abilities hence playing an exemplary and constructive role in the development of
China's health promotion cause.

II.      Results of Project Implementation

Following with the project objectives, fruitful achievements and rich experience have been gained over the
past eight years in the areas of organizational management and design of technical programs, hence a large
variety of projects have been implemented accordingly.

1.       Institutional Development and Policy Reform

The central government and all project cities involved have developed and improved the organizational
structure and mechanism for chronic disease prevention and control, with such kind of work being included
in the daily routine work of local government, hence an effective network was formed and developed into a
large area.

Supported by the existing government laws and regulations, achievements made by the project include:
"Non-Smoking Zones in Public Areas", "Patients who are over the age of 35 years old have their blood
pressure tested at their first consultation in hospital", "A Relaxed Clinical Environment for STD/HIV
AIDS Treatment", etc. The project has publicized, and promoted the implementation of government rules
and regulations on "Regulation on Non-Smoking in Public Transport Vehicles and Waiting Rooms, etc";
banning of tobacco advertisements, non-smoking zones in public areas, no selling of cigarettes to teenagers,
health warnings on cigarette packs, as well as contributed to "the Guidelines for Prevention and Treatment
for Hypertension in China", "Demo Projects for Comprehensive Prevention and Treatment of Chronic
Diseases in the Community", "Guidelines for Prevention and Treatment of Diabetes in China", "Dietary
Guidelines for Chinese People", "General Planning for Mass Physical Activities", "Roads and Traffic


                                                       - 22 -

Regulation in the People's Republic of China", and health education classes have been run in middle and
primary schools, etc.

2.       Capacity Building and Human Resources Development

Improvement of health promotion capabilities by the central and local project cities demonstrated in the
following: (a) Governments at various levels have acknowledged the importance of health promotion, offer
their inputs and increased their supports; (b) the internal units and department of health organizations
further understood the importance of health promotion, their theoretical level and financial inputs in this
regard have also been improved; and (c) the capabilities of health organizations to work extensively with
other sectors, and their level of participation have been improved.

Through a large number of domestic and overseas training, the project staff's theoretical level of practical
abilities in health promotion have been improved significantly. A basic capacity to design, implement and
evaluate health promotion programs and activities have been formed in the chronic disease prevention units
at the central and project city governments. A contingent of capable and highly effective health promotion
professional have been formed.

3.       Surveillance

At present, surveillance systems for behavior risk factors, community environment and causes for deaths
have been operating successfully in every project city. The surveillance systems have been playing a huge
role in formulating project intervention plans and evaluation of intervention programs. A system for
scientific surveillance and evaluation for chronic disease prevention, and control of behavior risk factors
and community environment factors have primarily established.

4.       Interventions

The design of intervention programs have followed the five principles of the Ottawa Charter. The central
government provided support in health promotion theories and technical training; and every project city has
designed and implemented a large number of comprehensive intervention programs targeting behavior risk
factors in the four settings of hospitals, schools, workplaces and the communities. Through the
intervention programs, a setting based comprehensive health promotion intervention model was formed,
targeting behavior risk factors. A thought process and principle focusing all problems and human needs as
the key when developing intervention strategies. The advanced international health promotion theories have
been fully used and a large number of setting-based practical models of health promotion schools,
hospitals, communities and workplaces have been established.

III.     Total Evaluations

Key achievements of the project are the changes as per following:

         a.       New theories and work models of health promotion, disease prevention and control have
                  been established;

         b.       A new systematic health promotion work schedule has been established;

         c.       A new working structure and mechanism for disease prevention and control have been
                  established;




                                                      - 23 -

d.  A new supportive environment has been created;

e.  A sustained capability for national and project city health promotion human resources
    development have been primarily formed;

f.  A scientific and effective surveillance system and human environment surveillance
    system have been created and established;

g.  A comprehensive health promotion intervention model for setting-based behavior risk
    factors; and

h.  Achievements of this project have become health resources, laying a good foundation
    for sustained development for the project.




                                        - 24 -

                                                    Abstract
                     (for Health Promotion Component from External Evaluation Report)

The health promotion program as a branch project for "Chinese Disease Prevention and Control Project"
with the loan provided by World Bank was formally started in 1996, and ended on December 31, 2003,
totally eight years. The project regions included Beijing, Shanghai, Tianjin, Chengdu, Luoyang, Liuzhou
and Weihai, totally seven cities and Yunnan province. The project contents included the institutional
development and policy reform, the development of human resources, the surveillance and intervention,
totally four areas, and some project activities of the central level.

With the entrustment of the officials from the Office of Overseas Loan of the Ministry of Health and World
Bank "Chinese Disease Prevention Project", in the latter half of 2003, Lee Liming, who is the director of
Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention and professor of School of Public Health, Peking
University, worked as the panel leader, gathered four experts from the School of Public Health of Peking
University, Fudan University and Sichuan University, and carried out the final external evaluation work on
the branch project of health promotion and STDs/AIDS prevention and treatment project by reading the
documents, interviews, group discussion focusing on special subjects and on-the-spot investigation, etc.
During that period, they made on-the-sport investigations to five project cities: Beijing, Shanghai, Chengdu,
Liuzhou and Kunming.

After the evaluation, all the experts agreed that the branch project of health promotion had finished the
concerned activity contents by basically following the schemed requirement after seven years of project
activities. The notion of health promotion stroke root in the hearts of the people. The working institutions
of preventing and curing chronic diseases were strengthened. The ability of chronic diseases prevention
and treatment teams was obviously improved. The surveillance and intervention projects made beneficial
trial and exploration in the project cities; and the project achieved plentiful and substantial fruits. They
were concretely shown in the following aspects: (1) The institutional development and policy reform: (a)
the major governmental leaders of the project cities and the policy-makers in the public health and
administrative sectors got full recognition and understanding to the health promotion notion, thus provided
political support and policy guarantee for the development and expansion of the project activities; (b) both
the central level and the project cities established the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and
specially set up the institutions of preventing and curing NCD and STDs/AIDS; (c) both the central level
and the project cities issued a series of concerned policies and local laws and regulations; and (d) the
working system with the multi-sector coordination of was gradually established in the project
implementation process. (2) The development and training of human resources: (a) the development of
human resources was the most successful project content acknowledged by all people in the process of
implementing this project; (b) they have cultivated a working team with strong theoretical and practical
ability of health promotion; and (c) at the same time, they wrote a series of training materials, and provided
reference materials for the popularization and promotion of afterward prevention and treatment work. (3)
The establishment and operation of surveillance system: (a) they trained a professional working team in the
area of the surveillance of public health, and preliminary formed the network of surveillance work mainly
with the project cities; (b) at the same time, they provided human resources and organizational foundation
for the establishment of the state surveillance system of public health in the future, and precious
experiences and lessons; (c) they got some precious surveillance data by the surveillance project; and (d)
this data provided important scientific basis for the evaluation of the health promotion activities and the
modification and perfection of the intervention program. (4) The intervention and IEC: (a) they cultivated
a prevention and treatment team with both theoretical foundation and practical experiences; (b) they got
good intervention effects from the intervention activities, especially from the tobacco control, the prevention


                                                      - 25 -

and curing of high blood pressure, the rational meal, the physical activities, the prevention of injury and
other project activities; (c) and gradually formed the intervention mode with communities as base, with
places as emphasis and with the comprehensive intervention of behavior risk factors as the main contents.
(5) With the great importance attached by the central government and the wide attention and support of the
international organizations, the project of preventing and controlling STD/AIDS has become the project
activity with fastest development and the most obvious effects.

In order to develop the related projects more efficiently in the future, the evaluation experts put forward the
following suggestions based on the evaluation of the actual situation of the branch project of health
promotion, and the analysis of experiences and problems: (1) The institutional development and policy
reform: (a) strengthen the central government's support of project; (b) in the institutional development,
reorganization and integration, we should strengthen the auxiliary and synchronized implementation with
the state health institutions and the system reform to guarantee the efficiency and sustainability of the
project's effects; and (c) in the policy reform and development, we should pay attention to the coordination
between the central and local government, strengthen the analysis and research on the concerned laws,
regulations and policies, and develop the policy development work of project on this foundation to
guarantee the scientificity and validity of the project's output. (2) The development and training of human
resources: (a) should combine the routine works of the state and the local government, and change the
training work into the important measures of improving the conventional education system and the human
resources' ability; (b) strengthen the work of selecting teachers in the central and local training to guarantee
the effects of training; (c) strengthen the training of the ability of developing, evaluating, choosing and
using the teaching materials to improve the pertinence and guidance of the training materials. (3) The
establishment and operation of surveillance system: (a) strengthen the training in the ability of analyzing
and applying the local surveillance materials, improve the rate of feeding back and using the surveillance
information; (b) the contents, frequency and mode of surveillance should adapt to the culture and tradition
of the project countries and regions as much as possible; and (c) strengthen the research on the surveillance
methods and contents of the floating population and special population. (4) The intervention and IEC: (a)
we also need the establishment of the contrast community in the development of the intervention activities
with communities as base; (b) strengthen the research on the integration, standardization and operability of
the intervention measures; and (c) strengthen the combination of primary prevention, secondary prevention
and tertiary prevention, and strengthen the combination of the clinic prevention and public prevention.

(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                       - 26 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                        1
               Indicator/Matrix     Projected in last PSR                 Actual/Latest Estimate
Infant Mortality Rate                                        IMR dropped for 9 of the 10 provinces, with 3
                                                             provinces reporting >40% drop; 1 province a
                                                             >30% drop; 2 provinces a >20% drop, 1
                                                             province a >10% drop, and 1 province a drop
                                                             of <10%.
Under 5 Mortality Rate
                                                             IMR dropped for 9 of the 10 provinces, with 1
                                                             province reporting >40% drop; 2 provinces a
                                                             >30% drop; 4 provinces a >20% drop, 1
                                                             province a >10% drop, and 1 province a drop
                                                             of <10%.
Disease Incidence Trends:
   Poliomyelitis                                             None reported.

    Measles                                                  7 out of 10 provinces reported a drop in
                                                             incidence rates.

   Neo-natal Tetanus                                         7 out of 10 provinces reported a drop in
                                                             incidence rates.
Behavior change
   Smoking                                                   Smoking: A drop in all cities by male, female
                                                             and teens, except for Kunming and Luoyang
                                                             that showed an increase in the rate of teen
                                                             smokers.

   Other                                                     Blood pressure tested for those >35 years:
                                                             An increase in testing ranging from 6.47% to
                                                             13.62%.

                                                             Cholesterol tested for those >40 years: An
                                                             increase in testing from 4.92% to 16.09%,
                                                             except for Weihai, which had a 0.56% drop.

                                                             Regular physical excertise: All cities showed
                                                             a decrease, except for Shanghai and
                                                             Luoyang.

                                                             Rate of overweight: There was an increase
                                                             in those overweight in all cities.

                                                             Rate of obesity: An increase in all cities,
                                                             except for Chengdu which showed a drop.

                                                             Rate of those taking vegetables and fruits
                                                             more than 5 days per week: All but Beijing,
                                                             Weihai and Chengdu showed an increase.

                                                             Rate of those eating high fat foods more than
                                                             3 days per week: All cities showed a
                                                             decrease, ranging from 0.64% to 11.02%.

Knowledge                                                    Awareness of prevention of AIDS increased
                                                             in all cities from a low of 50% for students in
                                                             Chengdu to a high of 90% for adults in
                                                             Kunming (Yunnan Province). The drop in
                                                             smoking implies an awareness of the
                                                             consequences of tobacco use.

Risk factor prevalence                                       There has been a decrease in smokers, and
                                                             an increase in those having blood pressure
                                                             and blood fat tested. Physical exercise
                                                             decreased in all but two cities, and the rate of



                                          - 27 -

                                                          obesity increased in the range of 0.82% to a
                                                          high of 7.44%.

Changes in policy                                         National: Community-based Prevention and
                                                          Control of Cardiovascular Disease
                                                          1996-2010; Guide to Prevention and Control
                                                          of Hypertension; Preventive Medical
                                                          Diagnosis Standard on NCD; Guide to
                                                          prevention and Control of Overweight and
                                                          Obesity for Chinese Adults; Guide to
                                                          Prevention and Control of Diabetes in China;
                                                          Measures on Tobacco-related
                                                          advertisements; No-smoking in Public
                                                          Vehicles and Waiting Rooms;
                                                          Responsibilities on prevention and control of
                                                          AIDS for related ministries; Mid-term and
                                                          Long-term Layout on Prevention and Control
                                                          of AIDS 1998-2010; Action Plan for the
                                                          Check and Prevention of AIDS in China
                                                          2001-2005. Notable city policies: ban on
                                                          cigarette sale to minors; inclusion of health
                                                          warning on cigarettes; nutrition for primary
                                                          and secondary school students; Safety belt
                                                          and helmet wearing of drivers of motor
                                                          vehicles; Administration of Road and Traffic
                                                          Statues; Standards of diagnosis and
                                                          treatment of STDs; Rules for registration
                                                          and reporting on causes of death; Free and
                                                          anonymous HIV testing; compulsive STD
                                                          examination and treatment for prostitutes;
                                                          Blood use and donation protocols.

Implementation of no smoking in public areas              For tobacco use, each city made its own
                                                          stipulation for where smoking would be
                                                          banned, and this included: public places,
                                                          medical institutions, middle schools, primary
                                                          schools.




                                                - 28 -

Output Indicators:
                                                                      1
              Indicator/Matrix                    Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
Number of training modules revised and                                     Training modules were revised and
completed                                                                  completed and reported on in annual
                                                                           progress reports.


Equipment and vehicles procured                                            All procurement took place, with some
                                                                           provinces receiving more than originally
                                                                           envisaged as a result of savings from the first
                                                                           round of procurement.


Number of village, township and county                                     Based on original planned, more staff than
health workers trained                                                     planned at provincial and county level were
                                                                           trained, with prefecture attaining 90% and
                                                                           township attaining 80.9%; overall the actual
                                                                           was 128% of the planned.


Number of prefectures, counties and                                        All provinces were equipped. The majority of
townships equipped with cold chain                                         the provinces received all that had been
equipment                                                                  planned, some receiving more than originally
                                                                           envisaged of some items, and others
                                                                           receiving slightly less than the planned
                                                                           number indicates. Data provided for
                                                                           provincial level only, and not disaggregated
                                                                           for levels below.


Coverage of EPI (4 vaccines)                                               Province reports on coverage rates for all the
                                                                           4 vaccines have increased; cluster survey
                                                                           indicates a drop in 2 provinces for BCG, a
                                                                           drop in 5 provinces for OPV3 and MV, and a
                                                                           drop in 4 provinces for DPT3.


Coverage of measles vaccine, annually for                                  Information available on coverage of measles
province, prefecture and counties for children                             vaccine, but not broken down by prefecture
under 5                                                                    and counties.


Number of counties reporting age and                                       Provincial level report on history of immunity
immunization status of all measles cases                                   available for all but 1 province.


Coverage of hepatitis B vaccine, urban and                                 Data provided for provinces indicates an
rural                                                                      increase.


Supervision rates from county to township                                  Supervision rates for villages and townships
                                                                           available (and many improved) for all
                                                                           provinces; Shanxi showing only one
                                                                           supervision visit per year.


Proportion of village doctors implementing                                 With the introduction of disposable needles,
single needle and single syringe policy                                    there has been an increase from 28.89% in
                                                                           1995 to 75.52% in 2003 in the use of
                                                                           single-use syringes.


Number of immunization sessions held                                       The total number of immunization spots rose
annually                                                                   from 168,144 in 1995 to 284,546 in 2001 and
                                                                           then fell to 269,354 in 2002 and 201,071 in
                                                                           2003. Population coverage in 1995 was
                                                                           251,060,560, rising to 454,536,838 in 2002,
                                                                           with the 2003 coverage showing as
                                                                           329,689,585.




                                                        - 29 -

Number of reports produced                                                     Reports were produced by each participating
                                                                               city and Yunan province on a regular basis.


Number of policies implemented                                                 See outcome indicators above.


Number of study tours and overseas training                                    The project funded a total of 2,809 person
completed                                                                      days of study tours/training to the US,
                                                                               Australia, Canada, Europe, Singapore, and
                                                                               Thailand among others. Local training
                                                                               provided amounted to 10,536 person days.


Number of students trained                                                     See above for number of person days of
                                                                               training provided.


Equipment and vehicles procured                                                Items procured were in accordance with the
                                                                               Project Implementation Plan.


Response rate of questionnaires and timely                                     Response rate varied (over the life of the
report rate under BRFS                                                         Project, with one city having no report for
                                                                               2002, and the remainder with response rates
                                                                               varying from 88.9% to 91.5%.


Number of persons covered under the                                            This information was not reported.
intervention by setting


Number of mass media programs and health                                       For the Health Promotion components, 11
columns in newspapers                                                          case reports were written, 19 separate
                                                                               training materials were developed, 12 papers
                                                                               were prepared, 11 articles appeared in
                                                                               newspapers, and 12 radio programs were
                                                                               aired.

1End of project
Annex 1 of the PSR was never filled in. Therefore, data for "Projected in last PSR" is unavailable.




                                                     - 30 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                            Appraisal       Actual/Latest      Percentage of
                                                             Estimate          Estimate          Appraisal
                       Component                            US$ million       US$ million
A. Immunization Component                                    113.67               127.59            112.24
    1. Cold Chain
    2. Training
    3. IEC
    4. EPI Management
B. Health Promotion Component                                  17.71               22.25            125.62
    1. Institutional Development & Policy Reform
    2. Human Resources Development
    3. Surveillance
    4. Interventions
C. National Component                                           2.03                 2.34           115.37
    1. Immunization
    2. Health Promotion

Total Baseline Cost                                          133.41               152.18
 Physical Contingencies                                         6.67
 Price Contingencies                                           22.56
                          Total Project Costs                162.64               152.18
                   Total Financing Required                  162.64               152.18
Columns may not add up due to rounding. Credit was fully disbursed at the end of the disbursement grace
period.




                                                - 31 -

Appraisal Estimate of Project Costs by Projectment Arrangements (in US$ million equivalent)

           Project Element           ICB        NCB         Others    Consulting      NIF        Total
                                                                       Services
A. Equipment, Vehicles,             61.34       9.19        11.33          -          1.17       83.03
    Vaccines & Materials            (46.45)     (6.95)      (5.72)                              (59.12)
    Development
B. Training
    1. Local Short-term               -           -         17.13          -            -        17.13
                                                            (8.61)                               (8.61)
    2. Local Long-term                -           -         0.03           -            -         0.03
                                                            (0.01)                               (0.01)
    3. Foreign Long-term              -           -         1.35           -            -         1.35
                                                            (1.35)                               (1.35)
    4. Study Tour                     -           -         1.18           -            -         1.18
                                                            (1.18)                               (1.18)
C. Technical Assistance
    1. Local Specialists              -           -           -           0.60          -         0.60
                                                                        (0.60)                   (0.60)
    2. Foreign Specialists            -           -           -           0.67          -         0.67
                                                                        (0.67)                   (0.67)
D. Program Support                    -           -         53.67          -            -        53.67
                                                           (28.46)                              (28.46)
E.  Operation & Maintenance           -           -           -            -          4.96        4.96

    Total                           61.34       9.19        84.69         1.27        6.13      162.62
                                    (46.45)     (6.95)     (45.33)      (1.27)                  (100.00)
1. Figures in parenthesis are the amounts financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2. Others: includes shopping and direct contracting.
3. NIF: Not IDA financed.




                                                   - 32 -

Actual/Latest Estimate of Project Costs by Projectment Arrangements (in US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                                                        Procurement Method*
                                                                  ICB          NCB        Other**       NBF  Total Cost

Equipment, materials, vehicles and vaccines                         31.58          4.19      13.02       0.00    48.79
                                                                  (29.90)         (4.19)    (13.01)      0.00   (47.11)
Training
  (i) In-country                                                     0.00          0.00      18.66       0.00    18.66
                                                                     0.00          0.00      (9.35)      0.00    (9.35)
  (ii) Abroad                                                        0.00          0.00       1.39       0.00     1.39
                                                                     0.00          0.00      (1.39)      0.00    (1.39)
Consultants' services                                                0.00          0.00       0.78       0.00     0.78
                                                                     0.00          0.00      (0.77)      0.00    (0.77)
Program Support                                                      0.00          0.00      62.77      19.79    82.56
                                                                     0.00          0.00     (32.34)      0.00   (32.34)
Totals                                                              31.58          4.19      96.62      19.79  152.18
                                                                  (29.90)         (4.19)    (56.87)      0.00   (90.96)
*Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
**Includes goods to be procured through national shopping, consultant services, services of contracted
 staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services and incremental operating
 costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                         - 33 -

Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                Percentage of Appraisal
      Component                  Appraisal Estimate               Actual/Latest Estimate
                              IDA        Govt.       CoF.       IDA        Govt.       CoF.       IDA     Govt. CoF.
A. Immunization              86.88       50.82                 79.67       40.92                  91.7    80.5
   Cold Chain
   Training
   IEC
   EPI Management
B. Health Promotion          10.88       11.55                  9.60       12.65                  88.2    109.5
   Institutional
Development & Policy
Reform
   Human Resources
Development
   Surveillance
   Interventions
C. National                   1.11       0.24                   1.69        0.65                  152.3   270.8
   Immunization
   Health Promotion

  Since the actual/latest estimate is only available by component, the appraisal estimates are also provided in
  this format for purposes of arriving at the percentage of appraisal. Overall Government contribution is
  estimated at 98% of appraisal estimate. IDA Credit was fully disbursed at the end of the disbursement
  grace period.




                                                       - 34 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

The immunization component contributed substantially to the reduction of the estimated cases of polio,
tuberculosis and measles, reducing the burden of communicable disease by approximately 63%. This is
compared to the 60% expected in the SAR. An estimated 52% reduction in death due to polio, diphtheria,
tuberculosis and measles also occurred due to the immunization component. The SAR anticipated a
savings of 4,841,000 DALYs (from an initial loss of 8,433,000 without the immunization project);
however it was not possible to determine the source of the calculation. Based on the information available,
it is estimated that 103,849 DALYs were lost in 1995 due to the above illnesses, while DALYs lost at the
end of the project in 2003 equaled 48,736.




                                                   - 35 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)        Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                       Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              3/1995                  13     1TM, 1 management & training;
                                             4 cold chain/ immunization; 6
                                             health promotion; 1 operations

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              6/1995                  12     1TM; 4 cold chain; 2
                                             operations; 2 public health; 2
                                             health promotion

 Supervision

              05/13/1996                4    TASK MANAGER (1); PUBLIC             S               S
                                             HEALTH SPEC. (2);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER RMC
                                             (1)
              09/16/1996                3    TASK MANAGER (1); PUBLIC             S               S
                                             HEALTH SPEC. (1);
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER RMC
                                             (1)
              03/07/1997                3    TASK MANAGER (1); PUBLIC             S               S
                                             HEALTH SPECIAL. (1);
                                             PUBLIC HEALTH (1)
              06/28/1997                2    TASK MANAGER (1); PUBLIC             S               S
                                             HEALTH (1)
              04/18/1998                4    TASK MANAGER (1); PUBLIC             S               S
                                             HEALTH (3)
              07/16/1998                3    TASK MANAGER (1);                    S               S
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1);
                                             COLD CHAIN SPECIALIST (1)
              07/12/1999               10    TASK MANAGER (1);                    S               S
                                             HEALTH PROGRAM OFFICER
                                             (1); IMMUNIZATION
                                             SPECIAL. (1); HEPATITIS B
                                             SPECIAL. (1); FINANCIAL
                                             SPECIAL. (1); HEALTH
                                             PROMOTION SPEC. (2);
                                             STD/AIDS SPECIALIST (1);
                                             AUSAID REPRESENTATIVE
                                             (1); WHO SPECIALIST (1)
              05/08/2000                4    PUBLIC HEALTH SPECIALI               S               S
                                             (1); TASK TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             WHO EPI SPECIALIST (1);
                                             CDC HEP B SPECIALIST (1)
              02/17/2001                1    SR PUBLIC HEALTH SP (1)              S               S
              06/24/2001                4    SR PUBLIC HEALTH SPEC (1);           S              HS
                                             HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);



                                              - 36 -

                                           MEDICAL OFFICER (1);
                                           DISBURSEMENT OFFICER (1)
               04/29/2002              5   TASK TEAM LEADER (1);              S    HS
                                           HIV/AIDS ADVISOR (1);
                                           TOBACCO CONTROL (1);
                                           HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);
                                           FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                           (1)
               06/15/2002              6   TTL (1); COLD CHAIN                S    S
                                           SPECIALIST (1); EPI
                                           EPIDEMIOLOGIST (1);
                                           HEALTH SPECIALIST (1);
                                           PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                           (1); FMS (1)
               2/28/2003               4   TTL (1); EPI SPECIALIST (1);       S    S
                                           PUBLIC HEALTH SPECIALIST
                                           (1); HEALTH PROMOTION (1)

 ICR

               06/21/2004             5     MISSION LEADER (1); EPI           S    S
                                            SPECIALIST (1); PUBLIC
                                            HEALTH (1); HEALTH
                                            PROMOTION SPECI (2)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                                           450
  Appraisal/Negotiation
  Supervision                                                        1,936
  ICR
  Total                                                              2,386




                                            - 37 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 38 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 39 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1.   Completion Report of the Component for Expanded Program on Immunisation, Department of
     Disease Control and Foreign Loan Office, Chinese Ministry of Health.

2.   Completion Report of the Health Promotion Component, Disease Control Department and Foreign
     Loan Office, Ministry of Health, People's Republic of China.

3.   Making Injections Safe in China: How Much Will It Cost and Who Will Pay? Quinyue Meng,
     Jiangbin Qu, Qiang Sun, Shixue Li, Ying Bian, Center for Health Management and Policy,
     Shandong University, Jinan, China, Xingzhu Liu, Abt Associations, Inc., Bethesda, Maryland,
     USA, and Rekha Mennon, The World Bank, Washington, DC, USA. April 12, 2004.

4.   Progress Report on Chinese MOH/GABI/Vaccine Fund Hepatitis B Vaccine Project covering the
     period of December 15, 2002 to September 30, 2003.

5.   Tobacco Control in Seven Cities in China: Health VII, What Do We Know About The Program
     and Its Impact? A Synthesis of Data on Project Design, Outputs and Outcomes. Prepared by Eric
     Wiesen, Secondee to the World Bank, US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, May 29,
     2002.

6.   The Internal Evaluation Report on Health Promotion Component of Disease Prevention Project of
     China.

7.   External Evaluation Report of the Health Promotion Component of the Disease Prevention Project
     with the Loan of World Bank (Health VII), External Evaluation Panel for Health VII Project of the
     World Bank, July 2004.

8.   Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, Project Status Reports, and Provincial Reports.




                                               - 40 -

- 41 -

