Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 2794 CHA
Development Credit Agreement
(Disease Prevention Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated March 19, 1996
CREDIT NUMBER 2794 CHA
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated, March 19, 1996, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
 
"Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be 
made:(a) on account of expenditures in the territories of 
Page  2
any country which is not a member of 
the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the 
purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations 
Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Category" means a category of items set forth in the table in paragraph 
1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
(b)
"HIV" means human immunodeficiency virus.
 
(c)
"Local Entities" means the following provinces, autonomous regions, 
directly-administered municipalities and cities of the Borrower, and "Local Entity" 
means any of the Local Entities:
(i)
for the purposes of Part A of the Project, Gansu Province, Guangxi 
Zhuangzu 
Autonomous Region, Guizhou Province, Hebei Province, 
Henan Province, Hubei 
Province, Shaanxi Province, 
Shanxi Province, Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region and 
Yunnan 
Province; and
(ii)
for the purposes of Part B of the Project, Beijing Municipality, 
Shanghai 
Municipality, Tianjin Municipality, Yunnan 
Province and the cities of Chengdu in 
Sichuan Province, Liuzhou 
in Guangxi Zhuangzu Autonomous Region, Luoyang in Henan 
Province and Weihai in Shandong Province.
(d)
"MOH" means the Borrower's Ministry of Health, and any successor thereto.
 
(e)
"NCD" means non-communicable diseases.
 
(f)
"Project Implementation Arrangements" means in respect of each Local 
Entity, the arrangements to be made between the Borrower and said Local Entity in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of this Agreement.
(g)
"Respective Part of the Project" means in respect of a Local Entity, the 
activities to be carried out by said Local Entity under Part A and/or Part B of the 
Project.
(h)
"Respective Proceeds" means, in respect of each Local Entity, an amount 
of the Credit to be made available by the Borrower to said Local Entity and to be 
utilized by said Local Entity for purposes of carrying out its Respective Part of the 
Project.
(i)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement.
(j)
"STD" means sexually transmitted diseases.
 
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to sixty-seven million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 
67,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project described in 
Page  3
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a financial institution acceptable to the 
Association, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and 
payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2001 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a)  The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other 
rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The 
rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next payment date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time 
to time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
June 1 and December 1, commencing June 1, 2006 and ending December 1, 2030. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on December 1, 2015 shall be one 
and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per capita, as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for 
five consecutive years and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by 
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the 
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments 
under paragraph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each 
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been 
repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification 
to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such 
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on 
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, 
provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the 
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to
the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Page  4
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall cause 
the Local Entities to carry out Parts A and B of the Project and shall carry out Part 
C of the Project through MOH, all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate economic, financial, administrative, technical and public health 
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out Part C of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program 
set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall make available to each Local Entity its 
Respective Proceeds, under arrangements to be made between the Borrower and said Local 
Entity, in accordance with the provisions set forth in Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
cause each Local Entity to perform, in accordance with the 
provisions of the 
Project Implementation Arrangements to which 
it is a party, all of the obligations 
of said Local Entity therein set 
forth;
(ii)
take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of 
funds, facilities, 
services and other resources, necessary or 
appropriate to enable said Local Entity 
to perform such 
obligations;
(iii)
not take or permit to be taken any  action which would prevent or 
interfere with 
such performance; and
 
(iv)
exercise its rights under each of the Project Implementation 
Arrangements in such 
manner as to protect the interests of 
the Borrower and the Association and to 
accomplish the 
purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Association shall 
otherwise agree, not amend, abrogate or waive any of the Project Implementation 
Arrangements or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.04. For the purpose of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions, and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan (including the long-term strategies prepared by the Local Entities 
pursuant to Part F.2 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement) for the future operation of the 
Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Page  5
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for
carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, 
including those for the Special Account, for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than 
six (6) months after the end of each such 
year, a certified copy of the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association 
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records, accounts
and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
 
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit Account or payment 
out of the Special Account was made, all 
records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association's representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals. 
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02(h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
Any party to any of the Project Implementation Arrangements shall have 
failed to carry out its obligations thereunder.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Credit 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that any party to any of the Project Implementation Arrangements will be able to 
perform its obligations thereunder.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01(d) of the General Conditions, the 
Page  6
following additional event is specified, namely, that any event specified in paragraph 
(a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 
sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 
12.01(b) of the General Conditions, namely that Project Implementation Arrangements 
have been made between the Borrower and at least seven (7) Local Entities carrying out 
activities under Part A of the Project and between the Borrower and at least five (5) 
Local Entities carrying out activities under Part B thereof.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that each of the Project 
Implementation Arrangements referred to in Section 6.01 of this Agreement have been 
duly authorized or ratified by the parties thereto and are legally binding upon said 
parties in accordance with their terms.
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The provisions of Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and 
determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on 
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be 
earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Sanlihe
Beijing 100820
People's Republic of China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
FINANMIN
22486 MFPRC CN
Beijing
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INDEVAS
82987 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C 
64145 (MCI)
 
Page  7
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
By /s/ Li Daoyu
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Nicholas C. Hope
Acting Regional Vice President
East Asia and Pacific
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                              Amount of the
                            Credit Allocated         % of
                              (Expressed in      Expenditures
      Category               SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)   For Part A
      of the Project:
      (a) Equipment,             34,100,000      100% of foreign
          materials,                             expenditures, 100%
          vehicles and                           of local expendi-
          vaccines                               tures (ex-factory
                                                 cost) and 65% of
                                                 local expenditures
                                                 for other items
                                                 procured locally
      (b) Training:
          (i) In-country          5,000,000      50%
          (ii) Abroad               600,000      100%
      (c) Consultants'              170,000      100%
          services
      (d) Program Support        15,800,000      55%
(2)   For Part B
      of the Project:
      (a) Equipment,              1,470,000      100% of foreign
          materials                              expenditures, 100%
          and vehicles                           of local expendi-
                                                 tures (ex-factory
                                                 cost) and 40% of
Page  8
                                                 local expenditures
                                                 for other items
                                                 procured locally
      (b)  Training:
           (i) In-country           440,000      50%
           (ii) Abroad              900,000      100%
      (c)  Consultants'             200,000      100%
           services
      (d)  Program Support        4,000,000      40%
(3)   For Part C
      of the Project:
      (a) Equipment,                300,000      100% of foreign
          vehicles and                           expenditures,
          materials                              100% of local
                                                 expenditures
                                                 (ex-factory
                                                 cost) and 80%
                                                 of local
                                                 expenditures for
                                                 other items
                                                 procured locally
      (b) Training:
          (i) In-country             50,000      90%
          (ii) Abroad               300,000      100%
      (c) Consultants'              540,000      100%
          services
      (d) Program Support           300,000      80%
(4)   Unallocated                 2,830,000
                                 __________
      TOTAL                      67,000,000
                                 ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and
(c)
the term "Program Support" means expenditures incurred by Project offices 
at all levels in carrying out the Project, for surveillance and monitoring services, 
logistical support, medical and other supplies, transportation, accommodations, meals 
and allowances for staff.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made:
(a)
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed SDR 4,700,000 
may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after 
July 1, 1995;
Page  9
(b)
for expenditures under Category (2) until the Association shall have 
notified the Borrower of its acceptance of evidence that the Borrower has employed a 
consulting institution, with terms of reference, qualifications and experience 
satisfactory to the Association, to assist the Local Entities in the carrying out of 
Part B of the Project; or
(c)
for expenditures for goods or services required for the Respective Part 
of the Project of a Local Entity (other than a Local Entity referred to in Section 
6.01 of this Agreement) until the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
acceptance of evidence that Project Implementation Arrangements (i) have been made 
between the Borrower and said Local Entity and (ii) have been duly
authorized or ratified by the parties thereto and are legally binding upon said 
parties in accordance with their terms.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for:
(a)
goods under contracts costing less than $300,000 equivalent;
 
(b)
services provided by consulting firms under contracts costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent;
(c)
services provided by individual consultants under contracts costing less 
than $50,000 equivalent; and
(d)
training and Program Support;
 
all under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in (1) preventing and 
controlling the incidence of vaccine-preventable diseases, by increasing effective 
vaccine coverage in the poorest provinces of the Borrower, and (2) improving the 
capacity of the institutions in the Borrower's health sector to design and implement 
suitable health promotion programs so as to prevent and control the incidence of NCD, 
STD, HIV and injury.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Immunization
 
(1)
Carrying out by each Local Entity of a program to (a) ensure proper quality of 
vaccines during their storage and transportation, through the provision of new and 
replacement equipment, spare parts and maintenance services required therefor, and (b) 
develop a sustainable strategy for the regular replacement of equipment for storage 
and transportation of vaccines.
(2)
Establishment and implementation by each Local Entity of a system of regular 
in-service training to improve the technical and managerial skills of immunization 
program staff at all levels of its epidemic prevention network, through the upgrading 
of training modules, development of training materials, provision of training 
equipment and carrying out of training.
(3)
Carrying out by each Local Entity of programs to strengthen the management, 
delivery and surveillance of immunization services, including provision of vehicles, 
equipment and medical supplies required therefor, said programs to consist of (a) a 
program to increase and sustain immunization coverage through measures to improve 
access of the poorest families, as well as of unregistered and migrant populations, to 
immunization services, (b) a program to improve the quality of immunization services 
through application of safe practices regarding the sterilization and disposal of 
Page  10
syringes and needles, of standardized procedures for recording cold chain equipment 
inventories, and of improved procedures for monitoring temperatures of the cold chain 
system during transport and storage of vaccines, (c) a program to expand immunization 
services to include administration of tetanus toxoid and hepatitis-B vaccines, and (d) 
a program to strengthen supervisory functions at each administrative  level, improve 
monitoring and reporting of vaccine coverage and surveillance of measles and neonatal 
tetanus.
(4)
Development and implementation by each Local Entity of an information, education 
and communication program to promote knowledge and awareness of vaccine-preventable 
diseases and demand for immunization services, consisting of the:(a) research and 
survey of knowledge and attitudes to immunization; (b) design of a suitable 
communication strategy; (c) development of instructional materials; (d) provision of 
staff training; and (e) implementation of information and education programs in local 
communities.
Part B:
Health Promotion
 
(1)
Preparation and adoption by each Local Entity of a strategic plan for health 
promotion, establishment of appropriate institutional arrangements, including creation 
of inter-sectoral leading groups and city-level coordinating groups and strengthening 
of the functions of, and coordination among, existing health institutions, and 
development and implementation of policies designed to prevent and control the 
incidence of NCD, STD, HIV and injury. 
(2)
Development and implementation by each Local Entity of (a) training programs in 
health promotion and related topics so as to strengthen the skills of health workers, 
private practitioners and other personnel involved in the implementation of health 
promotion and related activities, and (b) programs to  improve the capacity of 
institutions to provide training in health promotion.
(3)
Development and introduction by each Local Entity of a sustainable system for 
the surveillance of behavioral and environmental risk factors related to NCD, STD, HIV 
and injury, and for the monitoring and analysis of health trends. 
(4)
Development and implementation by each Local Entity of community-based 
intervention programs aimed at reducing critical behavioral and environmental risk 
factors related to NCD, STD, HIV and injury.
(5)
Provision of vehicles, equipment and materials required for Parts B(1), B(2), 
B(3) and B(4) of this Schedule.
Part C:
National Level Program
 
(1)
Implementation of institutional arrangements designed to ensure proper 
coordination and oversight of, and guidance in respect of, the implementation of Parts 
A and B of the Project, to facilitate inter-entity exchanges of information and 
experience gained under the Project, and to disseminate such
information and experience throughout the Borrower's territory.
(2)
Development and introduction of national policies and procedures relating to the 
scope and financing of immunization programs and of national strategies for the 
control of NCD, STD, HIV and injury.
(3)
Development and introduction of the following nationwide surveillance systems: 
an immunization program management information system and a surveillance system for 
behavioral risk factors and environmental indicators related to NCD and STD.
(4)
Provision of technical assistance, including the development and provision of 
training programs, to facilitate the implementation by the Local Entities of their 
Respective Parts of the Project.
(5)
Provision of vehicles, equipment and materials required for Parts C(1), C(2), 
C(3) and C(4) of this Schedule.
* * *
Page  11
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
 
Part A:
General
 
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as 
applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Grouping of contracts
 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped into bid 
packages estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more each.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
 
Goods estimated to cost less than $300,000 equivalent and $50,000 equivalent or 
more per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $9,190,000 equivalent, may 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International or National Shopping
 
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $6,110,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international or national shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the
Guidelines.
3.
Direct Contracting
 
Goods which must be purchased from the original supplier to be compatible with 
existing equipment or are of a proprietary nature may, with the Association's prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Procurement Planning
 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the 
Page  12
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
 
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of $300,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply.
3.
Post Review
 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Association.  Where 
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard 
forms acceptable to the Association shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts shall not apply to (a) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts 
for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent each.  
However, said exceptions to prior Association review shall not apply to (a) the terms 
of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of consulting firms, (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Association, (d) 
amendments to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract 
value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent 
or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
A.
Project Implementation
 
1.
The Borrower shall maintain, throughout the period of implementation of the 
Project, with membership, terms of reference, staffing and other resources acceptable 
to the Association:
(a)
a Project leading group, to be responsible for overall coordination and 
oversight of Project implementation;
(b)
a Project coordination group, to be responsible for the provision of 
guidance on general policy and technical issues that may arise in relation to the 
implementation of the Project;
(c)
an immunization project office and a health promotion project office, 
both in MOH, to be responsible for the planning and provision of assistance in the 
carrying out of the Project; and
(d)
a technical unit in the health promotion project office referred to in 
paragraph (c) above, to be responsible for the provision of technical guidance to the 
Local Entities in the planning and implementation of community-based interventions 
under the Project.
2.
The Borrower shall, through MOH:
 
(a)
summarize, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
Page  13
furnish to the Association not later than November 30 in each fiscal year, the 
proposed annual plans prepared by each Local Entity in accordance with the provisions 
of Part C.2 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement, for the implementation of health 
promotion interventions under said Local Entity's Respective Part of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said annual plans, and thereafter, promptly inform each Local Entity 
of such annual plan as shall have been accepted by the Borrower and the Association in 
respect of said Local Entity's Respective Part of the Project.
3.
The Borrower shall carry out training activities under Part C(4) of the Project 
in accordance with training programs acceptable to the Association.
B.
Monitoring and Reporting
 
1.
The Borrower shall maintain operational procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Association, 
progress in the carrying out of the Project.
2.
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 9.06 of the General 
Conditions, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association, the following reports:
(a)
a semi-annual report, not later than April 15 and October 15 in each 
calendar year, summarizing the monitoring and evaluation activities carried out by the 
Borrower pursuant to Part B.1 above in respect of the preceding calendar semester, 
consolidating the reports furnished to it by each
Local Entity pursuant to Part E.3 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement, and setting forth 
proposed measures, indicated by said monitoring and evaluation activities, to further 
the objectives of the Project; and
(b)
a mid-term report not later than December 31, 1998, summarizing such 
monitoring and evaluation activities carried out by the Borrower pursuant to Part B.1 
above from the inception of the Project, consolidating the reports furnished to it by 
each Local Entity pursuant to Part E.3 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement, and setting 
forth proposed measures, indicated by said monitoring and evaluation activities, to 
further the objectives of the Project.
3.
The Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on each report furnished 
and measures proposed under Part B.2 above, and thereafter, take all such measures to 
further the objectives of the Project as shall have been agreed between the Borrower 
and the Association.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2) and (3);
 
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $6,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association 
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount 
equivalent to $4,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit 
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by 
the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to 
or exceed the equivalent of $30,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
Page  14
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed 
the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower 
shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the 
Special Account at such intervals as the 
Association shall specify.
 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by 
said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special commitment entered into by the 
Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
Page  15
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the 
Association shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into the 
Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made 
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6
Project Implementation Arrangements
For the purposes of Section 3.02(a) of this Agreement, the Project 
Implementation Arrangements shall include the following provisions.
A.
General
 
1.
Each Local Entity shall undertake to carry out its Respective Part of the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency, and in conformity with appropriate 
economic, financial, administrative, technical and public health practices, and 
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required therefor.
2.
Each Local Entity shall undertake to:
 
(a)
procure the goods and services required for its Respective Part of the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit in accordance with the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
(b)
insure said goods against hazards incident to the acquisition, 
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, any indemnity 
thereunder to be made payable in a currency freely usable by the Local Entity to 
replace or repair such goods; and
(c)
utilize such goods and services exclusively for the purposes of carrying 
out its Respective Part of the Project.
3.
Each Local Entity shall undertake to:
 
(a)
furnish to the Borrower, promptly upon their preparation, for furnishing 
to the Association if so requested by the Association, the plans, specifications, 
reports, contract documents and procurement schedules for said Local Entity's 
Respective Part of the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions 
thereto, in such detail as the Borrower or the Association (as the case may be) shall 
reasonably request;
(b)
enable the Borrower and the Association to examine such goods and all 
facilities and sites included in said Local Entity's Respective Part of the Project, 
the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents; and
(c)
at all times operate and maintain any facilities relevant to said Local 
Page  16
Entity's Respective Part of the Project, and promptly as needed, make all necessary 
repairs and renewals thereof.
B.
Terms
 
1.
(a)
The principal amount of a Local Entity's Respective Proceeds:
 
(i)
shall be the equivalent in terms of SDR (determined on the date or 
respective dates 
of withdrawal from the Credit Account) of the value 
of the currency or currencies 
so withdrawn, on account of the 
cost of goods and services required for said Local 
Entity's Respective 
Part of the Project to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit; and
(ii)
shall be recovered by the Borrower in a currency selected by the 
Borrower in an 
amount equal to the equivalent (determined as 
of the date or respective dates of 
repayment) of the amount 
referred to in subparagraph (i) of this paragraph. 
(b)
The principal amount of a Local Entity's Respective Proceeds shall be 
recovered by the Borrower over a period of twenty (20) years, inclusive of a grace 
period of five (5) years.
(c)
Interest shall be charged on the principal amount of each Local Entity's 
Respective Proceeds so made available and withdrawn and remaining unrecovered from 
time to time, as follows:
(i)
with respect to its Respective Proceeds made available for the 
purpose of carrying 
out activities under Part A of the Project, at 
a rate not to exceed one and 
one-tenth percent (1.1%) per 
annum; and
(ii)
with respect to its Respective Proceeds made available for the 
purpose of carrying 
out activities under Part B of the Project, at 
a rate not to exceed two and 
one-half percent (2.5%) per 
annum.
2.
(a)
Each Local Entity carrying out activities under Part A of the Project 
shall undertake to make available to the counties concerned, the part of its 
Respective Proceeds to be utilized for the purpose of carrying out such activities at 
the county level:
(i)
on a grant basis to the extent possible; or
 
(ii)
if not on a grant basis, then on terms at least as favorable to 
the county as those 
terms set out in Part B.1 above, except that 
no foreign exchange risk shall be 
borne by the county.
 
(b)
Each Local Entity carrying out activities under Part B of the Project 
shall undertake to make available to the counties concerned, the part of its 
Respective Proceeds to be utilized for the purpose of carrying out such activities at 
the county-level, on the same terms as are set out in Part B.1 above, except that no 
foreign exchange risk shall be borne by the county.
C.
Project Implementation
 
1.
Each Local Entity shall undertake to maintain or cause to be maintained 
throughout the period of implementation of the Project, with membership, terms of 
reference, staffing and other resources acceptable to the Association:
(a)
for Part A of the Project, at the provincial level: (i) a provincial 
Project leading group, to be responsible for overall coordination and oversight of the 
carrying out of its Respective Part of the Project; and (ii) a provincial Project loan 
office, to be responsible for the planning and carrying out of its Respective Part of 
the Project;
(b)
for Part A of the Project, at the county level:  (i) a county Project 
Page  17
leading group, to be responsible for overall coordination and oversight of the part of 
its Respective Part of the Project to be carried out in such county; and (ii) a county 
Project office, to be responsible for the planning and
carrying out of such part; and
(c)
for Part B of the Project, at the Local Entity Level: (i) an 
inter-sectoral policy guidance committee, to provide overall leadership and policy 
guidance for the Local Entity's Respective Part of the Project; (ii) a Project leading 
group, to be responsible for overall coordination and oversight of its Respective Part 
of the Project; (iii) a Project office, to be responsible for the planning and 
carrying out of its Respective Part of the Project; and (iv) a working group for 
health
promotion interventions, a full-time manager for such interventions and a full-time 
training coordinator, all within the Project office.
2.
Each Local Entity carrying out health promotion activities under Part B of the 
Project shall undertake to:
(a)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association and the 
Borrower, and furnish to the Borrower, not later than October 31 in each fiscal year, 
for the Borrower to summarize and furnish to the Association in accordance with the 
provisions of Part A.2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, a proposed annual plan of 
health promotion interventions to be carried out by said Local Entity under Part B of 
the Project; and
(b)
thereafter, promptly implement such annual plan as shall have been 
accepted by the Borrower and the Association.
3.
Each Local Entity shall undertake to carry out training activities under its 
Respective Part of the Project in accordance with training programs acceptable to the 
Borrower and the Association.
D.
Accounts and Audits
 
1.
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this Agreement, each 
Local Entity shall undertake to: 
(a)
maintain or cause to be maintained records and accounts adequate to 
reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and 
expenditures in respect of its Respective Part of the Project of its departments or 
agencies responsible for carrying out its Respective Part of the Project or any 
portion thereof;
(b)
have said records and accounts, for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(c)
furnish to the Borrower, as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than four (4) months after the end of each such year, for consolidation in the report 
to be furnished by the Borrower to the Association in respect of such year pursuant to 
Section 4.01(b) of this Agreement, a certified copy of the report of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(d)
furnish to the Borrower, for forwarding to the Association, if the 
Association shall so request, such other information concerning said records, accounts 
and the audit thereof as the Borrower or the Association shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
E.
Monitoring and Reporting
 
1.
Each Local Entity shall undertake to maintain records and procedures adequate to 
record and monitor the progress of its Respective Part of the Project (including the 
cost and benefits to be derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit and to disclose their use in its Respective Part of 
the Project, and furnish to the Association all such information as the Association 
shall reasonably request concerning its Respective Part of the Project, its cost, and 
Page  18
where appropriate, the benefits to be derived therefrom, the expenditures of its 
Respective Proceeds and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
2.
Each Local Entity shall undertake to maintain policies and procedures adequate 
to enable it to monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with 
indicators acceptable to the Association, the carrying out of its Respective Part of 
the Project.
3.
Without limitation upon the provisions of Part E.1 above, each Local Entity 
shall undertake to prepare, under terms of reference acceptable to the Association, 
and furnish to the Borrower for consolidation in the reports to be furnished by the 
Borrower to the Association in accordance with Part B.2 of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement, the following reports:
(a)
a semi-annual report, not later than March 15 and September 15 in each 
calendar year, summarizing the monitoring and evaluation activities carried out by 
said Local Entity pursuant to paragraph E.2 above in respect of the preceding calendar 
semester, together with any proposed measures,
indicated by said monitoring and evaluation activities, to further the objectives of 
its Respective Part of the Project; and
(b)
a mid-term report, not later than November 15, 1998, summarizing the 
monitoring and evaluation activities carried out by said Local Entity from the 
inception of the Project, together with any proposed measures, indicated by said 
monitoring and evaluation activities, to further the objectives
of the Project.
4.
Each Local Entity shall undertake to exchange views with the Borrower and, if so 
requested by the Association, the Association on each report furnished and measures 
proposed under Part E.3 above, and thereafter, take all such measures to further the 
objectives of the Project as shall have been agreed
among the Borrower, the Association and the Local Entity.
F.
Immunization Provisions
 
Each Local Entity carrying out immunization activities under Part A of the 
Project shall, under said Part of the Project, undertake to:
1.
continue to provide, free of charge, vaccines in sufficient quantities and 
suitable quality so as to immunize all persons in its territory against tuberculosis, 
diphtheria, pertussis, tetanus, polio and measles;
2.
(a) prepare, in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the 
Association, a proposed long-term strategy for the replacement of cold chain equipment 
in its jurisdiction, with a view to its adoption upon completion of the Project, and 
(b) furnish said strategy to the Borrower for inclusion in the plan to be furnished by 
the Borrower to the Association pursuant to Section 3.04 of this Agreement;
3.
carry out at least six (6) rounds of vaccination sessions in each fiscal year;
 
4.
implement measures acceptable to the Association, designed to (a) ensure that 
all children in its territory, regardless of their registration status, shall have 
suitable access to its immunization programs and (b) increase access of the poorest 
families in its territory to its immunization programs; and
5.
(a)
ensure that only re-usable syringes and needles shall be procured, except 
that disposable syringes and needles may be procured for use exclusively in those 
urban areas where safe practices for the disposal of such items, consistent with the 
policy referred to below in paragraph (b), are applied; and
(b)
ensure that safe practices for the sterilization and disposal of all 
syringes and needles, consistent with the applicable recommended policy of the World 
Health Organization, shall be applied at all times.
G.
Health Promotion Provisions
 
Each Local Entity carrying out activities under Part B of the Project shall, 
Page  19
under said Part of the Project, undertake to:
1.
prepare and include in each proposed annual plan to be furnished to the Borrower 
pursuant to Part C.2 of this Schedule, a proposed plan designed to control and reduce 
smoking of tobacco products; and
2.
ensure that (a) the treatment of patients with STD and HIV shall be based on a 
policy of patient anonymity and (b) appropriate training shall be provided to private 
practitioners treating such patients.
