Lo~A 44                                                               T 
FEECOPY
Report No. LA-2a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank-and its affiliated org;anizations.
They do. not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL FINANCE CORPORATION
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
YUGOSLAV INDUSTRIAL PROJECTS
June 29, 1967
IFC - Department of Investments
Latin America, Europe and Australasia



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit:          New Dinar (N. D.)
US$1              =    N.D. 12.50
N.JD. 1           =    TTUt. o8
Othenr Units
All measurements are in metric system.



APPRAISAL OF
YUGOSIAV INDUSTRIAL PROJECTS
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pages
S-UIMAWt AND CONCLUSIONS                                        i - iv
I.   INTRODUCT'ION                                                   1 - 2
II.  THE BORROWqER                                                   3 -4
III. YUGOSLAV INDUSTRY                                               5 - 12
Industrny's Role in the Yugoslav Economy        5
Characteristics of Yugoslav Industry            5 - 6
Manufacturing Industry and the Economic Reform  6 - 8
Prices                                          9
Industry and the 1966-70 Development Plan       9 - 10
The Self-Management System                     10 - 12
IV. THE PROJECT                                                     13 - 22
General                                        13
Present, Position of the Enterprises           13 - 15
Competi.tive Position in World Markets         15 - 17
Project, Costs                                 17
IBRD Financing                                 17 - 18
Domestic Financing                             19
Description of the ProJects                    19 - 20
Foreigrn Technical Assistance and Market
Collaboration                               20 - 21
Procurement                                    21
Future Results                                 21 - 22
V=   GENERAL CONCLUSIONS                                            22
APPENDICES
1.   Yugoslav Investment Bank
2.   Foreign Trade and Import Liberalization
3.   Financial and Operating Characteristics of the Yugoslav Enterprise
Enterprises:
4.   SLADKI
5.   TAM
6.   PRETIS
7.   OHIS
8.   KIKINDA
9.   SISAK
10.  LIGNOSPER
MAP
This report is based on the findings of a mission in January-March 1967 t;o
Yugoslavia led by Messrs. Fuchs of IFC and Hartwich of IBRD. Overall
responsibility for the report was wnth Mr. Hoffman of IFC.   Messrs.
Hartwich, Simmons and Gonella (IBRD) and Dehejia, Oberdorfer, arid Prado
(IFC) contributed to i.t.



APPRAISAL OF
YUGOSLAV INDUSTRIAL PROJECTS
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The F3ank has been asked to consider making a loan to the Yugoslav
Investment Bank (YIB) to assist in financing the foreign exchange require-
ments for the modernization of seven existing Enterprises in various sect,ors
of Yugoslav inclustry.  The projects are in full accord with the policies of
the recent Economic Reform and the measures subsequently taken to make
industry more efficient and competitive in world markets.
ii.       The projects have been investigated in the field and have been
found suitable for Bank financing in the total amount of $10.5 million.
The seven projects and the amounts of the proposed loan allocations to each
of them are as follows:
Proposed IBRD
Name of Rtep  seri        Product               Tnan Amrnint
TUS$ million)
SLADII                Paper and Board              2.00
TAM                   Trucks and Buses             2.00
PRETIS                Bearings                     1.87
OHITSCZ               A-c4- y LcrL ,. 1.50
KIKINIDA              Iron Castings                1.10
TC:1 !A sr            Q+ _    M".        n) cr
b  f LW4.                   ULJAWf                  .7C.
LIGNOSPER             Plywood and Veneer           0.36
Sub-total                         9.75
Capitalized Interest during Construction for
Subsidiary Loans to Kikinda, Lignosper and Ohis  0.25
Contingency                                        0.50
Total                            10.50
priority and as representative of a broad selection of industries.   They
,m-re _also chosen because of their readiness fCor  .   a 4.plr,,e-.tat-,on
In view of this selection by YIB and because of the small amount of the
-loan relative toV  - UUoLta  nL1vestMr.ent Li11 UgosJlaV iLnUUsUy, lteULUZ11idLVV
industrial pro;jects were not investigated during the appraisal.
iv.       Yugoslavia's system of social ownership is unique among Bank
mer,.ber countrlries.  The 'L`ugoslav Constitution pro-vides that the control
of an enterprise is vested in the employees of the enterprise acting



- ii -
through their elected management.   The Government has no direct control
over the enterprisest business decisions.   The Yugoslav (Government is
firmly committed to a program of Economic Reform whereby rnarket forces
will play the predominant role in the determination of production, pricing
and investment decisions.   The present system is designed to permnit the
enterprises to act autonomously and in their best economic interests under
the influence of these market forces.
v.        The seven Enterprises appraised by the mission may not necessar-
ily be representative of Yugoslav industrv as a whole.    T'he mission found,
however, that the recent economic measures have had a favorable effect in
bringing about cost-consciousness and a comDetitive outlook by the manage-
ment of these Enterprises.   The Enterprises' plans for modernization and
expansion will allow them to maintain a sound competitive position under
increasingly liberalized market conditions in Yugoslavia as well as in
exDort markets.   The Enterprises have developed coonerative arrangements
with Western European business firms relating to technical know-how,
component production, and marketing.   Al] anternrises with one excention
have been in operation for a number of years and all have demonstrated good
performance    The financial position of the Enterprises is sou-nda
vn.    ~The nroiects are well designed to aowthne T;tferp. ses to improve
operations and adjust them to a more demanding economic environment. Although
the proiects will resul-t in increased output, their maJor objective is to
rationalize production, reduce costs and improve product quality.    They will
also r.akepossibe substantial increase   in exports to convertible currency
L   L                         L~~~ IJ ~
countries.   All projects are ready to be executed and most of the detailed
engineering has been completed.   They are of convenitional technology and
present no unusual technical problems.    Cost estimates are reasonable.
The projects were engineered either by the Enterprises themselves or withs
the help of local consulting firms or those West European industrial companies
cooperating with tbhe Enterprises.  Managemenrt is capable and will be ab:le to
carry out the projects effectively.   Funds to cover local expenditures are
to be rnade available.  To the extent practical, imported equipment will be
purchased on the basis of international competition.    For small items of
im.ported equipment, which do not appear to be suitable for conmpetitive
procurement, the firms will follow their usual procedures, approaching a
mIIi-LLwRL of tLhree potential foreign suppliers to corpare quLotations wherever
practical.
vii.      It is proposed that the Loan will be made to the Yugoslav Investment
Bank, an investment institution established in 1956 which has served as a
conduit for six IBRD loans to Yugoslavia since 1961 of altogether $210 mil-
lion equivalent.   The Loan will be guaranteed by the Yugoslav Governmentt.
YIB will in turn conclude Subsidiary Loan Agreements with each of the se ven
Enterprises.   The Bank will have no direct contractual relationship witha
the Enterprises, but the terms and conditions of the Subsidiary Loan Agrae-
ments will be subject to its approval.    The repayment periods of the Salb-
sidiary Loans will be the same as those of the Bankts Ioan to YIB.



-vi-i.  The T___ and the SubidaA    I,vrs w 11 befrteL--o        Lye
V.L.L.L.  I JLIV ~Vetll CIIU L4IM- QUJUU.LU.Lc'1y .liUd.iI WJ.L±L UU .Lur termsIL o.L _L" YC~.LD
including grace periods of 2-1/2 years.    These terms correspond to the
economIdc life of the assets financed and the period of imulementation and
start-up of the projects.   Although some of the Enterprises will generalte
funds suflflcient to a:lvow a somewhat more rapid repayment, ohner uses La:
these funds exist in the plans of the Enterprises for future investment and
expansion.
ix.       Under the prevailing foreign exchange system theb Enterprises will
make payments of both interest and principal in convertible currency to YIB
and will obtain such currencies primarily from their export earnings.     In
the event that additional foreign exchange would be needed by an Enterprise,
it may be obtained from other sources, including banks ancl other enterprises,
or in the last resort, from YIB.
x.        Interest charges to sub-borrowers on the proceecds of the proposed
IBRD Loan will be 6.5% including a fee of 1/2/00 accruing to YIB.  YIB will
earn other charges at its usual rates as approved by the Bank.    Local funds
for projects where necessary will be made available by YIB and other Yugoslav
banks on repayment terms of not less than 12 years, including 2-1/2 years
of grace and at an interest rate of not more than 6-1/2%.    In view of the
advanced stage of preparation of cost estimates a relatively small allowance
for contingencies has been added to the foreign exchange cost for all
projects, and would be made available for any project as needed.    It is
further proposed that savings from funds allocated by IBP) for the execution
of any one project could be applied to cost overruns of any other project,
subject to approval by the Bank.    YIB will also undertake to arrange for
additional funds--both foreign and local--to be made available to the Enter-
prises on satisfactory terms, if necessary to complete thes projects and
to cover requirements for working capital.
xi.       Financial forecasts based on reasonable sales and cost estimates
show that six of the seven Enterprises will have no difficulties in meeting
their debt obligations and maintaining a sound liquid nosition.    Debt
service coverage for one Enterprise will be low by normal Bank standards
during the construction period and the following two years due to unusuc2lly
short repayment terms on its previous borrowings and the dinar devaluation
affecting the amounts payable under those borrowings.    YTfs s loans to this
Enterprise and to one other relatively new Enterprise will be guaranteed by
the borrowers" commercial banks.
xii.        t.,n1talizatiAnn of interest during conntc+inon on three of the
Subsidiary Loans is justified on financial grounds, and an amount of $2',0,000
i.q *innrivIPA-r  in  +. hp  Trvnn   t.r% VTP  +.eN  nn',y rT.  nin ~ ~ r~  +lvv'L =
is l!^ldednn  he Loan to -_R to cover capitalized- _nerest on teethree
Subsidiary Loans.   The four remaining Enterprises will pay interest during
construlction on the S   -ubsidiary -ans.
r;;; tl'h   n - A_O4   P-1 -,nc-; -1  covenan_u  --'  4-- _A- ^4 _o   A-L-  --A   -.e_1T4_
l. A^sfi    .  V  A lI  _L..=A_LA     Wv          .<v As_W   CU  U   VVLJu;.LA  wv1JS
capital levels are not practical within the Yugoslav system.    The Sub-
, .4 .- . -  , T -_   A- -  4   . J '11   ~ - 2 ..A- - -_   _ _   _ _   ..  - . I -i   _ _
s.diaL-Ml tuy Lon t%1wt  wil  inclAde a pro-VisinU req*uiA--; l   pr-Aior
approval for any new debt incurred by the Enterprises.



- iv -
xiv.      In the recent past Yugoslavia has taken bold steps towards making
industry more efficient and more competitive with that of other countries.
It will take more time to determine the lasting effects of these measures but
present results, appear to be encouraging.   Yugoslav enterprises seem to
realize that these measures will be enforced and strengthened, and that major
adjustments must be made to meet the new competitive conditions. The endeavor
to obtain outside technical know-how, to modernize plant facilities, and to
enlarge production units by acquiring new markets abroad, has become a major
objective of Yugoslav industry.   The proposed Bank loan would assist in
reaching this objective.
xv.       The seven projects are a suitable basis for a Bank Loan of $10. 5
million equiva:lent to the Yugoslav Investment Bank for a term of 14 yearS
including 2-1/2 years of grace, for relending by YIB on identical reDavvment
terms to the Enterprises.



I. INTRODUCTION
1. ~   ~~ Te B ank'm h as m,adlue t-111ee prev-ious loants tuo Yugos]iav industr.y ttl
ing $60.7 million equivalent in the period 194;9-1953. Of the latter two
loars of ths group (51-YU in 1951 atnd 73-U in 1953) totaling $58.o million
equivalent, about $9.5 million was allocated to power and transportation
while the major portion, $h8.5 million, was distributed araong 38 projects in
mining, industry and agricultural processing as showin below.
IBID
Nurnber of  Con tribution  ,do of
Projects    (US$ million)  Total
Coal Hining                               3            1L.9       24-5
Forestry, wood! and paper products        6            10.8       22.2-.
Mliscellaneous Industry (metalworking,
cement, chemicals & glass)            19            1o.6       2L.8?L
Iron and Steel.                           4             7.2       14.9,*
Non-ferrous mining and metal process-
ing (lead, copper, zinc, aluminum)     4             65.7      13.9%
Fisheries and fish processing             2             L.3        2.72
38            4 ).5    100. 0
2.        The objective of the two loans was to help finance the import
of equipment ior projects included in Yugoslavia's Priority Program. The
Bank's contribution was about 37'7 of total foreign exchange requirements
for the above sectors. Among the 38 earlier recipients only one, the
Iron and Stee:L 'Horks SISAK, is included in the present loan request.
SISAK received $1.4 million under Loan 73-YU, for imported equipment for
its sintering plant and welded tube mill. All Enterprises assisted under
the two loans are reported to be in normal operation and as at March 31,
1967, $23.0 m-illion of these loans had been repaid.
3.        A request for assisting the modernization of Yugoslav industrial
enterprises carried out in connection with the Economic Reform of July
1965 was submitted to the Bank in February 1966. A Bank Economic Ilission
visited Yugos'Lavia in P-lrch/April 1966, and in the autumn, of that year
the form and approximate amount that new Bank lending to industry might
take had sufficiently crystallized to invite the submission of a list of
projects. In December 1966, the YIB submitted for Bank consideration
seven projects in various sectors of industry, which were considered of
high priority, were primarily for modernization of plant, and for which
project preparation had reached an advanced stage. The projects presented
were widely distributed geographically and the Enterprises which were to
carry them out had approached YIB for the required foreigrn exchange
financing either directly or through their respective regional investment
banks, with whom YIB is cooperating closely.



- 2 -
4.        An ]:BRD/IFC mission went to Yugoslavia from late January to thte
end of 1Iarch 1967 to appraise the projects and make a general assessment of
the conditions under which industry operates. This was done in cooperation
with YIB's staff whose help was essential in completilg the complex task:
in the relatively short period of time. The present report was prepared,
jointly by IBRD and IFC staff.
5.        The appraisal included a short reassessment of Yugoslavia's
economy -- in particular the effects on industry of the Economic Reform
of July 1965 --- and plant visits to the Enterprises that are seeking IBRD
financing, as well as discussions with their managements, with Government
authorities, industry and trade associations, and export amd import houses.
6.        The seven projects presented were found suitable for Bank lending
in the total amount of $10.5 million.  The foreign exchange expenditures
for which IBRD assistance is being sought represent about 27% of total
costs for the projects (excluding contingencies and canitalized interest)
of about $36.1 million equivalent and about 36% of total project investrrent
in fixed assets of about $27.4 million equivalent.  Ln addition, the
Enterprises plan to invest at least another $7.6 million in plant during
the period of nroject implementation.  Asslming the pnrve!-et woul_d be
completed during a two-year period, total investments by the Enterprises
in fixreI nsets in those two years of abolt $   0 million would represent
some 5% of theW total investment in fixed assets by Yugc2lrav industry
dviring +.th  rperioAd cuprently estimated at ar. wnnial rate of about
$350 million.



- 3 -
II.  THE BORROI-ER
7.        The borrower would be the Yugoslav Investment Bank.   It would
be the conduit through which the Bank loan would be channeled and admin-
istered. It would relend the proceeds of the Loan for the specific
projects approved by the Bank and would enter into subsidiary loan agree-
ments with the beneficiary enterprises in approved amounts and on terms
satisfactory to the Bank. The Bank loan would be guaranteed by the
Yugoslav Government.
8.        Details of YIB's organization, operations and financial positi.on
are given in Appendix 1.
9.        YIB was established in 1956 as the principal instrument of the
Federal Government for providing investment funds from domestic resources
and foreign loans. The Banking Reform of March 1965. which was part of
the comprehensive reform measures taken during that year, has changed
basically the financial structure and legal status of the bank.   YIB is
now largely autonomous from the Government and has to compete with other
banks both for domestic and foreign resources.
10.       The overall direction of the YIB is exercised by its Assembly.
in which enterprises, other economic organizations, and governmental
bodies are represented in pronortion to their contributicins to the bank's
Credit Fund, which corresponds to share capital.  Although the Government
has contributed some 38% to the Credi-tit Fund its voting npwer is liRmited,
as is that of any other member, to lOs.  At the end of January 1967, 47
members were represented in the Assmbly. The Assembly dietermines YIB's
basic business policies including the distribution of revenues. Its
decisiJons are carried out hy an Executi-te Board and the General 17anager,
who is appointed by the Federal Assembly.  Although YIB must carry out
itsq operations within +t-he soc-ial planvs oi v...as  a + --pears +ro be
able to establish its policies and carry out lending operations rather
freelir wi+hin- ths k rswok
11.-      The Banking Reform has particularly affected YIB's financial
structure. TT)hereas YIB until the reform administered the major part of
its + -c ds acs an ager:cy for the Govearnment, most C1ws haI,iare no,w become
its own assets and liabilities. Total resources of YIB at the end of 1966
were N.DD. 23 bi_"ion or $1.85 billion.  Its lending volUMe over the past
four years has averaged close to N.D. 2 billion, the bulk of which went to
industr., power and transport in that order of importance.
112.A assessment of u.JDs f-la rci aL pUo sition on ttvhe Ubasis ofJ a
conventional debt/equity relationship is not meaningful. The resources
which have been provided by the Federal Government may to some extent be
considered as subordinated debt.  An additional contingent coverage of
its 'mabili"ties is provided by quasi-equity funds since, in addition to



hei~ coniibutios to4it or--A -1- n-  4the mnem-ers of t;4 Assembly,
VAIU.LL'~4. WA L VJ. LU U-L-.A4~  UVJ 4. UO  'J.1  VUJ. U A  WIC .U,  VPLLU  1UliALJ'  'JL  .L U   -O0I .QI1IVJ.LJ
including the Federal Government, undertake to provide funds sufficient
to cover YlIB1's ob-li-gations to t1he ;ext-entu nece'ssa-r-.Y
13.       YIBts reco-upment record on outstandiung loarns has been satisfactor-y
and has improved over the past few years. Since 1961 only about N.D. 1.0
million has had to be written Off.
14.       Because of its past role and experience as well as its substantial
resources, YIE can be expected to continue to play a major role in invest-
ment financing in Yugosiavia. It is difficult to predict, however, now its
future level of operations will compare with the past.  in the long run,
the scale of Y-IBts operations will depend increasingly on its ability to
be competitive in attracting new resources.



III.   YUGOSLAV INDUSTRY
±J.mLUD V.y J i: _LuV ".I i, l Ur vti-: ' UtU: | v :j;UIIUIllV
.LuLUU .   1.U8UD.CL..Z±1LI   LZ ~  aul It:: UU  A  LUI[jLy ZOLt   j(WtjULtLUJ U OLiU-   L'7_~
'v~.   v   uugol<-v.L  has aciu.veu w ±1l,L,±Vess.uvi gr-0ho  outvput  sSc l'-'e.
Gross material product has risen on average by 9-10% annually. Industrial
prod-uction rose by almost 12.5% annuailly and as a proportion of total output
accounted for approximately 36% in 1965-66. Reflecting thie rapid growth of
manufacturing, industrial exports, including mine products, now account Cor
about 80% of Yugoslavia's exports of real goods.
16.       The fast growth of the Yugoslav economy has resulted largely from
the maintenance of high levels of investment. During the past 15 years in-
vestment accounted for approximately 40% of gross material product. With
the heavy erphasis on investment, priority was given during the 1950's to
the development of the capital goods industries, which still contribute
almost half of total industrial output. In more recent years greater emph-
asis has been given to the expansion of consumer goods industries, and this
trend is expected to oontinue.   At present the leading industries in terms
of their contribution to social product are metal fabrication, textiles,
wood products, chemicals, electric power and food process:ing, which together
contribute 55% of total industrial output.
17.       In the earlier post-war years the spur to the growth of industry
was import substitution, and export markets continue to take a relatively
small share (]0-15%) of total manufacturing output. Nevertheless, some
industries are export-oriented, of which shipbuilding, aluminum products,
organic chemicals, copper products, and electrical machinery and equipment
are examples.  As the capital goods industries developed, the domestic niar-
ket proved toc) small to absorb output. Hence to achieve even the minimum
economies of scale, producers of electrical and heavy industrial machines,
for example. have depended1 heavilv on the Pxnort- market,  Tn the case of
consumer products, some industries - for instance footwear and textiles -
established themselves successfully on the basis of the home market and
found that they could then compete abroad.   Some 20 to 30% of the outpult
of these two industries is exportpa-
Characteristics of Yugoslav Industry
18.       Yugoslavia with its 19 million inhabitants offers a limited market
and the vvwm1,r of firs in most 4ndusties is smsall.   Pavtly reflectin  the
social and political framework the proportion of larger firms, as measured
Vby 4the numsber of el-M 1 '-  ----e---4 is 4osser-r 4rae  -hr  ir.T- Weter Eurpe,,
and North America, and the proliferation of small specialized producers found
Western teUcWhnolog,  an the commitmUet Ut theUU@ ,J c lD Ug Loods idte  hU
Western technology, and the commitment to the capital goo)ds industries has



- 6 -
imposed an ever-growing burden of investment to replace obsolete fixed
assets in these industries.  Yugoslav capital goods must compete with pro-
ducts of firms benefiting from the high level of expenditures on research
and development and the continuous renewal of plant characteristic of in-
dustry in Western Europe and North America. While the larger part of Yugo-
slav output is produced in plants built since World War II, many of these
are already obsolescent.
19.       Having developed under a highly protective systera, and possibly
also in part to reach larger production units, Yugoslav industries tended
to become overdiversified, with a much greater range of products than in
industries of comparable size in the West. Specialized equipment is often
only partially used, and workers frequently have to turn from one job to
another, contributing to low productivity. The low productivity character-
istic of Yugoslav industry is in large part a reflection of the extent of
unutilized capacity. While measures of capacity utilization must be used
with caution. a Yugoslav estimntA is that in 1965 manufacturing onerations
were at about 70% of capacity.
20.       To realize the benefits of specialization various forms of cooper-
2tion and integrntion have devenoped, both among YugoslaV enterprises and
between Yugoslav enterprises and foreign firms.   Yugoslav enterprises fre-
quen-' tly' agee   fo   bxa.le   thro,g, &n indSSLd  al assoiaio,  o J*laiz
in production of particular products or to cooperate in other fields such
as marketing.    T, some cases a bnt- acts as a selling agent
for its members in foreign countries. An association of eLectrical machinery
producers, for exarple, offers to foreign bu-ers a comlete product line and
negotiates contracts on behalf of its members. Within the steel industry, as
in several other industries, the major producers hava agr-ed to speciai ze
their production of finished goods. Specialization of production has been
aceiieved in other cases by the development oI enterprises ,upplying coirpoieubus.
Notwithstanding the past progress in such areas, further specialization and
integration oI firms remains a major objective oI the authorities, and industry
appears to realize that such an objective is to its collect;ive advantage.
21.       In their relationships with foreign partners Yugoslav firms have
endeavored to establish permanent arrangements for the exchange of technology
and management know-how. In some cases Yugoslav enterprises have taken
licenses from foreign firms to produce copies of the foreign product for
sale in Yugoslavia; in other cases the Yugoslav and the foreign enterprise
exchange components for their respective production.   In a few cases the
Yugoslav enterprise has become a major supplier of a particular item in the
foreign partner's product line.
Manufacturing Industry and the Economic Reform
22.       In fostering the rapid growth of industry in the past, the Yugoslav
authorities depressed prices of raw materials, energy, transport and agri-
cultural products and provided a substantial degree of proltection and assist-
ance to industry through import restrictions and export subsidies. By the



-7-
ea rly -196! itn I ez>, 4lal 4hat                        -It ---I, '-4Lte ine-4]Lm   h
~± L ,y .7' o  _ LU  UtL.dIUeU1  totu  ULIdJJ  W±LUIL  U11t;   L ILLIj::U  ±±IiL LIId..J.. ifikdLPijA  UjlL
further growth of manufacturing industry would require a greater emphasis
L  1.5  ~~~fl   F,r tlt -I---- -   -   __-- --  -- 11 S -  I
on expo-E markets, anii if ±ugosLavia were to keep pace withr thie ueve-Lopirimuu
of modem technology, modernization and greater specialization in production
would be needed. As a measure towards this end, the authorities considered
it necessary to take a further step in transferring to enterprises responsi-
bility for economic decisions.  Thus the Economic Reform oil July, 1965, and
the measures associated with it, marked a further stage in Yugoslavia's pro-
gress from a centrally planned to a market economy. These measures were
designed to achieve three major objectives.
23.       First, by sharply reducing the taxation of enterprises, responsi-
bility for the use of investment funds was largely shifted from government
at various levels to the enterprises, in order to secure a more economic
allocation of investment resources. Secondly, through the major changes
in price relationships effected in July 1965, the authorities aimed to cor-
rect the distortion in the pattern of production which had resulted from
the depression of prices of agricultural products, basic raw materials,
power and transport. Thirdly, by devaluing the Dinar from N.D. 7.5 to
N.D. 12.5 to the US dollar and by approximately halving customs tariff rates
as well as liberalizing imports and the foreign exchange regime, the author-
ities aimed at stimulating Yugoslav exports, at bringing market pressure to
bear on Yugoslav enterprises for the improvement of efficiency, and at a
closer integration of Yugoslavia into the world econonm.
24.       The various measures in this orocess have occurred over a period
of several years. The major reductions in the taxation of enterprises
occurred in 196h, the devaluation of the Dinar and the principal price
adjustments in July, 1965, membership of GATT in August, 1'366, and the lib-
eralization of imnorts and of the foreign exchange regime in Januarvy 1967.
While some unexpected difficulties have emerged - for example, the changes
in the pattern of industrial ou+tput nnd the proees  of modernization. snecial-
ization and integration of firms proved to be more complicated and time-con-
suxning than. the auth.orities had at one time expected - nevertheless they
have consistently adhered to the objectives of the Economic Reform and have
fi r.mly. nressednr for.uTnrA in its.- imnIrnpn+.enttionn
T25      I i  s+4l c.  vlarl to onl +er   t ioiae7t +.he s   of t.he Enn'-rcmni
Reform, particullarly as import liberalization and the new foreign exchange
remre ca,me intou effect ow ze,enst'|y.           QW-oheesso. eUl>  rared
apparent. The financial position of enterprises supplying basic raw materials
and services hais beern greatl,.y strengthened, whi.ch will a1llw thm to expazd
investment and increase output in the future. At the same time, the much
smal'ler increa'seUs pe^-1U.46ted ir. thle pi-xcesofU. f-nalJ pIXductsV hacve Ume_. ved
pressure on producers of these products to increase efficiency and economize
in the use of labor, and have led them tw pay greater atteabion to expor-t;
markets.



- 8-
liberalization of imports, the Yugoslav authorities followed a policy of'
credu it. restraint in 1966UU anid, partlyy fur tLius reason, the growtUi of
manufacturing output in that year was only 4.3".   TWTithin this overall
growth some industries recorded faster progress--for example electric
power, petroleum, ferrous metals, chemicals, textiles and food processing.
In other sectors, particularly the capital goods industries, output expanded
more slowly.   Although production rose relatively little, partly as a
result of stagnation in fixed asset investment and cnanges in tne pattern
of consulmer demand, inventories increased sharply.   Early in 1967 further
credit restrictions were imposed in an effort to induce enterprises to
liquidate inventories, even if this meant price reductions, and further
stimulate exports.   Employment in manufacturing fell by 1-2"' in 1966 and
labor product:ivity rose by approximately 5-61,
27.       An important effect of the Economic Reform, and in particular of
the changes in taxation, has been that savings now remain mainly with
enterprises and households rather than being channeled through (Government
investment funds.   As there is as yet no capital rnarket in Yugoslavia, means
have to be devised of channeling savings into productive uses.    The banks
are intending to play an important role here, utilizing the longer-term
deposits of enterprises and households to finance investment expenditures.
But the banks alone cannot adequately fill this function, and while
enterprises will continue to invest in their own expansion, institutional
and legal changes are being considered which will allow enterprises to invest
in other enterprises on what would approximate an equity basis, giving the
investing enterprise the right to share in the management and the profits
of the recipient undertaking.    The required modification of the relevant
laws is expected to be completed during the current year.
28.       This change in legislation will affect also the possibility of
foreign firms enterina into closer cooperation with Yugoslav enterprises.
The Yugoslav authorities wish to promote investment by foreign firms in
Yugoslav enterDrises. to secure financial resources and technical and
managerial know-how and to find new marketing outlets.    They realize that
a foreign partner can be expected to provide capital only if he is pernitted
to share in management and profits of the Yugoslav firm.    This would be fmade
nossible by the new legislation.
29Q       The foreign trade nattern of Yugoslavia and the effect that the
Economic Reform has had on this pattern is discussed in greater detail in
Appndiix 2. as are the recent trade liberalization measures of January 1967.
These measures are a logical additional step to those taken earlier in the
Reform=   Wlhlile imports are libera1ized still only to a limited extent.i it
is the intention of the Yugoslav authorities to continue with liberalization
pnossilyas earzlyr as< the beginning ofW 1968.}



-9-
P-rices
30-                                La id-ust-ial ent>ernrises are stlli sub;iect
to a large measure of administrative regulation in pricing.       In M1arch
Lytu)) aj1 liiUuSUr.S'l Prluvc- were i.uzuri.  . uiuad adjustment o'l pri   wasUe d
made in July of that year.    The objective was to align prices, where
appropriate, with international prices.    About 90A, of' manufactured orodlucts
were kept under control immediately thereafter, but progress has since been
made in freeing prices and at present,prices of about 35' of industrial and
mine products are free.   Among these are coal, building materials, prolucts
of   the food processing industry, and many consumer goods.    Prices be'Low
the levels set by the authorities are allowed.    It is the intention of the
authorities to free prices progressively where they judge that supplies are
sufficient to meet demand and where the possibility of unrestricted imports
will serve as a check on any tendency of local producers to raise domestic
prices.   The further freeing of prices will therefore be linked closely to
import liberalization, especially where the small size of the market and
the minimum economic size of production will not allow efficient domest-ic
competition.   Meanwhile, price control is regarded by the authorities as
a necessary instrument--in a situation where there is still some inflat-ionary
pressure--to stimulate enterprises to increase their efficiency and to export
by limiting the profitability of sales in the domestic market.    Enterprises
have the right to ask authorities for price increases either directly or
through their organizations, but relatively few price increases were permitted
in the past year.
Industry and the 1966-70 Development Plan
31.      W4ith the greater decentralization of the Yugoslav economy, plarning
in Yugoslavia has become increasingly of the indicative type.    The Develop-
ment Plan for 1966-70 includes targets for the expansion of production in
certain basic sectors, and enterprises are expected, where appropriate, to
take these targets into account in planning their investments.    In some
sectors--for example transportation, electric Power, steel and cement--the
Federal authorities directly influence the implementation of the Plan b;y
providing, where necessary, a share of investment funds.
32.       The Plan envisages a growth of industrial production at an average
rate of 9-10d: per annum over the five-year period compared with the level
of 12-57 per annum attained in the past.    It now seems :Likely that with the
much slower rate of growth aehieved in 1966 and expected in 1967, the
average growth rate over the plan period will be below the rate projected.
Nevertheless; as enteprniss adiust more ranidlv to the changes resulting
from the Economic Reform and as new investments mature the rate of the
gprowt.h orf induqst.v. loit+.utr is. Pynpentpr to rise in the next sevpral years.



- 10 -
33.       High priority is given in the Plan to electric energy to ensure
adequate supplies by the early 1970's, and to expanding those industries
where Yugoslavia has the necessary natural resources such as ferrous and
non-ferrous metals, chemicals, fertilizers, forestry products and petroleum.
Steel production is planned to increase from 1.8 million tons in 1965 to 3.2
million tons in 1970 and major increases in output are plarned for aluminum,
copper, lead and zinc.
3h.       The Plan envisages that over the five-year period few new enter-
prises will be established, but emphasis will be eiven rather to moderniza-
tion and investments which will complement the program of specialization.
Through specialization and the standardization of production and through
increasing cooperation with foreign firms the Yugoslav authorities aim to
integrate the economy more fully into the world economy. Exnorts will
absorb a growing share of industrial output.
35.       A main constraint on modernization is the availability of the
necessarv foreign exchannge   The imnort contentnof industrial investment
approximates 30%, though in some branches - iron and steel, paper, non-
ferrous mretals - it is higher.  .4s new investm.nts are dev.oted mnninly tn
modernization the import content is likely to be even greater. While
estimates of total investmrents in indust   over the Plan period must be
tentative, the Yugoslav authorities have estimated investment in manufactur-
in-g fi-xeA asseti  (ecu:geet-        pwr     tapvi+aeyt5             5
annually, of which the foreign exchange component might be of the order cf
q ' LVC 1ILL_L_L.' VIA.
The Self-Management System
36.       The enterorise system of Yugoslavia is unique among systems of
industrial orgcmization. While the assets of the enterprise are legally
social nronertv. the management of these assets is vested in the emnlovees
of the enterprIse under the "self-management system".   Both the Yugoslav
Constitution and the Basic Law on Enterprises of April 1965   establish the
autonormy of the enterprise as the basis of the social and economic system
of Yugoslavia.  This autonomy is limited to some extent by administrative
controls - those on prices and foreign exchange for example - but gives tche
enternrises ~ ~  +, aUAp+.a t  dtrminen inAPrPenAa-n+tl  all b-qns  dcsosin-
cluding those concerning new investment, plant location, product lines, debt
f n, marketing and purchasing ard o      cor.cial and contractual
relationships, hiring of employees, and wage policy.
37.       An enterprise is managed by its employees through an elected Workers
Co.cil   anI - eutv    Co., ,.tee, ard- a rerieral Man.ager.  T,h riht  f ec
rounL'." , an  xeu £~UJ.Lve ComlhUi.ItLJ u  lU. d. -1~ L £CALLJ.  4TLVL L.-L~IU LA   ~
of these entities are determined by the Statutes of the enterprise and the
A      _  . T _  .'_   _,_    a _  _ay _I  --  ---- 1.1     _  _
fti;jtOlbU4' UL wUO.r:FAUL   UItl]U t,  lti b0  y Et" i bX1 t9TJJLQ.tU6C Q. ,U11 UII1Ut;;|IuX-::



- 11 -
38u.      Thie vWorkers Council decides on essential business policies, in-
cluding the determination each year of the proportion of net income - after
pay-ment of all costs other than labor remuneration - which will be retained
in the business and the proportion to be distributed to employees as personal
income, in accordance with the restraints outlined in Appendix 3. The
Workers Council serves a term of two years and is elected by the Assembly
of Workers.  It is required to have at least 15 members.  Ihe Workers Couacil
elects the Executive Committee, the General Manager and the top executives
of the enterprise, normally for a term of four years although this may vary
amrong enterprises as regulated by the Statutes.
39.       The Executive Committee has a minimum of 5 members.  It includes
also the General Manager as an ex officio member and may include other
representatives of management if elected by the Council. The Executive
Committee revielws policies of the enterprise and enacts the decisions of
the Workers Council.
40.       The General Manager is independent in his normal work, although he
is personally responsible to the Workers Council, the Executive Committee and
the Workers Assembly. The General Manager has the right tc participate in
meetings of the Workers Council but has no vote. He is also the legal repre-
sentative of the enterprise to outside parties and all contracts entered into
by the General Manager in the name of the enterprise are binding even if he
has not obtained appropriate nrior authority from the WorkE!rs Council or -the
Executive Commi-ttee. The General Manager and other executives can be dis*-
missed by the Workers Council Abefore their terms  -pire for justi fi 0d reasons.
A1.      in practice tk    u1s sYst-m appears t-o work  +fari1v  According
to the Basic Lawa on Enterprises the primary goal of all management entities
is to optimize the use of its fulnds in the best in+erests of both the enter-
prise and its employees. The initiative in presenting policy changes, in-
vestments, -n.d other proposals is usually th1-at- of 4thze G-er.eral. Mar.ager, bul,
he must justify his proposals to the Executive Committee or the Workers
Council. The Gen.eral Maanager Jis un'_Lkey'- to be et"enged ontech
nical decisions but otherwise the Executive Committee (or the Workers Council)
will- norr-^l"Q7 ha-ve too lbe con-urnced thna-t manag<ement's prvoposalIs offer a rea-
sonable possibility of increasing the workers income in the long run. It
appears that as a resull proposals are carefully pr-epared before subiUssion
to the Committee or the Council.
42.       Once management has obtained authority to implement an investment
prograr, orr other policy decisions it appears to have ail the necessary powqers
to carry them out effectively. It is inherent in the system that in order
to rm-ake it -work satisfactorily management and workers representatives must
resolve differences at an early stage and cooperate closely. There is li-ttle
evidence of high turnover in top management or other indications of frict:ion,
and it appears unusual for the Workers Council to overrule the recommendations
Of management in regard to the annual allocation of funds from earnings, In-
cluding distributions to personal income. In addition to the legal and other
restraints mentioned in Appendix 3, a preference for steady and growing personal



- 12 -
incomes rat-her than their wide fluctu_ation was cited as an essential elanaent
in the Workers Council's decisions concerning the distribution of earnings.
The substantia:L ta:xation on that portion of earnings distributed as personal
income is a further reason for the apparent restraint of the Workers' Council.
Ma-intairing t  co=.etiti veness of a enterprLse arppears to be fimLnly es1;ab-
lished as a long-term objective of both management and employees, and no
e~viLdence was fowndu Ithhat the systenm of se-lf-managem-nent preserinis ar. inherent
obstacle to an enterprise's successful development.



- 13 -
TV.T ~T'u P,DOv CT'
General
43.       Detailed appraisals for each of the seven projects are contained
in appensUxes LU 4  U1. -In ulds cuapter only a sunTrmary of tUhe m,laJor features
is presented.
44.       The Enterprises and their products are as follows: SLADKI (paper
and Board); TAM (trucks and buses); PRETISr (motors, motor vehicles, bearings and
other metal fabrication); OHIS (acrylic fibres and chemica:L products);
KIKINDA (castings and machine tools); SISAK (welded and seamless steel
tubes); and LIGNOSPER (plywood and veneer). Their locations are shown on
the MAP at the end of the report.
Present Position of the Enterprises
45.       The table on the following page shows some of the major indicators
for the past and future operations and the financial position of each of the
Enterprises.  In 1966 aU seven Enterprises combined   had sales of N.D. 1,585
million ($127 million) which over the past four years had increased by an
average of about 21% per annum in real prices. Their tota:L assets following
a general revaluation of assets at the end of 1966 were NI). 2,797 million
($224 million), which according to the firms represented an accurate value.
The Enterprises employ altogether about 20,350 people. ALL the firms have
been in existence for a good many years with the exception of OHIS and
LIGNOSPER, which started commercial operations in mid-1965 and in 1960
respectively.
h6.       The long-established nosition of the Enterorises is also reflected
in the relationship of long-term debt to the Enterprises"'(wn Funds,1which
as exnlained in Appendix 3 mTy he eonsidered comn;rqh1Pe to "eul_itv". As at
the end of 1966 this ratio averaged about 1/3 debt and 2/3 Own Funds, ranging
from 1L/86 to 5L/L6. This average excluded OHIS which because of its recent
establishment showed a debt/equity ratio of 80/20, since under the Yugoslav
svrstpxn new vPntures are finAnced entirely with debt pyior to the hiildin of
Own Funds through retained earnings.
47.       The profits of the firms in 1966, as shown by net earnings fron.
ope~rations  ave.-age 0.8% as~ a percn+t,,~-age, of r.et s,ale a.d~ 16%~ as a pece.t~v-agen
of Own Funds (excluding OHIS). Net earnings from operations are derived
afte"  all'  opera+-In.y  -n a+  r.  (Anal-.,A4  v.,rn I.  a ,nd AIntert+;  -A.A
-     '.L.. \)j w.V. 6  WV -) 'JVO  \.L'sLLL'JLZ*6  IOr.UVt  C  A S..J. v.A Ji1 I  LVL  .   V  LZJ.
taxes but before non-operating income or expenses. As can be seen from the
brealkdown1 on page -I, prfiailt    vavie -usaltal a.,n the_ differer,t4
Enterprises.11 ULI ~  .LL4  U±±UCULJL.y VdLJ.U OULIOUd.1L.L_±±y dJHvl1; iAi Lii!5VIlL
Enterprises.



MAJOR INCICATORS 0v SEVEN INDUSTRIAL ENTFFPPITiES IN YUGOSLAVIA
Total
items                                          Date         Unit       PRETES    TA';'  SLADKI   OHIS   KIKINDA  SICAK   LIGNOSI'ER   (or Averazes)
ot:n. Assn.s                              Dec.31 1L966  (N.D.million)  379 4    476.1   40.5   652.5    139.4  l.O8C,o      23.0        2 7o6_o
:1 *  SL966  "  "      256.3   h58.1   46. 0  133.7     79.5    595.2      16.3        1 585.1
:%vere Annual Rate of Sales Increase         1963-1966                   19.9    18.2    13.5   I5 .. 1_/ 22.8     26. 7     25.5         (2l1)-
' arnines from operations:                                                                                             5/
as ' of sales                                 :L966                    6.0     4.2    17.9    12.7      8.2      8.o'     11.9          (9.f)
as ' of own Funds-                            1L966       %           10.8     8.4    31.2   14/       18.1     11.o5/    19.0
Lone-Term debt/Own Funds                   Dec.31 1966     ratio        36/654  16/814  14/16   8/2O     54/46    33/62     42/58            -
Number of Workers                          Early :1967      Nos.        4,8oo0 14,700     510   2, 400   1,450    6,000       4835        20,3l45
Cro lect:
(a) E'stimated Total Cost6/                          (N.D.million)    70.0    63.9    44.9   183.0     37.0     39.5      12.9         451.2
(b) IBRD Financing7/                                   "              23.4    25.0    24.9    18.8     13.7     11.14      4.4         121.6
(c) TBRD Financing as % of Total Cost                     If          33.t    39.1    55.5    10.3     37.0     28.9      34.1         ( 27.2)
Ratio of Loan Financing to Financing from
Cash rnene-stion                         1967-1968     ratio       0.91:1  0.31:1  1.77:1 1.39:1    1.514:1  0.24:1    1.79:1             -
Increase in S.a1es Value 9/                  1967-1:971  (N.D.million)  506.0   180.1    42.0   370.1     30.7    170.2       9.9        1,309.0
Insrease (DI!^rease) in Exoort Sales
VaLue  '/                                 1967-:1971   "     "       166.3    11.4    30.3   150.9     42.0   (15.7)       5.3          390.5
Long-Term Debt Service Coveraae                  :1970     times          2.5     6.9     5.7     3.14     1.3      3.3       2.0             -
Earnings fr-n ODperations as % of Sales           1L971      %            7.7     6.5    27.5    19.0     13.9      9.9      12.5          (13.9)
E'xports: Clearing/Convertible Currency
Aree                                          :1971     ratio        11/89   49/51   -/100   63/37k./ 12/88    33167     51/149
Return on Capital                             lo/
Earnings plus interest as return on capital-   1966                   10.0    10.7    29.6 l4/         13.3      7-75/    lb.2
Adjusted earnings plus interest as return
on capital 'L1/                            1966        %           12.9    15.8   35.5       4/    1L7 .5    9 - 3    17.6
1/ Company's first year of operation was 1965 and   comunercial production did not start until the midd:Le of that year.
2/ Excludins OHIS
3 ExcIi-linc collective consumption funds
4/ Not meaningful
5/ For i965
./ Excludine interest during construction.
7/ Excludinr capitalized interest during construction and 5% overall contingency.
/ It is assumed that except f'or colored staple all other acrylic fibers be exported 5C:50 to the clearing and ccnvertible currency area.
~9' Difference in annual sales in 19,67 and 1971.
1O/ Net earnings from operations plus interest on long term debt plus "Interest on Business Fund"f (capital tax) as a pe.rcentage of'
"'Own Funcls" (Business Fulnd plus Reserves) plus Long-Term Debt.
11/ Same as 13/ wi-th addition ol variLable portion of wage payments riet earnings. (Tbiiq -ortic-r ranges flum i4-2Q'0 of totl 
OZ-Ylnen~  4Vr c.,.,,i-                                                                  ga    -m--0"          oa  eg



- 15 -
408.      Tne Economic Reform and the various measures tnat foIllowed have
affected the Enterprises in various ways. Domestic sales prices remain
controlled for all the firms under consideration, but were permitted to
increase in July 1965 by percentages which varied from one sector of in-
dustry to another and sometimes among enterprises of the same sector.   The
highest increase was 36% for some products of SISAK, for whom raw material
prices were also substantially increased.   One firm (PRETIS;) although allowed
to increase prices did not do so. After the general increase at the time
of the Reform only one Enterprise (TAM) received another increase (late in
1966) because it had kept prices well below those of its local competitors
prior to the Reform. None of the firms foresees that any increase in prices
will occur in the foreseeable future and no increases have been assumed in
the financial projections.
49.       Costs of materials and components have also gone up since the Reform
but are reported now to have stabilized.   Wages, on the other hand, have con-
tinued to increase with productivity as is in line with Yugoslav practice,
and have also continued to benefit from the profit distribution features
described in Appendix 3. The Government policy to relax irnport restrictions
has in the case of SISAK brought about some pressure on priLces from imported
foundry iron, resulting in a reduction in domestic prices by about 5%. Im-
nort comnptition has not vyt noticeahlv affected the other Enternrises.
although some of the firms have incorporated moderate price declines in
their projiectins to take into acconmt the hp n ihJl-it-y of such competition.
Competitive Position in World Markets
50.       Although it is not possible to arrive at a defin-itive statement
of 4the degree t;-o -hic  the, 4-1- .se  cn---A-  corpet with4- -4 o-ts  -din
4.J.  VLUL1  V "  L J1L1 "i " L  'Lj~£i  LCjJI ~CUL  S.JiIIjJ~ ~VV   4ULI  .LJJ~  V-  -  
port markets, the seven Enterprises reviewed appeared to be reasonably com-
peU.L ve. SoWac1. cdu.i a ais particus,ant i   ALLu.LtI ir.OV c Jatal goo
industries because of uncertainties about the true comparability of goods
and their priuet!. A n-umber of conclusions can be drawn, however, on the
position in international competition of these specific Enterprises. It
should      be stures -sedha  these cnU-U-.ns m1a,y not b  al. cle to Yu6;osl.aV
industry as a whole.
51.       With the exception of LIGNOSPER (plywood), whose export prices have
consistently been higher than domestic prices, and to a certain degree of'
TAM (trucks) export prices of the other firms are presently below those
obtained locally. This is generally true, however, only for exports to con-
vertible currency countries and not for those to the clearing area (primarily
Eastern Europe) where often considerably higher prices are obtained through
bilateral trading arrangements. In 1966, before TAM was granted a substantial
price increase on domestic sales of between 7% and 22% for different models,
this Enterprise had a higher profit margin on exports than on domestic sales.
Even now the mntjor truck model exported is sold at only 10% below the comparable
domestic price, while for one of the bus models export prices are still 10%
above the domestic price.



- 16 -
52.       Export prices of the other Enterprises, however! are consistently
below domestic prices.   In comparing domestic prices in Yugoslavia with
domestic prices in W4estern European countries to which the products of' the
Enterprises have been exported, IWestern European prices in most cases
appear to be about 10 to 20% below Yugoslav domestic Drices.   Yugoslav
ex-factory export prices must in addition overcome freight, insurance,
import duties and other charges. and exnort sales are sometimes made at
a discount in the importing market in order to establish a market position.
In all cases it appears that expnort prices mnrpe than cover marg;inal costs.
53.       :Io!; Enterprises would be able to~ reuc  their domestic- price3
somewhat and still provide adequate coverage of depreciation, financial
charges, nnrd a modest element of profit.  Because of its strong earning;
position, SLADKI (paper) would appear to be in the best position currently
to reduce its prices, while SISAK (steel) wuild probably have least
flexibility. After the present investment programs have been implemented
the E-nterrIss o   l ndA bne abl- ,o reduce prices 'wh"r  this may' becme
necessary to meet future import competition.
54.       Among the major cost elements, there are both positive and
negative irnfluences     -- -----44 4on-4 tme co.-e4tiv-4 poiton o-f-4 te- V4--n n ---  TeTa
V ~  JLJ  ~   JIU U~U  ~'JaeL~ U  02  V  UZt~  J.  010 L J LI0.L.1± 
rates are stiLl low and the labor force is basically efficient and skil:Lful.
Tn- many of- the plt,4s- v4e-e4-Iape 4,e-  ,ar 4- 1-b  -an ecs-l-abo   but--
.A2  *e~*J e4  U'L0L%  FJ.Aulo1U V..LL0  UIIOJ.U  ZyZ0.L:  IJ'.  U00  02.1   0f.0~ J.L  ~LC0'JJ   ~~uu
increased labor productivity is a clear goal of management.   Total wage
pay.;nts hve inrease  substantially in the pas t,9 althoughJ1 in Uthe
Yugoslav system basic wage rates are fundamentally linked to productivity.
L x, w  l| a aue I JJU±1porant uo eun-ae t.hat Wageb dur Mfyu ±11 Li.UI Wi 1.11 J-UUUG-
tivity, and that the minimum requirements for reinvestment would be met.
55.       Financing costs are not higher than in 'Western Europe and for
firm,s that have been in existence for some time they are in general lower.
The weighted average length of repayment of outstanding debt for the
seven EniterpriSes reviewed is more than 15 years and the weighted average
interest rate less than 5%. Repayment terms extended for additional
borrowings tenid to shorten,and interest rates to increase as enterpriseS
mature, building up their reserves and reducing their overall debt burden.
A newly established enterprise, although Luliy financed cy borrowings,
normally has to pay in debt service no more than a conventionally
financed company in Wvestern Europe.
56.       Imported raw and semi-finished materials normally bear only
small duties (less than 10%) although there are exceptions, such as the
special steel imported by PKE1S for their production of bearings. On
the other hand prices of locally-produced materials as a rule now appear,
to lie somewhat above international prices.   Prices of lccal equipment Ln
the cases studied seemed to range from about 10% to 20% above those of
comparable imported equipment before import duties. For the firms reviewed,
imported equipment for the project carried an import duty of on the average
about 27%. Thle previously standardized depreciation rates, including basic
rates of 7,O for major equipment and 1.5% for buildings, have recently been
established as minimum rates, while the Enterprises are now free to deter-
mine their own most appropriate rates. Taxes and similar contributions,
although not comparable to those charged in Western economies put, if



- 17 -
anything, a lower burden on a Yugoslav firm than on a profitable company
ir, say, the J.S.   Finally, al+houghi some of the productin ^ n "ts rev we
are still of small scale, there is no inherent reason -- particularly if
exports cn, be .-reas-e 4==       -- -w-h4 re + n- ow grow to a moren ncm   + I xrn
¶4- 0  -a.L   tJ   fU.L.U.4 - VW   VLUU.J  ..,ua iwh'   l ,'w'r  54 W. I V W o a **j.¶.¶.,jry4  .¶4 
size.  The present policy found in the steel industry and in the manufacture
of ..e-,d i. and h eav t,ruck  -an  -4.hestic fibers -f  --1a4--prdcto
¶4.1  * L'¶i.UI  Ok.44  LA   VJ 4.L 'A,M   CLAI"   O.A  UIAVO  .L%,L~  .LLJI;-.LO  W '.   Oki   o...L 4.L-LL .LA6  jP~ 44..¶iJL4
within the industry should help in reaching more economic production units
fa st4er th;-U Lw;,Uld -tews   be posil - -h -ired Yuosa         market
.LC.  ~L  JLLdI ~J4.. U  I%I.LWL~JOU  UU  JCCOOLU.L;  U.LL  w1,Ii  _LJAILLUUU  ±UrU O_LLJ.dV  d.. ¶
Project Costs
57.       Total estimated costs of the projects for which IBRD financing is
UeIng suughtb are N .D . hl . 2 mllon ($36.  milon)  incluiUnLg reqILur   etsL,
for additiona:L working capital related to the projects of N.D. 108.6 million
($8.*7 million), but excluding interest during construction of roughly
N.D. 20.8 mil:Lion ($1.7 million) and contingencies. IBRD has been requested
to contribute $i0.5 million including capitalized interest during construc-
tion of $0.25 million and a contingency reserve of $0.5 million.
58.       Project costs are based on detailed engineering studies and recent
offers received from potential suppliers, both local and roreign. None of
the individua:l project estimates include contingencies but are considered
to be conservative.  If anything, Enterprises expect cost reductions rather
than cost increases. Because of the unusually detailed feasibility studies
and the fact that civil works -- for which expenditures are normally more
difficult to predict than for equipment -- are only a small proportion of
total estimated project cost, and since it is also the firm opinion of YIB
that the cost estimates should be sufficient, no extra contingency for local
costs is considered to be necessary.   YIB has, however, agreed to provicde
any additionaL funds -- including any foreign exchange -- that may be
necessary to complete the projects without delays and to put the Enterpzises
in an adequate working capital position.
IBRD Financing
59.       IBR)'s proposed loan allocations correspond to the estimated
foreign exchange requirements for each project with the exception of OHI'S,
where an additional British Governmental credit is available for E 1.0
million ($2.8 million) for 8-1/2 years including a grace period of 3-1/2
years,and at the UK Government development lending rate prevailing at the
time of repayment,assumed to be less than 6%; and PRETIS,which is contri-
buting about $0.6 million from its own foreign exchange resources.    Proceeds
from the IBRD Loan could be applied only to imported equipment and associated
foreign exchange needs. Goods to be financed by IBRD comprise predominantly
equipment which cannot be procured domestically, but also include a sma]l
number of iteras of equipment which are available locally but which the Enter-
prises would purchase abroad for reasons of quality, price, or delivery time.
The Enterprises do not expect that there will be any major change in the
cost of imported eauipment or in the proportions of domestic and imported
equipmelnt.  An overall contingency of 5 has nevertheless been added to the
proposed loan amount which. in agreement with YTBR should he suffic ient
to cover any possible foreign exchange overrun.



60.       The proposed IBRD Loan to YIB would be for 14 years, including a
grace period of i2 years A1 wod carry interest at 6%o     It would be re]ent
to the Enterprise on the same repayment terms. These terms correspond to
the econom,. .:LJ  of theaJ. Ut 4w Ue fiJnLanLed andLL per.iVod reqUirJ .L fol ordr
the equipment and implementing the project.  Although soime of the Enterprises
WULLL  g~L  ~   .. UL1~  ±U   ±~py1IIL1IU IILIUL-, 1-JtP.U±  . iLJV IcL UU Ld10L,  U,IiM   WJ.L.L-  CL.L5OU
w;ou- Ld generate fAnds 'or repaym.,en-t  orrailth   ohesteywla:o
have other uses for these funds in their plans for future investment and
expaniSz ori.
61.       The interest rate on the Subsidiary Loans to the Enterprises
would be 6!% (including a charge of ½% accruing to the Yugoslav Investmenit
Bank). The YIB will in addition earn its usual charges on normal banking
transactions. Four of the Enterprises will pay interest cluring construction
on the Subsidiary Loans. For the Subsidiary Loans to KIKINDA, 0hISS, and
LIGNOSPER, interest during construction will be capitalized, as is justified
on financial grounds. KIKINDA has a large debt repayment burden during the
period of project implementation, while both OHIS and LIGNOSPER are under-
taking expansion programs which are large relative to the present size of
their overall operations. An amount of $0.25 million is included in the
Loan to YIB to cover capitalized interest during construction for these
three projects.
62.       Normally YIB does not take mortgates, but it sometimes requires
guarantees by banks or other enterprises and has agreed during negotiations
to obtain bank guarantees for its Subsidiary loans to two Enterprises -
KIKINDA and OHIS. Such guarantees are desirable because of the present
heavy debt obligations of KIKINDA and because of the position of OHIS as a
relatively new enterprise.  These guarantees will be provided by the regular
commercial bankers of the Enterprises: the Economic Bank of Belgrade, and
the Economic EBank of Skopje, respectively. As is standard in Yugoslavia,
YIB will also have direct recourse to the giro accounts of each Enterprise,
which are kept by the Social Accounting Service as explained in Appendix 3.
63.       Application of the normal financial covenants on debt and working
capital is not practical within the Yueoslav system. As further explained
in Appendix 3, enterprises in Yugoslavia are prohibited by law from making
any distributions from earnings, includine those to personal income, until
the repayment of debt and all other contractual obligations have been met.
Di.w+.rihiitAr%n,n nthpr thnn nuit. nf thp r.uirront. vprqs oarninvs are also nrohib-
ited.  Furthermore, the use of funds for long or short-term purposes is
acrffnetiv=1-, r-nl    -. snndard_ _lrn-
ants on working capital and earnings distributions. The Subsidiary Loan
Agreements wil-  l include a provirsion req irn  the pr4nY' nr%T%-rn1 nf+ the YIB
for any new debt undertaken by the Enterprises. Under the present system
A.C 1U4  .LL.P  - J-4 ..-JLC LiLJ..J 41,   Jl- .~J  'JU.~ -4--  -P   S ~- + A.d  1~ V,. 1,V%AC
debt f4r.c      .0i theV onJlyJ LI.aJJor sourceV of~ caia  te  Wh,n-dsgn
from operation, and the debt covenant will be applied by YIB in a manner
appXvpriate o pro-vd  adeuat cont.rol over 4the fiP ca  situ4 io 4 f the-
Enterprises. During negotiations it was also agreed with YIB that this sub-
jec' wou'ld be reviewed f'rom tliime U-o time 1shUoLUld UthLd Ub ±-eqju±±eu Lb)y LCZa.es.1o
in the present system.



- 19 -
Domestic Financing
64.       About 46% of total financing requirements for the projects, wil:L
be provided bv local borrowings.  Of t'total Iot  borrowJingsC of N=D= 193.2
million, N.D. 129.3 will be provided to OHIS from the Federal Government's
Fund for the P.econstructionn and nlvralInman+. of .kopreni.  The I n1 w^ll 'h
made through the Economic Bank of Skopje for 15 years, including 2½ years
,grace, and at an interest an+e of- 1- .  'PAM q .. 1  1,1- -ll be  -atr.4- 1o^al
funds for the project from its internal resources. Local financing for the
--4-4-ln five       -4- -411ct  1,l  e coexnded- Iby yVYt canA oter4 uosU-b&-
4.  ~   .4.1. V~  J~' V   VJ.LjL.4. LJ  UAIJ1LLU'U  LIy  .LLJ  .LU  uU 11t1  J.Ur'UOLd.V  UCL"o.il
on repayment terms of twelve years, including a grace period of 2½5 years,
-d at- c- 4 nter-est ,ate ofP 4".  IneetduigAnt.utnondmsi
loans will be capitalized in accordance with normal Yugoslav practice.  The
amnounts of the local loals for each of the projects and the lenn1g baUnks
are as follows:
Project                    Lender                   Amount
(N.D. million)
SLADKI          Economic Bank - Ljubjlana             7.1
TANq 
PF  I'3S        investment Bank - Sarajevo           10.0
OHIS            Economic Bank - Skopje              129.3
K1KI1NDA        Economic Bank - Belgrade             23.3
SISAK           Yugoslav Investment Bank             17.5
LIGN)OSPER      Investment Bank - Sarajevo            6.o
Total               193.2
Description of the Projects
65.       The Enterprises are widely distributed geographically.  They in-
clude four ope:rating in the Northwest of the country (SLADKI and TAM in
Slovenia, Sisak in Croatia; and LIGNOSPER in Bosnia) one due North of Be:Lgrade
(KIKINDA in Serbia) and one each to the Southwest and Southeast of Belgrade
respectively (PRETIS in Bosnia and OHIS in Macedonia), All manufacture dif-
ferent products from each other. Although there wi:Ll be capacity increases
in the projects a major element of all of them is to rationalize production
and reduce operating costs.
66.       The PRETIS DroJect aims at increasing the Dreseit Droduction of
taper roller, cylindrical roller and rail bearings from about 837 tons to
about 2.700 tons per vear and includes a new line for ball bearinPs.  The
project is the first phase of a long-range expansion program to increase
nroduction canacitv of bearings to ahout 5-900 tons per year within the nxt
seven years or so.  TAM is a producer of trucks and buses of 2 to 6.5 tons
carrving cnapait.-v  The Enteprrise has drawn up a long-tem program. to in-
crease production from presently 4,000 vehicles to about 10,000 vehicles per
year by 1973/74.  The project under consideration is he 1First phase of this
program and aims at replacing some of the outmoded equipment and eliminating



- 20 -
bottlenecks in some of the production departments. As a result production
will rise to about 5,200 vehicles per year. SLADKI, a prodiucer of paper
and paperboard, plans to add to its steam and power plant, improve its pulp
conditioning and paper conversion facilities, and install a new machine for
the production of some 8,140 tons per year of creped toilet paper. The
project will lower costs and raise overall capacity to about 31,000 tons per
year. OHIS is a chemical complex producing a wide range of products such
as PVC, acrylic fibers and insecticides. The proposed project is for expansion
of the acrylic fiber production capacity from presently 4,500 to 15,000 tons
per year and for an increase of annual conversion capacity from 3,000 to 10,000
tons, primarily for voluminous, uncombed and combed fibers and for dyeing.
KIKINDA is primarily an iron foundry with an annual producbion capacity cf
about 9,100 torts of gray and malleable iron castings. The Enterprise also
produces machine tools, pipe fittings and stoves. The project is to increase
overall foundry capacity to about 18,000 tons per year.  It will include the
shutdown of outmoded facilities which no longer meet required quality and.
costs standards.  SISAK is an integrated steel Droducer wi-bh a crude steel
capacity of about 285,000 tons per year concentrating on the manufacture of
seamless and welded tubes.  The EnterDrise nlans to install a new galvanizing
line with an aannual throughput of some 73,000 tons, primarily for welded
tubes, to replace the existing galvanizing line of inadeou.nte canacitvy
efficiency, and quality standards.  LIGNOSPER is a manufacturer of plywood
and decorative veneer of high ninlit.v  The project nims at incre2sing arninlu
capacity of plywood from presently 4,000 m3 to lO,OOO m3 and that of veneer
from 800 m3 to 2000 m- 3
Foreign Technical Assistance and Market Collaboration
67.       With the exception of SISAK (steel) and LIGNOSPER (plywood) all
of the Ente rprses hav  copraive agreements in. some form w.ith in.dustrial
companies in Western Europe.  PRETIS, for example, has an agreement with NSU,
a Ger.mawn  "n-1-actwev of pa-senr.er cars sdA n+r_.o   b-icyles, for t-h supply
of technical know-how and the sale by PRETIS to NSU of automotive components
usedA by th%-,e '^ter izn 4its - pdct-  in-4,a- wie.-E        hsas      ae
~A0V~LJ  siV  J.L,LI±  .11  ..LsD  j L t%UA L~~U±UI   " .1. 1 CLI ,   lL"LUJ.  IKLLr.L±LL)  li0L  0L.LOU  UcLr,':Cn
over the production of NSU's motor scooter for the entire world market. This
antme uLrise is also about4 4- -or.4ud                 QLun ageme, w<|  SFA> PfSwdn 
'OJ.jJ.L  .0 4.  C..0.   O8JuU  UJ  A.LWL   c.L 6 .~LUCVLLVI vyL,U  .J1 LJ   1).L IJVCV.0,Ii .LUJ.
technical know-how in the production of bearings and for marketing assistance
outsid S. -VUgoSla -rA . nAk 1^-I _ ha   a-.--4 -lengcntatwihKleserT-l
IJL uOJU 4. U~~U.LcL V.Lc%. Lxw i.LL o .1 41%;ZJoLIg t1VL1UL-c%UU I. WIsI "XUk.L1Izuult7 fllULI-u±
Deutz of West Germany and also supplies truck components to Deutz for asSembly
: _L : ___t_ *_n  -_  _  tTv L_   ~__  _ l   ---_      I  _  _ .   --  -   _  _qt.1 1_ -,-
in their vel e;JLUi. urn.±o Ua5 Ina31aU eC I..ss acryLIUc iDer plant withn tne nelp
of the British firm Courtaulds, with whom it continues to have a contract for
the exchange oi technical information.  KnTIKNDA produces iathes under license
from H. & ErnauLt Somua of France and cylindrical grinders under license from
tne Fortuna Werke of West Germany.
68.       All these agreements appear to work satisfactorily and supplement
the development; work which the Yugoslav Enterprises carry forward on their
own. The most effective agreements are those in which the foreign partner
has a genuine interest in cooperating beyond making available know-how and
receiving a license fee in return. Such arrangements include in particuLar



- 21 -
the supply of components from Yugoslav firms to their foreign partners,
and marketing arrangements in whirch the foreign pr.ners obtain reciprneal
opportunities f'or sales in Yugoslavia. Those foreign companies which receive
compnrnnt ~sumnlies from Yiugo_slauin appear in general to be interested in
expanding such arrangements.
Procurement
69.       Due to the nature of the modernization projects, the loan proceeds
would be used t1o finance a relatively large number of comparatively small
items.  The goods would be grouped to makr,e the contracts suitable for in-
viting bids on an international basis. For contracts amounting to more t,han
approxniiately $10-0,000 equivalent, procurement would be on the basis of in-
viting bids from a list of qualified prospective suppliers from different
co-uitires, reviewed and approved 'Dy the Bank. Bidding documents and cont,ract
awards for these items would also be subject to the Bank's approval. All
other contracts would be awarded in accordance with the usual procedures
of the Enterprises, including the provision that not less than three foreign
suppliers would1 be requested to submit quotations whenever practical. It
is estimated that more than half of the loan would be used to finance coni-
tracts above $100,000.
Future Results
70.       Becauise some of the Enterprises are planning other investments
parallel to those assisted under the IBRD loan, it has not. been attempted
to separate the effects of the projects from those of the other investmelnts.
Expected increases in sales in 1971 over those of 1967 as a consequence of
the projects and the other investments are estimated at N.D. 1,309 million
($105 million).
71.       In 1970, the first year of full service on the debt incurred for
the projects and other concurrent investments, debt service coverage would
be at least two times, and in many cases well above these levels. The mea-
sure of debt service coverage chosen is a conservative one, being based on
the previous year's earnings after the distribution of non-obligatory wage
bonuses as described in Appendix 3. The debt service coverage of KIKINDA
is an exception, due to its heavy loan repayments over the next few years.
Debt service coverage levels for all the Enterprises are shown in the table
on page 14.
72.       The table on page 14 also compares the earnings from operations as
per cent of sales for the year 1966 with the per entage expected for 1971
when all new capacities are assumed to be fully utilized. It will be noted
that for all Ente rrises the profitability is estimated to increase -
some cases substantially.



- 22 -
73.       All of the Enterprises will continue to export and plan in fact, -
with the exception of SISAK - to increase siYbstantially their exporus.
Although the value of exports will vary from firm to firm (see page 12)
aoout one-thir(i of their estimated combined sales increases between 1967'f
and 1971 is expected to be sold abroad. For all seven Enterprises together,
exports in 1971] are expected to be N.D. 390$5 million ($31.2 million) higher
than in 1967. Estimated export increases to convertible currency countries
only (amounting to NeD. 237 million or $18.0 million between the two refcer-
ence years) would still be about 15 times larger than the annual debt service
on the IBRD loan.
74.       The assumptions underlying these expected results are explainecL
in the individual project appraisals (Appendices 4 to 10). The financing
terms currently proposed differ slightly from those assumed in the appraisal
appendices, ancl a further six months is now expected to be required for the
completion of the projects. No substantial alterations in the financial
positions of the Enterprises as presented in the appendices will occur as
a result of these changes.
V,   GENERAL CONCLUSIONS
75.       The projects will expand and rationalize existing operations and
reduce costs, and are essntial s       t nep   +.hese REn+.nvtise  in +.hn tir long -
.~~~~~~~~_                 _ 13   _ w U.    _1 _, __.,   ---   ___ -C
range plans to attain these aims. They fit well into the objectives of the
,i  ~ .~,A  r.411 ~   4.-~ .,  ~ .4-,,,+  &I~~AA  .44  i~1  ~-i-r,wI-., a .r%  r'r,v.
Econo3r^C Refo3-,m ar.d .i'res,s'_t in substar,tiall nd-di;tion-all -_xe-rt to co--
vertible currency countries. The projects are well-prepared, present no
---,.usual-4-- tec.;4-a 4rbe,s                  --- A-; -4ad  for  -Aued,t   er,zlemrt a+-on.
U41LOUL~U...  YL.L. .LJ.p UU4h=ILO~,  C.LILU  d±Lt  l ± edA.LUy.LAJ  L1111UhIU_LC.LU   JI11qJAVA L±LbOV.
Management of the Enterprises is capable and will be able to execute the
76.       Mi-  eVnp;et       are well'-uie Tfor 4a 4ar.k Lon-o-heYo         -
IL)       eI~  s. ven p jJL JL  u   W L.LL  OUJ.tL)tZU  LVIJi CZ IJ. 4 -LLL tl  UV J.1 LA) UI1  .L UrLCJ.V
Investment Bank of $10.5 million for a term of 14 years (including a grace
period of 2½ years) to be relent 'by the Inve-u-enb Bank to the En.e3Vrist
for repayment over the same period.
IFC -LAa
June 29, 1967



APPENDIX 1
Page 1
Yugoslav Investment Bank
Backgro±nd
The Yugoslav Investment Bank (YIB) was established in 1956, re-
placing the long-term credit department of the National Bank of Yugoslavia
as the principal instrument of the Federal Government for providing invest-
ment munds from domestic resources and foreign loans. In 1964, the Invest-
ment Bank was given some measure of autonomy through the transfer to the
Bank of part of the Government's General Investment Fund which consisted
of the proceeds of taxation used for investment.  In addition to its prin2-
cipal activity in investment fLiancing, YIB's main operat,.ons were lending
for permanent working capital, some short-term foreign exchange financing
and the administration of grants provided by the Federal Government for
specific purposes.  By far the major part of the Bank's resources which to-
talled about I.D. 21.3 billion at the end of 1964, were funds made
available by the Federal Govermment (8h/3), followed by foreign loans (97),
deposits of enterprises and other organizations (5%) and the Bank's own
funds.  Up to the early 1960's the Bank's lending accounted for about one-
third of all economic investments in Yugoslavia and was primarily for industry,
power, transport and tourism. (Annex 1!
As the Government's main channel for foreign loaLns. the Tnvestt-
ment Bank was the borrower of the six IBRD loans totalling $210 million
made to Yugoslavia since 1961. Two of these loans (277 nrid r18 VI of 196f  1
and 1962) of together $60 million were for power, twqo (34L& and 485 YU of
1961 and 1967) of togeth3er $45 million for roads, and two (361 and 395 YUT
of 1964) totalling $105 million for railways.  The Investment Bank, while
passing these 102ns on  o rt+.her orran-tinon Twhch carri:d nilt the
projects, played a substantial role in the preparation, negotiation and
2dministration of the loans.  It performed these fu-ction; in a competent
way.  In addition to the IBRD loans, the Investment Bank was the borrower
of loans from the United States (nT- cnd ExImP k              -&nd -f
Italian sources totalling $336.2 million.  Of these and the IBRD loans,
$P2 223 million we're outstanding or lln.disbursed on December 31, 1966.  Also
outstanding was a loan of $160 million equivalent from the USSR, made in
1966.
Orxani zati n
Th4e bankng.L±11  o L  VLCLI, fM -c7h29, whiiich was part; of the corripre-
hensive reform measures aiming, inter alia, at the decentralization of the
economIc system, has chLaged the organizat tonal and financ(ial structure DI
the Yugoslav Investment Bank. Through the reforms, all Yugoslav banks
became autonomous, were permitted to operate throughout the country and,
subject to meeting certain financial requirements, were put into an equal
position regarding borrowing abroad and the possibility to administer
governmental investment resources.  The Investment Bank iEs therefore now
largely autonomous from the Federal Government and will have to compete
with other credit institutions.  In accordance with the new pattern of
organization for all Yugoslav banks the highest organ of t,he Investment



APPrEND'IX i
Page 2
BRankr i it  Assembly, which consists Of representatives of enterpses, othe
economic organizations and governmental bodies contributing to the Bank's
credlt+ f' id, wldic iLs I ,lrt s hr   captal   Cntiuon        o the crediv
~~ ..L~  L~LJO.J.  UJ  ;~ Pd.k)Ud.L.  UUL,LLU L4U.LVIlZ  UV  WiAt  L'.-.t:,U.LI
fund cannot be repaid but are transferable and entitled to payment of in-
ferest depend':ng on the- 4eslt  ofP 4.e BsI_  opraros     In 196  ves
contributions earned 9'. The Assembly had on January 31, 1967, 47 members
-44-11   4-4-1     IT   ?'~~  - in -'  _-.* n~ _*  -   ,,-*------------ - f
W.LUII totadL suUq.lc ULViIO p Ltn   of  .DJ. 1.5LY(  I-ri.LiTn. AltLh-ughL thie uove.urunenl '
subscription was about N.D. 75 million, its voting power is limited to ] 0'
as is that ofV nuy other member OI the Bankts Assembly. The Assembly decides
on YIB's basic business policies, its organization, and on the distribution
of revenues, including the part paid as interest on the credit fund. The
decisions of the Assembly are, with a considerable degree of delegation of
powers, carried out by an Executive Board appointed by the Assembly, and by
a General Mlanager, who is appointed by the Federal Assembly as in the case
of all banks in which the Federal Government participates. While acting in
accordance with the decisions and policies laid down by the Bank's organs,
the General -ianager has to take care that the BankTs operations are conducted
within the framework of the social plans of Yugoslavia. He can appeal
decisions of the Bankis organs finally to the Federal Government.
Financia L Position
The banking reform has particularly affected YIB's financial
structure. I-hereas until the reform the Bank administered the major part of
its funds on an agency basis, most funds have now become liabilities ancd
assets.
Resources of YIB (in billion N.D.)
As at Dec.31
1964     1966
Federal Funds administered by YIB      17.26     0.17
Foreign Loans with Federal Repayment
Obligation                           0.33     1.69
Domestic Loans & Deposits under YIB's
Liability                            1.79    18.39
Foreign Loans under YIB?s Liability     1.70     2.11
Ow-m Funds                              0.22     0.66
21.30    23.02
The relation of administered funds to funds under YIB's liability changed
radically from 5:1 to 1:11. At the same time, the share of own funds in-
creased from 1;% to 3% of total resources. Attached as Annex 2 is YIB's
comparative balance sheet for the years ending December 31, 1963 to 1966.
Almost two-thirds of the liabilities at the end of 1966 consisted
of a credit of N.D. 15.04 billion from the Federal Government, which was
created by coniverting the funds of the former General Investment Fund, ad-
ministered by YIB on a revolving basis, into a credit at 21g repayable over
30 years, withi the full risk resting on YIB. Since the average duration
of the loans made by YIB is close to 25 years, the credit from the Federal
Government le;aves only small rnom for revolving of fu ndsi. YTB exnects `.hat
it will continaue to receive from the Government funds for lending for



APPENDIX 1
Page 3
specific purposes. In the new banking system. YIB will have to compete for
these funds with other banks but expects to have an advantage because of its
experience and present dominant position in investment financing.   If funds
are made available by the Government as loans, the terms will be negotiated
between the Government and the banks which will relpnd nnder their own
risk. if the Government wants to channel funds through banks at subsidized
terins or as 7rants. thn nhose.n hnnk will nc. ns nragncr only
About I6  of YIT's npeQsnt resoinoes come from fori    I lrons  The
Federal Government has undertaken repayment obligations for foreign loans
representing somewhat less than half thne total anmrot.  fl these cases the
loan proceeds were passed on by YIB as grants for infrastructure projects.
Althonugh YIB no longer has a pri ile-ed position as the chn-,nel of forein
loans, it hopes to obtain also in future, because of its experience and
h1usines  rlaioshps     a substantial share of forei4 f-;dunls.
_  -  ~ ~ ~   ~ ~   V   .~~V4O..L  ~~~~JiO.J. ~~~  JJ.  J..'JJ.  .L  LUIUC. P --  - 
Tn add-ition to f-nld   fro.m the Fedeural Governm,ent and. foreign;
lenders, an increasing share of YIB's resources will have to come in the long
ruln from dom.estic So'rey   th,,feits, cunary-
butions to the Bank's credit fund and possibly bond issues. From 1965 to 1966,
time deposits increased from N.D. 906.5 to 1,172.9 million.   The potVentil'
importance of domestic bond issues is difficult to forecast since this form
of financing has been used ln Yrugoslavia after- _94  only j.x a Iew cases.
One of these was the internal investment loan shown in the Bank's balance
sheet ' wh ch was oriGinaljy Lv-iued by the Federal Government and subseque-Ytly
transferred to the Investment Bank. Finally, the Bank will have available
retained earnings a'located to the credit fund.  It is not;iceable that
retained earnings have increased substantially in recent years and by the
endu of 196U laU accumulated to nearly two and a half' times the subscriptions
to the credit fund.
Operations
There will probably be some shift of emphasis irn YIB's operations.
lUhl'-d.~ Ui the past in i-ne wITh its role as tne Uovernment's principal in-
vestment institution, activity was concentrated on investments in basic in-
dustries, power and transport, YIB;s operations are expected to spread in
future to a wider range of sectors with the exception of direct lending for
agriculture. During the next few years, emphasis will be given to the
financing of indsutrial modernization. Other activities likely to gain
importance are the financing of, exports and imports, which are services of
interest to the Bank's major members and depositors.
Borrowing Capacity
Any assessment of YIB's borrowing capacity has to take into account
that until the recent reorganization, the Investment Bank was primarily an
institution for channeling Government funds to investment projects without
a repaymtent obligation on YIB's own part.  With the banking reform, YIB
assumed the liability for most of these resources, but the: transformation
into a banking institution operating under the usual financial concepts
regarding the relationship of debt to equity has barely started.



A nnD T1ThV n
Page 4
The ratio of debt to "equity" funds for YiB if calculated on
a conventional basis, (and excluding from debt federal resources for invest-
ment grants and an amount equivalent to the Federal    Governmentis obliga-
tions in respect of foreign loans) would be 31/1 on December 31, 1966.
This is already a considerable change compared to December 31, 1964, i.t.
before the banking reform, when the ratio was 81/1. The ratio will probably
gradually decrease further since YIB, in order to provide funds for future
operations, intends to retain a higher share of earnings and to attract further
investments for its credit fund. This was already apparent in the alloca-
tion of income during the past three years. However, YIE; will probably
not attain nor has to attain in the foreseeable future a conventional debt!
equity ratio since the resources it owes to the Federal Government can be
considered to some extent as subordinated debt and since the guarantees
for its liabi:Lities are more comprehensive than is usual for development
banks.
An important consideration for YIB's capacity to incur debt is
that all members of its Aseembly, including the Federal Government, have
an obligation to make available to the Bank additional resources to the
extent required to meet the Bank's oblization. The Federal Government
also guarantees all obligations undertaken by YIB before January 25, 1966,
i.e. the date when its operations were brought into conformity with the
new banking legislation. A further aspect is the exchange risk undertaken
by YIB on foreign borrowings.   YIB's liabilities in foreign exchange are
covered in part (presently almost half) by repayment obligations undertaken
by the Federal Government for certain foreipm loans.   For other foreirn
exchange liabilities it is YIB's practice, under the present foreign ex-
change svstem. that entArnr4ses when borrowing in fnreign exc-hanme have to
undertake to repay in foreign exchange. Furtheremore, the right of YIB
to exchange cUnnrs for the cur-rncies reqriiivped for loan rrepaymnts is pro-
vided generally in legislation for all loans made before December 31, 1966.
Ti   1eisat al     so cv-r p+A ni Q  tnrv,n". nnos i  p.t *arer i YiB- ' VT g aI a ntees fnr
suppliers credits which amounted to $780.5 million equivalent on Decem-
ber 31, 1966.
VT1- tP 1  r.-  ,w n ^wr-.A  haco  4mnyv-rr nA  a4-tin!A  1-tr nAcTin   +.hpc  nq.at. vr);Pvq
and canl be considered as satisfactory.  While unpaid annuities represented
8A.1  of total  Anuities    due on Decem.ber 3, 12  t   percentage decreased
to 4.9 on December 31, 1966. With the exception of a very small proportion,
a-" a         Wt:-we paidU subusqunu.ly.o SLince 17L, VJ.LvLy 4UJ LAU L- "  .L 
had to be written off.
Prospects
It can be expected that because of its past role and experience in
in-vestment financing and because of the volume of its resources and its
close relations with many enterprises in Yugoslavia, the Investment Bank
will continue to play a major role in investment financing- in Yugoslavia.
It is difficult to forecast, however, how in the long run YIB's level of'
operations will compare to previous levels and to the futuire lending of
other investment banks, since the adjustments to the situation created



A DlDV1TY I
Page 5
by the new bar-ing legislation nave Only recent-Ly ubg-un.  unLlB! fi iIlcd.L
forecasts up to December 1968 envisage an increasing inflow of new funds,
particularly f:rom the Federal Government. This seems justified since the
new funds are largely for payments on account of commitments made previously
to projects fjinanced through YIB. The forecasts also provide for a fair:Ly
moderate increase in deposits.  Forecasts beyond 1968 are difficult to make
since due to the banking reforms, a number of new factors will increasingly
affect YIB. In the long run the scale of operations will depend to an in-
creasing extentl on YIB's ability to be competitive with other banks, particu-
larly in attracting new resources for the credit fund and new deposits and
loans.



ANNEX 1
Yugoslav Investmient Bank
Long-Term Credits for Fixed Assets 1961-1966
(Mlllion New Dinars)
Domestic Goods Imported Goods
Branch                    arnd Services     and Services        Total
INDUSTRY AJlD MIXING
Coal and Coke              245              3'76              621
P e tr o le1,-,-           .'637                              5,70
Ferrous Metallurgy       1,894            1,807             3,701
Non-f'errous 'I' etallur,  1,18             674             1,856C -U
Building !Material & Misc.  42               62               104
',IetaY l Wr, -Li         157 L.            155 "I12 
Electrical Equipment        28               46                74
000 888        1,010
Paper                       37              136               173
Textiles                    12               25                37
Food Processing             91               22               113
Other Industries              5              10                15
Total Industry and
Mining                      4,844            4,630             9,474
LECThICITY                          3,392           1,042            14,1434
TRAINSPORT                           1,785              616             2,401
TOtfflbr,l                             483                8               491
D,WTELLINGS                             60              -                  60
FORESTRY                                31                2                33
OTHERS                                  23               5:3               76
Total.                      10,618            6351             16,969



ANNEX 2
i   olavmInvestment Bmnk
Balance Sheets
(Million New Dinars)
As at December 31:                           1963    19614    1965    1966                                                       1963     1964     1965     1966
ASSErS                                                                            LIABI LITI ES
Investment Credits:                                                              Sources for Inrestment Credits:
Investxment Credits to Economic                                                  Credit. from the Federal Government
r           1/t  to1 Banks'or         1L4,295  15,790   :;4,9u2  15,237           (earlier General Investment Fund)       114,805   14,995   1:3,915  15, 042
Iinvestment Credits to Banks for                                                 Foreign Investment Loars and
Granting Investment Credits to                                                    Credits                                   1,185    1,883    3,179    3,518
Economic Enterprises l/                2 079    1 849    3 770   4, 323        Internal Investment Loan                       -        624      640      587
Total Investment; Credits                  IU7W     I7 739 T9   7I2  15              Resour-ces of Republican Investment
FundE                                       -         -        -        -
Short-Term Credits:                                                                  Credit Fund                                     B      13.0     207       459
Credits to Economic Organizations for                                             Time Deposits of Clients                      500      662      906    1,173
Working Assets                             1       67        8      ',32        Credit with the NationeL Banik                102       39      712      691
Credits to Banks for Granting Short.-                                         Total Sources for Investment Credits          I7       I87 3      97, 59  M,7
Term CrediAs                             -         80       8c     270
Total Short-Term CredLts                        1      1 -li7   E      c         Sources f'or Short-Term Creidits:
Short-Term Deposits                           14614     306     14214     8314
Investment Grants out of Federal Resouu-ces   -      2,230       63     170
Obligations of the Federal Goverraent in                                          Federal Sources  for Investment Grants
Riespect of Foreign Loans                  -        334      794   1,692         and other Fumds:
Sourceis for Investment Grants                -      2,018        18      175
Fore:Lgn Exchange Credlts and Current                                                Sources  for Granting Credits for
Accounts:                                                                           Special Purposes                         _-          250       64
Foreign ExchaLnge Credits to Banks         -         28        8       8       Total SouLrces  for Grants                       -     T726 1
Foreign Exchatnge Credits to
Econamic Or ganizations                   63       96      188     2124
Current Accounts in Foreign Banks           14       15       13      24      Sources cof Fundis Available for Foreign
TotaL Foreign Exchange Credits                77      39 79                          Exchange Operatians:-
Foreign Exchange Deposits of Economic
Giro Account:                                                                          Organizations                                80       99      132      1142
G:Lro Account for Investments              510      358      128        2         Foreign Exchange Credits with the National
G:Lro Account for Short-Term Credits       248      182      142     113            Bank of Yuigoslavia                         -        -         38       45
Giro Account in Foreign Exchange             32      46       78      ..          Credits with Foreign ElBnks                     5       46       63       95
Legal Reserve Requirements with the                                           Total Foreign Exchange Operations Fundis       _w          T13      233      2
Social Accountini Service                 -       -          L          4
TotaL Giro Account              7        9         i
Reserve Funds                                     45        46       87      131
Financial Resour-ces ofr the Bank as the
User of SociaL Property                     29       28       25      11
Business Fund                                      32      141       44       50
Reserve Funds of the Bank                      44       45        46      87
Fixed Assets                                     9       9       11       33      Sources cf CoLLective Consumption Sources         20       23       27       19
Collective Consumption Fund                    12       19       21       16
Miscellaneous Liabilities                         169      157      197       58
Miscellaneous Assets                            79     123       222       3
TOTAL LIABILITIES                   17 ,415  21,259    20,653  32",C9
TOTAL ASSETS                     17,415   21,299   20,653  23,019
T    or Fixed Assets  nd Pernet Woring Capital



APPENDIX 2
Page 1
Foreign Trade and Import Liberalizatiori
About half' of Vnugoslav iats expnor+s and over )r0% of im.por+s are
exchanged with bilateral trading partners, principally in Eastern Europe.
Ir-pots to biaeal ----tre     ar   fmUo     mo+ac      osm- uol
industries and, although importing from bilateral partners is not in all
case  adrnta6ous,bi'laterall trade vWill conti-nue to be of rp-ac  4;o
Yugoslavia in the foreseeable future.   The Yugoslav authorities are
nevetheessawae o th poent-'a" advantages of Jncreased trade with
convertible currency countries - exports to these countries rose by 19%' in
L766 - adu th tvrdue aIU paymuiienu ±liUra-LZUau±uio xriaeaures Vo. OJlnuadry ±1,67
were directed to this end.
Under the new measures all Yugoslav enterprises, subject only to
blteir fulfili ng minimum working capital requirements, are able to engage
in foreign trade.   They are also able, subject to certain conditions, to
enter into credit arrangements with foreign firms.   The new legislation
provides greater scope for Yugoslav banks to engage in foreign transactions.
At present sixteen banks are authorized to undertake alL types of foreign
transactions as compared with only three banks previous:Ly.
Very few of Yugoslaviats exports are presently subject to
licensing except insofar as they fall within the terms of bilateral trade
agreements.   Whereas in the past all imports were subject to administrative
regulation,since January 1967 almost a quarter by value of all imports from
convertible currency countries are permitted to enter Yugoslavia without
restrictions, and foreign exchange is made freely available for these
imports.   A further 20% of imports from convertible currency countries
have been liberalized subject to the fulfillment of the import obligations
of existing bilateral trade agreements.   The degree of liberalization is
greatest for imports of raw materials and semi-finished goods and smallest
for consumer goods.   For non-liberalized imports a rather complex system
of exchange allocation has been established.   This system operates partly
on the basis of allowing exporters to retain a portion of their foreigfn
currency earnings for the import of capital equipment and the servicing
of foreign debt and for other applications as desired (retention quotas);
partly on the basis of providing foreign exchange to certain industries
only if they sell in foreign markets ("linking" arrangements); and partly
through a system of central allocation of exchange.   The retention quotas
and linking ratios vary among industries and among enterprises depending,
inter alia, on the share of foreign trade in their total operations.
Major exporters - those whose exports to convertible currency markets
account for more than 51% of total sales proceeds - may retain the whole
of their foreign exchange earnings for imDorts of raw materials and parts.
In addition, all enterprises may use a portion of their provisions for
depreciation of machinerv and eauinment for imports of canital goods.  The
major part of imports of capital equipment is financed by foreign loans
through the retention nuota syvtem or ePxr-pfnonTn11v through the central
allocation of exchange.



APPENDIX 2
Page 2
The linking arrangement has undoubtedly provided a stimulus to
exports, but with the increasing liberalization of the economy it can only
be a tranlsitional arrangement. The proportion of imports covered by
linking agreements in 1967 is expected to be only about one-sixth as large
as in 1966.   Similarly, the retention quota arrangements are expected
gradually to disappear as further steps to liberalize imports are taken,.
In view of the uncertainties relating to export performance in 1967 and
to trends in the economy generally, the Yugoslav authorities have not yet
coTmnitted themselves to a further major advance in import liberalization,
but they hope that such a step will be possible early in 1968.



ADPPMMTV 
Page 1
Financial and Operating Characteristics of the Yugoslav Enterprise
Introduction
Thlis appendix describes some of the salient features of tle
financial structure and financial operating characteristics of the Yugoslav
business enterprise.  It also comments on the Yugoslav financial reporting
system and the method used in presenting financial statements in this report.
Under the Yugoslav system most productive assets, including those of
the business enterprise, are "socially owned".  The enterprise is established
by the Constitution as an independent and autonomous organization. The
control corresponding to "social ownership" of the means managed by an enter-
prise is vested, also by the Federal Constitution, in the workers of that
enterprise.  An enterprise is managed by the workers through the WorkerS
Council under the system of self-management described in the main report.
Both the financial structure of the Yugoslav business enterprise and its
disposal of earnings reflect this system of ownership and control.
General Reporting Practices
The principles and techniques of cost accounting and financial
accounting basic to orthodox business practice are applied also by the
Yugoslav enterprise, for which the basic financial statements are also cL
balance staternent of present financial condition and earnings statement
of Dast annua:L performance. The presentation and usage of this informa-
tion, however, differ somewhat from normal western practice.   The accounts
of a Yugoslav firm are audited periodically and presented annually for
approval to the Social Accounting Service, an agency of the Federal Govern-
ment. which must regulate the accounting nractices of business enterprises
in accordance with the laws and verify the financial statements of the
enternrises.  The onprationaL accounts of all banks and enterprises are
maintained by the Accounting Service, and it performs a continuous current
audit of the pnirrnniu ue of all finnncial pnvments to ensure that thev
are made in accordance with the existing provisions established by law.
The standard forms for the presentation of financial statements
are nr esrri hPe each year ho the Fediral Srcretariat for Finance. on the
recommendations of the Accounting Service. Parallel with successive
changes introduced in the +.       and economc systemm of Yuigoslavia in
recent years, the Secretariat has found it desirable to change each year
the standard for.m for the noa=n+.+Aion of finani    sae-et       Although
financial data for each year is presented together with the comparable
-ms of the previousns ea      n no _         (-ong- the past five year
reviewed by the mission) is the grouping of accounts identical, for either
balance sheets- or icome stateMents .  T- each successive ;year - cnn   myiny
be reyrouped, added or deleted so that the information presented in one year
J_   luk,  i) W-J_L UJ.'y  WUXtd-dU  U 1v 19 sUia   a.,;O-, UUS1B .11  dULlUV.LVl- YVCL *   1' L&   VllQ ,A.U ll.9
a clear distinction  between short-term and long-term asset and liability
accounts is not rigorously maintainled in the grouping Uo ac;uWlts for p1ublic
presentation in the basic financial statements. The approach of the mission



APPENDIX 3
Page 2
in constructing statements of sufficient comparability to be used for
firnancial ana:Lysis was therefore to obtain from the Enterprises and YIB
the financial data for each year on the basis of one standard form (the
1965 lugoslav form was taken as a standard) with accounts grouped similarly
in each year. This data was then used as the basis for a further regroup-
ing of accounts to the extent possible in order to obtain financial state-
ments for the Enterprises which in their overall form and usage would be
roughly comparable to those available for business firms under the western
system.  Financial information presented in this manner should be used with
due re!ard to the deficiencies in this method of presentation.
Frequent alteration of the prescribed forms of reporting financial
information has meant that certain standard analytical tools normally employed
by financial managers, including balance sheets comparable over a number of
years, are not readily available in Yugoslavia. It has also resulted in a
significant limitation of financial forecasting techniques and practices.
Full balance sheet projections are made for one year only, in the "Annual
Plan" of the enterprise.  Funds flow statements and techniques are not
widely knowm.
Discussions are currently in progress concerning revisions of the
present accounting systerm following its recent review by a Federal Commission.
In general, the Commission has recommended that greater   -omnarahilitv over-
time should be established in the standard reporting system, and that enter-
prises should be allowed more freedom for the development of their own
internal accounts within the uniform accolnting system.   It is generally
assumed that these recommendations will be adopted.  Also Lunder discussion
is a proposal supported by most enterprises whereby YugosLav firms would
revert to the practice of realizing income--and costs--upon the 11n vITcng of
sales, as in western practice.  Under this proposal the present system,
involving (as described below) the realization of income and costs only
upon the receipt of payment, would be discontinued.
Financial Structure -
The Net Worth of a Yugoslav enterprise is represented by its
accumul=ated earned fuunds.  Earned fulnds are at the disposal of the
workers and, after the distribution of wages as described below, are
allocated among  three basic types of capital accountts correspond.g to the
"equity" of the enterprise. The Business Fund is the major one of these
accoulnts and1 represents the principal repository of retained earnings.  Other
allocations are made to various reserve funds, either optionally or as re-
qnuired hy law (Pri;arily for the accumulation of mini-muwm cash balances related
to working capital).  A third type of fund, known as the Collective Consump-
tion Flnd, represents earnings eaarked for the collective use of the
workers of the enterprise.
/   Reference is made to the financial statements presented in Appendices
4-10 as illustrative of the following comments.



APPEVNDIX 3
Page 3
Earnings allocated to the Collective Consumption Fund are normally
invested in assets such as housing, medical and canteen facilities, and in
some cases schools, holiday resorts and other welfare facilities. Distribu-
tions to the Collective Consumption Fund usually represent a relatively
small part of earnings, but the proportion varies considerably among enter-
prises, or even with the same enterprise in different years, depending upon
the working group's needs for social facilities,the needs of the enterprise
for business fLnds, and the workers' preference for cash earnings.
Recent practice has tended to promote the provision of such collective social
facilities by separate enterprises established specifically for the purpose
and, particularly in 1966, it has become customary for business enterprises,
along with other measures of adjustment connected with the Economic Reform,
to transfer such assets (which are "socially owned") without compensation
to such separate enterprises. This practice should serve to correct the
possible appearance of over-capitalization and low productivity which may
result from heavy investment by an enterprise in "collective consumption"
assets, and to eliminate the indirect subsidies, which may result from
their incorporation in the operational accounts of the enterprises.
Funds allocated to the Business Fund of an enterprise are used in
the same way in which retained earnings are employed. The Business Fund
supports investments in fixed assets or working capital, or the repayment
of long-term debt, and a growth in the Business Fund is accompanied by
increases in the anoronriate asset aecounts- or a decrease in long-term
debt, respectively.  Since under the system of social ownership, the provision
of "enniitv" funds has not hben possibhI e, an existing enterprise in need of
additional outside funds must obtain them in the form of debt. A newly
established enterprise, with no past earnings, must be entirely sunnorted
by long-term debt financing. Although in the past, funds rnade available
frnom InenI  romniihlican n or feodereal govermnen t sources on longr +.trms (P_Cn
years) and at low interest rates (e.g. 3"') have served this purpose, it is
not ent-irely clear hw a new enterprnis    rri  acqui a-'   n vial  c  laplail
structure under the revised capital investment system, although legislation
ishcA bingC prepared.~A  , ,4  I 11 *iTi^ w-il  a"  o 1+  vselng  + e  4 tir.ve+s fi nri
LL5jfl ~   'A  V.-L_-1  VV.L-  a _ - - 4Jh  JL 6  -..L-dss
on quasi-equity (profit-sharing) terms in other enterprises, presumably
in__IiHni-  now prnw         ThA ,-lI+.ii-n-hin ntf' 1rinav_+.rn'm dlPht t.n tinwn funcinsr
for a Yugoslav firm is therefore partly a reflection of its maturity - the
number of years of i4ts no+. p rastop +Ation  arndr +the rapidi+.yT wTi1+.h whierh inni-nincs
have been generated. This characteristic should thus be kept in mind in
cor.parison   vvoluvr ng "oml        /equivy ratios,  nd +he debt caphcity
of a Yugoslav enterprise must be considered with more than usual attention
tthe benns of the de-   fn..    g   vlvd
T- co:'n.s-ider..g 4the -appropri- ateness of 4 J   and -RDeserve
-"IA  ~' L %A LUa   UL1u  n`&JkJ.LuF-J.L  ~u   1~ 0 JL  VI  U LI1"U0  CXAI±)-4   vl  V 
Funds as a measure of the net worth of an enterprise, consideration must
also ble given tuo the r-evalaton -o,--  assets-.A-- - ca,-e  -u -> r-ecen ye--s.
O.J0iJ ~ IJLJIJLIV I_.JU.dU.L'JII0 V04. d.0ltuo L Ud..U.Lt±,U LJ)UI iJi AZc%iiIJ>
At the time of the dinar devaluation and administrative price changes of
uUl.y, '192, a gen     rVe-.LuaLLVLI VI JIIVUI1UVLJ.i  WIU of as.b ebts di -Ut:UILy
financed by foreign exchange debt was undertaken by all enterprises.   At
the end of 1966 all enterprises underwent a further general revaluation of
buildings, machinery and equipment intended to adjust asset values
realistically to the price changes and other measures affecting earning
power introduced in connection with the Economic Reform. The increase in
net worth brought about through these adjustments was in both insitan-ces



APPENDIX 3
Page 4
incorporated into the Business Fund. The revaluations were carried out by
Committees for each enterprise including representatives of the industry,
other local and regional enterprises, and the workers and management of the
enterprise uncder review, and were approved by the Social Accounting Service.
The opinion was generally shared that these revaluations have resulted in
asset values for the enterprises which may be considered realistic.
The profitability of the Yugoslav enterprise, when represented by
a ratio between annual net earnings and the enterprise's "own funds," is
obviously affected by these relationships involving the relative magnitudes
of the Business and Reserve Funds, the Collective Consumption Fund, and debt.
In addition to the qualifications in regard to net earnings mentioned below,
therefore; t.hpe "w  fiinr1" (ttequit-t) bhse in such a measlure of orofitability
must also be examined closely to determine its significance.
The working capital position of the enterprises as presented in
this appraisqn report must be qua ;fid by th-i ri ffi nulty in separatin,g
completely all, short-term and long-term accounts.  It is also affected
by the present system of purposive control of all cu1rent payments trnns-
actions by the Social Accounting Service and the associated legal require-
e,+ -Pr.,v ,.,ror,t,vo  kni,> nnn v,n C,A e.,r,A AAnre4 + -,,-.,r,,n+ a  'Tl,o nfcc:_n*.n -
---4--J0  A.                  P-A . 0- Vi 1h   .t.   .5  L   Oflv   4  LI  a  1 1W Jt
tion of current accounts is further affected by the present system of
.5  --..1.0 LJ..'.I  ). iAI u01   VJal  U..Li  1J.   %,moil. J90.JS,L1  U  for s.. les'-'
re 'ization of~~~-VI income at teime of cash pywtfrsls
2I.LU1JAVut~11  P,iL _L.LL.LULC±0.L5.,±5   %J±L  ou,& 0LZS-6 LU A  LI0.UA)  ---~5fALL
deposits characteristic of the past has been eased in recent years, such
r~L~iL)~ s                                  CZ0±±I0.L an apaLLPI ;U-L U.5-.L{'4.4.
r-qu i r em-enwts st-l l. _leadC ani enerr V toC1 Lartin Ir ar tly ':q I
position, although the use of such liquid funds may be strictly limited.
Vepreciation ±WIs - IsLL-a  ue iIi.LLIL,LatanedU ±11 ci a CC., sepaOla cashacco.t,U,   an
the past have been strictly limited in use to fixed asset investment and.
debt repayment.  Reservve F-unid requiremeuts are related not to measures cf
overall capitalization, but strictly to the level of working capital employed,
tne soundness of wnich is increased by forced cash retention frorM eavuJs.UJ.
The result of these measures is the promotion of a decidedly conservative
c-urrent, position for an enterprise.  Current assets desiUnated as "cash,
banks and near cash" in this report include all such segregated and obliga-
tory reserve cash accounts, as well as cash resources of the Collective
Consumption Fund and normal working cash balances.
The system of realizing sales and income on a cash basis has
required the introduction of transitory accounts on the balance sheet,
included in the statements in this report under "other current assets" End
"other current liabilities."" Upon invoice and shipment of finished goocis
credited from inventory, a transitory account (included under "other current
assetsi) equal. to the cost-of-goods-sold of the sales invoiced (but not
paid) is debited. Simultaneously, while receivables are debited, the full
sales value of goods invoiced (but not paid) is credited to a transitory
account included under "other current liabilities." As a result, both
current assets and current liabilities are inflated, compared with normal
practice, while the current ratio is further diminished due to unrealized
profits included under "other current liabilities.    The use of normal ratios
in examining the working capital position of these firms must also therefore
be done with care.



APPFNnTY 3
Page 5
EarnilnTs
The Yugo.sla-v enlterpt-ri,se re^ognl  seveoranl IeeL orn  n- n . Tlh-
principal measures of earnings are two: income after the deduction of all
financi-al chage       nd l c-rS dncosts wityh. thle exclusion of wage.s, &nd the sam.nne
measure after the deduction of all wages and related payments. The former
isthe basis fo the~  or    Co,ci    di stributions of ncome,t          nd
to the funds f'or retained earnings described above. "Net earnings" as
presentuedu 4I tUhis reportL is boased onth  atemas.
Fu-nds allocated frUm earnMings MUay be -used only inl lthe designated
manner and, conversely, payments are not allowed by the Social Accounting
ServLce, through which all transactions must pass, unless funds are avail-
able for that purpose. In practice this means that funds generated from
operations in one year are not avaiiabie for use untii the foliowing year.
Although sales are realized on a cash basis, the income alvailable to the
Workers Council for distribution (pre-wage earnings) is not strictly a
measure of cash resources (excluding depreciation) since not only depreciation
but also all indirect cash costs including interest and all selling andover-
head expenses are allocated to production rather than charged to an income
period, and are partly carried on the balance sheet in finished inventory
and transitory cost-of-goods-sold values.  Earnings statements may be used
in the determination of cash flows, therefore, only with this qualification.
The earnings and funds flow forecasts in this report have been based on the
simplifying assumption that sales would be equal to production volume, with
no changes in the levels of inventories or receivables.
The income of an enterprise available for distribution by the
Workers Council is therefore to be divided between wages and the three types
of retained earnings funds described above. Every enterprise operates on
the basis of its own standard or basic wage payments and, in addition, may
make supplementary wage distributions as explained below. The level of basic
wage payments for a firm is related to the level of labor productivity, as
defined by bot;h physical and value measures,and indiVidual wage rates usually
include piece rate or incentive features. It is normal practice, howeve!r,
that as a supplement to these basic payments (ex-post approval of which is
vioted quarterly, and more or less automatically by the Workers Council upon
the fulfillment of productivity targets) a certain additional prcportiorn of
the income under the Council's control will also be distributed as supple-
mental wages. This supplementary wage portion is not obligatory and is
subject to determination by the Council each year on the basis of the profits
of the enterprise and the need of funds for other purposes, including rein-
vestment in fixed assets or working capital, debt repayment, required reserve
deposits, and allocations for collective consumption use.
All distributions to personal income,including basic and supple-
mentary wages and all related taxes and contributions, may be made only out
of the income realized by an enterprise in the year in which such wages are
paid. No distributions to personal income of arn kind, either basic or
suoplementarv. may be made until all contractual obligations of the enter-
prise, including in particular the payment of all debt obligations, have
been m-et in fll-. Tn the event. that the residuial fnrds are insufficient
to cover the basic wage payments established by the firm, or at the least



APPEFnTX 3
Page 6
the prescribed federal minimum wage, the enterprise may make such payments
through the use of its own reserves to cover losses or communal reserves
available upon application for this purpose, and thereby show     a loss for
the period. Under this system, all debt obligations have a legal claim
to funds prior to all distributions to personal income, both basic and
supplementary, while the amount of supplementary wages provides to the
enterprise an extra margin of flexibilitv both in the determination of
reported profits after wages and in the coverage of its debt obligations.
Ih addition to the enterprise's need for funds, and the legal
restrictions described above, an effective restraint to the total amount
distributed as wages by the Workers Councils is provided by the high levels
of taxation on personal income pavments. These levels include not only
substantial social security taxes but also direct taxes (paid by the enter-
prise) on personal incomes and "contributions" for general housing funds,
transportation, and other services socially financed or operated.     The total
level of thmse navments varies from year to vyar. and by :localitv, but seems
to average around 60, of the amount of net personal income received by the
wo.-kers
4 frther restraint to excessive supplemen  ntary wage distributions
by the Councils seems to be provided by comparative levels of total wages,
both within the industry and within the re_on in wThich the enternrise
operates. Government authorities were quite confident that indirect
-ressa,w,r ovf suiff'iie   ^~ w4  ~c,ni     vAtnii r  nl-rl A 1-ea )~-vemicy+. n 1-v"i innrn
prst     ofsf       iet forcefulness could M.-.wol    -- brought t    eruo
enterprises whose total distributions per worker rose substantially above
dusvtyor n   eginalanor.ms, through       mn craseA +ax.+ _an orf c ntl  oan
investment and worling capital funds through the banking system.
The proportion of supplementary wage distributions in the total
wage bil' 4of - the   tepis v.st e  varled Lrom 14 UU 20 pKer centY.  Although
it was clear that such distributions had come to be accepted as an integral
part of the returns to b      .- e expect1eAdI--- by     - -rr o,h 4-i 4-ith
enterprise, management was also quite firm in its opinion that this element
no  is., rra.Tvo  Trsn   -   -- o   4t h n  n  4  -+ -   -.A  *4- 4-4-  nxnl A  4  ,,nnac.. ',w,r 4-"n
diminished or deleted in any year if the enterprise shouLd need funds for
o>hr bs;nss  urpses  ncudig rinvstmnt  n fxedasse's or working
capital (in addition to the legal requirements to meet aLl outstanding
contractual obligations such as debt repaymeUnt)* A. gener.al cnUivLction of
the working force that long-run maximization    of business profits is tc its
advantage, and -would result in higler and more stable incomUes, was repeatedly
cited as the most compelling motive leading to the determination of total
wage distrib-utions on the basis of the overall needs oI the enterprise.
A basic feature of the system of social ownership and self-manage-
ment is that returns to socially-owned capital are expected to accrue
directly to the labor force of the enterprise. An exception is the capital
tax payable by enterprises on the basis of "own funds" employed in business
operations. This annual "Interest on Business Fund", which is now the
major form of federal taxation of enterprises, has been readjusted fol:Lowing
the recent asset revaluations to an average rate of about 3lw2$ on the Business
Fund outstaniing at the beginning of each year. Any calculations of the



A fDDT,MTTTV  0
Page 7
return on own funds snould then include the "Net Earnings- (after wages
and related taxes and social payments) as shown in this Report plus the
Interest on Business Fund (the major element of "Taxes and. Other Contributions"}
Si nce total wage distributions include both a basic payment for
services and an amount (the supplementary distributions) which is similar
to a profit-sharing bonus, the latter might also be considered as a part
of the returns to capital when considering the profitability of an enter-
prise. Net earnings as presented in this report may thereifore understate
the profitability of the Enterprises to the extent that total wage pay-
ments include a portion of the return to capital, as well as by the amoult
paid as Interest on Business Fund. Similarly, debt service coverage as
presented in this report may understate the ability of the Enterprises to
cover their debt obligations to the extent that the supplementary portion
of wage payments included in wage forecasts should be considered as
distributions of profits, since they are payable, in any event, only after
the discharge of all debt obligations. Care must also be taken when comparing
wage levels for a Yugoslav firm with those for comparable western firms to
distinguish between those levels of "wages" which would be considered ap-
propriate as returns to the labor force and those levels which could be
considered appropriate when including a portion of returns to capital.
A further qualification concerning the comparability of measures
relating to profitability,debt service coverage, and wage levels must be
made to allow for differences in taxation. Aside from the Interest on
Business Fund and certain other business taxes and contributions, taxation
in the Yugoslav system is levied chiefly on the workers' incomes, and the
tax burden is borne by the enternrise through the funds so allocated fro:m
earnings for this purpose. Any comparisons with western firms of before-
tax and aftp>r-tax earnings lrels miust therefnore make adjustments to reflect
the true incidence of taxation which is appropriate for each system, and
the relatire +.v hiiburden hrnne bythe fiNmsi n quertiLon-
These characteristics of the fin-ancial structure anrd operations of
the Yugoslav enterprise have obvious relevance to a broad range of more
general questions.  Such issues as pricing (and mnrginal pricing) nOl i v  the
required level of profits for competitive operations, and that for overall
capital g-ro -v+,  An the, cost oP -a4pi-l for +1-e E+ntri 'on " the- develop ri-jn
ment of a competitive capital market, will all be central in the process
-4-:egraton ofp the Y,gos.lav system -wth t-h, w               It should be
~ "IU     11.~Lk  L±  Vil  ±  G S_CL  S. Q 61  WIW U~LUJ   W01-M  VC101V
pointed out that in approaching either general or specific questions, however,
any use of the financial data presented in this report sho 'd take fully into
account not only the limitations of these data but also the characteristics
. Jle syste. represented



APPBTIDIX h
Page 1
SLADKI
The Borrower
The prospective borrower is Sladkogorska Tovarna Kartona in
Papirjla. "Sladki". a producer of roofina base stock and wrapping and tissue
papers. The Enterprise was founded in 1873 as a cardboard mill and is Io-
cated at Sladki Vhr, a small village in the Republic of Slovenia.   Sladki
lies some 20 l}m north of Maribor on the River Mura which at this point f'orms
the border with Austria.  The nlant is about 10 km frnm the railway lin(e and
main road connecting Vienna, Maribor and Trieste and is accessible by a
narrow but pnqer9 rR(.
Mnlki is the-onlyr produer of aneletr-ical ins    inrt and -roofincg
base stock in Yugoslavia, and a major manufacturer of thin wrapping and
sanitary paper.  Tn 1966, the  nterprise sold so.me 20,310 tons of board and
paper of which it exported about 13Z primarily to countries like Italy,
Austria, Lebanon and Cyprus.   Sladki'stotal assets as at December 31, 1966
Were M.D. 40.C' million ($3.2 million).  It employs some 510 people.
The proposed project is to add a new paper machine for the pro-
duction of some 8,140 tons per year of creped toilet paper and the necessary
equipment for conversion into rolls. The project also includes related
~ L,CUL  LIIU  Wd~~I  ,1  ~.UiI~UU  ~ ULI -'4--'Le4. -.. LUi '4-U j9±JI ---   --   L  ei 4  _4
power, stueEwr. ELnd watluer t-reat11mer,t faci-l-lties.  CIreped toilet- _paper lb LIot ,yet=
being produced in Yugoslavia but Sladki is about to intro,duce it on the
mret Wit' it;s existiLn  J.L fc Ulies in anticipatlon o   t, epanded pro-
duction resulting from the project.   The net effect of the project will be
tu I       bo rd adII papver -maldlg capacilty Irom a maximum of about 2l,150
tons to about 31,250 tons per annum.
Total project cost is estimated at N.D. 45.0 million ($3.6 million).
Of this, 'i2.0 million is required in foreign exchange which IBRD has been
requested. to provide.
History of the Borrower
The plant has now three paper machines, the las-t of which--a
Yankee type machine--was installed in 1961 and was purchased from Er We Pa
of West Germany.  The two others were acquired in 1921 and 1943, at least
the latter secondhand. Although the machines are technically obsolescent,
they still give good service for what they now produce and should have a,
number of years of useful life left. About two-thirds of Sladki's require-
nents of fibrous raw materials are waste paper and rags.   Most of the waste
paper processing facilities are antiquated and so is a small ground wood
mill which is still driven directly by a water wheel.   Sladki is consider-
ing discontinuing this operation and purchasing ground wood from outside
at lower cost. Because of the limitations of the present waste parer nro-
cessing system Sladki purchases more wood pulp than it would otherwise re-
quire for the desired quality of its products.



APPENDIX L
Page 2
The Enterprise gets its processing water from the River Mura and
the quality is adequate for the lower grades of paper producedl.  Tne plant
depends on three sources of energy: water power, internally generated
thermal power and purchases from the public grid in the proportions of
25-25-50.  With the exception of some minor raw materials such as kaolin
and rosin all raw materials can be procured locally.
The plant site is not an ideal one since it is restricted by a
river on the one side and a mountain range on the other.   In addition pres-
ent facilities straddle a water power canal which f'urther restricts the
plant's freedom.  However, there is room for the proposed expansion as
well as for modest further growth on the present site.
_fanagement
The General Manager of the Enterprise is Mr. Ivan Filipic. He
is assisted by Mr. Matko Gorsek, Technical Director and Mr. Vlado Tosak.
Commercial Director.  The plant appears well managed and run in a rather
conservative way.  Housekeeping is good and so is the quality of the
products. The present management g-roup should be able to handle the ex--
pandel operat-ion although the marketing of consum-er products, in contrast
to the bu'lk sales it has made so far, is a new field with special problems.
Sladki wil:L be assisted by the Consulting firm Industijski Biro. of Lub'iiana
which has also engineered the project and by the "Ekonomski Center" in
Maribor which is to heIp in planning a sales camnaipn for the new croduct.
Additional labor requirements will be minimal (about 30) and, as in the
past, labor is expected to be drawn froTm the nearby villa,pe of Sladki Vhr,
which to a considerable extent depends on the Daper mill for its living..
Much of the present labor force has been with the Enterprise for many
years and turniover has been low.
Recent Financial and Earnings Record
BalEance Sheets and Earnings Statements for the past four years
(l963=196-6) are shown in Annex 1.  A summXary of the! Balnce Sheet as at.
December 31, :L966 is given below: (in Million N.D.)
Assets                                  Liabilities
Cash and Eouivalent          4.5      Trade Payables                2.1
Reeeivables i4.1                      Other Current Liabilities     7.
Inventories                  5.0         Total Current Liabilities 9.1
Othuer CurrentI Asset5s      7.2
Total Current Assets     20.8      Long-Term Debt                4.3
Business Fundu andu Reserves  27.
Net Fixed Assets            19.7
4o.5



APPENDIX t
Page 3
Fol:lowing installation of the third paper machine in 1961, there
have been no malor additions to fixed assets other than a small amount of
paper conversion equipment and a new building to house it and to serve for
storage. These investments were financed chiefly from internallvy vnerated
funds and Sladki's debt has remained low.   The weighted average inturo-at
and length of repayment period for the outstanding debt are h)J2 and 15 _
years respectively. The Enterprise has maintained a strong current pos:Ltion
A conser,vativ,e financial management ,has been evident throghout
recent years. Reinvested funds have grown steadily while at the same t:ime
modest alloca-tions for co.llectiv e c-JonstMuLtion assetos--m..ainly housing-- ere
also made. In 1966, these housing facilities were transferred without com-
pensatisSo  to 4   separate entp AA A_J. 4. |; UoeuiLe  wsaL i 1 m u  to  s tab+4 vhe
on a self-sup-porting basis. The management of the Enterprise believes that
after the 1966 revaluation 0   assbetsu, the book va.ie o0 assets    t=o r e 11;s
their true value.
Sladki's sales for the past four years are summarized below:
Net Earnings
as 7' of Sales
--------Sales--------     Net Earnings            %
Tons             ----i.D. rlillions----
1963      17,718              31.5          1.2                 3.7
1964      18,216              34.3          1.9                 5.5
1965      18,920              41.7          3.9                 9.3
1966      20,310              46.o          7.95               17.2
The Enterprise's profitability has increased steadily in recent
years as production approached capacity during a period of rising prices
for its products. Since mid-1965, selling prices have remained steady,
and Sladki has been pushing the limits of its production facilities.
Sladki's reported Drofitability has also been affected by its wage policy.
The Enterprise has followed a policy of keeping a constant proportion
between personal incomes--including year-end bonus payments--and its steadily
rising earnings.   Basic wages have been tied to productivity.   Bonus pay-
ments are relaited to earnings and have amounted to about 25% of basic
wages. As a result, both Sladki's labor productivity (measured in terms
of physical output and value of production) and average wages are currently
the highest among 12 major Yugoslav paper producers.
Sladki's exports (primarily wranning paper) have steadily in-
creased from about 4% of total sales in 1963 to more than 13% in 1966.
Most of them went to the Common Market and EFTA countries. Depending oni the
quality, Sladki's domestic selling prices are between 35% and 50% above its
export prices.  Paper can be freely imported into Yugoslavia.    Import dut:ies
are 8% and Sladki's present domestic selling nrices are fully competitive
with imported products.



APPENDIX 4
Page 4
The Yugoslav Puln and Paper Industry
The production of paper and paperboard in Yugoslavia just prior
to World War !I was of small-scale, approximately one-tenth that of 1965.
Little progress was made in the early post-war years, and production actually
declined between 1947 and 1952. Thereafter, however, new capacity was added
rapidly. During the period 1952-1962 consumptionrose by an average annual
rate of 16.8%.  More recently, during 1962-1965, it increased by 20.8%.
The following table shows the development of production for the principal
types of paper and paperboard as well as pulp since 1939.
Paper, Paperboard and PulD Production :in Yugoslavia
(in 1,000 tons)
Printing                                    Total  Chemical &
News-   & Writing  Kraft  Wrapping   Thin   Paper-  Paper   Mechanical
print      Paner   Paper    Paper   Paper    board &Board   Wood Pulp
1939    -       19.4      2.4     10.7     2.7      12.6    47.8    n.a.
1947    -       26.7      3.2     12.5     3.4      11.0    56.8    n.a.
1952    -       20.1      3.8     13.8     3.9      12.9    54.5    n.a.
1957  24.0      38.7     22.5     20.7     5.9      23.0  134.8     n.a.
1962  25.2      77.0     39.5     51.2    12.3      50.8   256.0    262.1
1964  45.8     110.7     47.3     88.6    16.4     72.3    381.1    355.0
1965  45.9     127.8     74.8     97.1    19.3     81.5    446.4    443.0
Most of the pulp and paper industry is located in the ,Jorthwest
of the country.  There are now 36 pulp and paper mills in existence, mos-t
of them of relatively small size but there are four which have annual ca-
pacities in excess of 100,000 tons each.  Despite the rapid growth of the
industry in the past few years, production capacities were utilized at a
high rate (above 90%). Tne industry emnloys about 25,000 ,eonle.   During
1902-1965, labor productivity rose by 39%, considerably more than the 27'%
for Yugoslavian industrv as a whole.  Producers' prices for paper remained
virtually unchanged during the period 1954-1963 but rose thereafter by
about 22%.
Yugmo;savia still has vast forest reserves--in iq,65 only about one-
third of the a:llowable cut was used--but the structure of the wood resouwces
is not good. Thei-r hulk--some 72%--is made un of decidious snecies which;
without mixture with coniferous woods, render pulp and paper of inferior
quality.  Yugoslavia therefore is importing about 10% of' its wood pulp re-
quirements, primarily long fiber chemical pulp, but in turn has been exporting
a greater amount of short fibepr chmc    l plp.  Yugosav-Iia a4lso iY.portt about
15% of its waste paper requirements.  However, it is expected that this will
grad u ally be elimnatedz as waste paprconllecion becomes btter orgnized
so that recovery rates can be increased to levels common in Western Europe.
The industry is stll a net    porter of newsprnt (and to a minimal extent
of kraft paper) but since 1962 exports of miscellaneous paper and board
products exceedied lnc re aslngley l.mports in thls categoy.  On. the vbole, -,he
industry now exports in excess of its requirements.



APPENDIK It
The industry has good prospects for further deve!lopment. Per
cpnit. eonsumptinn in Yugoslavia in 1965 reached only 23 kg (some 65%
above 1962) and is still far below average European consumption.   There
i.s also fiirther potential for an pynsiron of the already nientiful raw
material base through large-scale cultivation of coniferous woods.   Furt.her-
more short fiber puls can be traded to overcom_e the shortage of long f'ber
material.
IvMarket
Except for creped toilet tissue, Sladki is not planning any sig-
nificant increases in sales in either the domestic or export markets.   The
anticipated increases in domestic sales of products other than toilet
tissue are well Uelow i',e past average annual gro-wth rates so that there
should be no difficulties in selling these small increases. This is sig-
nificant in an assessment of the Enterprise's overall market potential since,
as the projected creped toilet tissue sales are substantial, some of them
could be shifted to Sladki's present products if the market penetration of
tissue naDer should not be as rapid as presently expected..
As was mentioned earlier, creped toilet tissue paper is not yet
being produced in Yugoslavia and production is only about to begin at the
Sladki plan.t.  In the past four years consumption of creped toilet paper
has gro-.rm at a rather steady annual rate of about 244% frorn 1,633 tons in
1963 -to 3,110 tons in 1966.  it is also estimated that 1966 consumption in
Yugoslavia of uncreped toilet tissue was about 10,000 tons bringing the
total toilet tissue market to about 13,100 tons. Sladki assumed that domestic
consumption of toilet paper will increase by 15% per year over the next few
yrears. This would appear to be a conservative rate of increase if, for
example, it is compared to that of West Germany, which experienced an annual
glo.th of 2n0.4% during 1963-1966 despite the fact that its per capita con-
sumption of tcilet tissue paper is about 17 times as high as that of Yugoslavia,
The following table gives the estimated market growth of toilet
paper in Yugoslavia and Sladki's expected domestic and exports sales as well
as its share in the local market: (in tons)
Sladki's Sales
- - - - - - - -Domestic- - - - - - -   Export
Total Yug.                             % of Yug.
Ccnsumption  Creped   Uncreped  Total  Consumption   Creped
1966(actual)   13,100       -   app.l,600   1,600      12.:3        -
1967           15,000       875     1,760   2,635      17.5         322
1968           17,200     1,191       440   1,631       9.5Z        999
1969           19,800     3.456     1,200   4.656      23.5       3,344
1970           22,800     4,033       720   4,753      20.8       7,922



APPEMDIX Il
Page 6
The foregoing projects a fairly rapid penetration of the domes-
tic market but it is expected that the anticipated sales will be achieved
for the following major reasons: (a) the creped variety of toilet paper is
much softer than the uncreped, and it can be expected that Yugoslav con--
sumers will favor the creped variety as has been the case in other
courntries; (b) imports of creped toilet paper alone have captured nearly
one-fourthi of the total domestic toilet paper market despite foreign ex--
change shortage and customs duties; and (c) Sladki is expected to be the
only producer of creped toilet paper in Yugoslavia and should therefore have
a preferred position to take over a major part of the domestic market.
Outside Yugoslavia, Sladki expects to sell creped toilet paper to
those countries to which it has traditionally exported.   It is also about
to enter into an agreement with Hackle, West Germany, for exports of up to
3,000 tons of creped paper to Hackle's distribution centers in Vienna anid
Milan.  Sladki now exports exclusively through two intermediaries: Kemija-
Impex, Lubljana and Papir Export, Zagreb which estimate that they could
sell for the Enterprise 9,000 and 6,000 tons/year respectively of Sladki's
creped toilet paper.  Even discounting these estimates, Sladki should be
able to meet its export projections.
Description of the Project
The expansion and modernization project of Sladki will increase
paper and board-making capacity from presently about 21,1.50 tons/year to
about 31,250 tons/year, increase the average per ton value of products *Dy
about 25% and reduce manufacturing costs. It invo:Lves the following ma3or
changes and additions: (a) a new 24 ton/day Yankee-type paper machine to
produre gome 8,140 tons per year of cr9-crev-r-P   toilet tissue; (b) a new paper
converting department to process the above tissue into rolls; (c) a new
wste paper processing plant to suapply, the t.hree eisting paper mrachines
as well as the new one, thereby replacing the exis-ting outmoded facilities,
(d) a newJ 25 ton per hour high pressure oil=rired boiler and a 14 MW con-
densing turbogenerator allowing the existing low and medium-pressure coal-
fi-ed boilers to be placed on stand-by, and (e) a -w.ater 1treatment plant to
process all the mill's process water requirements. The project is a sub-
stania]  ne for the~ Pni-mrpraisehos  gross fJirxed assets ixill  rinu dule.l,
TWT4 Lii litUs new waste paper processing p-lant, the Enterprs- plans
to utilize scme 13,400 tons per year of additional waste paper after cccm-
pJ&  1  V   J.::.ICIIWL  J                          UJ;  @uLaWvat,  L lL  &II. W wk WVs" V V
of chemical wood pulp and ground wood by some 2,900 tons annually. Waste
paper collection in Yugoslavia has been relatively unorgnize    resulti,g in
a recovery rate which in the past few years has been slijghtly less than 20%.
Recovery rates in Western Europea-n UunrIEs generall-y r,UnGe from- 25%l to
30% and prices are somewhat lower. This has made necessary increasing im-
ports of waste paper to Yugoslavia reaching some 17,000 tons In 1965.    In
recent months a new organization has been established in Zagreb to stinmulate



APPE1NDD h
Page 7
and make more systematic the collection of waste paper.    This has already
contributed to an increase in supply and a reduction in prices for different
grades of waste paper of between 11% and 14%.
The following table indicates the annual increases in domestic
waste paper supply that may be expected if paper consumpt-ion should continue
to grow at a. rate of 20% per year and if the waste paper recovery rate con-
tinues at 205 or naternantive1v rise1 to 
Projected Annual Increases in Yugoslavian Waste Paper Supply
Year                    20% Recovery            25%/ Recovery
1.967                       22,000                  28,000
l9)6P                       27,000                  33,000
196c9                       31,000                  39,000
197r0                       3,000                   I 9,000
A review of the new pula p and paper projects under con.struction.
or planned in Yugoslavia indicates that no new waste paper utilization
-apa cit+ J s pI-.-Ann   o 4the  th1a this;- LJecA.
P. . b 1 _-   4-           - - - - - - - _ a   SoM   (I   II   ___1 4. 1^ 
.ULV-i.L =lI    l l U  4zA.UU.1U n.11t1 tJ. OuI t: , Udl   bu IIi  UI  11U  6l-UW  LiI  Lit
waste paper supply Will be in the south of the country and thus less access-
ible, and even, if the pae   cos-1pio     rowh   hud    ltknth       xpce
.1.J_t=   U1U   tVUL   'I (,it~  _JPt.peL  U(JM5LUUJJU±UL1 5I.U(WU LII  1IUL-ULU ~ arei U1
increase in waste paper supply is so much greater than the 13,400 tons cf
addLition:al requirements oI Siadki that this project should have no diffi-
culties in procuring its requirements which it would need not earlier than
Cost of the Pr0o1ect
The project is estimated to cost N.D. 44.9 million ($3.6 mill:ion)
e:,xcluding interest during construction.  Foreign exchange expenditures are
estimated at .2.0 million which IBRD has been requested to provide.    A sum-
mary of the project cost estimate is given below:
Total
N.D.         $          N.D.
Million    Million      Million
Local     Foreign
Buildings and other Civil Works           7.34          -         7.34
Plant and Equipment                       1.53        1.95       25.91
Imnort Duties                             5.23          -         5.23
Freight (inc.in Plant & Equipment)         -           -           -
Erection                                  1.59        0.05        2.2-1
Project Supervision and Miscellaneous     1.76          -         1.76
Wor'hing CaD:ital                         2.42          -         2.42
Total                          19.87       2.00        44.87



AnD1'T%TT-rv  I
L I JLUV. U
Page 8
The capital costs have been estimated on the basis of prices re-
cevdfrom, prospective- s-l-r during the past six- -,oth.     ecus
ce  ved  L.  A'     t t1fj.LV V  .Uj  UL-±   UUJ. L_L,Lr  IAI.  y IdO  QJ.  v'KflwiLd .  UV.CU~
much of the project is for modernization of present facilities within
exisLOiUgL   .d UU ingL.U s,     ± for ci-V.L . works ar-e re1LCLU±LVeLy 04i1dl-.
A    ,  -  I-   ~     ___                ______  _-   _--I1 _ _ _ _   !_  i T_ . _  lr) 4 
Assuming that orders iur equipment would be placed in JuLlu 1U967,
the project should become operational in December :1968.
Financing
A summary of Sladki's estimated financial requiLrements and sources
during project construction in 1967 and 1968 is given be:Low (in million N.D.):
Uses                                 Sources
Project                      44.87     Net Earnings                  4.c60
Other Investments in Fixed
Assets                     1.95     Depreciation                  3-52
Debt Repayment                o.65
Reserve & Other Allocation    0.52     Long-Term Debt               32.C02
Additions to lWorking Capital  2.15
Total                   501.4           Total.                 50.1.
Detailed earrnings and cash flow projections for the construction period. and
4the e.nsu- t,hre year       --f4 opeaton   arsown 4n Annex 2.  Forecasts 0 in
1J1iU  UAJ L.116  Lg J.  C I  1). L   y,I UL,J.Jl   CIiO Uj   OIL.Y~j  .LIA  ZUULIi'J.  L. U11 -.  .L
Annex 2 assumle that operations would start at the beginning of 1969.
Tot.al cost of the project will be about N.D. 44.9 million, in-
cl-udilg workin1g- capal (N.D. 2.12 mi,llion ) but excludinMg interest d-UU:i.ng
construction estimated at about N.D. 1.6 million. In addition, Sladki
intends to invest only in normal renewals and rep±aceInenu.   uO the tot,al
funds required during the two-year period, about 64h will be provided by
long-term debt and 36% from the Enterprise:s own resources.   UI the iong-
term debt of sorne N.D. 32.0 million (excluding interest during construction)
about N.D. 2i..9 million would be provided by IBRD for foreign currency ex-
penditures and N.D. 7.1 million by YIB and other local banks.
Forecast Earnings and Debt Service Coverage
A summary of production and sales assumptions behind the eanings
forecasts is provided in Annex 2.  A sma l  decrease in the labor force at
the end of 1966 and the recent reduction in waste paper prices will conI-
tribute to the slight reduction in costs expected for 1967.   Revenues and
earnings in that year however and also in 1968 are forecast to decrease
somewhat on lthe same production volume, as exports are increased in anti-
cipation of the new capacity, of which part will have to be marketed
abroad. Prices forecast are in line with those presently obtained on
both domestic and export markets, showing lower domestic prices than those
currently prevailing in Gerraany, Italy and Austria for goods of comparable



APPENDIX 4
Page 9
quality. Projections are based on operation of the new machine at 805;
of capacity in 1969, and full capacity in 1970, a schedule which should be
within the capabilities of the Enterprise.
At capacity operation Sladki's sales will have almost doubled,
while earnings are expected to be more than three times present levels.
The increase in net earnings of roughly N.D. 16 million brought about
by the project represents a non-discounted annual retuni of about 34%
on total addcitional investment  costs of about N.D. 47 million.  Debt
service will be more than adequately covered.
Economic Justification
The! project would substantially increase production and earnings
and bring about further rationalization of an already efficient paper pro-
ducer in Yug;oslavia. in an industrv well suited for expiansion. It will
introduce domestic production of toilet creped paper and contribute tcwards
increased self-sufficiency in meeting the growing domestic needs for paper
products. ]:t will also result in increased exports and provide additional
annual foreign exchange earnings for Yugoslavia of about US$2.5 million.
or roughly ten times annual foreign exchange debt service of US$253,000;



CARDBOARD AND PAPER MILL - SLADKI VRH          ANNEX 1
Page 1
Com arative Balance Sheets
I.  -  IRA  I - -T......   _
tin .u . io  ewDna
As at December 31                           1963      1964    1965      1966
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash, Banks and near Cash                1.14      2.83    3.72      4.46
Trade Receivables                        1.86      3.02    2.35      4.12
Inventories                                                     /
Raw Materials and Supplies             2.89      2.97    >.        3.9;1
Semi-finished Products                 0.04      0.06    0.10      0.1.7
Finished Produlcts                     0.31      0. 02   0.03      0.8O
Total Inventories                      3.24      3.05    5.781/    5.o6
Other Current AssetsV/                   3.31      3.4.8   3.08      7.20
Total Current A ssQe- +  tUe                9. <     12.38   14-93     20.84
Gross F-Xed A sse4+s
Land                                     0.01      0.01    0.01      0.)1
BU±-u±d1g 7306                                    9Q= 27   9.28     15.110
Machinery & Equipment                   16.02     16.48   17.03     24.40
ColectinVe  on sur1iptin Assets          1 87   9    )2     3.3      0.823/
Other Fixed AssetsL/                     1.14      0.08    0.27      2._6_/
Total Gross Fixed Assets                   26.10     28.32   29.93      2O.66/
less Depreciation                      (13.60)   (14.54)  (15.55)  (23.01)
Net Fixed Assets                           12.50     13.78   14.38     19.00-U7
TOTAL ASSETS                               22.05     26.16   29.31     40.!2
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities
Short-tenm Debt to Banks                  -        0.16     -         -
Trade Payables                           1.06      o.84    1.74      2.10
Other Current L:iabilities8/             3.90      5.84    5.44      6.R99
Total Current Liabilities                   4.96      6.8k    7.18      9.09
Long-term Debt2/                            3.43      4.51    3.14      4.34
Funds of the Enterprise
Fundsof thes FElntelris                 11.82     12.78   16.20     26.131/
Reserve Funds                            0.03      0.12    0.20      0.31
Collecti+vr r.nnsuimntirnn Fumds         1.81      1.91    2.59      0.6511
Total Own Funds                            13.66     14.81   18.99     27.09
TOTAL LIABILITIES                          22.05     26.16   29.31     4o.52
Current Assets/Current Liabilities        1.93:1    1.81:1  2.08:1    2.29:1
Long-term Debt/Own Funds                   20:80     23:77   14:86     14:86
(Notes on following page)



ANIEX 1.
Page 2
CA.RDBOARD AND PAPER MILL - SLADKI VRH
Earnings Statements
i \.LLI  J±UI.I INEW DiIdflb )
1963       1964       i965  16      
Sales                                  31.55      3t.32      41.65      146.oo
Cperating Costs
Materials and Overhead              16.78      18.57      22.75      25.98
Net s*ages                           2.23       2.89       4.73       6.01
Related Social Pai.ments             1.59       2.05       3.Ob       3.21
Ta-xes and Contributions             8.62       7.76       5.92 1/    1.47 1/
Total Cperating Cost                29.22      31.27
Depreciation                            0.9b       0.90       0.98       0.99
Interest                                0.35       0.38       0.23       0.09
Net Earnings from Cperations         1bCU       1.77        .00       8.25
Nonoperating Earnings                   0.32       0.29       0.20       0.22
Nonoperating Expenses                  (0-17)     (0.18)     (0-30)     (_.52)
Net Earnings                         1.19       1.88       3.90       7-°5
i/ Reflects elimination of federal income ard other taxes chiefly at time of
economic reform of July 1965.
Notes to Balance Svlee+ (pre-ding -naJ
1. Includes extraordinary investment in raw materials inventory prior tc price
changes associated with the economic reform, and inventory revaluaticin of
July 1965.
2. Includes cost of goods sold for sales invoiced but not paid, other transi-
tory items and prepaid expenses.
3. Reflects transfer of housing assets to separate enterprise in 1966.
4. Primarily iixed assets under construction.
5. Paving of street and work areas at plant site in progress in 1966.
6. Includes increase in gross value of buildings. machinerv and eouinmernt of
N.D. 13.4 million due to revaluation at year-end 1966.
7. Includes net increase of N.D. 6.6 million due t-o 'par-And revaluatiorn.
8. Includes sales value of goods invoiced but not paid, other transitory
9. Including current maturities.
10. Tnn1iies evlatonacolns



ANNEX 2
Page 1
S L A D K I V R H
Financial Forecasts
(in Million New Dinars)
Construction Years
Year ending December 31,                            1967          1968           1969         1970          1971
I. .Barnings Ste.eme t
Sales R-evenues [/ 44.78                                     44.24         79.35         86.80         86.80
Operating Costs
MateriaLs ana Overhead                      25.51          25.51         37.95        39.83         39.93
Net Wages 2/                                 5.65           5.65          7.61         7.96          7.96
Related Social Payments 2/                   3.28          3.28          L.46          L.67          L.67
Taxes and Contributions                      1.84          1.91          lA           L7.68          0.67
Total Operating Cost                      36.28         36.35          432         77.1           57.17
Depreciation                                    1.69          1.3           3.27          3.75          3.75
lnteres t                                       0.16          0.13          1.20          2.23          2.08
Net Earnings                               6.65          5.93         20.52         23.68         23.00
Il   Sources and Aplinntionn  of' Fiirin
Sources
Net  arnings (Previous Year) h4                 7.95          6.65          5.93         20.52         23.68
Tnterest                                        0.16          0.1L          1.23         2.23           2.08
Depreciation                                    1.69          1.83          3.27         3.75           3.75
Increase in Long-Term Debt
I BRID                                       .L;o          g.L,           -            -              -
YIB and Other Banks                          1.82          5.26            -            -             -
Total Sources                             27.08         23.36        10.43        26.50          29.51
Apnlicnti ons
Project:  Fixed Assets - Foreign               15.46          9.48           _            _              _
- Local                  7.24         10.27           -            -              -
Working Capital                        -            2.02           -             -             -
Total Project                             22.70         22.17           -            -              -
Renewals and Replacements                       o.65          1.30          1.30          1030          1.0
Other Fid Ass                                    -              =                          -             -
Interest:
Existing Long-Term Debt                      0.16          0.13          0.13         0.11           0.10
IBRD 5/                                                     -            0.85         1.62           1.52
YIB and Other :3anks 6/                       -              -           0.26          0.50          D.0h6
Short-Term Debt 
Total Interest                             0.16          0.13           -.720        2.23          2.7
ncLifUplJ  Rea,,etsU
Existing Long-Term Debt                      0.39          0.26          0.27         0.29           0.30
IBRD 5/                                                     -            0.73         1.54           1.6l0
YIB and Other Banks 6/                        -             -            0.27         0.56           0 .60
Total Repayments                           0.39          0.2           1.27          2.39          2.r,
Allocations to Reserve Fund    / 0726                         0.26          0.26         0.26           0.26
Allocations for Collective Consumption 8/        -             -            4.00         4.00     L     .00
Subtotal                                  20.16         24.12         -10.17       1O.0.19
Net additions to Working Capital                2.92         (0.76)         2.36        16.32          19.33
Total Applications                        27.08         23.36         10.03        26.60 2..61
Long-Term Debt Service Coverage (Times)9/          17.8          22.1           0.2           5.7           6.0
(!!otes on following page)



ANNEX 2
Page 2
,L A D K I     1.' H H
Financial S>vec.. tS - Assumptions and Exolanations
SaLes BDlume anid Ssles Revenues (Value in .Lllion New Dinars)
1967/_                  1968             _      y69                   19Th                    1971  ]
.....3  n  .Value   a. tons     Value   r   . tons     oalue      me. tons 'alaloe
:DductS
Bobbini Stock                                               3,519      6.47        3,519i     6.L7         3,ItLt5   6.39         2,3 5      3.90        2,105      3.90)
n u rppinig Papers
Low _rade & Miscellaneous                                 3,089     81.79        3,252       5.03        4,,022    6.80         5,809      7.97        5,L09      7.97
Machine Glazed                                            2,811      8.65        2,613       7.38        5,183     16.38        1,81!2     '.6         1,8L2      5.66
Uncreped Toilet Paper                                       1,760      5.10         L8O        1.30       1,200       3.b8          720      2.0)9         720      2.059
Creped To-ilet Paper                                        1,19L      5.56        2,1950      9.89       6,800      30. 558     12,025     51.06       12,025     51 .068
Roof'ing Felt (Base Stock)                                  7,615     13.26        7,635     13.26         3,518    18.82         8,518     18.82        8,518l    18.82,
.lectr. Insulating Board (Base Stock)                         L59      0.95          459      0.95          627      1.30          627       1.30          627      1. 30
Total Sales                                            20,887     48.78       20,118     Ii4_24       29,795    79.35        31j,2L6    86.8o       31,28L6    86.80
of which Exports
Wrapping i'apers:
acw Giade                                                 1,023      1.27          588      0.69           997      1.32        2;,810     2.94        2,810      2.98
Machine Glazet                                             1,L6L'     3.89        2,860      6.70        2,830      6.90        1,800      L.07        1,800      8.07
C~ped Toilet Paxper                             322      1.19          999     _3.67       _3,3)s8    12.30         7,992     29.62        7,992     29.62
2,809      6.35        8,003     11.06        6,821     20.52       11,,802    36.c63      11,802      36.63
Breakdn)rn of Domestic Sales and
Export; Sales3 by Ar (a
Dormesetic                                                            38.L3                  33.18                  58.83                   50°.7                  50.17
Fxport
Coamon Atarket & EFTA Countries                                      I-89                   9.19                  17.06                   28.60                  28.6o
Other Countries i/ 1.L6                                                                     1.87                    3.8L6                  8.03                   8.03
Total                                                             88.78                  LIL.2L                 79.35                   86.8o                  86.8o
1/ No comparable breakdown by product is available for 1966.   Sales volume in 1966 was 20,310 tons and sales revenue was N.D. 46.00 million.   Product
mix was about the same as expected for 1967 except that no crepecd toilet naner was nroduced.  Export revenues in 1966 were roughly N.D. 3.8 million.
2/ Sladki does not expect to export to the Clearing Area.
Notes to Financial Forecasts (nre,-eding pa:re)
1. Sales forecasts as above.   Based on assurstion that sales ecual production in each year.
2. Varishle vege dictributiorns eru,esent abouL 207 or totel Payments in each year.
3. Refleots revaluation of assets at vear-end 1966.
4. E'arned funds are released for use ollly in followzing year.
5. Interest at 6'-% capitalized duiring two-year grace reriod.  Fepayment in 24 ecual semi-annual installments frOm July 1, 19;69.
6.  Interest at 7% canitalized dur-ing two-vear- grace period.  5eoavment in 20 equal semi-annual installments from .TIulv 1, 19159.
7. Pequi-ed cash retentions unavailable for other uise.
a.  For investment in collective consumotion assets.
9. Cuirrenit denrecii.ion and interest orn long--term debt rOus Previous year's earnings over Innp-term debt interest and orinoiinsal - ermt



APPENDIX .
n' A¶~JT
J. 22.i~L
The Borrower
The prospective borrower is Tovarna Autonobilov in Motorjeb
Maribor 11TAM1'1, a producer of trucks and buses of a range of between 2 anl
6.5 tons carrying capacity.   The enterprise manufactures most of its owni
engines as well as engines for saie, spare parts and comrpsonents. The plant
is located in Maribor, Slovenia not far from the Austrian border.  It
started operations in 1946 with equipment that was originally destined fcr
the production if airplane components.   TAM is now the largest producer of
trucks and buses in Yugoslavia.
The plant has an effective production capacity of h,O0O vehicle's
per year (at two shifts) and is operating at capacity.   In 1966, TA1's
sales reached N.D. 458 million ($36.6 million).  Although local demand
would have absorbed the Enterprisets full production it exported some 680
vehicles in 1966 representing about 15% of total sales value.  Exports
have steadily been increasing over the past four years and went primarily
to countries in the Near East, Africa and Asia.
TAMts total assets at December 31, 1966 were N.D. 476.1 million
($38 million).   It employs some 4,700 workers.   The major part (some
75%) of the plamt is more than 20 years old and the Enterprise now plans
to install 72 pieces of new equipment in part to replace outmoded items
but primarily to rationalize production and thereby also increase output
from the present level of about 4,000 to about 5,200 vehicles per year.
The project is expected to cost about N.D. 639 million ($5.1 million)
including additional working capital but excluding interest during construc-
tion.   Of this) amount $2.0 million would be required in foreign exchange,
which IBRD has been asked to provide.   This is the first phase of a seven-
year expansion and rationalization program which is to bring annual capacity
to about 10;,00 vehicles and is estimated to cost about $20 million.
Historv of the Borrower
In V1'J6, when TAM started operations with facilities which had
been erected during the War to produce military items, it began with the
assembly of tnicks, the renair of automotive vehicles and the production
of spare parts..  Own production of trucks and buses only commenced in
l1947 in collahoration with the Czechoslovakian firm Praga, together with
the manufacture of miscellaneous goods such as pneumatic hammers, drilling
machines nnd mrine ventilators.  Production of these latter items. however,
was subsequently discontinued.   An iron and aluminum foundry were added
in 1948 and a forge shop in 1952. *  Apart from these investments and the
gradual replacement of worn out equipment (some 25% of the plant's machine
tools are less than 20 yea-r old) the Enterprise has not s ini fi -antly
increased its capacity over the past five years.



APPENuDIX 5
Page 2
Since 1957 TAM has had a technical/commercial cooperation agree-
ment with Messrs. KLoeckner Humboldt Deutz of West Germany.     Deutz extends
technical assistance to TAM while the latter supplies Deutz with component
parts for their truck production in Germany.     This agreement seems to wrork
to the satisfaction of both parties.    Although it is to expire in the near
future, both parties are interested in continuing it on an informal basis.
For the longer run TAM is seeking a partner who, apart from technical
assistance can also offer better market assistance outside Yugoslavia.
This would allow a more rapid increase of production than the local market
will permit and thus further rationalize production.
TAM produces in essence three sizes of chassis:     a small truck
of about 2 tons carrying capacity with an indigenously purchased diesel
engine; a bigger model between 5.5 to 6.5 tons payload: and two bus models,
including bodywork, with 19 and 39 seats respectively.     The Enterprise
produces truck bodies also, but purchases, chiefly in Yugoslavia, all other
bodies for miscellaneous purposes such as fire-fighting.     TAM vehicles
are all diesel driven.
TAM produees itself about 60% of the value of the vehicles an(d
obtains the remaining 40% from some 185, mostly Yugoslavian, subsuppliers.
The import component varies frnm mnodel to mrodel hut is negligible averafring
about 2-3% of the vehicles' value.
Management
The General Manager of the Enterprise is Mr. Stojan Perhavic,
ao.U+-. CC .1Jh h Q hmmn 4 J   +h+ .+on                    r -  r4 ..c  S; I  V  44.-l 4^  - V 1, w -  1 V I  IU4
Deputy has worked in the plant since 1918.    Both have an Engineering
backgrond.    They are supported by the t'4nancial Directcr, Mr V-ado C-o:Lob,
and a strong and impressive technical, financial/commercial team.     The
plan  appears we"" r.m ar.d -is pr-o-erl -kept    - --       /I-, -n -,aaeev/ao relat :Lons
V k ~    I~.  LUL0i1'A  .L  1iLy  A.IjJU  al l U  VIIII       re.LI'J. J.0.ULJi
are good.   It is noteworthy that management has been able to get so much
out of t+he plant cn    et       its -o;  4,4 1              ouAtmode  o
ment and the fact that it was not designed for automotive production.    The
.uanag.er.t  s cost corscou      -A-podcio  parirgi    done on an I[Worl"
computer.
Recent Financial and Earnings Record
Balance Sheets for the past four years (1963-19>66) are shown in
AUnex L.   A sunmary of the Balance SheeOt as at Decumber 31, 1966 is gLven
below:    (in Million N.D.)
Assets                                   Liabilities
r2sh and RnFivalent           18.0      Short.-term Bnkie nbh+.           7.7
Trade Receivables             56.3      Trade Payables                    66.9
Inventories                  173.0      Othner Current L4ie414+4es      0n6.8
Other Current Assets          85.8         Total Current liabilities   1iT:17
Total Current Assets      r     6    L.o ng--Term.. Debt              56.6
Net Fixed Assets             112.1      Business Fund & Reserves        238.1
476.1                                       76.1



AFPFPTNDIX_S
Page 3
Although some special purpose machinery has been installed in the
course of sub;stantial equipment rene-wals, there were no single major
additions to f'ixed assets in recent years.   In 1965, TAM purchased a
computer from IBM (ki40i Modei) wnicn extended a 5-year dollar credit of
$420,0GO for the purpose.   TAM4s fixed assets are now heavily depreciated.
TAM has made only moderate use of long-term debt, almost all of
;d'llich -has been borrowed from its banker (Communal Bank of Maribor) for uAse
as permanent working capital.   The weighted average length of repayment
for loans presently outstanding is 16.5 years and weighted average interest
is 6.3%.   Debt service coverage has been ample in recent years, and the
proportion of debt in total long-term funds of the Enterprise has declirned
steadily to the present level of 19%.   Among the prospective borrowers,
TAM--after Sladki--has the second highest proportion of self-generated
funds in total capitalization.
Since 1963, when Government policy restricted the availability of
short-term credit for financing current operations, TAM has also maintained
low levels of short-term debt.   With the consolidation in 1966 of TAMTs
sales agencies in its financial statements, short-term debt, however, is
expected to grow for the financing of sales.    Incorporat:ion of these sales
and service centers--of which there are now five in the country's major
cities--was aimed at gaining better control and simplifying financial
operations.   Some increased vigor in the firmts selling activities is
expected to result, but TAM does not foresee any immediate or significant
effect on its sales volumes or earnings from this change, although total
revenues have thereby been increased by about 13%.
This consolidation is also one of the major factors for the
increases in TAM's 1966 Balance Sheet of receivables and finished goods
inventories. about half of which for each item had been carried on the
books ofi the sales outlets.   Recent price increases have further prolonged
outstanding receivablTes   In additinn to the conso'lidation of retail
o-atlets and the price increases, TAMts accounts for 1966 were also affected
bv the revaluation of fixed assets at year-end, involving a net fixed asset
value increase of N.D. 26.7 million, and by the exclusion of collective
1Iousing assets of som-e N,.. n 2 million.
T.4MIts Earnings Statem.ents for the past four years are summarized
in Annex 1, page 2.   Production volume, sales and earnings for those years
l9A      I96X,    '96_     1966
Production Volume
Trucks        (nos)                    3,121    3,512    3,453    3,536
Buses         (nos') 387                          t.nl     490      <4
Engines sold (in excess of own
requilr.etLI II  nos)     L4 6I             -3I4      351
Spare Parts   (tons)                  1,072    1,469     1,476    1,113
Cr.ponent- ~ Pa-s    -N                 nons  1,02  -1,  2,52 1)r358



APPENDIX 5
Page4
Sales and Earnings (in Million N.D.)    1963      1964      1965      1966
Net Sales, paid                        278.6     343.1     377.1     458.1
Earnings from Operations                 8.2      18.8       8.7      19.3
In recent years TAM exDerienced rising costs and wage distributions
without a corresponding increase in sales revenues.    The recent domestic
nrice increases have largelv corrected this situation and the nronosed
project should improve it even further.    Export prices for TAMts products
have incrpneas   in rotont. years nndi hnup. maint.ninpi  n mnrp rpinliqti c
relationship with costs than have domestic prices.
More specifically, production and sales volumes declined slightly
in 1965 ^ to~11c.  prob mi'tl 47¶ni  m,?  a rjT.l m r s1 and comip  i e-ym  T. e'h4
coupled with unbalanced plant facilities, led to interruptions of production
2nA hi; ,h overhedA Coets   ('T'he pneoresnt pnrojet  is Ades ineA t+o e1 4-Mi no+
6o  v  £J* L~~l  v  - 4. k~...  k'  'L 3U 1  V '  bJJL   U  V  tj- 6 .Lv  5
much of this imbalance).    The overhead costs, coupled with rising wage
costs, a tem.pora.ry increaseP, 4 - 4--- of- iners  4- sh -t-teA -eb,4 -an  hher
depreciation charges, more than offset the advantages of reduced taxation
and hi gh,er sales p- e  grnte   at- the4 -i,, of. 4th .'- - .e n-4formm and1 resulted 4n
LI.   11 -L-0   FL-J%,V   c%WJj U dI  WitJ.  U.L1.IIJ .L U   ULI1   £4W±±1I  d.IU  L -LU.L U  L14
a sharp dip in. earnings for 1965.
In 1966 the number of vehicles sold was only slightly higher,
b-ut the mid-1965 price increases now applying for the fuiL year as well
as the consolidation of some N.D. 56 million from the sales organizations
which had been operated on a marginal profit basis in the past increased
revenues considerably.   Profits also went up due to, amonig other reasons,
a higher proportion of more profitable DUS sales.
Prices and Competitive Position in Export Markets
TAXI's domestic prices gradually declined since 1958 until the
recent increases.   In July 1965, prices, which are controlled, were
pernitted to go up by 8% for the industry as a whole (an increase
subsequently adjusted to between 8.5% and 10% depending onI the make and
model).   TAM!s prices after these adjustments were, however, still below
or only insignificantly above those of 1958.    In late 1966, TAM requested
and obtained a further increase which ranged between 7% and 22% for its
different models.   TAM's current prices, to the extent comparable, are said
to be still somewhat below those of local competitors, which before the
Reform and until the end of last year had charged considerably higher
prices than TAM.   TAM does not think that further increases will be
warranted or permitted in the future.    The recently approved changes,
however, will have a noticeable favorable effect on revenues in 1967 and
thereafter.



Page 5
Prices of components are also controlled.  Assuming that quality
is comparable a good number of them seem to sell below ex-factory prices
in Germanyo There is now some upward pressure on cormponent prices, but So
far no increases have been permitted and TA-N's management does not believe
that they could take place without the concurrence of major purchasers.
Although compared with other European and particularly U.S. stanclards
TAM is only a small producer of commercial vehicles, it appears to hold its
place vis-a-vis international competition.  Domestic prices in Yugoslavia
for TAM's 5-ton truck models (comprising the bulk of its truck production)
are comparable to or only slightly higher than the domestic prices for similar
vehicles in Western Germany. The domestic Yugoslav prices for TAM's bus models
(which represent about one-fourth of its vehicle production by value), involv-
ing substantia:L handwork on bodies,are substantially below the domestic prices
for comparable models in Western Germany. This does not take into account
the fact that TAM's vehicles - due to the more severe road conditions in the
country - are of somewhat more sturdy construction that th,e equivalent German
models. As a result of these price relationships, the average export price
for TAll's 5-toin truck models, accounting for some 55.10 of exports by value
(roughly 80,o by number) is only about 10% below the domestic price in
Yugoslavia (a]l ex-factory prices), while for the larger bus, representing
some 28% of exports by value, the export orice is even higher (by about 105)
than the domestic price.  TAM's exports in 1966 included CKD trucks and parts
for assembly by licensees in Indonesia and Glhana (29X and 28H of exnort value.
respectively) and assembled buses, trucks, and parts to 17 other countries
including Bulgariai Wpst Germanyv Colombia, and Cpvlnn- Fulilr half
($2.6 million) of these exports of $5.2 million were to the convertible
cu7rrency areaj, inniirlinn   some  0  million worth of narts.q soldi lind.r it.
agreement with Deutz. In 1966 TAM;l had a higher profit margin on export
.snlesq thann it+. didrl n i +.dt onmetcA r- salcs, alt+.hougch the most recernt. dromestici 
price increase may be expected to reverse this relationship.
In recent years, imports of commercial vehicles of the sizes
produced Iv TAI haver honn -rel at4 ivrl i¶r 4 ni .-n4 f4 nn+, am.o   11V.-i-4 ngc + to nomore
-J  - -~~ - - ~ _ -  . _.LAt. LJ4 V  J  .&J.wA4  - ,  CJ.  -_  -tJ
than 10% of TANTlIs production.  There are no quantitative restrictions on
im.nnrt..q erf' rrnmprninl uphnh1 rl  - wm h 1  i ; mnrir+. r1iit+A  rn rtw'i-Ipn nnrl hinr.q of
36% and 25% respectively compare with duties in EEC countries ranging
from 22`4 to 29'  for both classes.  mren iJ Yugoslav duties were to be
reduced TAM expects no substantial competition from imports on the domestic
rr,nent in 4the fo-reeeable a-     -Uary because of i s re-lative  Adan1; ag
in being able to maintain an effective servicing network for the comparatively
small fleet of c oMa.,4 .erciall v.ehicles1 in v,,o"La v.1 a
The Yu.-oslav Automobile Industry and Market
The aulto.-obs, l1e a4ndustr- I Y vu,-.la  is a postl+_.T^rvl A TWinv TT
development atnd TAM4 was one of the first plants to commence manufacture.
l- cAuction of vehc,,lsi 1 96 4 1   - -- has4- n e -e  co..,,4 m ed, bt-  pe 44r
to have reached close to 95,800 vehicles as shown below:
Cars                                     33,698
T.-cks , Buses ar.d Special II Vhi_cle   ]3,300 i An
PIotorcycles                             118773
95,771



APPENDIX 5
Page6
Today there are six manufacturers of cars and coimiercial vehicles
in Yugoslavia: 1/
Number of
Type of               Name of    Vehicles      License
Vehicle               Producer   Produced      Arrangement           Size
Cars 1/               TOIMOS         70       itroenn FrannG
ZASTAVA     32,934     Fiat, Italy
Busegsa2nd _ecial
a) TM.edium , T Heavy
TAM          4,085     Deutz, W. Germany    2-6.5 tons
LI A M       I I r)    T-1-,     TT10  l  . 9-  7 ton.s &
),L'.JxJ JJ Ld..L1%A,  U  1.  IX  I 
Saurer, Switzerland   above
b) Light
7 A C!l A TTA  1. Q    T n_  Ti__
t4tl .KVX A  L4,'U±7   r £±U, 3 J_ .L.
IMV-NOVO     1,266     DKl, W. Germany 
TOMOS           30     Citroen, France  )      tons
1J Pretis, assembly of 2,500 NSU cars from fully imported components is
not inrlud.ed in these production figures.
The ancillary industry has developed in step with the main
producers.   sithough recent statistics on the import comxqonent for the
motor vehicle industry as a whole are not available, TAMTs imports of only
about 2-3% o- the value of its vehicles demonstrate the ability of the
dome,stic ancillary industry to supply components.
At the end of 1965 the number of registered commercial vehicles
(trucks, buses and special vehicles) had reached 72,570.   In recent years
imports of conmercial vehicles have supplemented domestic production, all
of which has been sold. Demand for vehicles has resulted in the following
imports, despite the difficulties mentioned above:
1963     196h     l965     1966
Imports (number of vehicles)
Buses                                     1       10       29       89
Trucks: 1-3 tons                         21      161      168      115
3-5 tons                       112      217      448        8
over 5 tons                    394    1,185      878      249
Truck Chassis with Engine                36       50    _-_         91
564    1,623    1,523      992



APPENDIX 5
Page 7
Several studies have been made on the expected demand for
domestically produced cornmercial vehicles in Yugoslavia in 1970, and
reasonable estimates place this demand between 22,800 and 29,300 vehicles.
TAM has based its sales projections on a demand in 1970 of only 21,200
vehicles.   If TAM were to hold its present share of the market (31% of
commercial vehicles) it would sell about 6,600 vehicles in 1970.    This
compares with a capacity of about 5,200 vehicles that the present project
is planned to achieve by early 1969.    TAM should have no difficulties in
selling its additional output, particularly since it is expected that the
Enterprise will continue to export part of its production.
TAM has virtually no competition at present in the domestic
market since it is the only producer in its size class in Yugoslavia and,
since import competition is minimal.    There is a general understanding
in the industry that automobile manufacturers would not enter into one
another7s size class as long as individual production volime has not
become considerably larger than at present.
Description of' the Projct
The Project has two principal aims:    to replace outmoded equip-
ment and to increase production canacitv from- abol_t 4, 000 to 5,500 vehicles
per year.   If the Enterprise does not go forward with th-is project now,
its level of production is l ikely to fall due to equipment failures    The
project also forms part of a longer-range expansion program which will
pronude for the gradual                             - t  1  o+ privil  in +tIh machine shop-of
equipment more specialized for automotive production than that presently
in use, and will lead to an annnual out;put of 10,000 vehicles.  This larger
program should further rationalize production and keep additional labor
requirements to a miniMum.    (Even after co,mpletion of the i-m-urediate
present first-stage project labor requirements per vehicle would still be
about twice those com,mion in Wfestern Europe'  The1 terpr     -     e a,le
to standardize design of parts and significantly increase production run-is.
TON also plari to concentrate in ,e f-uure on th.e production o0 critiC Ll
components only, changing the proportion of components made to components
urchas   f     theAI).A presentV 60/'4 to 4 n  Lf 40/60, -v ,bich is rmiore comrmon in
,Western Europe.
The Enterprise expects to have reached the annual output of 10,000
vehicles within the next seven years, by which time it will have replaced
most of its original equipment and hopes to have attained Western European
standards of oroduction and quality.    The plant has ample room for expansion
both within present buildings and adjacent properties that it owns. A g"ood
indication of the rationalization potential still available to the plant may
be seen by comnparing the covered area per vehicle produced per year of 24m2
for TAM with that of 13.8nm2 for Deutz.
The project is well planned and would cover the most urgent equip-
ment requirements of the Enterprise.



APPENDIX 5
Page 8
Cost of the Prolect
The cost of the nroiect--epmansion to 5O;no veh-rlees--is estimated
at N.D. 63.90 million ($5.1 million) excluding interest during construction.
Foreign exchange expenditaires are Pst.mpti.d t$20 nmillit-in anrd an TRRTn loan
is being sought to cover this amount.   A brief summary of the project cost
-i sas f'ollows:
n~ ~ ~~~~~~oeg I                     ,^a rotal
Exchange     Currency        Expressed
TTS( v-.-.lI on  N.TD. *A-114 on  NT.D11. -7ilT .
u%AJY4) £ LL.LJ-AJ.L  J'J  AiJ  1.LJ...LJ..LI  L'J  J ,1 -o
C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~|_- .74   I_ -1 
Machinery & Equipment               2.00                          25.00
Local Freight & Insurance                         1.25             1.25
E'.tion            - c.27 U1.2LL                    vr-            ,
Wlorking Capital                                  28.h8           28.h8
2.00          38.90           63.90
J.1~  6L±1.LL16  ~.J.  J11  j±VA~ . VLA,  L±±t- ..CL.%aL.LVLOL   U±  4.L y;_U.Jt1I U   L djiu
capital cost estimates were made by TAM's own staff in cooperation with
I-u-,z *  J._U1UJO.I UUtiLes are et-La4JldA,U to.) average aL,u 3174' aUU range ±roiri
26% to 451.   Civil works are negligible (about $5,000) and are included in
TANIs maintenance budget for 196r.   The Enterprise expec:ts tha  the
equipment would be operative between one year and 18 months after foreign
excnange is committed with the exception oI a few pleces whicn may requLre
two or three months longer to install.   Working capital requirements are
large in relation to the equipment investment because of the increased
total capacity which will be available with the newly balanced facilities.
To reach a production level of 10,000 vehicles per year TANI
estimates that it would have to invest an additional $17 million, of wnich
at least $7.0 million would be required in foreign exchange.
Project Financing
A summary of TAMts estimated financial requiremnents and sources
of fumds during project construction (1967-1968) is givein below:   (in
Million N.D.)



APPENDIX 5
Page 9
Uses                                  Sources
Project (including working
capital)             63.90     Net Earnings                  53-85
Renewals and Replacements       7.72     Depreciation                  2!5.89
Debt Repaymen-t                18.96      Long-Term Debt (IBRD)        25.00
Reserves and Other Allocations 12.01      Short-Term Debt, and Recoun-
Additional Working Capital     lL.OL       ment of Loaned Funds        LL.89
116.6i                                 116.63
Detiailed earnings and cash flow projections for the construction
period and thes following three years together with the major assumption,s
are given in Annex 2.
Estimated project costs of N.D. 63.90 miLlion include working
capital requirements of N.D. 28d48 million related to the project but
excilude capitalized interest during construction of about N.D. 1.2 million.
Investments for renewals and replacements are smaLl because the project
itself is partly of this purpose.   Capital expenditures for the project
and renewals during 1967 and 1968 add about 3h% to gross value of machinery
and equipment and about 18% to Gross Fixed Assets as at the end of 1966.
N4ore than two-thirds of the financing requirements during the construction
period are expected to be covered by the Enterprise's int,ernal funds and
the remainder by the IBRD loan, the retirement of funds lent by TAM to
other enterprises, and additions to short-term debt.    If earnings genera-
tions meet expectations, it seems unlikely that the short-term debt levels
presently forecast by the Enterprise will be required, although TAM may wish
to proceed with further investment plans.   This is the only project to which
YIB would not contribute long-term financing.   TAMIs sound long-term debt
position would hardly increase as a consequence of this project since net
additions to long-term debt would only be about N.D. 7.0 million or some
$560,005.
Earnings and Debt Service Coverage
Earnings forecasts (Annex 2) are based on the assumption that sales
would equal production.   In 1967, earnings are expected to increase
substantially when the price increases put into effect late in 1966 will
make their full impact.   This should be a realistic assumption since it
is based on only a small improvement in the relation of operating costs to
sales.   Wages and related social payments have also been assumed to remain
about unchanged in their relation to sales    The market is assured. since
by the end of' November 1966 TAM had already sold its total 1967 production
for the domestic market, allocating 15% less than in 1961$ to e3sorts.



APPENDIX 5
Page 10
The EnterDrise has assumed that in the following years wage costs
will slightly decline in proportion to sales.    TAM is confident that it
will be able tn kepn 12qhor costs under control since wages have now reached
levels about comparable to other plants in the area.    Since depreciation,
financial charges and taxes are expected to increase only to a minor extent
and overhead costs would decrease, TAM's earnings are estimated to rise from
abor± l.3% rofi cnlsp- in 1QA6 tn aoniit. 66< in 1970j the second full year of
operations after completion of the project.    long-term debt service coverage
wolld further in-creasse too averge more than sixt;ein.htreyas
following the completion of the project.
The foregoing does not take into account any further debt that may
bc incurred for the planned exansion to a        capacity of 10,000 v e  rv
year.   However, if cash generation is close to that now projected, TAM
h.. 1-111nA   '1-  4-     1_-4   _-  lp  A   44  -   -- ,,  4- _s 4o  -   _  |h^|^ ^- +
;lIVU.luV  UV  CL-tU  l   t%;   LV z1CUILo:: LdUUUD  Isa X  u| O.L  1U quwLurm n s:1c 1U  . v a  wloU wa s  za
from internally generated funds, assuming that it would be completed by the
enu of 1'73. I  AV shIok- U, therefore, 1.LLU  u: U.L.Lfd ltUlUe d--Ider I i.L
circumstances--in obtaining the additional loan financing required.
Economic Justification
The project is an essential step in the requirecd rationalization
of the Enterprisels facilities.    It will contribute toward meeting Western
European production standards, both by increasing the scale of production
and by the introduction of the more specialized equipment required Ior 1;arge-
scale automotive manufacture.    It will provide the foundation for the Enter-
prisels long-range program to increase production further to economic scale,
a program justified by the expected growth of domestic demand.    The success
of the Enterprisets long-term program will be facilitated further by its
continued association with a competent partner who will provide both tech-
nical know-how and marketing experience outside Yugoslavia.    The increase
in exports associated with the first stage project is relatively small,
amowuting to about 3.5 times the annual debt service on the IBRD loan, but
the futuire expansion thus facilitated should provide further potential for
export earnings.



AINEX ]
Page 1
TAIM
Comparative Balance Sheets
/1:  ,T. ±1±±±±U1  PN .±id. 
(-ln ,ri.Lj__on Ne-w li'nars)
As at December 31                       1963       196h4      1965
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash, Banks and near Cash            19.6       22.2       33.1       48.9
Trade Receivables                     9.2       16.8       19.7        56.3?.2
Inventories
Raw Materials and Supplies         58.7       86.7       81.0       84.0
Semi-finished Products             43.1       50.9       55.4       58.3
Finished Products                   5.6        7.4      _12.2       30-73/
Total Inventories                 107. 4     145.0   -L48.6 V/     1L73-0
Other Current Assets 5/             129.8      129.7       97.6       85.82/
Total Current Assets                   260        313.7      299.0       36h.0
Gross Fixed Assets
Land                                  0.1        0.1        0.1        0.1
Buildings                            42.9       15.9       17.0       75.0
Machineryr & Enuipment               95.0      101.1      118.9      ]59.0
Fixed Assets under Construction       1.5        7.8       10.5        9.9
Co'llective Consumption Assets       314.4      38.3       38.7        6.L6/
Other Fixed Assets                    1.9        1.9        2.8        2.L
Total G -mss Fihxd Assets              178.8      i9T7,      2Y7B0 :7
less Depreciation                   (92.1)    (100.1)    (108.9)     (.140.7)
Net Fixed Assets                        86.7       95 J      109.1      -1210/
TOTAL ASSETS                           352.7      409.0      408.1      L176.1
LIABILITIES
Current Liabilities
Short-term Debt to Banks             73.2        7.0       12.9        7.79/
Trade Payables                       18.0      103.7       71.6        66.9
Other Current Liabilities IO/        70.8       96.8       70.9      106.8 2/
Total Current Liabilities              162.0      207.5      155.4       181.4
Long-term Debt, 11/                     50.8       49.4       50.2        56.6
Funds of the Enterprise                                                      12/
Thisiness Mrind                     101.2      107.9      155.L 1,!   217.2
Reserve Fun.ds                        9.0        9.7       10.4       11.5
Collective Consmnption Funds         29.7       314.5      36.7        9.h 6/
Total Own Funds                        139.9      152.1      202.5       238.1
mr-AT A rIATITIETSn                    3r" 27     1 no 0  0    I          1 7. -1
Current Assets/Current Liabilities     1.64:1     1.51:1     1.92:1     2.00:1
Long-term Debt/Own Funds                27:73      25:75      20?80      19:81
(Notes on following page)



ANTIEX 1
Pagre 'Ia
TAM
lotes to Balance Sheets
1/  1966 financial statements include consolidation of accounts of retail-
ing and servicing organizations and training and research institute,
as well as revaluation of fixed assets at year-end 1966, major price
chan-es for products of the Enterprise, and non-compensated transfer
of collective consumption assets.
2/  Reflects consolidation of accounts of sales and service organizations.
3/  Includes revaluation of M.n. 13.3 million associated writh anoroved
price changes.  Note 2/ also applies.
4/  Includes increase of N_.n. 18.9 million due to revaluation of inventories
in Julyr, 1965.
5/ Includes cost-of-goods-sold for sales invoiced but not, paid.
6/  Collective consumption housing assets transferred at year-end to
separate enterprise.
7/  Includes increase of M.D. 56.3 million due to revaluat,ion of buildings,
machinery and equipment.
8/ Includes net increase of M.D. 26.7 million due to revaluation of
fixed assets. Note 6/ also applies.
9/ Year-end figure low due to window dressing.   Average short-term
debt outstanding for 1966 was roghly N.T. 20.0 million.
19/  Includes sales value of goods invoiced but not Daid. and other
transitory items and accrued charges.  In 1966 includes customer's
nrepavment s.
11/ Includes current maturities.
12/  Includes increase of M.D. 3.h million due to consolidation of Business
Fund of TAA1 Institute. Notes 3/ and 8/ also apply.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
TAM
Earnings Statements
(.Ln J.±i±l±uli .tew nLLLars)± 
190'3  164               L.-   1/ki=
1 y O )i y U 4| ,7 O)       .L U 7 -, J _
Sales 2/                              278.58     343.08     377.253/   458.08
Operating Costs
Materials and Overhead             198.27     239.86     279.60     336.53
Net Wages                           19.50      28.87      35.62     4[8.68
Related Social Payments             lL.13      19.67      22.h6      26.96
Taxes and Contributions             27.97      23.92      16.81      12.03
Total Operalting Cost              259.87     312.32        9 72lM.20
Depreciation                            6.18       7.95       8.86      10.15
Interest                                L.32       4.05       5.16      _450
Net Earnings from Operations         8.21      18.76       8.74      19.23
Nonoperating Earnings                   4.67       3.66        4.62      3.66
Nonoperating Expenses                   1.73       3.15       5.37        . 
Net Earnings                        11.15      19.27       7.99     l1S.8o
Debt Service Coverage                   1.66       3.11       2.89        3.80
1/  Includes consolidation of operating results of retailing and servici:'I
outlets including total revenues of approximately M.D. 56.3 million
in 1966. Includes also product prnce increases from November, 1966
of from 7 to 22 percent.
2/ On basis of salpe naid.
3/ Tncludes average produet. nrie-e Lncrpaqe  of annroxinmat;y1v 8 nprcent
from July, 1965.



ANNEX 2
TAM                                                 Page 1
Financial Forecasts
(in Million New Dinars)
Construction Years
Year ending December 31:                               1967          1968           1169          1970          1971
I. Earnings Statement
Sales Revenues 1/                                572.50         624.00         702.60       730.70         752.60
Operating Corts
Materials 1an" Overhea d 2/                    -41.°6         450.7A        573           527.26         540.95
Net Wages 3/                                    60.98          65.45          71.61        75.19          78.95
Related. Social Payments 3/                     33.55          35.99          39.38        41.36          43.42
Taxes and ContrJbutions                         11.39          12.82          14.61        16.29          18.06
Total Operating Cost                         519.88         565.04                                     613.92  60.108
Depreciation 4/                                   12.76          13.13          15.00        15.00          15.00
Interest                                           _,5.81         5-58w          6.21          6.94          6 95
Net Earnings                                  34.05          40.25          48.47        48.66          49.27
II. Sources and Applications of Funds
Sources
'let Earnings (rvous y.., 5/                      19.An          34L.Or         40.2 Pr8.47                 48.66l
Interest                                           5.81           5.58           6.21         6.94           6.95
Depreciation                                      12.76          13.13          15.00        15.00          15.00
Increase in Long-Term Debt:
IBRD                                             8.84          16.16           -            -              -
YIB and other Banks                              -              -              -            -              -
Net Increase in Short-Term Debt-/                   5.00          5.00           5.00          5.00          5.00
Other Sources 7/                                    0.95          0.94           0.80          3.74          1.43
Total Sources                                 53.16          74.86          67.26        79.15          77.04
Applications
ProJlect: Fixed Assets - Foreign                   8.84          16.16           -            -              -
Local                      -           10.42           -            -              -
Working Capital                          11.50             ,           -             -              -
Total ProJect -v.34                                          43.5            =            -              _
Renewals and Renlacelments 8/                       7.5o           0.22         15.00        15.00          15.00
Other Fixed Assets                                 -              -              -            -              -
Interest:
Existing Long-Term Debt                          3.86           3.23           2.61         2.16           1.87
IBRD 9/                                          -              -              0.85         1.63           1.53
YIB ana other Banks (Project)                    -              -              -            -              -
Short-T-r JDebt 11/                              L.52=35                       2.75         3.1S          3i.5S
Total Interest                                 5.81              821                                     6.95
Principal Repayments:
Existing Long-Term Debt                         10.04           8.92           7.00          4.44          3.79
IBRD 9/                                                         -              0.73         1.55           1.65
YIB and Other Banks (Project)                    --                    -              -                    -5
Total Repayments                              10.04           8.92           T.'           5.99          5.44
Allocations to Reserve Funds ,,/                    2.62          3.14           3.35          4.19           4.42
Allocations for Collective CoiTghimption 12/        2.50          3.75           5.00          6.25          7.50
Sub-Total                                      48.81         65.17          T77T9        3.             39.31
'el. Additions to fWorking Capital                  IJ2          .... .. Z.                  ).n 7-          7 7
Total Applications                            53.16          74.86          67.26        79.15          77.04
Long-Term Debt Service Coverage    (Times) 13/      2.62          4.15           5.25          6.88          7.60
(Notes on following page)



ANRIEX 2
Pave 2
TA14
_inancial Forecasts - Assu-mtions and F,xr)anations
Sales Volume and Sales Pevenues (Value in Million New Dinars)
1966              1967              1968              1969              1970              1Q71
NVos.   WaThe     Nos.   'Value     Nos.    Value     Nos.    Value     Nos.    Va.lue    IIsO.   Val-e
le'hicles 2/
2-ton Truck                   653     24.5     740      33.6     900      40.1    1,000     b4.4    1,250     55.5   1,35-1    59.8
5-ton Truck                 2,823    200.5    3,230    247,7    3,260    271.5    3,460    308.8    3,300    322.5    3,300    325.5
6k-ton Truck                    3      O.4       80     12.0       90     13.5      100     14.9     100      14.9     200     29.9
Bus A 3000 (i. cyl.)          2.1     26.3      250     27.2      220     23.9      180     19.6      150     16.3      150C    16.3
Busi AS 3500 (IS cy.)         34J5    48.2      400     65.7      430     70.(     L4O      05.6     500)    82.2      50o     ;.2.
Total Vehicles 3/        4,035     299.9     700    3     2           419.7    5,200    b63.3    5,300    191.4    5,500    53 10
CKD Packs, Engines and-
uther products  j/              -      10.        -      123.9      -      136.6     -       163       =      15                163.5
Sales & Service Network 5/        -       56.3      -       62.4      -       67.7      -       75.8     -       75?3              75.1
Total Sales Revenues              4.58.1 -I2S624.0                                      702.6             730.7             752.ot
of which ESsorts 6/
2-ton Truck                    32      0.7      -        -         40      2.3       40      1.3       50      1.t       50      1.6
5-ton Truck                   562     36.3      510     33.0      530     34.2      550     35.5      570     36.8     50D     35.1
Bus As 3500 (6 cyl.)          102     i5.i       90     15.9       95     16.8      100     17.7      105     iS.6      110    19.5
T'                          i O . h            7.7~'~            7.9               so5.e 
En.,;.e a.d Corauu nent      -       10                         -4-                     _    ._ .2                    -
Total Exports 7/                                     52T75T
Rredown.S-. of Domestic Spies anl
Excort Sales by Currency Area!s
Domestic                             392.6             515.9             563.8             639.9             665.2             6831- .6
Excorts - Clearin   Ares              33.3              24.1              27.7              28.0              30.5              33.0
Convertible Areal 7/       32.2              32.               32.5              33.8              35.0              35.0
458.1             572.5             624.0             702.6             7S0,              75,
'   On basis of sales paidj.J=
2/   Fully assembled models by maJor size groupings.   Excludes C1D vehicle packs.
3/   Value at ex-factory pricets.
4/   Includes components, spars parts, special vehicles, and factory services.
5/   Includes selling mark-ups plus revenues from repair and maintenance services (income unconsolidated prior to 1966).
/   includes both CKn and fully assembled vehicles.
7/   Incluides 12% incentive premium on convertible currency exports.
Notes to Financial Forecasts (preceding page)
1/   Sales forecasts as above.   Based on assumption that sales equal production in each year.
2/   includes s'' operatlng colita of sales arad service rletsork.
3/   Variable wage distributionis represent about 20% of total payments in each year.
4/   Reflects revaluation of fixed assets at year-end 1966.
5/   Earned funds are released for use only in following year.
6/   Net additions forecast by TAM for financing retail sales.   Forecast average short-term debt outstanding in 1967 is roughly N.D. 24.5 million.
7/   Repayments to TAM of funds loaned to other enterprises.
8/   Renewals and replacenents during construction period largely subsumed under project investment.
2/   Interest at 6-1/2% capitalized during construction period.   Repayment in 24 eqalud  semiannual installments from July 1, 1969.
10/ Average interest on short-term debt assumed 8%.
11/  Required cash retentions unavailable for other use.
12/  For investnsnt in collectcve consumption assets.
13/  Previous year's eacni.ngs 31lus current depreci-tion and interest on long-term debt over interest are principal payments on long-term debt.



AF~
Page 1
PRETIS
The Borrower
The prospective borrower is Predzece "Tito," Vogosca (Pretis),
a producer of bicycles, motorcycles and scooters, automotive components,
spare parts, bearings and other items as well as ammunition and other metal
products for military use.    Production is carried on at two sites near
Sarajevo, Bosniia.  After an average annual increase of 22% since 1963, the
Enterprise reached sales of about N.D. 256 million or approximately $20
million in 1966.    Its total assets as at December 31, 1966 were N.D. 379.4
million ($30 million).     Pretis employs about 4S800 workers.
The Enterprise was founded in 1912 for the manufacture of
artillery amnlmition, which until the late 19501s remained its major
product.   In 1957 the EnterDrise started to manufacture other products for
civilian demand.      Military sales declined rapidly thereafter as a pro-
portion of tota' sales, and over the past four years averaged less than
one-quarter of total production.    This proportion is expected to decline
further as the sale of other products is expanded.    The manufacture of
civilian and military goods is carried out in separate and distant parts
of the nlant.
Pret;is has now the folloming annual capacities for its. manjr
products:  bicycles 200,000 units; motorcycles and scooters 32,000 units;
autmnobile cormponents 3,000 tons and bea ngrin  ^ ht 840 tons.  In additon,
Pretis manufactures other miscellaneous items such as forgings and press
parts.   In        1°65,the  En-;~nte r+~w1A se the asmr..e   of a  small Ge---
passenger car, the NSU Prinz, of which it assembled some 2,500 units in
1966.   Most of the plant di visions operate on two shifts and some on
three shifts.
During the past four years the bulk of Pretist exports derived
1from its .,lit. _;4,-rkJ prodAu,c-t i or.1,-  I,;, ofnC whlc  -% to U 60   -a e^-+d  vir+ua''y4-- 
4.J.u'J   .LU I"LLL.  ~'.~J-y  j.   t'. ULJI  .L.  V'iI4.,i1  J,  VtJ  WS.WV  WVCLC   JLJ~   L  Vi   U.L  4 tC - .y
all to convertible currency countries.    In the early 1960's part of these
exortn c Calso    to ran o East e.  Europe under -il,teral trad- ar-r----. --n .
Lately, however, these bilateral exports have been insignificant and due to
the gre_ater -at"tMaCti"eness of conve rtiblee cu rrency sa 'es thney are not-4-
expected to be resumed in the future.    Under Pretisl plans the value of'
civillian expor-+s will 4suass  that    -ot   'ilt.  espt 4n     ---8 and  -w,-
'.4. V .LL~~~~.LaJa4J±L  J. OUi.Jd.nn wl.ld.I U.L uIJ.. .± 1jU4A  l ±;ut) dul1u V.L±L.L
provide a steadily increasing proportion of the Enterprise?s foreign
exchange earn-ngs in the fouture.
Decause Pretist bearings plantl hias bUeen opera-ting at full CapaucIty
for the past two years and local demand has to be met in part by imports,
the &Iterprise! has recently embarked on an expansion program wnich is to
increase capacity from presently about 840 tons per year to about 2,700
tons.   The expansion project is expected to cost N.D. 70.0 mivlion ( . K
million), of which $2.47 million would be needed in foreign exchange.    Of
this, $0.6 million is being covered by Pretis? own foreign exchange
resources and IBRD is requested to contribute the remaining $1.87 millicn.



APPENDIX 6
Page 2
The n present prnoect is the first phase of a longer range Pv-nansion
program to bring capacity to about 5,900 tons of bearings per year and fur-
ther diiersi-¢i fir +.v +irn onn ran   of beahngs produ r ced
.,  .Pr tis  'r Wanch   _   ou  J IV  W .L   J.  LA _'.., U.v. .'I  4I  Val .
1950's it had to overcome substantial difficulties in obtaining skilled
labor a nd ---.----   proAduc  quAal4 - y.  S4 Cost were high   dr.ajor changes
in the control and mode of operations became necessary.
From the beginning, Pretis was ready to seek know-how from abroad.
In 1958, it entered into a liuensing agreument wit,h NSU of WestJern GenrLt-ny
for the production of motorcycles and scooters and Pretis is now the only
'ant in tihe world producing NSu motorcycles.  in i959 cooperation between
the two companies was expanded to include the production and su-pJ.y to
Germany of components for the NSU ;;Prinz,' automobile.    L.et s nov nmarxn'ac-
tures about 30)0 different Prinz parts, representing sorns 10% of the car's
value and covering NSU!s entire annual production of about 80,000 units.
In turn, Pretis assembles and distributes the "Prinz" in Yugoslavia, import-
ing the complete vehicle in CKD packs.
Recently NSU offered Pretis the rights to manufacture their M12opeds
(small motorcycles) for the German market, amoirnting to about 20,00  uinits
per year.   The Enterprise is study-Ing this proposal anc., if acceptec, HSU
will discontinue its ownl Hcped prcd2uztion in Germany.  Pretis is also
considering the manufacture of certain spare parts for the NSU Mopeds.
Pretis plans to embark on this production on a commercial scale only when
it has been assured of subsupplied of adequate volume and, quality.
In :1959, with the help of Steyr of Austria, Pretis went into tlhe
manufacture of bearings (taper roller, cylindrical roller and rail bearings)
with an initial annual capacity of about 355 tons.   In 1963, capacity was
more than doublte do 840 tons, allowing the production of some 80 different
types of bearings with diameters of between 30 and 250 mni.  Pretis has also
obtained components from Steyr, although imported components now accoun-t for
less than 3% of the Enterprise's production value of bearings.
Primarily because Steyr is not interested in the sale of Pretis
bearings in Western countries, the Enterprise is about to conclude an aoree-
ment with SKF of Sweden from which it has imported a major portion of its
specia'l steel requirements for many years.  Pursuant to a protocol of
understanding Pretis will manufacture all of its bearings, in accordance with
SKF specifications and will receive SKFts technical assistance.   SiiF will
help Pretis in its expansion program and upon completion of the project will
maKe its world-wide marketing organization available to sell. about z3.0
million worth of Pretis bearings abroad ann-aally, or about 310% of the Ei;ter-
prise' s expanded productien.  Pretis w.zill market an equivalent anou)rL of
SKF beariings in its traditional markets, thus expanding the assorttient w1hich



APPENDIX 0
Page 3
it wilI be able to supply.   It is evident from the protocol that botn
companies are Jinterested in a close and lasting relationship.  The protocol
stipulates that; SKF could take a participation of up to 50J, in the event
that the expanded bearings operation is established as a separate Enterprise.
Management
The (General Manager is Mr. Abaz Deronja, an engineer by training
who is in his late 50ts, and who because of the military part of the Enter-
prise&s activit;ies, is an appointee of the Government.  He has held his
present position since 1963.   His Deputy is Mr. Demirovi Ismet, also an
engineer.   The management on all levels gave a good impression.   It has
been showing aggressiveness in searching out new product lines and in
developing marketing opportunities and is cost conscious.
Recent Financial and Earninas Record
Balance sheets for 1963-1966 are shown in Annex 1.   Pretis'
balance sheet as at December 31, 1966, is summarized below:   (in Million
N.D.)
Assets                                   Liabilities
Cash and Equivalent           32.6       Banks                         20.6
Trade Receivables             18.6       Trade Payables               4L0.2
Inventories                  155.3       Other CGurrent Liabilities    76.5
Other Current Assets         4U.6           Total Current Liabilities 137'.3
Total Current Assets      251.1      LTng-Term nteb.                90.8
Net Fixed Assets             128.3       Own Funds                    151.3
379.4                                    379S.4
The recent financial history of Pretis reflects the continued
transformation of the Enterprise from a producer of military goods to a
metal fabricator of an increasingly broad range of industry and consumer
products.   Diversification of production started in the late 1950ts, but,
an important new phase began in 1963 when the present General Manager
joined the Enterprise. The small net earnings from operations in that year
were cancelled by extraordinary write-offs, and a long-ranae program of
cost reduction, production rationalization and diversification was
initiated.
The Enternrise's investments in productive assets over the past
four years reflect its continuing diversification program.   The major
invuestments toalled N.D. 42 million and included some N.D. 6 million for
expansion of the bearings plant in 1963, N.D. 18 million for motor, motor
vehicle and componenn prod-nhntin facilitieps in 1960) and 1965. and some
N.D. 18 million for additional bicycle and defense production facilities
in 1965. -I  ,,i+ half of the  i           was fi nanrePrd from i nternal cash
generation, ancl the other half by long-term borrowings.  Internal funds



APPEIMIXA 
Page4
for reinveserntet were applied almost entirely to projects for industrial
diversificatiorn and expansion, to which about half of the Enterprisets new
long-term debt was also applied, while additional investment in defense
production facilities was made possible almost entirely through long-term
credits provided by the Government on very favorable terms.
One-third of the Enterprisets outstanding debt has been utilized
for fixed assetls and two-thirds for pernanent working capital.  Repayment
terms average about 10 and 15 years respectively for fixed assets and work-
ing capital loans, while interest charges average about L%.  Long-term debt
service coverage was relatively low (below 2 times) in the readjustment
years of 1963 and 196L, but has been more than adequate since 1965 (above
3 times).
Pretis' current position has remained satisfactory during the
past few years.   A relatively large part of current assets is represented
by investment in raw materials.   Prepayments on def'ense orders, which are
afrequent practice  al ong with ranid payments received on parts exported
to NSU and on sales of bicycles and bearings, account for the relatively
low level of receivables,   Pretis has made only moderate use of short-term
debt.   The N.D. 20 million outstanding at the end of 1966 was atypical of
the normal level of about N.D. 12 million and coincided with a high cash
position of the Enterprise prior to liquidation of this debt.
Pretis began early thetransfer of its considerable collective
consumption assets out of company accoulnts, thus antiripating the measure
which has becorne common since the Economic Reform for progressive Yugoslav
firmsS.  Thi rprocss was in+it+ed unrder the new manage.mpent in 1963 in
connection with the overall rationalization and diversification program,
and was substaantially completed by the end of 1965.  Assets including a
bakery, hotel, restaurants and various other commercial real estate as well
as a slzable h;Ousing development, all of which had been a frequent drain on
Pretist profil,ts, were excluded from its accounts and placed on a self-
supporling basis.   Although distributions out of profits for collective
consumption investment are still used by the Enterprise to finance a
continuing housing program, (and thus appear temporarily on the Balance
Sheet), these assets are excluded from the accounts of Pretis upon their
completion and thereafter are operated independently.  The Ente-rprse
hopes that in the future it will be possible to carry this process one
step further by making arrangements for the financing and constructlon oF
these assets aLso on an independent basis.
Pretis believes that these changes coupled with the year-end
revaluation, which added N.D. 56.2 million to gross fixed assets and
N.D. 33.4 million to net fixed assets and reserves, have provided a real-
istic asset base for the firm's future operations.
Earnings statements for the past four years are shown in Annex 1,
page 2.   Production by major groups of products, sales, and earnings from
operations in those years are summarized below (in 14illion N.D. ):



AP3'ENDIX 6
'   e
lage
1963      1964      1965      1966
Bicycles                           18.4      27.6      16.0      23.1
.T'4iotorcycles and scootlers      44.       32.u      19.0L 10.
YTSU Prinz automobiles               -         -       10.2      45.1
TT PrLinz par-ts-                              -       13.7        1
Bearings                           15.9      22.2      24.0      30.6
".A.. _Lty prodiUUU 2L.LUEI        e. L        *       4t) *
Spare parts for motor vehicles,                            )
industrial engines & other                               )    ii8.9 1/
misc. items                      48.2      57.1      64.9)
Total Production                  132.7     182.2     184.,0    241.3
NIet Sales, paid 2/     -         154.5     199.2     187.9     256.3
of which exported                207,     8M,        10       26
Net -arnings from Operations        2.2       4.0      16 4      L5.3
l/ Breakdown not yet available.   Play include some increase in military
production.
2/ Includes previous year's receivables plus miscellaneous transport costs
and commissions; excludes current receivables.
The transition into new production lines has caused considerable
variation in the assortment of goods produced by Pretis but altogether their
value (excluding defense production) hasincreased by more than 20 annually
in recent years. The most steady growth in the new commercial lines has
been in sales of bearings which have kept facilities operating at capacity
while steadily upgrading the assortment.  Other capacities for the civilian
market still allow for substantial increase in production in future years.
Early diversification included the production of utensils and containers
made of aluminum and steel.  These items are now being discontinued, while
in 1965 trial production of a small agricultural and industrial pump engine
(6-12 hp) was begun. This engine was developed from the scooter engine
at a time when the production and sale of motorcycles and scooters had to
be curtailed, due to difficulties in obtaining from abroacd or producing
locally all the necessary components. (NSU has discontinued the production
of all parts in connection with the transfer to Pretis of the entire motor-
cycle and scooter line.)  The development of automobile parts production
for NSU and the reciprocal import of CKD Prinz cars for local assembly in
1965 helped to balance and further extend civilian production lines. Bicycle
production has grown steadily,particularly for the export market, although
in 1965 and early 1966 the changeover to an improved export model resulted
in a temporary reduction in output.



AF'PENDIX 6
rage u
The cost reduction program instituted by the present management
has begun to show results.  Although sales in i965 declined sligntly for
the reasons mentioned above, a marked increase in profits resulted from
reductions in materials and overhead costs.  This was achieved despite the
fact that prices for Pretist products were not periitted to increase at the
time of the Economic Reform while some raw materials prices did go up
and wages continued to grow.   In 1966, however, materials and overhead
costs rose again as a percentage of sales, though not to the pre-1965
proportions, and wages also increased. These elements, plus a substantial
increase in depreciation in anticipation of the year-end revaluation, and
extraordinary expenses which included over N.D. 3.0 million in inventory
writeoffs, resulted in a less favorable profit margin in 1966.
]'reltis has enlisted the assistance of a Slovenian consulting
firm in its ef'forts to further reduce materials and overhead costs and to
establish an accurate cost-accounting system. It hopes both to find ways
of reducing overall costs and to establish with greater accuracy the
profitability of its various product lines in order to concentrate on the
more profitable ones. M'anagement is aware of the need to keep labor costs
in line, and f'eels that this can be achieved by increased utilization of'
existing capacities and by further capital investments currently planned
for raising productivity. The bearings project, for example, will increase
the department's labor force by only 60' as against a capacity expansion
of close to 250").
Prices and Cormpetitive Position in Export 1Markets
Pretis' domestic prices have remained at about the same level
over the past four years.  They did not follow the general increases that
came at the time of the Economic Reform and the Enterprise expects no price
increases in the foreseeable future.
Ex-factory domestic prices are above comparable prices in Western
Germany, as an example, by about 15' for bicycles, 85 for motorcycles, -and
19-° for bearings. The prices at which Pretis has to export to the German
market are of course still lower than the above percentages suggest, due
to the additional transport and distribution costs and import duties which
add about 31% to the prices Free Yugoslavia Border.  That the ex-factory
price differential is highest for bearings is due in Dart to the fact that
most of the special steel required for Pretis' manufacture of bearings is
still imoortecd. This steel is subiect to duty of 15% ad valorem plus
charges adding another 75 to 8.  A part of the price differential for
bearings may also be attributable to the extent to which Pretis controls
quality, a factor which influences manufacturing costs substantially.
This annpars 1o be stricter than among producers in Western European
countries which due to higher labor costs cannot afford a more extensive
nnl i ty control. Prptiq exnpts that this advantape will be recognized



AP:PENDIX 6
Page 7
once it starts exports of bearings to convertible currency countries with
SKF's nelp.   It is of interest to note also that of Pretis; 1966 exports
of bicycles scme 855% went to the West German mail order house of Neckernann,
which is known for its highly competitive prices.    The fact that NSU has been
interested to shift its entire motorcycle and scooter prodLuction and, if
possible, its production of Mopeds to Yugoslavia is a fur-ther indication
that the export prices maintained by Pretis are attractive to the buyer.
Market and Competition
There are two producers of bearings in YugoslavLa: "Pretis" and
"Industrial Ball Bearings" (IKL) of Belgrade.   Over the past three years
they have supplied together, in approximately equal proportions, about one-
third of local consumption by value.   The remaining market share is imported.
The two enterprises have good commercial relations and plan their production
to avoid overlapping of their products.   They also cooperate in the sale
of large orders for specific products.
Consumption, domestic production and import of bearings in
Yugoslavia during the period 1960-1965 were as follows:    (in tons)
Apparent Imports
Sales from         Of which      as % of
Year           Consumption    Domestic Production      Pretis     Consumption
1960              6,45!1               710              203           89
1961              6,458             1,162               623           82
1962              ,414}9            1.q22               785,          66
1963              5,399             1,596               91C)          70
196I _J_                            2 J38             1.200           65
1965              7,610             2,816               837           63
1966              8,220              2,268              717'          72
In the recent past Pretis has increasingly concentrated on the
production of smaller bearings which demand a higher price per unit of
weight than larger bearings.   This accounts for the fact that while Pretis'
revenue from bearings sales has gone up from about N.D. 22 million in 19154
to about N.D. 31 million in 1966, at constant prices, the corresponding
production level by weight has decreased from about 1,200 tons to some 7L7
tons.   Capacity indications expressed in terms of weight are, therefore,
only meaningful if related to a specific bearings assortment.    Pretis, with
its present manufacturing facilities, is able to produce taper, cylindrical
and railraod bearings in diameters ranging from 30 to 250 mm.
Pretis forecasts that, with the expanded capacity of 2,700 tons
which will be operational in early 1969, exports will gradually increase
to 30% of bearing production by 1971.   The Enterprise has an understanding
with SKF for the sale of this quantity in countries with convertible curren-
cies.   IKL, which is also said to produce at capacity, has no immediate
plans for expansion.   Its exports are expected to remain very limited.



AYPPpmDa 6
Page C
In evaluating the prospective market for bearings Pretis analyzed
the expected development of major groups of industries in Yugoslavia through
1972.   The market study was reviewed by SKF and it was concluded that the
automotive, electric, railroad and building industries will provide a market
for approximately 11,000 tons of bearings by 1970.   Pretis1 production
program has been designed exclusively to supply those industries, with bear-
ing sizes ranging between 50 and 150 mm. in diameter, thus continuing the!
trend of concentrating production on smaller bearings.   To this end Pretis
also plans to incorporate in its production program ballbearings which it
does not presently produce.   It would not be justified for Pretis to cover
the entire range of domestic demand for bearings, since imports can supply
more economicallv many types of bearings used in small quantities.  IWJith
the available equipmnent and that to be installed, however, Pretis could
supply a much wider assortment than that presently planned if shifts in
demand so require.
P-etis forecasts that sales of its other major products will grow
suhbst.anti AlIv.  Tt aissimes that between 1966 and 1970 sales will increase
as follows:   bicycles 75%; motorcycles 220A;  passenger cars 260%; auto--
motive part.s 4.'0%;! an other products 55%.
Pretis has cont-ribuited in the past few years mbout one-third to
local production of `.-rcl.es and has based its forecast on thK continuation
of past trends.   Furth,:!tore, the EM.te.PTIse is confident tat it has an
almost unl-'Ldited export market as judged from recent experience.  Pretis
1egan exp 4orling. ,ocycl e -0 4  0i ) .n 0 ) -A  oA), -'1  of M n r? T\T n 
Lwibr I±  wJu..'..  ¶.±1  L ' .L; .J  W  o .LJk  ± /.   v.i'  r4L1  .i./'-' 4  v'qA  vv  V vsww _ww.>
million abroad.   By 1966 its exports had sharply risen to N.D. 13 million.
I.n.Zsl 'nes 4 ^r-s in -he earie           -4rswe. to a wide range of countr Es
V1t.J wIlIuo   t:.J4IU.LL'U ±1 L 4JK V1z   0v i   WVULl   UO  VV.L,U~ LC I.
more recently they went primarily to Indonesia and Wviestern Germany. Pretis7
expectations in 'Uhis fel ar   so-M  by- its. plans for- -addit-;onal i4nvests,me`ts
exp~udu±Uw .44±bLI±..L±eU-L CL't Ol1uW1 L)y ±LUZ j.J.Ld.±1 01 du-UU±.LUI1a± L ±IV01Liu
in this production line to further reduce costs and increase labor produc-
viviby.
As to motor scooters and motorcycles, the Enterp1rise belleves t;hat
after having overcome the earlier supply difficulties it will be able to
surpass the sa:Les that t had aLready reache d      - c ir 196.  Irn n--4i-±  -
domestic demand for motor scooters and motorcycles is strong and, if anything,
it is expected to become even stronger.    The sales forecast does not yet;
take into accoumt that Pretis may replace NSU's present production of Mopeds
in Germany.   If this were to be the case exports may be up to four Limes
as much as presently assumed. Such a step, however, would most likely
require an increase in capacity and additional investments.
PretisT plans for the assembly oI automoDiles an,d the production
of automobile spare parts are based on its reciprocal sales arrangements with
NSU.   Pretis is expected to remain a relatively small supplier to the
Yfugoslav automobile market.  The 1,100 cc Prinz model assembled by Pretis
is priced conpetitively with the comparable -iat model produced locally and
with comparable import models, and has been well-received on the local market.



APPENDIX 6
Page 9
In the past four years registrations of automobiles in Yugoslavia showed
a net increase of about 2h% per year, or some 30,000 cars annually.    The
increase in sales rate by 4,500 cars/year in the next three-year period
that Pretis is expecting may therefore not be an unreasonable assumption.
Automotive parts will all be sold to NSU and sales forecasts are based on
indications from that German firm as to the quantity they wish to receive
from Pretis.   The Enterprise will retain considerable flexibility in its
response to market requirements for the assembly of NSU cars, since this
requires little fixed asset investment, and in its production of automotive
parts, most of which will be facilitated through increasecl utilization of
existing capacities for parts and military production.
No independent market study has been made for these products and
the mission has relied primarily on what Pretis considers to be the most
realistic forecast of its activities.   Although the Enterprise's projections
may be somewhat optimistic. they annear to provide a reascnable basis for
planning purposes and, as discussed below, an adequate guideline to the
financial soundness of future onperatinns
Descrintion of the Proiect.
The proposed nronect aimqs at increasing the design capacity of the
Enterprise's bearings plant from 837 tons/year to 2,700 tcns/year.    More
snpeci fi rall-y, the pnl nnerdi caarity +.r w'hich i ncldeiira aiti +oa  fac'4 i-ites for
the production of cylindrical roller bearings and miscellaneous bearings
oumilri dh hbe rain nik  a -ra  fWPtS.T :
Present            of Project
Taper Roller Bearings          45l                 1,075
Cylindrical Roller Bearings     46                  332
Ball Bearings                   -                    126
Bearings for Railcars          3)40               1,020
Other Bearings                  -                    147
837                2,700
T1ith. nIhcvrn~ rri+4;c  o hsQat rsn, o        vsrAl+_; r.ii-- >h TTar h
changed to some degree as required by market demand.    The overall project
has in4 lu, +theI provision of a new bsaildin  now *r.der constrction of' scme
18,000 m2 adjacent to the present plant which will be capable of housing
the entire bearings production af-+-r copletior. of the project.
increase bearings capacity to 5,900 tons.   There is ample room for this and



APPEENDIX 6
Page 10
Cost of Project
The cost of the overall project, including the first phase of
construction and equipment purchase already substantially completed by the
Enterprise, is estimated at N.D. 70.0 million ($5.6 million).  Foreign
exchange requirements would be $2.47 million of which $0.6 million would be
provided by Pretis' own foreign exchange resources and the remainder of $1.87
million is requested from IBRD.  A summary of the project cost follows:
Foreign        Local          Total
Exchange      Currency     Expressed in
US$ Million   N.D. Million  N.D. Million
Building                         _           5-85           5.85
Equipment, erected             2.47          0.93          31.80
Customs Duties                  -            7.70           7.70
Design, Training, etc.          -            0.20           0.20
lWorking Canital                -           20.00          20.00
Other Dinar Costs               -             .43           4.A3
2.47         39.11         69.98
The project has been engineered by Pretis and reviewed by SKF.
The new bildinrg, on which construction has already beguWn, is epectedt+o
be completed in mid-1967, at which time the existing equipment T111 gradually
bLe turans'Lerre" from, th L e present buil'ding.  Mhe po1tion of 'le 4-po-lted qA
LJ~  ! dID.~±I  U  J LXm  U±~  ~ JU...LUL1I,.  III  JLJAII  LJ.LI  UI   LL IIIIjJ' I  V   4.J
ment ($0.6 million) to be paid out of the Enterprise's own foreign excharge
resources h'as bLefen 0ordtered a-nd is e:JxpJeLted, to be installed tUo w ards Ithe, en
of 1967.   The equipment to be imported under the IBRD loan would be opera-
tional about l8 months after placement, of orders.
Project Financing
A summary of Pretis: estimated financiai requirements and sources
of funds during project construction (1967-1968) is given below: (in million
N. D. )
Uses                                 Sources
Project                      59.98    Net Earnings                    22.97
Other Investments in Fixed
Assets and Related Work-
ing Capital                31.92   Depreciation                    31.56
Debt Repayment               23.80
Reserves and Other Alloca-
tions                      8.90    Long-Term Debt                  72.12
Additional Working Capital    2.05
126.65                                  126.65



APPENDIX 6
Page 11
Detailed earnings and cash flow projections for the construction
period and the following three years together with the major assumptions
and further explanations are given in Annex 2.    Forecasts in Annex 2 assume
that crders wouLLd be placed in mid-1967 and that the project would be opera-
tional from the beginning of 1969.
Project costs of N.D. 60.0 million during the two-year period
include working capital requirements of N.D. 10.0 million related to the
project, but exclude capitalized interest duiing construct:Lon of about
N.D. 3.2 million and a further N.D. 10.0 million in working capital to be
employed in 1969.   Other investments in fixed assets include N.D. 6.9
million for noimal renewals and replacements; about N.D. 9.0 million each
for the bicycle and motorcycle production lines; N.D. 4.0 million for
miscellaneous investments in plant: and another N.D. 3.0 million for
related additional working capital.   To complete these otlher investments
another N.D. 3.0 million each is expected to be spent on fixed assets and
additional working capital in 1969, the year following completion of the
Project.   Total investments in fixed assets during the construction period
will increase GJross Fixed Assets as at December 31, 1966 by about one-third.
Some L3% of the financing reouirements during the two vears 1967 and 196E.
woulcd be covered by the Enterprise's own funds and the rema-ning 57% by
long-term borrowings (N.D. 72.1 million).    Of these TBRT wo.ld provide
N.D. 23.4 million ($1.87 million) excluding interest during construction
of about N.D_ 1.4t mnllion and the- rpm-indpr -wmlti crrtmp froim YTB anri other
local banks, including the drawdown of N.D. 13.8 million from loans
Ear.nings and Debt Service Forecasts
Earnring s forecasts (hr r,one  O) a ere hbcoA s re on t Coress +mnpi +n hatS
sales would equal production.   Production in 1967 is expected to increas3e
bryET -4 over +1;,+ of 1966.C  The forecast s-aes fig-res Ao not Jnclude
certain transport and other costs borne by the customer which have been
incuded iLn pa    resultUs in bIDoth n.et paid sales andl operating cots, so
that forecast sales in 1967 are at roughly the same level as paid sales
n; 1966 o*A  a       i _ _ _n 1967 will Ado_ s,ightly Ad 4to 4increaes 4n
depreciation, :Labor costs, and other charges.   From 1968 onward sales
are ep,eC4teA to increase sub'stantlta-Iy  Ile m.ajor increases iLn sales
would come from better utilization of already existing capacities, and
th" niew iuvUtxUnents in the bearlings plant -will also contrib-ute to a
relative reductJion of operating costs.  Financial charges also are not
expected to increase in the same proportion as sales, and because Of
these factors, cash generation would rise markedly.
By 1970 sales would have increased by nearly 14C% while net
earnings are expected to be about 340% higher than in 1967.    Although
these increase;s can be achieved they may, in fact, prove to be too
optimistic.   Even if one were to assume, however, that sales and earn-
ings would not increase above the expected 1968 levels of N.D. 372 million
and N.D. 17.0 million respectively, long-tenm debt service coverage would
not fall below 1.8 times in 1969 (the year in which repayment on debt



APPENDIX 6
Page 12
incurred for the project and the other investments mentioned in the previous
chapter will start) and would rise above 2 times after 1970 as debt service
declines from its peak.   Such an assumption, however, is highly conservative
since aside from growing sales of other products, it disregards also the
increased sales of bearings resulting from the project, for which there is
unquestionably a market.
Economic Justification
The project makes possible an increase in the production of
bearings in Yugoslavia and thus substituttion for imports which in recent
years have entered the country in increasing quantities.    The project is
well conceived in that it does not attempt to cover all present and fore-
seeable import requirements, but concentrates on the production of those
bearings which are required in large volume in Yugoslavia..   This should
lead to the production of bearines on a basis fully competitive with other
producers outside Yugoslavia.   The project provides the ioundation for
further capacity expansion in one of the Enterprisets strongest lines and
is an important step in Pretist long-range program for diversification and
sound growth.   It will also establish a close coonerative relationship
with one of the leading producers of bearings in Western Europe. Substan-
tial benefits for both the Enterprise and the consumers should arise from
this cooperation.   The expected growth in earnings of roughly N.D. 33.0
million anninuallv att butnble to the bearings project wouild repnresent a
non-discounted return of 47% on total project investment of N.D. 70.0
mi llion.  The increase in annual convertible currency e.port earnings
from bearings will be roughly one and a half times the total foreign
exchange costs of the proJect, and *will also adequately cover increased
foreign exchange requirements for the import of special steels for the
expande(I produ ti4.-;-



ANNEX 1
Page 1
PPT.TT.q
(in Million New Dinars)
As at December 31                           1963       1964        1965       1966
ASSETS
fu-Un   Assets
Cash, Banks and near Cash                20.4       20.0        16.9       32.6
m                                         r_ L.,  _  _  r'     'nn t'      -I A 
±dUrad  nZtL:va Iz-, b V UL)'t:J -L.).                          LU.)       * v .v
Inventories
-        10  r~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~~~n               '7
n   rw Mautera1.s and S-upplles        iu.y       61..79        .1        7
Semi-finished Products                 18.6       15.6        24.6       33.2
Finlshed Products                      21.7        5.3       114.0       29.h
Total Invent.ories 1/                  89.2       d2         1214.7 2/  1   3
Other Current Assets J/                 144.2       142.8 u2.6 2z.6
Total Current Assets                       1l7.       139.l      270-.7      2 f .i
Gross Fixed Assets
Land                                      0.3        0.3         0.3        0.3
Buildings                                50.3       51.1        53.5       87.7
Machinery & Equipment                    73.5       86.3        96.1      125.0
Fixed Assets under Construction           2.6        4.5         5.1       13.1
Collective Consumption Assets   4/      40.1        31.1         7.6        6.9
Other Fixed Assets 5/                     0.2        0.6         1.5        2.1
Total Gross Fixed Assets                   167.       173.9       lC.              0/
less Depreciation                       (65.4)     (71.6)       75.5)    (106.8)
Net Fixed Assets                           101.6      102.3        bb.b      120.3
TOTAL ASSETS                               270.4      261.4       293.3      379.14
TTA7T~T rf`TiP
-- rA I !--E
Current Liabilities
Short=teir    Debt to Bnks               21.2       11'.9        8.8      :20.6
Trade Payables                           19.5       17.1        27.5       40.2
Other Current iTabilitieS   R            3A 6.      0n .0n     614 7       '76 -
Total Current Iiabilities                   77.6       o2.0       101.0      1.37.3
Long-term Debt                              82.5       75.2        91.5       90.8
Funds of the Enterprise
BLusiness -Uurnd                         75.64      78.        9o.5       138. ,i-qA7/
iJL~~~~~L1i~~~Z)C)  U UIIU ~~~~f)J.'-     I -  . ?L       -         - 1
Reserve Funds                             0.1        -           0.1        2.4
U0Ll.ective CUiU1,yU.II.io  uiiuo !'/   -L4 .       25-3         6.2 LL
Total Own Funds                            110.3      101.2       100.5           3
-nM AY  r-r,nrrm fl.                                  nzn  I      nn-e ,      in  I
I U_LJLW 1U.j RD±LajL AI                         fU.LI 20±.4      £61). 
Current Assets/Current Liabilities         2.18:1     1.94:1      2.02:1     1.83:1
Long-term Debt/Own Funds                    13:57      Le2:58      L8:52      :37:63



Page 2
PRETIS
(in Million New Dinars)
1963       1964        1965       1966
Sales  1/                              154h52      199.2h     187.87     25d629
Operating Costs
M4aterials and Overhead             -l4h32      14i.37     il7c80     170610
Net Wages                             llo85      18.90      21e29      30C31
Related Sociai Payments               8.46       13.80      i4.17      i5.19
Taxes and Corntributions              6.63        8.79       6.53       .1;.5
Total Operating Costs               T141T2O     182oo D)    5579     122.
Depreciation                             5.24        6.72       6.38       .u44 ''
Interest                                 5.78        5.71       5.27        1L 69
MNet Earnings from Operations          272                               379 1 3  15.25
Nonoperating Earnings                    2.96        4.86       3.42        4.o29
Nonoperating Expenses                    (520') 3!/  (3.29)    (3.34)     (8.27) h/
Net Earnimngs                          -         5l52       16051      11.27
Debt Service Coverage                    1.20        1.67      4h02        3,21
1/  On basis of paid sales.
2/  Depreciaticn increased in anticipation of Economic Reform.
3/  Includes extraordinary write offs of tools and equipment.
4/ Includes extraordinary write offs of inventories of about N.D. 3.0 million.
Notes to Balance Sheets (preceding page)
1/  Includes stocks (chiefly raw materials) financed by customer prepayments.
2/ Reflects revaluation of inventories in 1965.
3/ Includes cost of goods sold for sales invoiced but not paid, prepaid
expenses and other current assets.
4/  Reflects transfer of assets to separate enterprises.
&/ Patents, licenses and preliminary expenses.
6/  Includes increase of N.D. 56.2 in gross value of buildings, machinery,
and equipment due to year-end revaluation.
7/  Includes increase of M.D. 33.4 in net value of buildings, machinery
and equipment due to year-end revaluation.
8/  Includes customer prepayments, sales value of goods invoiced but not
paid, accrued charges and other current liabilities.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
P R E T I S
Financial Forecasts
(in MTillion New Diners)
Year ending December 31                              Construction years
1967          196            1969         1970          1971
I.  Earnings Statement
Sales Revenues 1/                              255-57         372.54        507.95       607.33         "61.59
Operating Costs
Materials and Overhead                       166.65        245.87         328.10       393.70         '07.50
Net Wages  2/                                 31.90          47.80         62.20        73.50         100.30
Related Social Payments 2/                    18.85          28.00         38-3C'       42.70          48.2,)
Taxes and Ccntributions                        4.70           8.63         11.4c        15.10          16.00
Total Operating Costs                      222.10         330.30        40 00        525.00        b72.00
Depreciation   3/                               14.34          17.22         20.20        20.50          21.50
Interest                                         6.03           5.39          8.86         8.56           7.64
Earnings froni Operations                     13.10          19.63         36.09        53.27          6O.L5
Non-operating Income                             3.20          ,4.30          5.80          7.70          8.20
Non-operating Expenses                           Uh.60)        k6.90)        (7.80)        (8.10)        (8-90)
Net Earnings                                11.70          17.03         36-89        52.87          59.75
II.  Sources and Applicatiorsof Funds
Sources
Net Earnings   (Previous Year) 4/               11.27          11.70         17.03        36.89          52.87
Interest                                         6.03           5.39          8,86         8.56           7.64
Depreciation                                    14.34          17.22         20.20         20.50         71.50
Increase in Long-Term Debt
IBRD                                          15.37           8.00           -           -              -
YIB and Other Banks (Project)                   -            10.00           -           _              _
Drawdowns from Existing Loans                 11.46           2.29           -            -             -
Other L.T. Debt                                6.oo          19.00          6.00         -              -
Total Increase in Debt                       2.83 336o9                                -              -
Total Sources                               M-17           71.60         51.89        65.95          32.01
Applications
Project:  Fixed Assets - Foreign                22.87           8.00          -            -              -
- Local                   9.R3          9.26          -             -             -
Working Capital                         -           10.00          10.00         _              _
Total Project                                32.72          27.26         10.00          -             -
Renewals and Replacements                        3.60           3.32          3.60         4.68           5.10
Other Fixed Assets   5/                          6.oo          16.00          3.00          -             -
Other Workin2 CaDital                             -             3.00          3.00          -             -
Interest:
Fxisting Long-Term Debt                       4.94           4.30          3.75         3.27           2.92
THR   6                                        - 6-                        0.81         1.54           1.11q
YIB and Other Banks (ProJect) 7/               -              -            0.35          o.66          0.61
Other Long-Term Debt                           -              -            2.86          2.00          1.57
Short-Term De'at                              1.09           1.09          1.09         1.09           1.09
Total Interest                              .035.3          9            o7
Princ1pal Repaynme, nts:
Existing Long.-Term Debt                     12.23          11.57          9.61         6.82           1.39
IBRD 6/                                        -              -            0.70          1.46          1L.56
-TR A 7d 0+i.r Ran . 7/                        _              _            0.36          0.75          1.8R
Other Long-Term Debt                           -                            4.65        6.09           6.52
Total Repayments                          12.23          11.57         15.32         1.2           727
Allocations to Reserve Funds 8/                  1.50           3.00          3.00          5.00          6.00
Allocations for Collective Consumption 2/        1.40           3.00          5.00          7.00 Dl oo
Sub-total                ~ZT 4TS                         72.5l         51.78        In <.0
JC.34        %3433 
Net Additions to Working Capital                 0.99           1.06          0.11        24.59          40.00
Total Applications                           64.17          73.60         51.89         65.95         82.01
_ -
Loong-Tem Debt Sevice Coverage (Tirles)              1.78           2.09          1.95          2.87           ,.7
(Notes on following Page)



AN'NEX 2
Page 2
P R ETIS
Financial Forecasts -Assimptiots and Explariations
Sales Volume and Sales Revenues (Value in MilLion New Dinars)
1966             1967              1968   _         1969              1970              1971
iXac tual) 1/
o tv.   V'AT P1  Ot,,t  17.1u lip.  0     IaLu e    Q ty    Val, t,e  Qty     valu -Lue,         ^
Products
Bicycles (units)            l00,L409  23.05  115,000   28.43   130,000  32.314  150,000  37.09   175,000   43.26   200C,000  49.L45
Motorcycles & Scootere(units) 2,915   10.24    7,000   24.12    15,000  51.68    20,000   68.90    25,000   86.13    32,000 3LLo.2h
Automobiles (units)           2,4C1OO  L5.14   2,500  146.67     3,500  65.34     5,000   93.35     7,000 130.69     10,00oo  186.7(
Automobile Parts (tons)       1,3L22  13.47    1,400   :L6.80    3, 646  143.75   5,209   62.50     5,834   70.0'C    El,334 100.0()
Bearings (tons)                 717  30.59       771  :37.33      928    42.98    1,567   87.39     2,268   92.86     2,668  109.211
Others (tons) 2/              4,h65 118.03     3,381  102.22     5,L31t 136.65    5,904 158.72      6,790 184.39      7,808  205.96
Total Sales Revenues             2L1l.32          2;5.57            372.54           507.95            607.33            761.59
of which 022rts
Bicyrles T(nts)M            54,5O0  13.47    52,000  1L2.86    60,000  14.83    60,000   14.83    70,000   17.3C   100,000  24.72
Motorcycles & Scooters((units)  -     -                 -       1,000   3.45     5,000   17.23     5,000   17.23     5,000   17.23
Automobile Parts (units)     1,122  13.47     1, 400  16.80     3, 646  L43.75   5,209   62.50     5,834   70.00C    8,334 100.00
Bearings (tons)                  6   0.30       108    5.25       207  10.00       387   18.75       517   25.0c       775   37.50
Others (tons) 2/              n.a.   79.27     n.a.   61.33      n.a.  81.99      n.a.   62.86      n.a.   70.09      r.a.   83.11
Total Exports 3/                 106.51            s?6.24          li4.C2           176.17            199.62            262.58
Breakdown between Domestic Sales
an=d rEportZ     beiy Crrenc7y
Areas
Domestic                             134.8L           159.33           218.52            331.78            407.71            499.03
Exports - Clearing Area                0.74             3.94            ILl.74            12.29             17.38             28.9i
- Convertible Area  3/       lC5.77            92.30            14s2.28          163.BB            182.24            233.63
241.32           255.57            372.54           507.95            607.33            761.59
1/ Based on production.  Paicd sales in 1966 were N.D. 256. 3 million.
2/ Includes military production, industrial engines, spare parts and other items.
3/ Includes incentive premium of 6% on convertible currency exports.
Notes to Financia:L Forecasts (preceding page)
1/ SaLes forecasts as above. Based on assumption that sales equals production in each year.
Variable wage distributions represent about 15% of total payments in each year.
3/ Reflects revaluation of assets at year-end 1L'66.
/   Earned funds are released for use only in following year.
§/ Includes investments for motorcycle and bicycle production.
7/ Interest at S) capitalized during construction.  Repayment in 24 equal semianrLual installsients from JIlLY 1, 1969.
7/ Interest at 7% capitalized during construction.  Repayament in 20 equal semiannual instasllnents from July 1, 1969.
3/ Required cash retention unavailable for other use.
9/ For investment in collective consumDtion assets.



APPE10IX 7
Page 1
OHIS
The Borrower
The prospective borrower is Organic Chemical Industry (OHIS), a
producer of polyacrylic fibers from imported monomer, polyvinyl products,
caustic soda, chlorine and some chlorine derivatives.     The Enterprise is
located near the city of Skopje in Macedonia.     It has good road connections,
and is linked to the main Belgrade-Athens railway by an industrial siding.
OHIS is the only producer of acrylic fiber, polyvinylacetate and
dodecylbenzene in Yugoslavia.    It is a new Enterprise which began commercial
operations in mid-1965.    Its major product is acrylic fiber which in 1966
accounted for 53% of the total value of goods produced.      Other major products
for sale are detergents, insecticides, dodecylbenzene, ancd polyvinylacetate
and polyvinyl products such as granulates, synthetic leather and tiles. Paid
net sales of the Enterprise in 1966 amounted to N.D. 133.7 million (US$12.5
million), of which about 9% was exported.     OHIST total assets at December 31,
1966 were N.D. 652.4 million ($52.0 million).     The Enterprise employs about
2,400 people.
The proposed project is for the expansion of OHIST acrylic fiber
production from 4,500 tons to 15,000 tons per annum, and of conversion
capacity from 3,000 tons to 10,000 tons per annum.     The program involves
expansion of the existing fiber nroduction unit from h_qOO tons to 7.500 tons
per annum capacity and construction of a new unit also with an annual ca:pacity
of 7,500 tons.    UDon completion of the nroiect   hohmt one--third of the fiber
output would be exported.
The cost of the project is estimated at N.D. 183.0 million ($11-.6
million) including qriit.inna1 work--lring capvita.l  f N..T 40 !) mvnillin (3..9
million).    Foreign exchange requirements are estimated at $4.3 million,of
which $2 8 million equivalent has been     ------ f-rom. a Bo.e.ment
credit which was extended for the reconstruction of Skopje following the
eart.hquanke in 1963.  IBRD has been requested to provide the remaining $1.5
million.    This is the largest of the seven projects presently under consid-
erat.inn hv TIRpn
Hi sto.nr of' the Borrower
OHI9 was create -ir1 4. 1  -6 4y the .'.e4-e -f tw   ad 4en   -ne-4-  e s
then under construction and comprises an electrochemical complex and a plant
for a cJry i c     -Aer   -4-d acetlen -prducs.  Abo-ut one-thLrd of the productio
of the chemical complex is used as raw material input for the other plant. The
Enterpr se was established asaajor nrew basic industr-     for Skopje, in a
predominantly agricultural area.     Initial financing was provided by Govern-
ment credit +s on t1err..s of 30 years"including 5yasgaead4          nee       r
line with normal methods of financing new enterprises in Yugoslavia.      The
maJ01- ±uiems of maChinery anu equippment were purcnased from Western suppliers.
The plants are! lodern and well-equipped.



APPENDIX 7
Page 2
The acrylic fiber plant was supplied through and put into opera-
tion with the assistance of Courtaulds Ltd., of the U.K.., a leading pro-
ducer in this field. OHIS has also since its establishment maintained
licensing and engineering services agreements with Societ;e Speichim of
France (for polyvinylchloride production) and Rhodiatoce of Italy (for
polyvinylacetate).  OHIS' technical staff has been trained for periods
of 3 months to one year at Courtaulds and other plants abroad, and train-
ing schools are maintained at the plant for workers and f'oremen. The
present agreement with Courtauilds, which expires in mid-1970, provides
for the exchange of technical information and the periodical visit of
OHIS' engineers to Courtaulds plants. Following the start-up period in
1965:, the acrylic fiber plant has been operated successfully by OHIS
personnel on their owr.
In 1966, the first full year of operation of the Enterprise, the
value of total plant output reached N.D. 157.2 million (';12.5 million).
During the same year the acrylic fiber plant was operated at 97% of rated
capacity while facilities for the production of several other lines were
also brought into full scale operation. During the first; 2 months of
1967 average capacity utilization for those malor products already in
normal production was about 85%. CHIS exported about 9% of its production
in 1966, about one-third of which went to clearinga area countries and the
remainder to Turkey, Greece, Italy, Switzerland, Holland., France and Austria.
Exports of acrylic fiber in 1966 were 1;134 tons (all to convertible cur-
rency areas), about one-fourth of production.
OHIS imports about 520°' of its raw materials. The most important
one, acrvIonitril monnomer, hac bhen importrd f-rom Janpn  Franc   r lnd thp
U.S.A. free of import restrictions other than a duty of 3%. Dyes, stabil-
i7prq >nc3 ntsThp-t- -rjL manf.v-ein al ci,rvrI r p'h ip.14 ^ flir *hir ljrc9+ -(-a'minrr qr 4+1 7-_
land and Austria, also at nominal duties.
Management
The General Manager of the Enterprise is Mir. Kostadin Avramcev, an
conomi S+t n.;i +h =n oor-1 i e rnonlrr r -r,,ro  ;und  +hc nt oe1 -nr n nmrn- c., s n- Man- erdon- .
The Technical Manager is Mr. Aleksandar Grizo, a chemical engineer. The
balance of the technicnal n stoaff reengineers r4ith periAs of trai-n-in -in
England, Italy and Germany. The management appears technically competent
for lthle operati on of a chemical compl'ex of this size. M<mgeen  problems
are more likely to occur at OHIS in general supervision and administration
because oL the relatively high number of workers in thls area ol Yugoslavia
who are unfamiliar with normal standards and practices of modern industrial
operations.  General houseXeeping appeared to be a potentOial problem, and
shop floor supervision was observed to be lax.   Attention to both plant
maintenarnce asnd labor supervision may be in need of strengthening in order
to insure continuing smooth production and increases in productivity anong
a relatively inexperienced labor force. The management of the Enterprise
is aware of the improvements needed in these areas and demonstrated some
efficiency in dealing with these problems.



APPENDIX 7
Page 3
Recent Financial and Earnings Record
Balance Sheets and Earnings Statements for the Enterprise since
the beginning of commercial operations in mid-1965 are shown in Annex 1.
A summary of -the Balance Sheet as at December 31, 1966 is given below
(in million N.D.):
Assets                                Liabilities
Cash and Equivalent        61.3         Short-Term Bank Debt       41.5
Trade Receivables          35.7         Trade Payables             24.7
Inventories              117.0          Other Current Liabilities 116.'5
Other Current Assets       57.4           Total Current Liab.     182.7
Total Current Assets    271.4         Long-Term Debt            377.9
Net Fixed Assets          381.0         Business Fund & Reserves   91.8
652 a62. 14
Asset; of 4the Ent-4is   hav   cotiue    to 4 ro  durin t4he in4t:L a'
LI  I.  U J  , I J~  .,1 1  PIJ-  Z;AlC V=  %.S.J  U±LLIULA oU.  UVJ  C .J W  U. LI. Jl c  UiS II J~ _ ~L C
year and a half of operations as new facilities have been commissioned and
n1ew lI-nes broug.U.t into prod)uctLUion. 'GUross fixed assets U  ;i-crUeaUs ed  ibN.D.
167.6 million in 1966 (from N.D. 255.5 million to N.D. 423.1 million), of
-which NI.D. 50.8 represented additions to physical plant, I.D. 38.6 million
was for further pre-establishment expenses, patents, licenses, and other-
rights, and N.D. 78.2 million was due to the revaluation of assets carr:ied
out by all Yugoslav firms at year end. Inventories also grew substantially
in 1966, more than doubling from N.D. 51.6 million to N.D. 117.1 millionI
at year-end. A part of this was due to the normal buildup of production
during the year, but a significant amount was due to an tunusually high
buildup of finished goods inventory as new construction products (chief:ly
PVC tiles) were brought into production late in the year at the time of
a temporary downturn of building activity. Finished goodLs inventories
have since been reduced to more normal levels, along with a correspond-
ing reduction in the short-term liabilities by which they were chiefly
financed.
OIIIS began its operations totally financed by debt, as is normaL
in the Yugoslav system. The substantial increase in Business Fund and
reserves in 1966 was brought about largely by the increase in net fixed
asset value from revaluation (N.D. 56.3 million) and by funds generated
for reinvestment and debt repayment in the first full year of operations.
Repayment terms of OHIS' debt are lenient (25 years after grace periods
of up to 51½ years), and interest costs average 4%. As a result, the
level of financing charges for the Enterprise is not substantially dif-
ferent from that which might be expected for a company financed through
a more familiar mixture of debt and equity, and debt service coverage
has remained adequate in the initial years.



APPENDIX 7
Page 4
Sales and earnings of OHIS in 1965 and 1966 were as follows:
----N.D. millions---
1965          1966
(6 months)       _
Net Sales (Paid)                51.83        133.70
Net Earnings                     3.43         13.92
OHIS' reported earnings during the first year and a half of
operations have been positive even with the relatively low levels of
capacity utilization associated with the beginning of operations. This
is partly duie to the Yugoslav practice of allocating all overhead and
fixed costs, including interest as well as depreciation, to goods pro-
duced instead of charging them to sales during the earnings period in
which these expenses are incurred.   If full interest naid in 1966 had
been charged to the year's operations, earnings would have been about
rI.D. Q.0 million, while debt service coverage wZould have rerainerl abhve
two times.  If, in addition, total depreciation charges in 1966 had been
remain slight:ly above the breakeven point. Although the effect on past
earnings of ohrv.- fixed1 cos-t allocation  is more fffiu-o etrr.ne,
an analysis of OHIS' basic cost structure and unit costs of production
inaicae Prtl ha'  -n,o-pations .ill bco-Ime inceasnglr profitable as pro-
duction and sales volumes come more nearly into line and reach expected
that all of OHIS' 1966 production was sold and paid, net earnings of the
EE n t e r pprise aft'er chcarging all. no.Lal 0-----atlng -o-s- would have reache
NI.D. 29.4 mil:Lion. In 1966, some N.D. 38.4 million in additional pre-
would have been reduced to the extent that any of these charges should
have been expensed.  O'nIS has show-n aggressveness  n reaching and de-
veloping the markets for its various product lines and should have no
difficulty in bringing sales of most of its products to levels approach--
ing capacity within the next year or two. Sales of acrylic fiber have
already reaehed this ievei during the first full year oI operations,
leading to the present plans to increase production capacity for the
Enterpri,se's mtajor product.
Market and Prices
OHIS :is the only producer of acrylic fibers in Yugosiavia.  There
is no local production of nylon or polyester and the textile industry
imports some '70% of the required raw material.
Past consumption of major fibers and estimated consumption in
1970 is as follows:



APPENDIX 7
Fage 5
1962          1966      -------:L970 Estimated ---------
Consumption   Consumption  Consumption     Of which Imports
Fibers            (tons)        (tons)       (tons)       (tons)      (')
Cotton            64,916        88,56o      114,060        106,200    93.1
W0ool             10,587        15,830       28,290         21,030    74.3
Rayon viscose     12,976        22,160       38,800          7,860    20.0
Synthetics           945         6,975       18,05(         10,700    59.3
89,4,24      133,525      199,200        1h5,790    7:3.0
Source:  Chamber of Commerce of Yugoslavia
Although there is no breakdown of "synthetics" available,
inquiries with some import firms suggest that about 50% of "synthetics"
are acrylic fibers. The estimates are based on present usage patterns
and do not take into account further substitution of synthetics for
natural fibers which may occur.  OHIS has itself made inquiries amcng
local firms and so far has obtained letters of intent frcm 21 textile
producers in Yugoslavia (out of 328 established textile firms in the
country) indicating that these 21 companies alone would be prepared to
purchase from OHIS together some 10,300 tons per year of acrylic fiber
in various forms by 1970. YIB has confirmed that about lO textile firms
are modernizing production facilities to use synthetics a.s raw materials.
Because acrylic fihers are not in dirpnt romnei-ition with nylon or nolv-
ester but rather with wool (nearly all of wlhich is imported) and as acrylic
fihers are produced locally with attendant advantages to t.he purhaser
with respect to foreign exchange, inventory stocks and delivery time, OHIS
shnoild hb in nn advantageous p   on to sell atn+. lne+a bht.wePn R8nnn nn,d
9,000 of acrylic fibers on the domestic market in L970 as against some
h, n00 tons  xnpected to be sold in the current year.  The remainder of
the total capacity of some 15,000 tons per year available in 1970 would
be exported as discussed further below.
Prines of rArrlic fihpr in t.he rnpmeqt. mnrkept. nre: onntrolle.d
Although these prices currently appear to be at levels some 35 to 50 per-
cent higher +.hnn omnprbhle eimei-rj prices in other WTestJern Euaropean
countries, OHIS does not expect that future domestic pric:es will decline.
Although current Vugoslav customs duties on imported acnrlic fibers of
various kinds range between only 5% and 920, OHIS has experienced no com-
petitioy,Pn,n frr vr.ports. sn far because,e nof thnn,r,e adartae   nit; ca 4n offe   as
local supplier with regard to delivery time, currency ancl payment arrange-
r.ents and selling services.  F- hroe     OHIS expectsT +tha4- ir.ort-+ A- -
i~ijttic O.L1..L c~L4.Lk   c~.L V.t0.  I. U±. UIJ.LIV ..JJ.~. ~,  tJ1JVll~  t  tIu±a.t  U  t-U.-L ~
on acrylic and other synthetic fibers will be raised to about 25% in the
near   futu e,  a   level, more              4early  ap-oaP  ta-t     of orspn- dte
in other European countries, (which range from about 15% in France to 30%
i1n1 .LaL±y for suaple wndyU.eUU fibL)J.  t sIU  tarU1 UeLvel" ±tV;Vt4, i-,LlporUtL .f.rIil
other European producers would, on the basis of domestic prices in the
co-untr.-y of origin, enter Lugoslavia at. leveli rouUghl-y Uq1L-valeti U
current Yugoslav domestic prices. OHIS expects that as imports become
more iiberalized, cost reductions stemming from the project wuuld allow
it to competitively reduce its domestic selling prices if necessary.



APPENDIX 7
Page 6
Earnings forecasts indicate that even without tariff protection above
the present low level, OHIS would be able, after the expamsion, to re-
duce its domestic selling prices if necessary to levels fully compet-
itive with present world prices and remain moderately profitable.
In 1966, OHIS exported some 1,300 tons of stap:Le fiber to
Turkey, France, West Germany, and Italy. Exports of acrylic fibers are
made through three separate agencies (Centrotextil, Jugotextil and
Macotextil).  These export agencies have forecast a good future demand
for OHIS' fiber production in both convertible and clearing area markets,
and have made to the Enterprise written commitments for OHIS' export
sales. The three firms together expect to be able to place in 1970
4,500 tons of acrylic fiber in convertible currency markets and 10,000
tons in non-convertible and clearing area markets, and have provided
documentation to that effect. In addition, OHIS is itse:Lf currently
discussing an arrangement involving the export to Czechoslovakia of some
5,000 tons of acrylic fiber annually by 1970 in exchange for polyester
fiber imports.  On the basis of these export possibilities, the Enter-
prise considers that it will have no difficulty in fully utilizing the
planned annus1 cnapaitv of 19,000 tons in 1Q70 thrnugh ecnort sales of
the 6,000 to 7,000 tons available in excess of minimum expected domestic
renuhir vmpnts.
Prices for OHIS exports of acrylic fibers are current1y 50%
to 65% of domestic prices in Yugoslavia, depending on the type of fiber
and the export market.   This price differenti   r e,f'let  th+ lrower
domestic price levels in countries of destination which must be met
after overcoming tariffs and tr&nsport costs.   Ailthough wyorld demand
for acrylic fibers has remained high some price competition may be ex-
pected' as new,a production fclte are bro-ight areaon in Weser ann
Eastern Europe. Cost reductions arising from OHIS' expansion project
wouJ.  LL..OW3L±)  U -  I  .I    JlU.C jJ I  i.4L  --i  -----Ji I  -  I  - -- - -- -
woul dal.low OP1IIS to earn a reasoncable profLL -lt on~JUL export D sa Cs tprsn
price levels, and should permit it to continue to export at a small prc-
l'u even i.f teXport -Pr:s were to Iailzl tUo Le-veCLs some fift teeI cent
below those forecast. Prices for the OHIS' export sales have been fore-
cast buy the Enterprisate at lulC 'Ceve'Ls olf currentlu export prices to con=
vertible currency countries, even though prices realized on expected
f'uture exports of acrylic fibers to clearing area covuutries vunder bi-
lateral trading arrangements may be substantially higher.
OHI]S has estimated sales for other products on the basis of
existing markets, and sales performance in 1966, following the usual
period for production start-up and market introduction of these products,
has indicated that these levels will be met. Domestic prices for most
of these products are also controlled, but appear to be at levels more
nearly in line with comparable domestic prices in other countries.
Export sales of OHIS products are made both directly and
through several export agencies. Chemical and vinyl asbestos products
such as granulates and tiles are exported primarily to countries in the
clearing area although sales of some products are also made in con-
vertible currency markets.



APPENDLX 7
Page 7
Export prices for the majority of these products have ranged
from 70 to 95 percent of the corresponding domestic prices for both
convertible currency and clearing area exports. Export prices for a
number of prcducts such as PVC powder, dodecylbenzene and sodium hydro-
xide have been substnatially higher than local Yugoslav prices. Sodiun
hydrozide and dodecylbenzene are exported to convertible currency markets
at prices some 40% above local Yugoslav prices, while sa:Les of PVC powder
and dodecylbenzene are also made to the clearing area at prices well
above Yugoslav levels.
Description of the Project
The project aims to expand the production capacity of the
acrylic fiber department by 10,500 tons per annum, or 233%, from the pres-
ent 4,500 tons to 15,000 tons per annum, and to expand conversion capacity
from 3,000 tons to 10,000 tons per annum for the production of highly
voluminous combed and uncombed fiber and for dyeing. The program envisages
(a) the expansion of the existing unit from 4,500 to 7,500 tons per year by
adding new equipment using the same technological process, but incorporating
recent improvements developed by the Enterprise and (b) construction of a
new production unit for acrylic fiber also having a capacity of 7,500 tons
per year.
Expansion of capacity will result in significantly higher ef-
ficiency. The unit production costs of acrylic fiber will be reduced by
about 1% from the Dresent costs when the nroiect is ooerating at full
capacity. OHIS has offers for long-term supplies of raw materials on
reasonable terms and foresees no nrobhems in ohtining the raw materials
necessary for the expanded operations.
The process for the production of acrylic fibers is conventional
and has been supplied byC ourtaulds in accordance wit1-h the latest devel.op-
ments by this firm.  The present contract for technical services between
OHTIS -nri Goqlr       mild shoqid allow OnT-TT.' engineering staff to implemment
the project satisfactorily without further direct project assistance from
Courtaulds, which the TPaterpri  fees.I wouilri hp. rnduly Pxnt-nive  Presepnt
arrangements do not exclude the provision of additional assistance from
Courtaulds shlouild this prove to be deslirable at  later date.  OHISI
technical staff have recently carried out successful experiments on in-
creasing production b-y accelerating sp-m-m, speeds,   .d --- coflde-
that they wi:Ll be able to complete the project. Equipment for the project
Costof te P^oset o   h   rv      sevmtdt         eND     8.    llo
em~ -^~  ^-P 44,e -"^A--4  4, ~ ~+ -,-04  -~ 1TJ T) -5)A 0
(US$ 14.64b million) including N.D. 40.0 million (US$ 3.2 million) in
aE  9t 4V .4,  0"U             -O v V U.h 4L6  J U.L v   U . Av . v us   ..'J, '. Uv-  . U JAJJAA.  4 x S. *. .
exchange expenditures are estimated at US$ 4.3 million cf which IBRD has
bDeen requesteld t%-o pro-Vr - Ae TTo$i 1e r, - llion. ~  0-_ - 1_-_   -~_ $2.  -,li, eqialn  ha.;U-
L'~II  ± LJ~~US~  ~'.J jJ.'JV. U IUJ%p _L._2 IILL4±±.U1i.  .PC.W  IILL_L_LLU1J  tJtLJU±VC1d.±iit.  i1d..1
been provided through a credit from the U.K. Government.   A summary of
the: pl,roJut cost etimU.1aUU is gi-vue bel-Lw:



APPENDIX 7
Forei -,.n Vy-.
change Costs    Local Cost    Total Costs
(TJS thousands)   (N.D. T) T         mTill
___ __ ___ __  ____equivalent)
Buildings                                           20.68        20.68
qui pmen4
Imported equipment               4,289             -          53.62
Custuom. dulties                   -             16V.1 -L6.12 _
Transport                          -               .50         0.50
-,  /0       -,  /0
Othners                            -              1.00         1.6
Domestic equipment                 -             46.90D       46.90
iraininrig OIf *tafI f                                  U         U6 ..
Engineerin; & design                   11            2.08         2.22
Other material and overhead
expenditures                          _             .70         0.70
4,306           89.18        143.00
Workinr7 Capital                                                 h0.00
TOTAL:                                                          183.00
Capital costs were estimated on the basis of quotations re-
ceived from prospective suppliers during the past six months. Engineering
has been done by 01IIS' own staff. Although project cost estimates do
not include a separate provision for contingencies, the degree of detail
with which the estimates have been prepared indicates that t'ne project
should be completed within the allowances provided.   Completion time is
estimated at 18 months including three months for start-up operations.
Project Financing
A summary of OHIS' estimated financial requirements and sources
of funds during project construction (1967-68 is given below:
Uses                                Sources
Project                         172.86      Net Earnings             28.09
Debt Repayment                   19.83      Depreciation             64.15
Renewals and Replacements        12.12      Long-term Debt         172.86
Reserves & Other Allocations     14.55
Additional WJ.orking Capital     35.74
265.*10                             265.:10o
Detailed earnings and cash flow projections for the construction
period and ensuing three years together with the major assumptions and
further explanations are given in Annex 2.   Forecasts in Annex 2 assume
that project implementation would begin in mid-1967 and that operations
would commence at the beginning of 1969.



APPENDIX 7
Page 9
EstL.mmted projec+ rcsts e- T To -.D  183.0 mniio4nn  of Thrh-bi M-T
172.86 million will be expended in 1967 and 1968, include working capital
requiremenes  f' ?,T.  4'.-)0 millonA rl +ed  +o th  poec  utecld
capitalized interest during construction of N.D. 8.0 million. About 35%
of he Enterpri se'ts 4tot<' fancil             A-qui4ment  +---se  w=ya
J.L  -hei   En~i LjJ   dJU..j. .L±L1aCLiLk_LO.J.  I. ~ I~~ uO LUI. .Lk  U -1j
period is expected to be financed from internal funds, while the remain-
4g C65r, t AT30D- 172*6mulo)  will--  be proide  by ln-ter debt A .  An
U±i4r  'J1) y'd .IJJ   .LfCL .IU  11J_L_LJL4.I.JLL  WY.L±J.  LU~  PI1'V_LUtU  LJY  _L%J11GLUUL-1II  UK4-UU.  .~.L
additional N.D. 10.14 million for working capital and local expenditures
fLor thi'e project -MI11ll be provided by 10on1g-terl-., deJUbt. Jin 1969e  Of the VIU olial-
long-term borrowings duringthe two-year period, IBRD will provide N.D.
18.75 millionl equivalent, excluding capit-alized interest of N.D. 1.2 *mil-
lion. Additional foreign exchange in the amount of N.D. 35.0 million
equivalent (excluding capitalized interest of N.D. 3.2 million) will be
provided through YIB from funds made available by the U.K. Government.
Tnese funds have been provided by the British Government for general
project use for the development of Skopje. Loan terms call for repay-
ment in eleven installments between December 31, 1970 and December 31,
1975 (equiva:Lent to terms of 8½ years including a grace period of 3½
years).  The interest rate for these funds will be established at each
payment date as the official UK Government lending rate plus ¼% but is
expected to be below the 6% assumed by the Enterprise for purposes of
its projections.
Local currency debt financing during the period in the amount
of N.D. 119.11 million, excluding capitalized interest of roughly N.D.
3.6 million, will be provided through the Economic Bank of Skopje, chiefly
from the Fund for the Reconstruction and Development of Skopje, a fund
of the Federal Government. Repayment of the debt will be made over a
period of 15 years, following a grace period of two years, and the interest
rate on these funds will be 4%.
Earnings and Debt Service Coverage
EarrLings forecasts (Annex 2) are based on the assumption that
sales would equal production. Annua' production in 1966 amounted to
N.D. 215.7 million, net sales invoiced were N.D. 167.1 million, and paid
net sales, (the basis for reported income) were N.D. 133.7 million. Fore-
cast production and sales levels for 1967 are N.D. 275.2 million, as pro-
duction and sales of product lines only recently introduced grow toward.
capacity levels. The expected reduction of finished goods inventory
(part of which has already taken place) from the levels of year-end 1966
should actually inflate 1967 sales and earnings above those forecast.
Depreciation.will increase in 1967 as a result of the revaluation of
assets and the amortization of preestablishmen-t expenses, and interest
charges will increase substantially as full repayment begins on additional
portions of the Enterprise's borrowings on which interest was previously
capitalized. As a result, earnings from operations in 1967 will drop
slightly from the level of 1966.



ADnoMnIT  7
Page 10
In 1968, further sales of PVC tiles and artificial leather an-
of lindane and detergents, will add to income and earnings as these pro-
duct lines are brought to capacity orperation. Sales in 1969 will grow
substantially, reflecting the production of acrylic fiber at 80% of the
newly installed capacity. Altlhough depreciation and interest charges
will both increase as a result of the project, the profit; margin on ex-
panded acrylic fiber sales will result in a substantial increase in pro-
fits of the Enterprise from 1969 onwards.
On the basis of these forecasts, and present price levels,
debt service coverage would remain above two-times throughout the con-
struction period and would increase thereafter. As a measure of the sub-
stantial cushion provided by the high profit margin on acrylic fibers,
the situation of the Enterprise under circumstances of a reduction of 25%
in the sales prices of acrylic fiber forecast for both domestic and. ex-
port sales from 1969 was considered.   Under such extreme assumptions. the
Enterprise would still remain moderately profitable and debt service
coveraqe would still be about 2.0 times in that and subsenuent vears.
Some price declines in export markets may occur, but reductions of such
scale seem Tunlikely, particularly in viewJ of the possibility that a
oart of future exports may be made to clearing area markets at prices
higoher than thoi'se forecast.  Al Mthough sonTn futiire prrin  reduction on
domestic sales of acrylic fiber may also be necessary in the event that
the present con+rolled prices are freed and importsi are liberalize, it.
appears -that the Enterprise should be able, at the least, to maintain a
sound financial 6osition in the face Of       1n, lkly future   + J tn ir!
the domestic market.
Economic Justification
The project- will bring about a substantial expansion of the
operat-sns on f. Y ugosa.v--iVaL  o uLLy proL uueru U.L of acry'1i i cfibers, and will in.
crease domestic production of raw materials for a major export industry
which current].y imports some 70a Of its textile fiber requirements.  The
project is the largest of those presently under consideration and will
create aLdditlional industriaI strength in one of the least developed areas
of Yugoslalria.  The increase in annual profits of roughly N.D. 90.00 mil.-
lion provided by the project represents a straight annual return of a'lmoZst
50% on total prcject investment of N.D. 183.0 million.   Thie project will.
allow an almost four-fold increase in the export earnings of the Enter-
prise, while the increase in annual exports to convertible currency countries
alone facilitated by the project will each year be more than one and a
half times the anmount of the IBRD loan, and over half the amount of the
total foreign exchange cost of the project.



A- ro- 1
Page 1
Cor,MParat-ivte Dalac I Sh1U   leet s_
(in Million New Dinars)
As at December 31                                       15965         1966
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash, Banks and near Cash                            22.6          61.,3
Trade .Receivables                                   i9.0          35.7
Inventories
Raw Materials and Supplies                         2C.3          37.2
Semi-finished Products                             21.3         25.()
Finishedi Products                                 10.1         54.9 _/
Total Inventories                                5T.7           117.1
Other Current Assets 2/                              26.3          57-it
Total Current Assets                                   1l9 7         271.5'
Gross Fixed Assets
Land                                                  0.1           0.1.
Buildings                                            53.8          92.2.
Machinery & Equipment                               127.7         216.5
Fixed Assets under Construction                       2.3           1.c
Preliminary Expenses, Patents, etc.                  65.8        104.4
Social/Collective Consumption Assets                  5.8           8.7_
Total Gross Fixed Assets                               255.5         423.1. 3/
less Depreciation                                   (15.3)        (2.82.l)
Net Fixed Assets                                       240.2         351.0C  !
TOTAL ASSETS                                           359.8         652.5
T.TAPTT.TTSP
Current Liabilities
Sho-rtterm Debt to Banks                              14.14        141.5 5/
Trade Payables                                       16.5          24.7
Other Current L;abilities   6/                       30.2         1165
Total Current, Liabilities                                  12.7
Long-term Debt   7/                                    306.5         378.0
Funds of the Enterprise
Business Fund                                         1 6          87.7   /
Reserve Funds                                         0.1           0.5
Colletv     Co-4,;4-o   Vnds                            if.         I.6
Total Own Funds                                           2.2         91.8
Current Assets/Current Liabilities                     2.314:1       1.149:1
Long-term Debt/Ow,nm Fnds                               99X!1         81219
(Notes on following page)



Annex 1
Page 2
O H I S
Earnings Statements
(In 'Million New Dinars)
1965 I/
(6 rnonthq)        1966
Sae   Revenues 2/                            51.83          133.70
TotalV Goset
Depreciatio nd                                6.03           15435
Interest                                      0.66            9.17
ITA-                                        I  n    e   n  'Ie
N,arxls an        uperatinons              4,.),
N     tlon-operating Earnings                 .81
Non-operating Expenses                        1.63            6.32
Net Earnings                                3.43           13.92
Debt Service! Coverage (times)                N.A.            2.3
1/ Commercial operations began July 1, 1965.
2/ On basis of sales paid.
Notes to Balance Sheets (preceeding page)
1/  Includes extraordinary inventories of PVC tiles and other new products.
2/  Includes cost of goods sold for sales invoiced but not paid, other
transitory items and prepaid expenses.
3/  Includes increase of N.D. 78.1 million in gross value of buildings,
machinery and equipment due to year-end revaluation.
4/  Includes increase of N.D. 56.3 million in net value of buildings,
machinery and equipment due to year-end revaluation.
5/  Primarily short-term notes secured by inventory to finance extra-
ordinary inventories of new products.
6/  Includes sales value of goods invoiced but not paid, accrued
expenses and other liabilities.
7/  Includes current maturities.
IFC/LAEA
May 25, 1967



t-nnex 2
Page 1
O H I S
Financial Forecasts
(in Million New Dinars)
Construiction Years
Year ending December 31                               1967          1968           1969         1970           1971
I.  1;arnings Statement
Dross Sales'/                                    300.13        386.38         602'.35      667.12         670.2L
Commissions & Rebstes                             2[-.95        27.05          h9. 19        53            5
1:et ,3ales                                      275.18        359.33        7~TT          613.75
Cperating Coats
'Materials and Overhead                       161.9li       219.60         327.81       35h.55         355099
'!et '-hges!/                                  26.07         26.82          29.L!8       30.1L          30.1L½
Related So--iai Payments 2/                    1L.19         lh.59          16.O0        16. La         16.bo
Taxes and Contributions                         4.30          5.08           7'l.0        8.73           9.61
Total Operating Costs    2      0     6      ".5--'-"-t                  ar 7 a0 2.09               77 --- 7
repreciation 3/                                   31.03         33.12         1a5.26        li5.26,        L5.26
Interest                                          23.48         23.22          28.02        30-93          31.80
Net Earnings                                   1L.17         36.90         100.15       127.7          127.l,2
!I. oSrces and Appi'oatior- of    .dz
Sources
Net Earnings (Previous Year)4/                    13.92         l4.17          36.90       100.15         127.7L
Interest                                          23.48         23.22          28.02        30.93          31. 90
Depreciation                                      31.03         33.12         i45.26        L5.26           5.26
Increase in Long-Torma Debt
IR80                                          13.12           5.63           -            _
ITK Crediit                                    2LI.50        10.50           -
YIB and Other Banks                             7.oL,        72.07          10.1L          _
Total Sources                                 143.09        158.71         120.32       176.3L         20L.80
Applics tions
Droject: Fixed ASsets - Foreign                   37.62         16.13
- Local                    47.0h         lo.07           2.1L          -
'lorking Capital                           -           32.00          8.00
Total Project                                89TF6          d8.20         10.11          --
Renewals and Replacements                          5.62          6.50           7.00         7.50           3.00
Other Fixed Assets                                  -             -              .. 
Interest
FiBstipg Long-.Term Debt                       18.3L         17.81          17.36        16.89          16.11n
TIRfn 5   6                                                    -             n Q 6        1.21           1.16
UFK Credit6/                                                  --                           1-.1          2.02
YI3 and Other Banks7                             -             -             2.66         5.12           LF. L
_hort-Terrr. Dellt                              5.15L 7.35 ,,)O                           C;.U
Total Interest                             23.i45         23.22          2W02         30-93          31.60
Principal Repayrnents
Exist4pg Long-Terra Debt                        9.65         10.18          10.63        11.09          11.59
TBR1D                                            -             -             O.56         1.18           1.26
UK Credit °/                                     -             -             -            2.98           6 .23
YIB and Other Banks7/                            -             -             3.27         6.75          .792
Total Repayments                              9.65           1                          22 .05.1
Allocations to Reserve Funds./                     2.19          3.22           7.21         8.61           8.60
Allocations for Collective Consumntion             2.1h0         6.7L          18.59        23.83          23.7f
Subtotal                                    128.00        180j2                        92.87
Net additions to 'Jorking Capital                 15.09o06                     390          8_.__         1_0_.__
Total AppLic.ations                        143.09         158.71        120.32        176.3h          9ln
;.og-,er-m tcon  b   Svice Coverage (times)9/      2.26          2.33           2.93         3.66           3.85



ANNEX 2
Page 2
oHIs
Financial Forecasts _ Assuantions and Fxnlanations
Sales Volume and Sales Revenues (Value in Million New Dinars)
1967               1968                i969   _           197m0               1071
Oty.   Value       Ot,.    Value       Oty.   VaLue        Stv.   Value       Oty.   Value
Tons  _        TUssD-:_           Tons    _           Tn                 Tons     _
Products
Acrylic Fibers                                       4,500    146.7      4,500   147.7     12,900    35'.0     15,000   417.5     15,000    417.5.
PVC - Powder                                         3,000     11.2      3,000    11.2      3,000     11.2      3,000    11.2      3,000     11.2
pVC =     ranulate                                   1,200      76       1,n200    7 6      1.200      L.6      1-200     7.6      1.200      7.6
Vinylasbestos Tilesl/                                  860     11.5      1,400    19.3      1,700     22.8      2,100    27.4      2,400     30.9
Artificial Leather!/                                    500     8.6      1,440    39.7      1,440     39.7      1,440    39.7      1,440     39.7
PVC Sets                                               750     11.0        750    11.0        750     11.0        750    11.0        750     11.0
Corrugated PVC Tilesl/                                 300      7.5        500    12.5        500     12.5        500    12.5        500     12.5
PVC - Bottles2/                                           9     3.6         12     4.8         12      41.8        12     4.8          12     4.8
Sodium Hidroxide                                     5.317      4.6      5,317     4.6      5,317      4,.6     5,317     4.6      5,317      4.6
Hyrochloride                                         3,600      0.7      3,600     0.7      3,600      0.7      3,600     0.7      3,600      0.7
Lindane                                                260     9.5         440    15.8        440    1';.8        440    15.8        440     15.8
Plant Protection Agents                              6,190     11.3      6,190    11.3      6,190     1].3      6,190    11.3      6,190     11.3
Monochloracetic Acid                                   800      3.2        800     3.2        800      3.2        800     3.2        800      3.2
HCI.                                                 2,000      0.7      2,000     0.7      2,000      0.7      2,000     0.7      2,000      0.7
Dodecylbenzene                                       5,055      9.8      5,055     9.8      5,055     59.8      5,055     9.8      5,055      9.8
Light Alkylate                                         900     0.2         900     0.2        900     0.2         900     0.2        900      0.2
Detergents                                           7,500     34.0     15,000    68.2     15,000   6U.1       15,000    68.2     15,000     68.1
Sulphuric Acid                                         875      0.2      2,780     0.5      2,780     C.5       2,780     0.5      2,780      0.5
PVA Emulsion                                         4,000     16.9      4,000    15.9      4,000    15.5       4,000    15.1      4,000     14.8
Export Facilities3/                                            1.3                 1.7                 5.3                5.3                 5.3
Total Gross Sales                                        300.14/             386.4              602.3               667.1              670.2
of which Exports
Acrylic Fiber                                        1,000     16.3      1,500    25.0      6,300    124.8      7,000   ]3(.9      7,000    1.37.9
PVC Powder                                           3,000     11.2      3,000    11.2      3,000     11.2      3,000    11.2      3,000     11.2
PVC - Granulate                                        200      1.2        200     1.2        200      1.2        200     1.2        200      1.2
Vinylasbestos Tiles                                    400      4,7        500     5.8        Buo      9.3      1,200    1-        1,50      17.4
Artificial Leather                                     150      2.4        300     4.8        300      4.8        300     4.8        300      4.8
Solium Hydroxide                                     1,000      1.1      1,000     1.1      1,000      1.1      1,000     1.1      1,000      i.1
Lindane                                                100      3.1        200     6.2        200      6.2        200     6.2        200      6.2
Plant Protection Agents                              4,000      4.5      4,000     4.5      4,000      4.5      4,ooo     1,.5     4,o0o      4.5
Dodecylbenzene                                       1,000      2.5      1,000     2.5      1,000      2.5      1,000     2.5      1,000      2.5
Detergent                                            1,000      3.7      1,000     3.7      1,000      3.7      1,000     3.7      1,000      3.7
PVA - FEmulsion                                      1,000      3.5      1,500     5.2      2,000     7.0       2,500     8.8      3,000     10.5
Export Facilities-                                             1.3                 1.7                 5.3                5.3                 5.3
Total Exports                                              55.5               73.0              181.6               201.1               206.3
Domestic Sales and Export Sales y
Curreocy Areas
Domestic                                                      244.6              313.4               420.7              466.o               463.8
Exports - Clcaring Area                                        43.0               57.0               132.0              15].                156.8
- Convertible Area2'                                  12.5                16.0               49.6                49.6                49,6
300.1               386.4              602.3               667.1              670.2
1/ Quantity in 1,000 m'
-/ 0,,-stity in 1,000 units,
3/  Incentive premium of 12% on convertible currency exports.
b/ Net sales in 1967 forecast at N.D. 275.2. Production in 1966 was N.D. 215.7 million and Net Sales Paid N.D. 133.7 milli7n.
5/ Includes 12% export incentive facilities.
Notes to Financial Forecasts (preceding page)
1/ Sales forecasts as above.    Based on assurmDtiorl that sales equals production in each year.
2/  Variable wage distributions represent about 14% of total payments in each year.
3/  Reflects revaluation of assets at year-end 1966.   Includes amortization of Dreestablishment expenses.
_/ Earned funds are released for use only in following year.
5/ Interest at 6½% capitalized daring construction. Rerayment in 24 equal semi-annual installments beginning July 1, 1969.
6/  Interest at 6% capitalized during 3½< year grace period.  Perayment in 11 e,ual semi-annual installments beginning December 31, 1970.
7/  Interest at 4% capitalized during construction.   Renayment in 30 equal semi-annual installments buginning July 1, 1969.
5/ Estimated minimum requirements.
9/ Previous year's earnings plus cuarrent denreciation and interest on long-term debt over interest ard principal nayments orn long-term debt.



APPENDIX 8
Page 1
KIKINDA
The Borrower
The prospective borrower is Livinca Zeljeca I Tempera "Kikinda,'r
primarily a foundry which produces malleable and gray iron castings.      Fart
of the castings are further processed by the Enterprise for its production
of tube fittings, machine tools, and stoves.     The Enterprise was established
in 1908.   The main plant is located at Kikinda, a medium size town in the
Republic of Serbia, some 120 km due north of Belgrade near the Rumanian
border.   There is a second plant at Mokrin, 15 km from Kikinda.      Kikirda
is served with good rail and road connections.
The Enterprise has foundry capacities of about 13,000 tons/year for
malleable iron castings and 2,000 tons/year for gray iron castings.      The
foundries are operated at capacity.     Kikinda is the largest producer in
Yugos'lavia of malleable cast iron and is resnonsible for about 60% of the
country's output.    In 1966, Kikinda manufactured also some 980 tons (138
pieces) of machine tools and some 2-670 tons of nine fittlings.     Total
sales in that year reached N.D. 79.5 million ($6.4 million) of which 30%,
represented eportn.s    Kikinda employn1   aout lj)h50 workers.
The p incipl exPnort markets for Ki.kindass castingare TItalv
and Iran, while machine tools are exported to Czechoslovakia, Poland ancL
the TTAP-
To  vro..rdcinbtlncsl                   +he~ mnlle'hlo iron foirlctry
~~~k         ,- , - -+1or.lc -  r V-+1-~  --V2 - - h - --   - - -'r - - -
and to improve quality Kikinda plans to increase malleable casting capacity
from 8,00 tons/year to about 13,000 tonsP/year by additions to present heat
treatment facilities.    It will also replace its obsolete gray iron
lfoundn witht a new Ifoundry having  - an annua  capcit  of4 abou -k ,000 tons4-,
or some two and a half times present capacity.     Both parts of the project
are to be carried ou   at the K±Ki-1-1da planLIt.
lot-all project- costus are estimated atL N.D. 37.   r,ilon   n4.9
million) of which IBRD has been requested to cover the foreign exchange
portion ofL $1.1" M.llionL.VL 
1u UU1   .  p. ± i1±J.UI
ri story of the Borrower
Fowudry operations started at Kikinda in 1908 as part OI an
adjacent brick factory.    The gray iron foundry and the production of
stoves were transferred to Mokrin in 1960.     In recent years the Enterprise
has successfuLly implemented several plans of modernization and expansion.
In 1962, the malleable iron foundry at aikinda was revamped by the installa-
tion of a modern and mechanized melting and casting line from Italy and
capacity was further increased in 1964 with German equipment.      In the
same year a new workshop was constructed to modernize machine tool produlc-
tion, which had begun in 1949.    The workshop now produces modern radiaL



APPEND,X 8
Page 2
drills, surface grinders and other miscellaneous machine tools of Kikincla1s
own design, as well as cylindrical grinders under license from the FORTTJNA-
Werke of Germany and lathes under license from H. & Ernault SOMUA of France.
Kikinda receives technical and marketing assistance from the two licensors
and purchases components from them.   The agreement with FORTUNA was
recently extended to 1970 and while that with SOMUA expires in August 15,67,
it is expectecd to be continued on an informal basis.  The imported content
now averages about 12%o of total cost of machine tools and is principally
due to large-sized high-quality castings of gray iron. The proposed
expansion of the foundry will reduce the dependence on imported castings by
more than half'.
Kikinda sells its castings to a large number of Yugoslav
manufacturers in the automotive, machine tool and electrical industries
including TAM, another Enternrise under the nronosed IBRD loan.
The small foundrv at the Mokrin nplnt will hp shut down upon
completion of the project.   At that time the production of stoves and
cooking ranges will remain aI. Mok-rv n - evr.-t+ually I +to be dis conti nudri as the
Enterprise expands its other lines.
Equipment at Kikinda is modern and well kept.   Performance and
quality standards at the Kikinda foundJr appear excellent.   Productivity
in the machine tool shop is low and could be increased by more extensive
uSe off modern- J-ig andv fixturss.  MLaci-,Aine *,uv ---H4- I,n sww>7ns1- 
~  .JJ.  ~ ~ L  a11.  J. LALUJ. ~.J. 1~LL11 Vu..J _L  % 2'-,a J. V.J ,  S.VW~V U~.L ,  Ll-   ~~A
utilized by only about 60% in the recent past.   This is due in part to
liie  avai.lablit y ofL foreiLgn exchange flor thLle i riot ol thLrqure
.LJ.JUJ.. bV~~ VJ.L.L  Uy  U   LLJ~L~L~,i±  jUL  L,L1~  £IiJ9UJ.L~  ~-J.  LIL ,i C ~.] U-.L VU
high-quality gray iron castings and of components, but also to the fact that
JA±Jiinda, as Ls norJm1l 11 ULn t Ln1UU6UbLy, prE'0duLes maIchlin e Uools ln ID atchlies
and as far as possible only against specific orders.   Order backlog for
the shop is now over 9 months: production, however, and capacity utiliza-
tion is reported at 80%.   Quality of the machine tools produced by Kikinda
is good.
iva1ag=einenit
The plant is efficiently managed.   Tne Generai IvManager, Mr. Milan
Kuzmancev, rose to his present position from the working ranks.   He has an
excellent knowledge of the Enterprise's operations and appears to be
primarily responsible for the good relations between management and labor.
He is assisted by an able team.   Nikola Lepadat is the Technical Director
and is in charge of the project.   He was for the past six years manager
of the malleable iron foundry and was responsible for the earlier moderniza-
tion and expansion plans.



APPENDIX 8
Page 3
Recent Financial and Earnings Record
Balance Sheets for the last four years (1963-1966) are shown in
Annex 1.   The 'Balance Sheet as of December 31, 1966 is summarized below
(in Million N.D.)
Assets                                 Liabilities
Cash and Equivalent           4.9     Short-term Bank Debt            19.7
Receivables                  19.7     Accounts Payable                 6.7
Inventories                  36.3     Other Current Liabilities       33.0
Other Current Assets         28.1        Total Current Liabilities    59.4
Total Current Assets      I9nO Long-term Debt                      42.9
Net Fixed Assets             50.4     Business Fund and Reserves      37.1
139.4                                   139.4
In the past six years Kikinda has completed a substantial trans-
formation of its productive facilities.   During that time the major
additions to plant have been the reconstruction of the malleable iron
foundry and the machine tool shop.   Between 1963 and 1966, with only a
small effect (N.D. 6.2 million) from the 1966 year-end revaluation, total
assets of the Enterprise have doubled, from N.D. 70.5 million to N.D. 139.4
million.   Between 1962 and year-end 1965, the period of major investment,
additions to gross value of buildings, machinery, and equipment totalled
N.D. 39.3 million, resulting in a more than four-fold increase from X.D.
12.2 million to N.D. 51.5 million.
While this growth in productive assets has supported a similar
increase in sales, (from N.D. 26.1 million in 1962 to N.D. 79.5 million in
1966), and profits of the Enterprise have also grown steadily, fixed asset
growth has been financed almost entirely through long-term debt.    Between
1962 and 1965, Kikinda contracted an additional N.D. 33.4 million in debt
for fixed asset investment.   During the same period funds generated by
the Enterprise from earnings and depreciation totalled N.D.. 23.9 million,
and were used both to pay back long-term debt and to provide the working
capital required for sales expansion.   Additional funds for working capital
were obtained from further long-term borrowings (N.D. 3.0 rnillion) and by
the use of short-term bank debt.
Al-though Kikindals growing earnings base could be considered
sufficient to sunnort a debt burden of these pronortions on normnl lending
terms, the repayment terms of the credits obtained by the Enterprise are
nusually short.    The weighted average repanment period of the loans
for fixed assets presently outstanding is only 4.6 years, after an average
g'race pei-nriod of less +.than +two yar., while I a +average intr+est.aC!+.
rate is 7.6%.   The largest block of these credits was obtained from the
Yugoslav Foreign Trade Bank (Jugobanka   n 1     in     loans totalling



APPENDIX 8
=_
Page it4
N.D. 13.2 million, to be repayed over I years after 2 yearst grace at 8%'
interest.   These loarns were used to finance the major equipment imports
for the Enterprise's expansion programs, and were tied to suppliers
credits in foreign exchange assumed by Jugobanka.     At the time of the
dinar devaluation of July 1965 the value of this debt rose to N.D. 21.1
million, and Kikindals repayment obligations (though in dinars) rose
correspondingly.
Both Kikinda and Jugobanka have expressed satisfaction with the
present arrangements for repayment.     The terms of the original borrowing
were established intentionally to allow a rapid discharge of the obligation,
on the one hand, and to stimulate the Enterprise to attaiin its objectives,
on the other.    At the time of the original lending in 1963 stand-by
facilities totalling some N.D. 3.9 million were also made available by
Jugo'oanka.  These were to be used in the event that the expected devalua-
tion and associated measures of the impending Economic Ref'orm should have
the net result of a need by Kikinda for additional funds.      In 1966, when
full debt service began on the major portion of Kikindats loans, the
Enterorise utilized N.D. 1.0 million of these   stand-by credits to meet its
loan repayments.    While Kikinda's management expects that; it will utilize
the remaning portion of the Jugobanka's supnlementary lending in 1967,
and realizes that the use of its own funds will be entirely tied to debt
repayment thrnlngh iQ6R and severely limited thereby throupgh 1970, it does
not believe that it will have great difficulty in meeting its obligations
and w^;ould not dish to alter their terms The Enterprise points out that
its sales and earnings forocasts are extremely conservative, and that other
measures for obtaining fimndc -in+nl      are cstill auvilbhle,- suich as a
reduction of variable wage distributions which presently (and as forecas-lt)
ar    o ut, '6 ,'0 o+ the totYal wa  bill, or over N.D. 3 million annually.
J     -ugoanka, Po ±- i VJtiWa KkndIa haned a fuurther loan for
working capita'l purposes 1/ of N.D. 10 million in 1966, has confirmed that,
because of KiktLnda's sound operations andC excel'lent4 per-forruance,, htnlr
would be williing to provide additional funds if necessary or to guarantee
other loans made to the Enterprise.     The Econom,ic Bank of Belgrade, to
whom Kikinda has recently transferred its accounts, and through whom the
EnteLprise has approached YiB    4.ie,lt   present proect, bas a-so epressed
its readiness to provide funds to Kikinda for working capital purposes
or further investment, and to provide full guarantees on Kikinda's new
borrowings.
1/ The purposive use of bank loans is controlled by the banks and the
Social Accounting Service, and loans for permanent working capital
investment cannot be used to repay fixed asset debt.



APPENDTX 8
Fage 5
The earnings performance of the Enterprise over the past few
years would seem to justify the assessment of Kikinda by its bankers as
a growing and profitable, and operationally sound firm.   Earnings state-
ments for the past four years are given in Annex 1, page 2.    Sales
volume by major product groups, paid sales and net earnings from operat-ions
for the years 1963-1966 are summarized below.
Sales Volume (in tons)               1963      196lh     1965      1966
Malleable Iron Castings
(for direct sale)                  2,684     2,780     3,520     3,393
Finished Pipe Fittings              1,678     2,10C)    2,299     2,671
Machine Tools                         490       483       772       979
Stoves                              3,115     4,005     3,711     3,758
Sales and Earnings (in Million N.D.)
Net Sales Paicd 1/                  43.52     52.62     72.28     79.52
Earnings from ODerations             3.62      3.66      5.45      6.51
1/   Includes miscellaneous items (primarily patterns) not shown in procluct
breakdown.
Kikindats sales have risen steadily as its productive capacity has
been increased, and as it has concentrated increasingly on higher quality
output in all its product lines.    Although material costs and overhead
have also risen as a percentage of sales, and labor costs have increased
in line with a growing labor force and wage adjustments at; the time of
t he E o inomJ Li c 1:rfO MI I I, pro %fiL t s hva-ve,a cV n t i.. n ued a st eady, i Les dra,matic,
growth throughout the period of expansion.   Full utilization of the
malleable iron. EoundLi au aduditional1 sadles growth hi±as bee.n -L.Lr1eUdU bJy ULIt
available heat treatment facilities, whereas the market for Kikinda's
castings is strong.  The Enterprise ^oAd sell i -  e+ -+e curr   - ,,o-t,,
.L.-       --~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~~~  ~1  ~ U~  X9  4   J.L A.  11v   V
of fittings to Italy but has had to decline orders in order to serve the
local maret.  The Eterprise has establl4sbed in a relat.v,ely shor  ti 4-4me
"o -   zImarket .  rn1 e  EnIi u Lpii  e  Lic.:  UaCLJJ.-LAi~  ±1A   a  £  CLU  Vt--J.  .J.JL IU  U.1LiliU
an excellent name for itself in local markets for all of its product lines,
and iLs mraking an increasingly aggrs     thrust, JJc ±u±crlyw    its
machine tools, into export markets.
Prices and Competitive Position in Export Markets
Local prices for Kikindals products have increased by about 10%
over the past three years.   KikindaTs export prices oI machine toois to
Eastern countries are normally 10% and sometimes by as much as 25% above
Yugoslav prices, due to bilateral trading premiums, while those to Western
Europe are by about 15-18% below domestic prices.   Fittings are exported
exclusively to hard currency countries and were soldi last year at prices



APPENDIx 8
Page o
somewhat more than 20% below comparable domestic prices.    In 1966 the
Enterprise started to export automotive castings to Volvco in Sweden at prices
higher than those charged for automotive castings used domestically.    This
seems to have been due primarily, however, to the higher quality and more
sophisticated nature of export castings.    Taking into account that import
duties on machine tools vary, for example, between 5 to 14.5% in France,
2% to 8% in Germany and 10% in the U.K. (all ad valorem) and that fittings
exported to Italy (the manor recipient for this portion of the Enterprisets
exports) must overcome an import duty of about 11% plus other taxes,
Kikinda's domestic prices are not out of line with the price levels at ,which
these same goods sell in WXestern Europe.
There is a ceiling on domestic prices and the Enterprise has
conservatively assumed in its financial forecasts that prices for both
domestic and foreign sales will decline, even though Kikinda will under-
take the production of an increasingly sophisticated assortment in each
of its product lines.
The Yugoslav Foundrv Industry
There are 9Lh foundries in Yuioslavia which in 1965 oroduced close
to 360,000 tons of castings of which 300,507 tons (8h%)weregray and malleable
castings;h1,878tons(ll%) steel castings and 16,919 tons '(5%)  non-ferrcus
castings.   Kikinda ranks about 10th in size and will be among the largest
nftpr the nrpnrose  PnrRn-ion_   After WoTnrldi War II the industry emanded
rapidly and experienced average growth rates of about 13% per year for gray
iron castings ane   Z 8% for mfal nnleabl   ^-sings  Tmmenit 1n+.cly af+t.er +.tih -Afra
emphasis was placed on increasing production but recent investments haves
concentrated on rationanliz-ation- of production.
The industry is a net exporter .   ->ring the peIrod 1962/65 blJo-+
152,500 tons of gray iron castings and about 30,250 tons of malleable
castin4gs weeepotdKapee,tn             6   _an -1. esetvl      ofP total
U_LrC   V 1.p0.LeU,             - ±/0 daIU  ±LL410 .Let-,O UU U..Vt::±Y  0  t, 0 U C-L
Yugoslav production.   During that same period imports into Yugoslavia
an.oun -t-sd t o 9,7C  t _~ons ofL gra'y iron castV.lngs andu 3,6 to cns ofP m,all eabl
iron castings.   These figures do not take into account castings that were
traded i- a processed state.
Tne FOundry Asisociation OI- 'ugosiavia recently maae a study
projecting the demand for castings in 1970/71.    The stucly concluded that
total demand for castings at that time would be about 5143,500 tons,
representing an increase of 183,500 tons above 1965 production.    This
expected consmxnption is the lowest oI iour diIIerent projections oI tne
expected market growth.   The Association considers the estimate to be
conservative, assuming as it does an average growth rate of less than
10%.   The Association has recommended to the industry to plan production
in 1970/71 fo:r the following outputs (which are compared to 1965 sales):



APPENDIX 8
PDage 7
Est. demand      Sales     Increase over
i970/71 ~  ~~~~~~ i96  16I5U') sa]les
(in tons)
Gray Iron Castings           430,000       293,200       136,800
Malleable Iron Castings       22,500        12,66h4        9,836
Steel Castings                56,000        41,878        14,122
Non-Ferrous Castings          3-5 _U D0 1699              10,081
51 3 En5n     QAh AM!       1 7R  9
Kikinda1s planned expansion would represent 2.1% and 59% of the
expected additional demand 1970/71 (versus 1965 sales) of gray and malleable
iron castings respectively.   This would just about maintain Kikindals
market position in malleable iron castings and slightly increase it for
gray iron castings.
The Yugoslav Machine Tool Industry
Production of machine tools did not start until after World War
II when a limited range was manufactured in small ouantities.   In the
early 60ts, the industry was reorganized and considerable investments were
made in modernizing and expanding manufacturing canacities and in training
workers.   Since then production has been growing fast, at an average annual
rate of 18,C. while the range of machine tools nroduced grewP also.  Tn the
late 50ts Yugoslavia started to export and since 1963 it has been exporting
about 3% of its production-    Tmnorts also grew (both in absolute terms
and as a percentage of consumption) through 196h when they started to
dipeli nes  The  fnllnrinrr +.n'hl a  nr1i  en+.o-  +1-ii  A-Sr~17 n-O n+  rnf' 4-1-  -1_ A  .-.v4-
(Figures for 19656 unavailable).
1957     1960     1963     1964     19615
Production (tons)                3,383    3,920    5,100    7,686    9,16l3
-.m+    (+r-T+ Z +.n.n              70      C],7   1 ).0o   ' f1.o   ' 7n1.
= -l   "  --v                    I M_4 vL;      1,4/ -     _924w   n   -1z4
Imports (tons)                   2,201    L,073   11,000   12,460    8,99h4
Consumption (tons)               6,512    7,446   'X4,610  17,606   1E,h58
Exports as %` of Production         2%      15%      28%      32%/     30'%
p-oVrs.~ as / of C/'onsumption 2LJ50        55£.  L /O  I.),  71 ±A 
Kikinda is one of the largest producers of machine tools and in
1965 was responsible for 17% of the countryts total production and for 19Ct
of exports.   Kikindals specialty is the manufacture of grinders, of which
it produces about one-third of local production.
It i s planned to further modernize the indusqtmr rdiring the next
few years when production of increasingly sophisticated machine tools will
he  ndert.aken   Forecasts indicate that by 1970 Yugoslavria's machine tool



APPENDIX 8
Page U
production wi:Ll have reached about 2h,500 tons, or 2.7 times that of 1965.
Although tnis increase may not be acnieved it is expected that the
industryls growth will be at least as fast as in the past.
The installed production capacity o1f the machine tool industry
is about 18,000 tons/year, nearly twice the 1965 production.    No further
major expansion is envisaged immediately in the industry and Kikinda also
plans none.   It is believed that through rationalization of manufacturLng
programs both within the Enterprises and among them, capacity could meet
estimated 1970 production targets.    (24,500 tons).  The Yugoslav Machine
Tool Association has drawn up long-term plans for achieving such rational-
ization and under this plan Kikinda will gradually concentrate on the
production of grinders leaving lathes and drilling machines to other
manufacturers.
Description ofE the Project
The project, which will be implemented at the Fikinda plant,
has two distinctive aims:
1.   To increase the production capacity of the malleable iron
foundry from 8,000 tons per year to about 13,000 tons per
year by the installation of a new heat treatment furnace.
2.   To construct a new foundry for the manufacture of grav iron
castings with a production capacity of approximately 5,000
tons ner year.
The new furnace will mTake it pnnssihle to fully utilize the
casting capacity presently existing in the malleab:Le iron foundry which
is presently u]nused due to insuffieient heat treatr.ient facilities=  Frther-
more, present heat treatment equipment enables prodluctiorL of ferritic
malleable iron but is not suitable for the production of pearlitic malleable
iron, for which the Enterprise expects demand to increase substantially
hoth at home an1nd ahbrod.  The new furnace ni will not only allow production
of pearlitic malleable iron but will also eliminate the present problem
of wa-tning of 1arge nnA iJnt- r  cn+ a sn gs+ during hea+v treatr.er.t  The
furnace, which will operate on natural gas, will also bring about sub-
Stnt+a L-Povemnt1 in o.-+4-           -_ -_ |.__ 4 _4 P4--4 -_ du - Jon Jn cost_
A new, modern- mechanized gray iron founUdry w.itUI anl anrm-Ual capa:cit-y
of about 5,000 tons will replace the foundry at Mokrin which is outmoded
(most eq-uipment is approXiLMately 60 years old) and -will permit an lrcre5C
in the production of high-quality castings, particuarly of the types reqluired
for Kikinda1s own machine tool production.   Modernization and expansion
of the Mokrin foundry would not be economical nor practicable.    Because
of- lack of space and suitable materials handling and other equipment the
Mokrin foundry does not permit the casting of individual pieces of more
than 34 kg.



APPENDIX 8
Page 9
Thne processes and equipm,ent proposedu f1or th-I-e foundries are
conventional and the Enterprise should have no difficulties in operating
them properly.
Cost of the Projct
The cost of the project is estimated at N.D0 37.0 million ($2.96
.million).  Foreign exchange expenditures are estim-ated at $1 .1 mlion and
an IBRD loan is sought to cover this amount. A summary of' the project
costs follows:
Foreign Ex-                       Total Costs
change costs      Local Costs     (NOD. million
($ thousands)   (N.D. million)    eguivalent)
Civil Works                                         1.94            1.94
Mrachinery and Equipmnent        l,U41.I            3.37            i6.38
Freight and Insurance               36.2            0.78            1.23
Port Duties                         -               3.12             3.12
Erection                             5.8            0.12            0.19
Engineering Drawings                13.5                            0.17
Additional War ing Canital          -              1L.00           1i).nn
The project has been engineered by Kikindals own staff.   The
cost estimates are based on quotations received from prospective suppliers
during the past; six months.  For most of the equipment, delivery periods
of bhtween 8 to l0 months are eninsaged and it is expected that the project
will be completed about one and a half years after financing becomes
Pro.ject Financing
A suLmmary of Kikindats estimated financial requirements and
sources of fundcs during projiect construction (1967-1968) is given below:
(in Million N.D.)
Uses                                 Sources
Project                      37.03    Net Earnings                  11.36
Debt repayment               25.30
Reserves and Other Alloca-            Depreciation                  10.18
tions                        .50
Additiolal Working Gapif,+nal  _T T.-,,         Th,eADb+             )I 7)
OJ.g     flf±I5~±~~1I0  J~              4  0 I 
6/3.27                                  63.27



APPENDIX 8
Page 10
Detailed earnings and cash flow projections for the constrruction
period and the ensuing three years together with the major assumptions and
further explanations are given in Annex 2. Forecasts in Annex 2 assume that
orders would be placed in mid-1967 and that the new capacities would be opera-
tional by the beginning of 1969.
Estimated project costs of N.D. 37.03 million include working
capital requirements of N.D. l4.00 million related to the project but
exclude  capitalized interest during construction of N.D. 1.9 million.    As
mentioned above, debt repayments during the construction period will require
the flill use of internally generated funds plus some supplementary borrowing
from local barnks.  About 34% of requirements during the construction
period is expected to be financed by the Enterprisets internal funds and
the remaining 66% (or N.D.41.73) from long-term borrowings.    Of these,
IBRD would provide N.D. 13.71 million ($1.1 million), excluding capitalized
interest of N.D. 0.7 million, while YIB and other local banks would
contribute N.D. 23.32 million, excluding capitalized interest of N.D. 1.2
million, for t;he project, and a further N.D. 4.70 million in supplementary
lending.
Earnings and Debt Service Coverage
Earnings forecasts (Annex 2) are based on the assumption that
sales would equal production.   Sales are assumed to be s:Lightly higher
in 1967 due tco a growth in castings and machine tool sales which seems
well justified by present order levels.    Earnings would be slightly
lower in 1967 because of increased depreciation due to asset revaluation
and higher interest charges, but would regain present levels in 1968.
Sales growth from the project would begin in 1969,'but is accompanied in
Kikinda's projections by sharp price reductions (averaging 25%) on machine
tools, in line with the increasing orientation toward hard currency export
sales.   Other prices are forecast to decline about 5%.    In 1970 earnings
are exDected to rebound from their temporarv dip in 1969, as production
levels of castings and fittings are brought to the limits of the new
foundry canacities.
Exhport sales are forecast to grow substantially, and by 1970
will account for more than half of total sales.    Kikinda presently has
long-term contracts for the supplv of fittings to Italy. and castines to
Sweden (principally Volvo and International Harvester).    The marketing
facilities ofP FORTITTA and SOITTA will provide a strong base for its emxports
of machine tools, 70%0 of which will be made to hard currency areas, although
ICikinda npans to sell primarily through its eymnor. qagneies=
ITnArtlipqP snlpq           i-PnnvmPr+.;z nn ilrinrinl.Q 1rmi-.+.,nnri ra
debt, as outlined earlier, would continue to absorb the Enterprisels
entire internal generation of funds in both 1967 and 1968     To cover its
obligations the remaining N.D. 2.9 million in stand-by funds provided for
this pur,ose would be drawn dow;3n from. Jugobanka in 1967,  -.nd Kii nda wouLd
make use of additional local credits projected at roughly N.D. 1.8 million.



AD D'MThY V
Page 11
Both Jugobanka and the Economic Bank of Belgrade have indicated their
willingness to provide the necessary funds.   The Enterprise has projected
no investments in renewais and replacements during 1967 and 1968 because
of the recent acquisition of all major plant and equipment, while main-
tenance expenditures have been forecast at adequate levels.    Kikindats
bankers would also be prepared to provide funds for minor fixed asset
investment should this be necessary.   Working capital adequate to cover
the forecast growth of operations is to be provided by YIB and other local
banks in connection with the project.
Debt service coverage in 1969 would again become positive as
debt repayments resume more normal levels and a small surplus in funds
would be generated.   Since generated earnings are released for use only
in the subsequent year debt service coverage as defined in these forecasts
would remain low in 1970, but by 1971 more-than-adequate levels would be
resumed, even under the conservative pricing assumptions adopted by the
Enterprise.   Given the assurances of cooperation by Kikinda's bankers
during 1967-69 (the period of final repayments on the major outstanding
debts) the Ent;erprise should be able to earn sufficient funds to repay
the IBRD/YIB loan without difficulty.
Economic Justification
The project will bring into balance the productive capacities
of the major producer of malleable iron castings and one of the major
machine tool oroducers in Yugoslavia.    It will allow a substantial
increase in output with only marginal increases in total production cost,s,
and will assist an EnterDrise which has demonstrated a strong potential
for growth in the increasingly competitive conditions of future years.
The growth in earnings of roug'hlv N.D. 8.5 million annually resulting from
the project would represent a non-discounted return of 23% on the total
project investment.   The project wiill lead to a tripling of the Enterprise's
export earningrs, and an even greater growth in convertible currency exports.
The increase of $A3.36 m.illion in annual ep.1orts between 1967 and 1971 is. m_r_
than three times the total project foreign exchange indebtedness, and some
24 times the annua1 foreign exchange debt service -



ANN h 1
Page 1
TIROM Vf'ITTT)DV . = TVT?TTnA
.L. .L. V   ~ ~  ~  U
W01o1=.rcative B-glance Sheets
(in Million New Dinars)
,a-   n+. n=cr-aynin   3i-                 z '1  '%' 1. sn     n n4r'    .1 7A
Current Assets
Cash, Banks and near Cash              o.u .. .                y        4.u
Trade Receivables                      6.7       10.1       13.9       19.7
Inventories
Raw Materials and Supplies          10.6       ]3.0       19.6       19.1
Semi-finished Products               6.9       10.3        8.2       i2.8
Finished Products                    2.0        2.1        5.6        4.4
Total Inventories                   1-         25.4      133-4/      36.3
Other Current Assets 2/                9.2       14.7       17.8       28.1
Total Current Assets                     4174 54               71.U0
Groas Fixed Assets
land                                   0.1        0.1        0.1        0.1
Buildings                              5.0        5.5        8.8       15.8
Machinery & Equipment                 23.8       26.4       42.7 3/    49.3
Fixed Assets under Construction        2.8       12.2        4.2        2.3
Collective Consumption Assets          2.3        3.2        3.5        3.2
Other Fixed Assets 1W                  1.5        1.5        -          -
Total Gross Fixed Assets                 7 7        48 9       59.        70-75/
less Depreciation                     (6.4)      (9.5)     (11.4)     (20.3)
Net Fixed Assets                         29.1       39.        47.9       §50T6/
TOTAL ASSETS                             70.5       93.4      118.9      139.4
LIABILITIES
Short-term Debt to Banks               6.1       14.8       18.2       19.7
a a                                    -,-     J         c   j ev. s2 4  '- . 9 
Other Current, Liabilities 7/         l.3       25.3       25.2       33.0
'1'r^+&) ngT1-4--,X,, eb                 24 -.5                44.5 3/
T-n -[r    nh-1,4-  QI                    o         onr  c'    LI. e'  ./  Ln-  n
JJJkI~  U ~JLIIt   .JLi U.            C. 7  .L   L-7.        L44.)  4.dl  L4C.
TN-As of the .te-4  -
Business Fund.                        15.5       17.5       22.5       341.36/
rn   ,.n     -       ,1          1  '.7
PL.eserve FLnds                       V0.4         J.f       1.1        1.7
Collective Consumption Funds           1.6        1.4t       2.0        1.1
TOTAL LIABILITIES                        70.5       93.4      118.9      139.4
Current Assets/Current liabilities      1.73:1     1.22:1     1.45:1     1.50:1
Long-term Debt/Own Funds                 63:37      60:40      644:36     54:46
(Notes on following page)



ANNNEX 1
Page 2
IRON FOUNDRY - KIKINDA
Earninzs Statements
(in Million New Dinars)
Sales Revenues 1/                        43.52      52.62       72.28      79.52
Ojperating Costs
Materials and Overhead                18.97      26.23       38.31      h3.67
Net w    -0ages                                   5.8       ii          1
Related Social Payments                .44        ).23        7.01       7.46
Taxes and Contributions                8.75       6.45        4.08       1.73
Total Operating Cost                  3675       47877 TT T6.02
Depreciation                              1.97       3.11        3.31       3.82
Interest                                  1.18       3.07        3.01       3.17
Net Earnings from Operations           3.b2       3b-5                   5.451
Nonoperating Earnings                     0.65       o.60        0.75       D.7o
Nonoperating Expenses                    (0.4h4)    (0.62)      L L)       (1.11)
Net Earnings                           3.83       3.64        5.16       ___
Debt Service Coverage   2/                1.51       1.26        1.L2       0.90
1/ On basis of paid sales.
2 Debt repayments in 1966 covered by supplementary borrowings.
i'Totes to balance sheets (preceding page)
1/ Reflects revaluation of inventories of July, 1965.
2/  Includes cost of goods sold for sales invoiced but not paid, prepaid
expenses and other current assets.
3/ Includes increase of N.D. 7.9 million due revaluation of foreign-exchange-
equivalent, debt and associated fixed assets.
4/ Preliminary expenses, patents and licenses.
5/  Includes increase of N.D. 10.7 million in gross value of buildines,
machinery and equipment due to year-end revaluation.
6/  Includes increase of N.D. 6.2 million in net value of buildings;
machinery, and equipment due to revaluation.
7/ Includes sales value of goods invoiced but not paid, acrruals
and other current liabilities.
8/  Tnohid,-.  irrn1-  m1-arin-nties.



ANNEX 2
Pege 1
KIKINDA
Finarncial Porecasts
(in Million New Dinars)
Construction Years
Year ending December 31:                            1967         _68           1969         1970          1971
I. Earnings Statement
Sales Revenues 1/                               82.35         82.35        96.82       113.05        113.05
Operating Costs
Mater:a]s- 'averhead                          44.30         44.30        52.10        55.92         55.92
Net Wages  _/                                 13.57         13.57        17.43        17.90         17.90
Related Social Payments 2/                     7.64          7.64         9.82        10.35         10.35
Taxes anrid Contributions                     l1.89          1.93         1.98                       __1;
Total Operating Costs                       67.40W T67-W               81.33        T6_.12        86.12
Denreciation 2/                                  5.09          5.09         7.40         7.40          7.40
Interest                                         3.84          3.16         3.71         4.33          3.80
Earnings from Operations                     6.02                       4.38        15.20         15.73
Non-operating Income                             O.80          0.80         0.80         0.80          0.80
Non-operating Expenses                           1.00          1.00         1.00         1.(0)         1.00
Net Earnings                                 5.82          6.46         4.18        15.00         15.53
II. Sources andl Anolications of Funds
Sources
Net Earnings (Previous Year) 4L                  5.54          5.82         6.46         4.19'        15.00
Interest                                         3.84          3.16         3.71         4.33          3.80
Depreciajtion                                    5.09          5.09         7.40         7.40          7.40
Increase in Long-Term Debt:
IBRD                                           4.60          9.11          -            -             -
YIB arnd Other Banks (Prolect)                 7.73         15.59          _            _             _
Other New Debt 5/                              3.40          1.30          -            -             -
Total Sou--ces                              30.20         40.07         17.57       15.91         26.20
ADplications
Project: Fixed Assets - Foreign                  4.60          9.11          -            -             -
- Local                    7.73          1.S9           -            -            -
Wcrk:ing Capital                       ____          14.00          -            -             -
Total Project                               12.33         24.70          -            -             -
Renewals and Replacements                                       -           3.00         3.00          3.00
Other Fixed Assets                                -             -            -            -             -
Interest:
Existiny and Other New Long-Term Debt          2.84          2.16         1.38         0.81          0.46
IBRD  _/                                        -             -           0.47         o.89          0.84
YIN and Other Ranks (Project) 7/                -             -           o.86         1.63          1.50
Short-Term Debt                                1.00          1.00          1.00        1.00          1.00
Total Interest                               3.84          3.16          3.71        7.3-3         3.80
Principal Repayments:
Existing and Other New Long-Term Debt         13.35         11.95         6.66         5.14          3.72
IBRD 4-                                         _             -           o.4o         o.85          0.90
YIB and Other Banks (Project) 7/                -             -           0.87         1.83          1.96
Total Repayments                            13.35         11.95         7.93         7.82          6.50
Allocations to Reserve Funds 8/                  0.40           -            -            -             -
Allocatiorns for Collective Consumntion          0.05          0.05         0.05         0.05          0.05
Sub-Total                                   29.97         39.                       15.20         13.4
Net Additions to Working Capital                 0.23          0.21         2.88         0.71         12.77
Total Annlications                          30.20         40.07        17.57        15.91         26.20
Long-Term Debt Service Coverage (times)  9/      0.83          0.93         1.56         1.31,         2.8'?
(Notes on following page)



ILNN ELK 2
P age 2
K I K I N 0 A
Fina:cial Forecasts -  ssumptions and Ejc,lanat:Lons
Sales Vc,li,ese and Sales Revenues
(Valu  in Million New Dinars)
1966                  1967                  1968                  1l?69                 1970                  1971
(actual) 6/                                  1                     1_69
m. tons     Value     m. tons     Value     m. ton s    Value     m. tons    Value    im. tons     Valute    m. toljs     Value!
Productt
Malleable Iron Castings 2/        3,393      19,32      3,929      21.61      3,92?      21.61     6,4°°      3.3.76     8,(00       42.29     8,00(        42. 9
Pipe Fittings 3/                  2,671      20.17      2,560     20.00      2,560      20.00     .3,200      2)L.25     1,000       30.,13    4,00(        30.1.3
Machiire Tools ,/                   979      ,1.56      1,lDO      37.11      1,10D     37.11       L,100     27.88      1,100       27.88     1,10()       27.88
Stoves                            3,758       6.96      1,614       3.6S3     1,61i       3.63    I1,750        3.94     1,785        4.02     1.7895        L.02
eray, Iron Castirngs                -          -                                                     9 566     2.38        708        2,,97      708         2.597
Ductile Iron Castings               -          -          -          -          -          -         960      J,.61      1,200        5.76     1,200         5.76
Patterns etc. 5/                    -         2.69
Total Sales RevenLes                     80;70                82.35                 82.35                 96.82                 113.05                 113.05
of which Exports
Malleable Iron Castings             173       1.21        500       2.75       500        2.75       80O       4.25      3,000       15.94     3,000        15.9L
Pipe Fittings                     1,720      11.86      1,700     13.28      1,70D      13.28      2,200      165.50     3,500       26.25     3,70(        27.75
Macrine Tools                       336      11.81        350      11.81        350      11.81       400      10.14        600       19.21       800        20.29
Gray Iron Castirngs                 -                     -          -          -          -         400       1.68        500        2,10       600         2.9,2
Ductile Iron Castings               -         -           -                     -                    -         -_  _oo                2 4o       700         3.36
Total Exports 6/                         24.88                27.84                 27.84                 32.57                  61.90                  69.86
Breakdown of Domestic Sales and
Export Sales by CuLrrenc, Area
Domestic                                     ,4.614                54.51               59.51                  61-.25                 51.15                  43.:L9
Exports - Clearing Area                      12.10                 23.12                23.12                 28.51                  55.81                  61.71
Convertible Area 6/                12.78                  4.72                 1.72                 1!.o6                   6.09                   8. 12
79.52                82.35                 82.35                 96.82                 113.05                 113,(5
1/ On basis of sales invoiced. Total does not equal sales con 1966 earnings statemernt whtch are on basiLo of saes paid including payment for sELLes invoiced i-n previous ,yca
2/ Includes price reductions averag:Lng 4% on export sales and 1% on domestic sales in 1965' and f'ollowing years.
3/ Includes price reductions averaging 4.5% on dcaest:Lc sales and 3.5% on export sales in 1969 and following years.
./ Includes price reductions averaging 25% on all domestic and export saLes in 1969 and following years.
5/ Sales of patterns not expected tAo be oc,ntinued as own requirements increase.
S/ Includes incentive premium of 6% on convertible currency exports.
Notes to Fi,ancial Forecasts (preced:Lng pae)
1/ Sales forecasts as above. Based on asasumption that sales equals procluctioni in each yeaLr.
j2/ Variable wage distributions represent aibout 16% of total payments in each year.
3/ Reflects revaluation of assets at year-end 166.
5/ Earned funds are released for use only in followin,g year. Earnings available for use in 1967 reduced due to extraordinary application of 1966 earnings to debt
repayment in that year in the amount of N.D. 0.60 million.
5/  Includes N.D. 2.90 million in 19157 fromx existing Jugobanka creclits and N.D. 1.80 in supplementary borrowing from local banks.
0/  Interest at 04 capitalized during constructLon.   Repaymment in 21 eqiual semiannual installments beginning July 1, 1969.
7/ Interest at 7% capitalized during construction.   RepaymerLt in 20 equal semiannual instatllments beginning July 1, 1965.
8/  Reserve funds will reach required levels in 1967.
!/  Previous year's earnings plus cuLrrent depreciation and interest on long-term debt, over interest anc[ principal payments on long-term debt.



APPENDIX 9
Page 1-
The Borrowier
The prospective borrower is the "Iron and Steel Works Sisak".
Sisak was established in 1939 and is located near a town of the same name in
the Republic of' Croatia.  It now produces some 210,000 tons of steel
producvs annually.   The Enterprise is favorably located with respect to
both raw materials and consumption centers.   It is close to Yugoslavia'E
maior iron ore mine at Ljubija and to the country1s developing natural ga.s
field.   It is near the Zagreb-Belgrade road and international railway line,
some 150 miles by rail from the Adriatic port of Rijeka, and on the Sava
river with shipping connections to the Danube and Black Sea ports.
Sisak is an integrated steel producer and the on:Ly important
manufacturer of' steel tubes--both welded and seamless--in -the country as
well as the sole domestic supplier of narrow hot rol:led strip.  In 1966,
sales of Sisak's own products amounted to N.D. 552 million ($I4 million),
of which about 66$ were in tubes and the rest primarily in strip and pig
iron.   In addition the Enterprise purchased and resold in that year some
N.D. 80 million, worth of goods.  Exports of tubes in 1966 were about $5.1
million, some 1.7% of Sisak's total value of tube sales.  Shipments in that
year were made to some 25 countries, most notably Hungary, Wdest Germany,
Italy, Switzerland, Austria and India but included also such countries as
Colombia and the U.S.   Last year Sisakts total exports accounted for some
13% of sales of' own products and more than two-thirds of these exports went
to convertibhI reurrenev cnnntri q_
8j.lakst total assets at December 31; 1966 were N.D. 1;086 milllion
($97 million) and it is, therefore, one of the largest industrial enterprises
in the coun.try.  It employs some 6,n00 people    In 1956j Sisak received
$1.97 million under IBRD loan 73-YU for equipment for the sintering plantand
e-xansion of the seamless tube mill.   The project was car:red out as
scheduled and a.t the forecast cost.  This loan was channe-Led through the
FePderal Investment Fund and made available to Sisak on dinar repayment. tnrms
of 28 years and interest of 3%.   It represents about 1% of the Enterprise's
present annual debt service burden.
The proposed project is for a new galvanzing lin-e wi+1 an annual
capacity of 73,000 tons and will replace the present outmo(ied unit of 10,000
+o"-/-year capacity.  The total cost of the project, including additional
working capital requirements is estimated at N.D. 39.5 mil:Lion ($3.2 million)
of whichA $0.92. 11".il-lion is required in fuore-ign exchange.  IBRD has been
requested to provide this amount.
History of the Borrower
WJhen Sisak started operations shortly before the outbreak of
viorld -war II it had only a small blast furnace.  Operations were resumed
after the war with the purchase from Italy of a rolling (p-ilger) mill for
seamless tubes of 75,000 tons annual capacity and additions to steel-making
capacity.   During 1961-1965 a major expansion program was carried out.



APPENDIX 9
Page 2
It involved an increase in pig iron production capacity from 150,000 to
ahout 'Al, 00 tons-per year;   the reconst.ructJon of two open hearth fur.aces
and the installation of a new electric arc furnace thereby increasing steel-
m,aking capa C4+- fPvm -1 3C 000 4to 285,oo  tons 4 per year  andi the 4 cor_ _ ssiq4-4
of a new strip and welded tube mill resulting in the present nominal annual
capaciti~es of 188,000 tonsu of hot rolled stp dlU 5,0VU tons of WteldeU  pe.
The General Manager of the Enterprise is Mir. Norbert Veber and
his Deputy and Commercial Director is Mr. Martin Jakub-n.    The management
appears to be competent and experienced and past policy has expressed
conservatism and foresight in investment decisions.    The management is
supported by a strong technical and financial staff.    Sisakts engineering
group has demonstrated a high level of competence in the successful
completion of the recent expansions and has shown an impresssive capability
in the preparation of studies for the present project.
Recent Financial and Earnings Record
Bal Lnce sheets for the past four years (1963-1966) are shown in
Annex I.   Sisak's balance sheet as at December 31, 1966 is sunmarized
below: (in Million N.D.)
Assets                                  Liabilities
Cash and Equivalent            56       Short-term Bank Debt            30
Receivables                   115       Accounts Payable                78
Inventories                   183       Other Current Liabilities      1'91
Other Current Assets         155           Total Current liabilities   2S)9
Total Current Assets       §09       Long-term Debt                 2(19
Net Fixed Assets              577       Business Fund & Reserves       488
1,086                                     1,086
Additions to Sisakts fixed assets during the 15962-1965 expansion
program amounted to about N.D. 200 million.    Of this amount N.D. 50 million
was financed by the Enterprise's own funds, and the remainder (75%) by
Federal, Republican, and local banks.    Federal Investment Fund credits of
N.D. 135 million included a D.L.F. loan of $8.5 million (N.D. 63 million)
repayable in dinars up to 1980.    Long-term debt currently outstanding has
a weighted average interest and repaYment period of h.2% and 22 years,
respectively (even though recent debt for the expansion program, amounting
to over half that now outstanding, was granted on terms of 15 years repay-
ment and 5% interest.)    Debt service coverage has remained more than
adequate during recent vears, and long-term debt has decLined steadily in
proport-on to the Enterprise's own funds.



APPENDIX 9
1) A;L A: _  n
IdO,j )
Sisalc has made moderate use of short-term bank debt and has main-
bained a sound current position.   Tne year-end 196c6 revaluation oI fixeci
assets increased gross fixed assets by about L0%, resulting in book values
which, in tne 'I terprise's opinion, adequately represent true asset values.
Sisakis Earnings Statements for the past four years are shown
in Annex 1, page 2.   Sales volume of major items, showing the bringing
into operation of strip mill and welded tube line, and sales value and
earnings for the four years are summarized below:
1963     196h     1965     1966
Sales Volume (in 1,000 tons)
Pig Iron                                 71.8     51.4     35.6     59.3
Crude Steel                              50.9      h*2      -        -
Hot Rolled Strips                         -        -        7.0     17.3
Seamless Tubes                           7b.5     75.3     71.7     80.2
Wlelded Tubes - Black                     -       13.7     39.h     44.5
- Galvanized                 4.9      7.2      8.7     lb.3
Sales and Earnings (in Million N.D.)
Net Sales, paicl                        297.9    294.4    356.7    595.2
Earnings from Operations                  8.0     16.3     33.2     17.9
Presently installed capacities of the Enterprise and the tonnages
produceu in l966U were as 1ollows; kin l,uuu tons)
Capacities          1966      As % of Nomi-
Nominal/Naximum    Production   nal Capacity
Pig Iron                           170/185          19h.o          11h%
Crude Steel                        285/300          207.9           73%
Hot Rolled Strips                  108/200          137.5           73%
Seamless Tubes                      75/80            77.5          103%
Welded Tubes - Black                75/100           56.o           75%
Galvanizing Line                    10/15            13.6          136%
The plant is currently operating at capacity in three shifts:
the present steel-making capacity was brought on line only in 1966, when
insufficient steel supplies prevented the reaching of full production of
hot rolled prod.ucts and welded tubes.  Sisak expects that, with the
availab'le steel capacity, output of welded tubes may eventually be brought
to 100,000 tons with present facilities and could be expanded to about
135,0C0 tons with some additional investments.   The sales of welded tubes,
however, are expected to become increasingly more difficult unless galvaniz-
ing capacity can be increased.   Sisakts experience has indicated that the
market requires about 60% of welded tubes to be galvanized.   In 1966
less than one-quarter of the Enternrisels welded tubes were Palvanized. The
proposed project therefore provides a logical and urgently required addition
to Sisakis nroduction fn iities



APPEMiDIX 9
Sales in 1965 were only slightly higher in terms of physical output
than in thie prelcelding year, but the-y refC-ect -4  4nrae ---  about 30,'o
U1~JL  J.L  UI~  ~   ja~ ,  Ull~J  ±  L   U  VJ. _ ~~ JLII1~ I  u   V.L  _  jWp
the average for the Enterprisets products following the Economic Reform.
%id-es value fo 1966 reflect  thj_UCU   le e°fect~t ofL UL;thes  inrele on a  ul-l year:-.L
as well as increases in production and sales due to the additional steel-
making capacity.   The 1966 sales figure was also inflated by purchase and
resale of tubes and materials amounting to about N.D. 66 million, and by
extraordinary ,ales of excess spares and materials in inventory.
The reduction in profits in 1966 was due to several business and
market factors. as well as substantial extraordinary charges.    Start-up
of the new steel-making capacity caused increases in costs of materials
and overhead.   Unusually high write-offs on mines, inventories and produc-
tion equipment, totaling about N.D. 12 million, were taken in line with
other consolidating measures connected with the Economic Reform.    Deprecia-
tion charges were increased substantially in 1966 as allowed by law in
anticipation of the revaluation of fixed assets at the end of the year.
Interest charges more than doubled with the beginning of debt service on
loans which have financed the recent substantial expansion program.    In
addition to these extraordinary factors, the market decline in gray pig
iron coupled with a deterioration of prices to meet import competition
led to a loss of some N.D. 4 to 5 million in revenues and profits, and
increasing exports also resulted in lower profit margins.    Profits as a
per cent of sales were also lower because of the considerable increase in
the proportion of resales transactions (on which there is only a small
margin) in total sales, and because of clearance sales from inventory of
raw materials amd spare parts.
Prices and Competitive Position in Export Markets
Domestic selling prices have a ceiling and between 1963 and 1966
increased by about 30% for hot rolled strip, 38% for seamless tubes and
about 77% for wrelded pipes, both black and galvanized.   Sisak is one of
the cases where domestic competition and import liberalization has brought
about a recent decrease in prices of arav pig iron for foundries by 5.5%
below the established maximum price (gray iron now sells for $72 per ton).
Although price comparisons are difficult due to differences in
sizes and the fact that some orders have included threads and coullpings
and others have not, it is evident that export prices in terms of dollars
have shown a dercreasing trend over the npat fpew vears.
Tn early 1967, the domesticn nrpice (P_yuTnrks) fnr I l'i wellded ancl
galvanized pipes (with threads and couplings) was about $220.5 per ton.
This is said to co-  are to a    domestic pi ce of h188.8 in West  Cermnnir and!
$234.6 in the IJ.S.  Yugoslavian domestic prices were therefore about 172%
above German and 6% below U.S. pr-ces.    Sisak s sales proceeds from
exports were, of course, considerably below those from domestic sales (from
freuit, custo $]s per aond stice  ley har e o overcopt e eapenses   to offur
freight, customis duties and other charges, plus the apparent need to offe!r



APPENDIX 9
discounts in the buying countries (11% in the case of West Germany and 26%
in te case ofc th-e U..)t  compt   wihte _loclpvut               ob     hs
iLn  411     L  4U.i   i1   0  J.  ~  IA  W4 L.i UJ.  .L'J.L UlLW L kA u   1MV   %.A  L~LWVU
discounts were to a greater extent due to the lower quality of1 Sisaks
products.
Sisak is confident that witn the new galvanizing line, the quality
of its galvanized tubes will improve and that it will be able to offer
products of more homogeneous and international standards thus facilitating
the Enterprise1s position to export at prices more competitive with other
Wiestern producers.
The Yugoslav Steel Industry
Although the steel industry of Yugoslavia has a long history, i-ts
development on:Ly accelerated after World War II.   Plants which were
destroyed during the hostilities were rapidly rebuilt and by early 1947
crude steel output was more than twice the 235,000 tons achieved in 1939.
In 1966, crude steel production is estimated to have reached about 1.8 million
tons and by the end of the current year or early in 1968 annual crude steel
capacity will have reached about 3.2 million tons.
The iron and steel industry comprises some 15 plants, with a labor
force of about 45,000.   The industry is concentrated in the Republics of
Bosnia-Herzegovina, Serbia and Slovenia.    The plants are relatively small
and only three of them (Jesenice, Zenica and Sisak) are integrated. Zenica
is now the largest steel mill in Yugoslavia with an annual crude steel output
of about 8003000 tons.   The plant produces primarily sections.
Before the War, Yugoslavia imported about two-fifths of its steel
requirements.   Also after the War substantial imports were necessary but
they gradually fell to about 20% of consumption and have shifted increas--
ingly to flat products.   The new flat products mill at Skopje in Macedonia
which is nowi coming into production and which is exnected to have an anntal
production of albout half a million tons, should ease import requirements
substantiallyr.  Since the mid-1950's Yugoslavia has been able to increase
exports of steel products (primarily sections, tubes and railway materials)
thereby reducing net imnorts of steel products to about 10% of consumption.
There will be a special effort to further increase exports and those of
t.nhep in nar±.imcAlnr
Yugoslavia is not. on   of the manor producers of i ron ore but, it
procures most of its ore requirements locally.    Fe content of the ore is
aroulnd 50% and ore resevrves are estimated at mhoii±. 200h million tons  Aholit
90% of the metallurgical coal and some of the coke requirements are imported.
Pig iron is produced chiefly in conventional blast furnaces.   The
VtCsT.? C1^  V51 i r+                                                'AlT TATC! ya, 1 1  +,  + A   esl e>.sA+w e  hn fk fil vse.r'. a c f 1
furnace practice in Yugoslavia is not well advanced and no furnaces of
adequalte furnaces and theratop..  plat Is inteAded toth p-ode  seelt by
electric furnaces and the Skopje plant is intended -to produce steel by



APPENDIX 9
- A 
the LD/AC process.    The open hearth furnaces in existence are generally of
sma±l±l size X-tL LAb1tLj;1i oULIOWlIJL±U11 U el U nJ rieUfract oryV : r,l1aelO, whiA'le
most of the originally installed rolling mills are now obsolete and will
gradually have to be replaced.
It is expected that by 1970 Yugoslaviats crude steel production
will have reached about 4.5 million tons.    Per capita steel consumption
by then will be about 25O kg and thus will still be one of the lowest in
Europe.
Market
Production of galvanized steel tubes in Yugoslavia is small and
of low quality.   The existing galvanizing lines, which are relatively
obsolete, have the folloTing capacities:
Capacity
Steel Wlorks                    (ton/years)
Sisak                              10,000
11 Oktomvri, Kumanovo                ,000C
14,(00
Steel works Jesenice had a capacity to nroduce and galvanize
12,000 tons of welded tubes per year, but in late 1965 it discontinued
thisq nnyv± of its onprationns because it was u-neconomicl1 and vielded
unsatisfactory quality products.
The Yugoslav market for galvanized tubes (that is nearly exclu-
Sjiyal-i  T.T  IrInA ~ ~   T.T ArO .4i nc  -nn~  J   1-tr 'k n   ciinf l jcr~ rl 'k h .T - Nnmr-,~+e  i - 1 -%&n
siel  welded tle)which has par+vallyJ                -Je supplie  "-- ---^habe
growing despite the above shortcomings in domestic production and import
-L-ml;Ami ta ti on s. Con su.ptlion, production, irpotsan Qisa's1 _har   of th
market and its exports for 1963-1966 are shown in the following table:
1963     1961     1965      1966
k~7in torts )
Apparent Domestic Consumption            17,207   22,676   20,500   28,000
which was supplied by:
Sisak                                  4,911    7,213    8,203   10,009
Other local producers                 11,089   13,163    8,297   15,991
Imports                                1,207    2,300    1,000    2,000
Sisak's share of the domestic market       29%      32%       40%   36%/79%'
Sisak!s emports                            -        -         546     4,492
In 1966, after Jesenice nad stopped production of tubes, Sisak had
about 11,000 tons of its own tube production galvanized at Jesenice to meet
a surge in loca:i demand and permit the export of some 4,500 tons of galvanized
tubes from its own production.    It is for this reason that two percentages



APPENDIX 9
iLClru  I
are shown in the above table for Sisakts market share in 1966.   The
substalntial lncreas in LoUxibLruption of galvanized vubes uin 1966 ln part
already reflects the start of a program of the Federal Government to
construct aboutl 700,000 apaFrment units during 1966-i970, requiring some
60,000 tons of galvanized tubes.   Sisak's share of the market is to
increase further since the i1 Oktomvri piant--which produces tuDes Of
its own--does not intend to expand its galvanizing capacity     This is in
line with agreements within the industry that there should be no duplication
of capacities as long as a product is still produced in subeconomic
quantities.
In 1966, including JeseniceTs galvanizing line, available galveniz-
ing capacity in Yugoslavia was used at practically 100%.    The Planning
Commission expects that in 1970, local demand for galvanized tubes will have
reached between L,,,500 and 50,000 tons of which Sisak has assumed to supply
LL3,000 tons.  The expected distribution among major groups of consumers is
to be as follows:
Niinimum      Maximum
(in tons)
Private Housing                                  14,500         16,o00
Hotels                                            9,000         10,000
Hospitals, Comrunity buildings,
Schools, Universities                          8,000          9,000
Water lines in private and social
agricultural developiment in villages         L3000          15,000
44,500        50,000
The above table does not yet include the requirements resulting from the
Governmentts Housing Construction Proaramn nentioned above. which should add
another 12,000 tons or so to the demand for galvanized tubes in 1970.
Although it is possible that a similar Programm w1ti  follorn w strting in 1971
Sisak has not taken such potential requirements into account in its sales
assimnmtions.
YugoslaaIvias consunmtion of w.elded tubes (both blach k and rnlvarrzed
during the period 1961-1965 has increased from about 39,00() tons to about
83,000 tons or about 20% per year.   Even i-f we Twemre t cmir.e +that for t;he
rest of the decade total welded tube consumption in Yugoslavia would increase
only by 12%^ per year or to about l!5,000 tonsa in 0970 a consa1 ption of )7n,000
tons of galvanized tubes in 1970 would be only about one-third of total
demand for welded tubes, a proporion which compares wi+th between 60< and
65% in most of Western Europe and the U.S. and such countries like Argentina
Moge+t.'ker -44 h expec4teA exports ofP 12,000 t1ons of ga-lvan4zedI4.1 Ili's
I    -~I~  VVJ_ U'lI  U   %A  J LI   LJ  ..LC  vJwJ'  u'J1  i -L VI.L U L  U .U':;
Sisak would operate its new galvanizing line in 1970 at about 75% of capacity.
'HIowever, utii i[LL Z)O±-U1l Wagrees -tht bIIt thIeL Ub t i  Wf-LLU nob IU   PI-UUII1U
to install a smaller galvanizing line not only for technical and economic



APPENDIX 9
Page 8
reasons, but also because demand for galvanized tubes may grow beyond
present expectations when good quality galvanized tubes become ava iable
locally and in sufficient quantities.
Description of the Project
The proposed project is for the installation of a new continuolus
tube galvanizing line, predomminantly for welded tubes, witn an annual
capacity of some 73,000 tons of 3/8" to 3" diameters, with additional equip-
ment for galvanizing tube couplings.   The existing galvanizing unit will
be dismantled.
The envisaged technological process of preparation and galvaniza-
tion is up to dlate and includes all the operations necessary for the produc-
tion of goods of competitive quality.   The proposed galvanizing line wi:Ll
have the following stages:   washing, pickling, rewashing, fluxing, drying,
hot dipping, e:Limination of excessive zinc and final cooling of galvanized
tubes in water baths.   Equipment for the recovery of sulphuric acid will!
also be installed.   Compared with the existing facilities the new line
will not only allow the manufacture of products of good quality but will
also bring about a reduction in operating costs (including financial
charges) by about 10% primarily through better control and reduction of
zinc consumption and a nore than doubling in labor productivity.
The best results on such plants are achieved in continuous opera-
tion and all units are foreseen to be worked in three shifts.
Cost of Project
The cost of the project is estimated at N.D. 39.5 million ($3.16
mill ion!.  Foreign exchange exoenditures are estimated at $0.92 million and
an IBRD loan is sought to cover this amount.   A sumimary of the project cost
Foreign       Local         Total
Exchange      Currenn      2xpressed
US$;O000     N.D.l,000     N.D.l,OC'O
Gi vilI ijn -r1rq                         -         10.6h0.6      10.6Lo.6
Equipment                                886.6       6,943.2       18,025.8
Freight                                    -           320.           320.9
Customs Duties                             -         3,037-2        3,037.2
Fretn-i nn                               27 8        i - 061 o      1;408.2
Drawings, insurance, other                1.3          782.14         798.1
Tijjorking Cnp,i tD -.a"3 '1523-
91.7.-     20      3 I,6.



APPENThTY 9
Page 9
The! e-n-neeri-g of the  rjet   se4i       ons f' equiipmntA+ and
capital cost estimates were made by Sisak's own staff in cooperation with
prospecti v11-e supptliF11 ers of eqiplmnt --s  estir-4te wer -pae  in- -early -  -- 
~~L  U4.. V ~  ~   ~  LI.  U4-U-L&JjiUlU  ViL   _ U* .'_ Lll~  U'~~  ~~ "  S_V _ 
iMarch 1967. Sisak's engineers visited a galvanizilg plant in Italy
4... -  4-:1,-  --   _ __..:  S 4. .     and   were   s sP A   -,+I-  +h},h
technology and operating results obtained. Equipment delivery is estimated
af-Pter -L J iLmonths.L, arL.L cU1V.er1 tAreet7 ar.dU four monthso respe,ctiveL,l.y aerqie
for installation and start-up.  In its previous expansion the Enterprise's
project cost arid tifming estimates were correct and there is no reason to
doubt their present forecasts.
Project Financing
A summary of Sisak's estimated financial requirements and sources
of funds during project construction (1967-1968) is given below: '( in
MTillion N.D.)
Uses                                  Sources
Project 1/                     35.79     Net Earnings               38.64
Other Investments in Fixed
Assets                      43.30     Depreciation               82.82
Debt Repayment                 36.44
Reserves & Other Allocations   26.19     Long-Term Debt             28.94
Additional Tnborking Capital    8.68
IH ,l^                              -Ieo l.r
a )J.L;U                   svv.4J~~~1~C )x
i/ An additional N.,J. 3.70 million for working capi±a.l will ue ieeedu in
1969.
Detailed earnings and cash flow projections foor the construction
period and ensuing three years together with the major assumptions and
further explanations are given in Annex 2.  Forecasts in Annex 2 assume
that orders could be placed in mid-1967, and that the pLant would be in.
operation at, the beginning of 1969.
Estimated project costs of N.D. 39.49 million include working
capital requirements of N.D. 5.23 million related to the project but
exclude capitalized interest during construction of abou-t N.D. 4.O million.
Of the other investments in Fixed Assets N.D. 17.77 million would be used
for normal renewals and replacernent of plant and the remaining N.D. 26.13
million for equipment for a slitting line, for the cold drawing and fcrming
of tubes and other shapes as well as other miscellaneous expenditures.
Expenditures for the project and the other investments will add about 10'O
to Gross Fixed Assets as of the end of 1966. About 81% of requirements
during the construction period is expected to be covered from the Enterprisels
internal funds and the remaining 19% (or N.D. 28.94 million) from long-term
borrowings. Of these, IBRD would provide M.D. 11.44 million ($0.92 million)
exclusive of' capitalized interest while YIB and other local banks would
contribute N.D. 17.50 million.



APPENDIX 9
Page 10
Earnings ancd Debt Service Forecasts
As with the other projects, earnings _orecasts (Annex 2) are based
on the assumption that sales would equal projection.  Sales during 1967 are
expected to decline slightly.  This is primarily due to extraordinarijly
high sales of seamless tubes in excess of production caDacity and sales
from other inventories in 1966 which cannot be repeated. Earnings on the
other hand wzill increase in 1967 because the new steel-imaking facilities
will be in normal operation and because the shutdown of Sisak's smallest
blast furnace with its excessively high coke consumption will also have
a favorable effect on operating costs.
Thereafter earnings are expected to increase more rapidly than
sales value.  W4hile 1971 sales are estimated to have increased by about
30% over sales in 1967 earnings would more than triple. This is not only
due to the expected effects of the recent and planned rationalization
investments in steel-making and galvanizing facilities but also to the fact
that financial charges will decrease and taxes and other contributions will
not rise significantly. Also, while galvanized tube exports will increase,
lower maragin export eales of black tubes are estimated to fall after 1968
both in absolute terms and relative to total sales, in liLne with rising
demand on the domestic market. The increase of net earnings between 1967
and 1971 of some N.D. 45 million would represent a nondisecunted annual
return of 53% on expenditures for the project (excluding interest durin-
construction) and the other new fixed assets (except nor-mal renewals and
replacements) planned to be made between the end of 1966 and the end of
1970.  Debt eervice coverage would be maintained well above two times.
Economic Justification
The Proiect is an essential step for Sisak as the most important
producer of pipe in Yugoslavia. It will decrease operating costs, improve
quality And substitute nresent imnorts of galvanized pipe as well as place
Sisak in a better position on export markets. The new g>alvanizing line
will nermit Sisak's exDorts of galvanized (welded) pipe to grow from
presently about 4,500 tons to some 12,000 tons/year sooni after project
comDIetion thereby increasing annual export receipts by about $1.3 million.
This compares with less than $1.0 million in foreign exchange requirements
for m-ported eqnuimien-t for the nroiect.
A   nood pnlnt lo2t.inn; ample room for expansion and an impressive
management as well as the expectation that the domestic market for Sisak's
nprOdi'i'-_Q 7.1l I rot. T  ih_tn-n-.in11v PrtnomnAeq all the major nrerequisites for
further sound growth.  The financial return expected from the project--and
from the most recent invesm.ent-s--ns expected to help ge-nerate the necessary



APPENDIX S
rage 11
funds to soon go forward with further investments.   Two of them are
already clearly predictable and should render an equally good--if not
better--return than that expected from the project.    One is the addition
of two more stands to Sisakis continuous sheet mill for the further reduc-
tion of the thickness (below 3 mm) of skelp for pipe production and sales
of strip.   It would enable Sisak to offer a wider assortment of strip
than it now can with existing equipment.   The other investment would be
the installaticn of additional furnace capacity to better utilize already
existing capacity of the two seamless (pilger) pipe mills thereby increasing
their output by about 60,000 tons per year.   Both investments together are
estimated to cost about $10 million.   Sisak plans to proceed with them as
soon after completion of the present project as sound financing will permit.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
IRON AND STEEL WJORKS - SISAK
Coparative Balance Sheets
(in Million New Dinars)
As at December 31                           1963       196b        1965       :*966
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash, Banks and near Cash                30.9       27.b        45.0      >5514
Trade Receivab:Les 1/                    50.3       52.7        83.3      1:!5.3_
Inventories
Raw Material,s and Supplies           51.6        59.1       80.3       1L7.1 i
Semi-finished Products                46.5        56.9       78.4        149.3
Finished Products                       7.6      l1.0        21.7        :L6.8
Total Inventories                    10T77       130.0     -_77F4/ V     rTf
Other Current Assets5/                   79.5       75.9      109.5       1'55.3
Total Current                              ; 9A4 L.   28R6. 1A. 9) 9         509Q.
Tros  .-ax, Asset,s
Land                                      0.3        0.h         0.4        0.4
Buildings                   ~~~~~   ~~~~~~     ~~~123.  '1 I. I  'tI).O  2'2.
Machinery & Equipment                   190.5      292.8       292.5      4.30.5
.V.xed' Asset's vunider Constr-uctio-n  -LU..).     -.         68.9         v.7
Collective Consumption Assets            41.9       45.1       50.3        26.8 /
vhiier rixued Assets  7                  0).                    3-. 
Total Gross Fixed Assets                   519.5      551.6       589.7      80j0.5 :v
less Depreciation                      ( 87-7)    (110.7)    .(134-3)    (223.8)
Net Fixed Assets                           431.8      Fo.s        455-4      576.,91
TOTAL ASSETS                               698.2      726.9       879.6    1,086.0
T T A DTT TIT
Current Liabilities
Short-term Debt to BWnkS                  7 L       I1 R 38                 0 i n
Trade Payables 10/                       26.1       29.4        62.2        77.8
Other Current vLiabilities 11/           8L).8      911       13I5.7     19o0.
Total Current Liabilities                  162.3             2    26.2 2'6n
Long-tern Debt 12/                         248.3      287.7       307.0      298.6
Funds of the Enterprise
DU iness Fu.Ld                          237.6      2.           8U(.L4 ='  414U.2 -
Reserve Funds                            10.3       11.2        14.0        L7.5
Collective Consunption Funds             33.7       3c.9       45.0        22.9  6!
Total Own Funds                            281.6      286.9      3146.1       l8.9
TOuTAL LIABILITIES                         698.2      726.9       879.6    1,0W36.0
Current Assets/Current Liabilities         1.58:1     1.88-1      1.88:1     1.71:1
AiL., te.,AIJ %14/vw1 I.U.L1O              :1. I.)5)     J5L4 I                .62



ANNEX I
D  e1 
Notes to Balance Sheets
1/   Reflects price increases averaging 36% from July 1965.
2/   Includes some N.D. 13 million for goods purchased and resold.
3/   Includes spares inventories previously included under semi-finished
products amd transitory inventories of goods purchase for resale.
LI   Reflects revaluation of inventories of roughly N.D. 25 million associated
with price increases of July, 1965.
5/   Includes cost of goods sold for sales invoiced but not paid, other
transitory items and prepaid expenses.
6/   Reflects transfer of housing assets to separate enterprise in 1966.
7/   Includes patents and licenses.
8/   Includes increase of gross value of buildings, machinery and equipment
of N.D. 216.9 million due to revaluation at year-end 1966.    Note 6'
also applies.
9/   Includes increase of net value of buildings, machinery and equipment of
N.D. 160.L due to year-end revaluation.    Note 6/ also applies.
10/  Reflects partly price increases of July. 1965.
11/ Includes sales value of goods invoiced but not paid, other liabilities
and accrued charges.
12/ Includes current maturities.
13/ Reflects year-end revaluation of fixed assets less extraordinary
write-offs of N.D. 17 million.



ANNEKX 1
Page 2
IRUON AN-J STE,L 'wRKS - SISAK
Earnings Statements
(in Million New Dinars)
1963       1964       1965       1966
_Les 1-/                  297.86      297.LLi, 3)IU.IU       y>.24
Operating Costs
Materials and -vernead 2/      203.85     90.52     2i8.408    417.63
Net Wages 3/                  20.16       25.77      39.05      63.71
Related Social Payments       -5.88       18.39      27.h       29,76
Taxes and Contributions /     -24         19.18      11,14      12.90
Total Operating Cost         271.13      2s3.0o     evo.>l     ,24.U0
Depreciat,ion                    10U81       21.05      21.04      37-9
interest                          7.95        6,25       6.00      15.382/
Net Earnings from Operations   7.97       16.28      33.15      17.902
Honoperating Earnings             6.18        4.64       4.48       6. 06
Nonoperating expenses             5.9L        h.58     _h.89        8.b1
Net, Earnings                  8.21       16.34      32.74      15 57
Debt Service Coverage             1.53        5.25       4.15       2.33
1/   On basis of paid sales.   Reflects price increase averaging 36%
from July 1965, and applicable for full year 1966.   1966 figure includes
also extraordinary sales at cost of N.D. 66 million from purchase a:nd
resale of products and roughly N.D. 30 million from liquidation of spares
and material inventories.
2/   Reflects raw materials price increases from July 1965.   1966 figure
includes also extraordinary cost of sales noted in 1/ plus other extra-
ordinary expenses of roughly N.D. 12 million.
3/   Includes increase in base wage rates of roughly 60% from July 1965.
4/   RefLects elimination of some federal taxes in 196h and 1965. 1966
figure may include some contributions previously included under social
payments
5/   Increased by Enterprise in anticipation of year-end revaluation of
fixed assets.
6/   RefLects beginning of full interest payments on debt financing
1963-65 eexnansion nrogram.



Aui-iiE 2
Page 1
S I S A K
Financial Statements
(in Mllion New Dinars)
Construction Years
Year ending December 31,                              1967        IT              -L969       1970          1971
I. Earnings Statement
Sales Revenues  l/                               527.29      592.74          64,9.07     684.61        697.51
Operating Costs
Materials and Overhead                        336.20      385.64          409.58      L420.94       418.73
Net Wages 2/                                   62.31 3/    67.76           73.43        78.94        84.59
Related S-1al P1anvents 2/                     35.92 -     30              42 34        J5 50         48 77
Taxes and Contributions -                      14.06 C     14.48          1-5.51        16.59        17.65
Total Operating Costs                       44.49       506.94                        6.7 97      569.7
Depreciation  4/                                  41.02       41.79           44.17        45.00       146.15
Interest                                          I4.71       13.90          1].2$        13.80         12.61
Net Earnings                                 23.07       30.11          149.79       63.84         69.01
II. Sources and Applications of Funds
Sources
"et Earninrigs (Pe-vioLs 'Yea-rN) 2j 15.57                    230              0.11       4.0l           3.8
Interest                                           14.71     13.91           1.4.25      13.80         12.61
Depreciat ion                                      41.02      41-79           L.4.17       45.(O        146.15
Increase in Long-Term Debt
IBRD                                            2.29        9.15             -            -            -
YIB and Other Banks                             3.50       14.00                                       -
Total Sources                                77-09      101.92           88.53       108.59       122.60
Applications
Project:  Fixed Assets - Foreign                   2.29        9.15                                       -
- Local                     7.05       15.77             -
WO!crkilgP Caital                         =          1.53            3.70          -             -
Total Project                                 9.30                        3.70                       -
Renewals and Repl.acEnents                         3.77       14.00           15.60        16.80        18.00
Other Fixed Assets cn                             14.95      10.58            7.70        12.50        15.60
Interest:
Existing Long-Term Debt                        13.39       12.50           11.73        10.06         9.49
IBRD 7/                                          -           -              0.45         0.87         0.82
YIB and Other Banks (Prnoect) 8/                 -           -              0.69         1.26         1.10
Short-Term Debt                                 1.32        1.40           1.38         1.21          1.20
Total Interest                               14.71       13.90           13.20                     12.61
Principal Repayments
Existing Long-Term Debt                        19.27       17.17           17.87        18.25        16.29
IBRD   7/                                        -           -              0.31         o.66         0.71
YIB andOther Banks (Project) 8/                  -           -              1.01         2.14         2.30
Total Renavrents                             19.27       17.17           19.19        21.09        19.3C
Allocations to Reserve Funds 9/                    3.32        3.57            3.68         3-76         3.75
Allocations for Collective Consumption 10/         7.30       12.00           16.00        18.10        20.01
Subtotal  72.66  97-67, AI
Net Additions to Working Capital                   4.43       14.25            8.41        22.54        33-33
Total Applications                           77.09      101.92           83.53       100.59       122.60
Long-Term... Debt Serwice  Cvrag .---.......   (T4-me)l  2.. 2.            6 2     72 3 .    2 3.96
o         ,  o     ng pa-eO
(Potes on tfolloeting page



ANNEX 2
Page 2
SISAK
Financial Forecasts - Assumptions and Explanations
Sales Volwm-e and Sales Revenues (Value i-n Millior. Ne-Z Dinars)
1966             1967              1968             19;69             1970             1971
actual ) 1/
Qty.       -     Qty.              Qty.             Qty.              Qty.             Gty.
1 00     Va u    l'.-     Va u     ",0     Va u A,0 va           -                               ValueSwV v  s 1U= IsVVU   E> ssVVV v 
Products                        Tone   __        Tons              Tons             Tons             Tons              Tons
Welded Tubes - Black            42.jh    82 6    59.8    1-8.6     68.9   136.7     489.6    95.0     44.0o   89.5    413.6      8-8,6
- Galvanized        13.6    34.6     15.0     37.7    15.0     36.3     35.0   117.6     55.0    145.0     ,8.o    155.4
Seamless Tubes                  77.l;   233.2    75.7    215.2     75.9    218.8    77.3    228.1     78.6   233.0     79.7     237.4
Hot Rolled Strips               17.3     26.0    42.8     61.5     51.0    76.3     39.4     59-.     1 1.5   62.0     -9._      59.2
Welded Shapes                     -       -        -       -        8.5    29.8      9.0     31.6      9.5    33.3     10.0      35.1
Open Shapes                                                          -      -       10.0     19.3     10.0    19.3     10.0      19.3
Other Products and Services 2/    -     LO.6 3/    -        ,          _   9.8        _      9               102.5       -      102.5
Pig Iron 4/ - White             34.-7    26.8    -     -        -
_ Gray              24.9     22.4
Total 5/                          _____            527.3             S92.7            649.1             684.6             697.5
of which Exports
lelded Tubes - Black            10.2'   16.2     15.0     22.4    21.0     31.6     15.0    23.5      8.0     12.6     8.0      12.6
- Galvanized        4.5      6.4      5.0     8.9      6.0     10.9     12.0    22.7     12.0     22.7     12.0     22.7
-Seamless Tubes                 17.4     40.7     14.0    31.2     12.0     26.9      9.8    22.1      5.6     12.6     5.6      i2.6
Other Products                    -       5.7      -       7.1       -      7.1       -       6.5      -       6.5       -        6.o
69.0             69.6              76.5            =74                54.4              53.9
Domestic Sales and Exvort Sales
by Currency Areas
Domestic                                467.2 6/         457.7             516.2            574.3            630.2              6143.6
Exports - Clearing Area                  28.2             19.0             24.0              22.8             18.2               18.0
- Convertible Area 5/           1o0.              50.6              52.5             52.0             36.2               35.9
536.2             527.3            592.7            6149.1            684.T             697.5
1/ 1966 actual production at sales value. Excludes goods purchased and resold. Total differs from reported sales revenues (Annex 1) which are
2/ Includes steel castings, bends arid elbows, bi:llets, bars, gas cylinders, other products and engineering services.
3/ Includes extraordinary sales of spares and materials inventories of approximately N.D. 30 million.
Ex ternna! salea of :pig i--or. disco;;tinued after 1-,66 duec to ful1 operat-'on. Of ne-w ateel-maldn  aiiiaardsu-or
of small blast furnace.
e/ Forecast values .include 'u, incenti.ve prev.rtium for convertible cru-rer,cy exports. 1966 values exclud.e irLcentL-ve premiL.Lu. r,vUhIIr-n.
6/ Includes export incentive premium revenues.
Notes to Financial Statements (preceding page)
1/ Sales forecasts as above. Based on assumption that sales equals production in each year. Excludes resales of purchasedl goods
expected by Enterprises to be inuignificant in future years.
2/ Variable wage distributions represent about 15% of total payments in each year.
3/ Reflects reduction in labor force of 110 workers due to shutdown of mines.
h/ Reflects revaluation of assets at year-end 1966.
5/ Earned funds are released for use only in following year.
6/ Includes vkelp slitting line additions in 1967, melting shop alterations in 1968, water tower and electric power and steam
control station in 1969, ore preparation, sintering plant and other shop alterations in 1970 and 1971. Could be reducedi or
postponed if necessary to proceed with seainless tube (pilger) mill expansion or strip mill adstiians.
7/ Interest at 63% capitalized durilg construction period. Repayment in 24 equal semiannual installmenta from July 1, 1969.
8/ Interest at 7% capitalized during construction period. Repayment in 20 equal semiannual installments from July 1, 1969.,
9/ Required cash retentions unavailable for other use.
10/ Primarily housing investment.. Could be reduced from 1969 if necessAry to nroceed with other inve-tment.
11/ Previous year's earnings plus current depriciation and interest on long-term debt over long-term clebt interest and prinApal payments.



APPENDIX 1()
Page 1
LIGNOSPER
The Borrower
The prospective borrower is "Lignospert", a manufacturer of ply--
wood and veneer. The Enterprise was established in 1958 and operations
started in mid-1960. The plant is located at Bosanski Novi in the Republic
of Bosnia and Elercegovina, which is one of the major forest regions in
Yugoslavia.  Bosanski Novi is well served with highways and railroads and
by the major export harbors of Split and Sibenik, less than 300 km away.
The plant has a rated annual caDacity (on two shifts) of 4o000m3
of plywood and 800m3 of high quality decorative veneer, and in 1966 pro-
duced 5,761m3 of plvwood and 760m3 of veneer, of a combined sales value
of about N.D. .17.5 million which includes miscellaneous other products.
Lianosner' s nuhntit accountfs fo-r '-h% of Yugoslavi's ntotal plywnod nro-
duction and 0.4', of total veneer production (or about 2.8%. of decorative
veneer production).  The factory employs some a85 workers.
Ti 1466, Lignosper exported more than 70n of its output.   Plywrw.ood
is being sent :primarily to Italy, Austria and the U.K., while veneer goes
tfn 0.7po'hnnal ,rnki n nn(9 111<C a~ -C: i.n1a!+  ll  ;oR1 im TJo+ . nl
t~~  ~   ~vakia and Russia, as well as toAsra,Begu,Ws           nd
East Germany.  Lignosper's products have an excellent reputation for
n,nl MIi+r MnA nr^-rmcA 'k4i,
Juuallt  an-orn      ighprcs
Tn o:rder to meet i4 --ce  ing demand both at home and abroad
Lignosper plans to expand production capacity of plywood to l0,000m3/year
and cl veneer -to 2500OmI3, Uo uby 1otal pLrojet-u costs are estimated
at N.D. 12.9 million ($1.03 million) excluding interest during construction)
CIWilLcllUL dUUU, Yq)3)) uCC3 ±ZD Lt=qLLLI-tU ±11 IUre.Lglu tz-Allulg Willull 1fDl~lj Iiuzj
been requested to provide.
History of the Borrower
The part of the country in which the plant is located is little
industrialized.  Before the War there were only a few small factories mo'Gt
of which were destroyed during the hostilities.   Not. all of them were later
rebuilt. Labor is abundant and industry is particularly weicome.
Orig:inally the piant was to nave tne capacity which the present;
project envisages (l0,OGOm3/year of plywood and 2,ooom3 of veneer), but
because of lack of funds the project was scaled down to less than half
of the design size. The layout for the bigger plant, however, was largely
retained. It was designed by the consulting firm Sumaprojekt of Sarajevo,
which has cons:iderable experience in the plywood and veneer business and
which has been also responsible for the engineering of the current expansion.
P:Lywood is produced in four standard sizes_/ and three thick-
nesses in each size.2/and so is veneer with the exception that it is only
1/  2.5 x 1.5 in; 2.5 x 1.2 m; 2.2 x 1.5 m; 2.2 x 1.2 m.
2/  3, 4 and 5 mm



AFPENDIX 1O
Page 2
produced in one thickness (0.7 mm).  As is conmmon in this industry,
Lignosper either processes its waste from log peeling into sections for
crates or uses any excess as fuel in the boiler or for sale.
The plant is currently being operated at Ebove design capacity
by working a part third shift. Production cannot be increased further by
means of a full third shift since some of the equipment (for example dryer,
h-draulic press) is already operating at maximu,r. capacity.
The Enterprise is a member of the Association of the Forestry
and Woodworking Industry which provides technical and promotional assist--
ance and which serves as a forum for exchanging views and coordinating
expansion plans in the industry. The Enterprise sells the bulk of its
o-utput through Sipad, Sarajevo, with whom Lignosper has a long-term con-
tract for export sales expiring in late 1971.  This includes firm off-
takes for one year in advance renewable every 12 months.
Management
The plant is well managed, operations are efficient and product
quality is good.  The members of the top management group (Mr. NJikola
Zivkovic, General Manager; Mtr. Miaden Zagi, Technical Director;
Mr. Pero Blazevic. Financial Director) are dedicated and of the right
calibre for this type and size of operation and knowledgeable in their
respective fields. The Technical Manager has been in the wood-products
industry for me.ny years and has kept abreast of the technical develop-
ments. Although the Enterprise does not exDort directly, the Management
keeps in intimate touch with the shifting demands of their customers.
Recent Financial and Earnings Record
Balance sheets for the past four years (1963-1966) are shown
in Annpy 1- A slummarv nf' the balancr sheth as. at TDecember 31, -196  is
given below (in million N.D.):
Assets                                Liabilities
Cash and Equivalent          1.8       Short-term Bank Debt;          1.3
Receivables                  0.7       Trade Pavables                 0.7
Inventories                  6.6       Other Current Liabilities      3.3
Other Current Assets         2.R
Total Current Assets      11.9         Total Current Liabilities    5.3
Long-term Debt                7.4
Net Fixed Assets            11.2       Business Fund and Reserves    lo.4
23.1                                    23.1



APE1NThT%rV 1 ri
Fage 3
Aside from moderate investments for renewals and repiacements
there have been no major additions to fixed assets since the beginning of
operations some seven years ago.   In 1964 machinery for packing crate
assembly was adcled at a cost of about N.D. 1.0 million.  This was mainly
financed by long-term debt and so were investments in collective consumptiro
assets (chiefly housing).   At the end of 1966, about N.D. 1.3 million of
these collective assets and related debt of a slightly lesser amount were
transferred to a separate, self-supporting, enterprise.   A reevaluation
of Lignosperts assets at year-end 1966 increased the value of gross fixed
assets by about 40O%.
Following the initial two operating years which were of marginal
profitability, the Enterprise has generated sufficient funds to finance
working capital requirements for its rapid sales expansion between 1962
and 1965. A short-term credit from Lignosper's local bank outstanding
at the end of 1966 in the amount of N.D. 1.3 million was for the financ-
ing of exceptionally high inventories which were caused by delays of
plywood shipments to Italy and extraordinary stocks for a special veneer
order. Since then both inventories and short-term debt have been reduced.
Since 1963 Lignosper has made no other use of short-term credit facilities
and in the future expects to do so only in exceptional circumstances.
Lignosperts outstanding long-term debt consists primarily of
credits obtained at the time of its creation.   The weiehted average
repayment periocl and interest rate for these loans is 14-1/2 years and
h-1/2%. resnecti=velv.  Debt service coverage, which in 1963 was thin. has
since improved and the proportion of long-term debt to own funds has
_teadilv decreased as the Enternrise has mat.ured.
Tlgnosperts incomm sta.temPnts for the past fniir vears are
sumnarized in Annex 1, Page 2.   Production volume, sales and earnings
for these years are shown below:
1963     1964     l965     1966
Production Volure
Plywood (im3)                     4,523    5,375    5,848    5,761
Veneer (m3 )                        607      746      742      769
Packing Cases, Waste etc.,
(in million N.D.)                0.88     0.94     3.47     4.04
Sales and Earnii2s (in million N.D.)
Net Sales, Paid                    8.4     11.4     14.9     16.3
Earnings from Operations           0.4      1.2      2.0      1.9



APPENDIX 10
rage 4
The plant has been operating at full capacity since 1964, and
has continually improved the quality of its products, which have commanded
higher prices, particularly in export markets.   Higher sales revenues in
1965 and 1966 al:so reflect a 19% increase in domestic prices which was
put into effect at the time of the Economic Reform. Sales receipts in
1966 would have been even higher had it not been for the abcve-mentioned
delays in deliveries on a firm order.   The decrease in the profit margin
in 1966 is due entirely to transport costs (of about N.D. o.6 million)
on the shipment of imported Turkish walnut for a special veneer order
which Lignosper does not plan to repeat.
Prices and Competitive Position in Export Markets
Domest:ic prices of plywrood and veneer, which are controlled,
remained stable -in the early 60's but--as mentioned above--increased
by 19% in mid--1965. It is impossible, however, to give meaningful average
prices for both products as they differ widely depending on specifications.
Nlevertheless it is evident that Lignosper has produced increasingly high
quality which is reflected in an increase of average prices between 1963
and 1966 of 43% for plywood and nearly 100% for veneers.
Export prices have generally been higher than domestic prices
for both plywood and veneers but while for plywood the relation between
export and domestic prices has been rather stable (export prices were
between 13 and 17% above domestic prices over the past three years), for
veneer export prices have more and more increased above dome:stic prices.
(Exnort nrices werp 11% lower than domestie nrices in 19649 but 85 higher
in 1965 and 40% higher in 1966.)
Exports have grown more rapidly than total sales and in 1966
Aronunted for more than 70% of the total.  Over the past three years
close to 40% of exports went to the convertible currency area.   Ihile
pl-ywood was incre-asingly exported to that --   tn opposite
trend for veneer., about 70% of which has gone to the clearing currency
colntries.  Tt iE expYected that. in the fit±ii-rp uivneer will hp ex-ncrted1
about equally to convertible and clearing currency countries.
Wood prices, which are also controlled, have remained the same
since the Economic Reform.y hen the were raised by abbout 10/. VYuVg  l av
wood-prices are about on the same level with other European countries
for comparable species of tim4ber. Apat- from Adiffernces in nspecies and
quality they are the same throughout the country.   Other than for some
im.ported supplies and spare parts and occassional orduers of isxoic woods
for veneer, the Enterprise requires virtually no foreign exchange for its
current operations.



APPENDIX 10
Page 5
The Plywood and Veneer Industry in Yugoslavia
Nearly 30% of Yugoslavia is covered with forests and the wood
products industry is one of the oldest in the country.   Manufacture of
plywood and veneer started right after World War I.   After the Second
War production increased 12-fold (as compared to the pre-war level)
and in 1966 wwhen the industry operated at about capacitv it reached
107,500m3 of plywood and 198,800m3 of veneer.   The development of sales
nad exports since 1961 is shown below: (in m3)
1961       1963       l66
Plv-wood
Total Sales                             53,388     79,36n     94124 1/
of which exports - in m3               7,615     15,696     24,240
-                     I I 14%,   20%        26%
Exports to convertible currency
coul-ntri-es as "''0 of~ total exports  79oC7<gA
Veneer
Tot-! Sales                             3814,4     8°,8      19368   _/
of which exports - in m3              13,964     12,616     12,129
4  C/                0           Cdo
-     ,- ,             3IJ          /6 0/0
Exports to convertible currency
countries as /o of± total exports     6
TLhe above exports do not include secondary export's such as
furniture. Yugoslavia is the fifth largest producer in the world of
ply-wood and veneer and ranks sixth and seventh places respectively as
an exporter of these products.
There are four principal manufacturers of plywood and veneer
in Yugoslavia which account for about 30./Uo of the country's production
and which process themselves part of their output into goods such as doors
and furniture.  Another 13 enterprises account for a further 50%, of the
Yugoslav production and the remaining 20$ come from a number of small
mills. Decorative veneer--the type Lignosper produces--normally accounts
for 165 to 20' of total veneer production, but in 1966 Yugoslavia pro-
duced less than 14% (27,479m3j of this category.
Market
Veneer is sold primarily to the furniture industry, while plywood
has a broader utilization, but is used principally for furniture making
and for construction. The Yugoslav Association of Wood Products Industries
1/ Prorated for 12 months based on actual figures for first; 11 months.



es4- A   - 4-  4- L, -.1.  1-   -1 n  17 fN   w. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ -  -c) 
tir.,ateus that U  7 by 17 VIuguslaV-La W±-LL pUUUce abUUt '0J,00UU 11 o- ply-
wood and close to 400,00Cm3 of veneer of which some 10% will be decorative
veneer.   TIijhis cl; lpd.rti to iugobla-.iats 196U prouuctlc,n ofa ±97ouin3 and
198,800m3 respectively, and represents annual rates of increase comparable
to thi-e arn-ual inereases in the past six years oI about 11i% Ior plywood and
22% for veneer.   So fa- however, there are firm plans only for the
addition of some 59,00um-) zo existing plywood capacizy (or some 60% oI
the expected add:itional production in 1970) of which about one-third is
expected to be attained by better utilization of existing facilities.
As to decorative veneer the necessary investments to reach 1970 production
goals are already fairly firmly planned.   On the other hand these goals
only reflect a subproportional production expansion of decorative versus
total veneers.
Lignosper1s principal sales agent believes that the Enterprise
will have no difficulties in selling domestically and exporting all the
additional quantity that it would be able to produce.   This is partly
because of Lignosper's outstanding quality and also because of the reduced
expansion possibilities of other European countries, which have limited raw
material resources.   Yugoslav plywood is, furthermore, primarily of beech
and therefore complements the birch plywood which most other European
countries supply. Beech plywood is in addition particularly well-suited for
furniture-making and decorative purposes and is therefore applicable to a
wider range of uses than that made of birch.
Description of the Project
The project will allow increased production from r)resent levels
of about 5,800m3/year of plywood to 10,000m3/year and from 800m3/year of
veneer to 2,000m3/year.   This will place Lignosper among the largest
Yugoslavian producers of plywood.   To this end Lignosper will construct
a new building to house the existing and new veneer-making equinment and
will install, in the existing building, an entire new line for plywood
production 1ii  The project also includes the installation of a new
boiler (6 tons/hour), a transformer and auxiliary electrical equipment
to meet increased requirements of steam and power.
Expansion of capacitv will result in significantly higher labor
productivity.   Value of output per employee is expected to increase from
$2.l30/man year i-n 1966 to $),lO/man vear when the nrniertf i.s onnratinr,
at capacity.   Unit operating costs (including depreciation and financial
charges) Dnill be redured by an average of about 5-1/2% for plywood and
7-1/2% for veneer.
1/   Except the glue mixer-spreader which is sufficient for the expanded
production.



APPENDIX 10
Page 7
Raw Materials
Forests are managed by independent forestry enterprises which
are supervised by the communities. They in turn are responsible to the
Forestry Department of the Republic of Bosnia for proper execution of
forestry work.
Wood supplies for the expanded production are assured. The
Enterprise's consultants have made a detailed forestry survey for the
area from which it draws its wood with the conclusion that even of the
high quality logs that the Enterprise now uses there will be ample supplies
available. Furthermore Lignosper has long-term contracts with five
forestry enterprises which give Lignosner the right of first refusal to
the wood resources in the area. Present contracts expire in 1975.
About half of' the wood supplies come in by truck and the other half by
rail. Miaximum shipping distance is about 150 km and is expected not to
increase significantlv as a result of the expanded Durchases.   A minor
quantity of logs will continue to be imported from tropical countries
to mnake snecil veneers.
Cost of tihe Pro';ect
The project is esti-mated to cost NTD  12.9 million !$1 03 million);
excluding interest during construction. Foreign exchange expenditures
are estirated at      nn360,000 which IBRD has bhen rute    to provide- A
summary of the project cost estimate is given below:
Total
N.D.        $         M.D
Million    Million    Million
Building and other Civil Works            1.81        -         1.81
Plant anud Equipme-unt u.                            0r.
Import Duties                             1.49        -         1.49
Freight                                   0.0 6       =         o . 06
Erection                                  0.24        -         0.24
Eng. fees and Misc.                       0.32        =         0.32
Working Capital                           2.75        -         2.75
Total                           8.49       0.36      12.90
The Capital costs have been estimated on the basis of quotations
received from prospective suppliers during the past six months.   As stated
earlier, since the plant was originally designed to allow f'or this expans:ion,
expenditures for civil works are small.



A TrnKTnTV 1 0
Pageo
Assuming that orders ior equipment wouLa oe placed in Julre 197:,
the additional veneer capacity would become operational in mid-1968 and
the additional plywood capacity at the end of that year or early in 1969.
Project Financing
A summary of Lignosperts estimated financial requirements and
sources of funds during the project construction period (1'367 and 1968)
is given below (in million N.D.):
Uses                                   Sources
Project                         12.25±'   Net Earnings                  4.20
Other Investments                0.60    Depreciation                   1.61
Debt Repayment                   1.80     Long-term Debt               10.39
Reserve & Other Allocations      1.00
Additions to Wcrking Capital    0.55
Total                 16.20             Total                16.20
Detailed earnings and cash flow projections for the constructicin
period and ensuing three years together with the major assumptions, are
shown in Annex 2.   Forecasts in Annex 2 assume that project implementation
would begin in mid-1967 and that both veneer and plywood facilities wouldc be
operational at the beginning of 1969.
Project cash costs of N.D. 12.90 million include working capital
requirements of N.D. 2.75 million related to the project, but exclude
interest capitalized and not paid during construction of about N.D. 0.9
million.   Other investments constitute renewals and replacements of
existing plant.   Total investments in fixed assets will add more than 70%
to Lignosper's Gross Fixed Assets as at the end of 1.966.   About 36% of
requirements during the construction period will be covered from the
Enterprise's internal funds, the remaining 64% by long-term borrowings.
Of these IBRD would provide a loan of N.D. 4.42 million equivalent (exclud-
ing interest during construction of N.D. 0.2 million), while YIB and other
local banks wi:Ll contribute N.D. 5.97 million 2/, excluding interest dur:ing
construction of N.D. 0.7 million.
Earnings and_Debt Service Forecasts
Earnings forecasts (Annex 2) are based on the assumption that
sales would equal production.   Paid sales in 1967 are expected to be
greater than t:hose realized in 1966, when delayed plywood deliveries
resulted in a temporary drop in paid sales as compared with production.
Production and sales in 1968 will drop slightly, due to a temporary shut-
down of the plvwood department to move eouipment to the new building.
1/ N.D. 0.65 million for working capital will be needed only in 1969.
2/ Plus N.D. 0.47 million in 1969.



Page 9
Increased veneer production is expected to start in mid-1968 and reacn
full capacity in 1969, while plywood production would reach full capacity
in i970.   Sales prices are based on those presently obtained by Lignosper
and appear to be well justified.   Cost estimates are realistic. They in-
corporate slighti increases in the Enterprise's depreciation rates and also
take into accounit higher depreciation and capital taxes brought about by
the recent reevaluation of assets.
At capacity operations in 1970, the value of total sales, includi-
ing sales of packing cases and other products which will remain relatively
stable, would have increased by about 52/o, while earnings are expected to be
59% higher than in 1967.   The increase in net earnings of N.D. 1.32 million
stemming from the project would represent a nondiscoumted annual return oi
10.4% on total project investment (excluding interest during construction)
of N.D. 12.9 million.   Debt service coverage would be maintained at leve:ls
of two times or higher.
Economic Justification
The project would make possible the expansion of an Enterprise
which has been producing goods of excellent quality commanding high prLces
in exDort markets.   The plyAwood industrv is one in which Yugoslavia is well
placed for expanding production capacity and in which it is highly com-
petitive.   It is estimated that the nroiect will increase annual export
earnings by about $500,000 of which about 30% will be to ccnvertible
currencv countries, as compared to nn annual service on foreign debt of
about $45,000.   The Enterprise is located in a relatively underdeveloped
region which should benef, it. subhs-ani±.allyr eepn f-rom sm211 inness in
economic activity.



ANNEX 1
LIGNOSPER             Page 1
ComDarative Balance Sheets
(in Million New Dinars)
As at December 31                          1963       1964       1965       1966
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash, Banks and near Cash               0.39       2.32       2.13       1.77
Trade Receivables                       0.63       0.71       0.83       0.71
Inventories
Raw Materials and Supplies            0.52       0.89       1.92       2.41
Semi-finished Products                0.10       0.16       0.22       0.30
Finished Products                     1.76       0.62       1.54       3.92
Total Inventories                     2.38       1.67       3.68 1/    6.63 2/
Other Current Assets  3/                1.63       1.11       1.78       2.77
Total Current Assets                       5.03       5.81         i2.89
Gross Fixed Assets
Land                                     -          -         O.o8       O.C9
Buildings                               3.62       3.99       3.99       6.40
Machinery & Enuinmrient                 4.oo       4.61       4.87       7.C2
Preliminary Expenses, Patents,etc.      0.42       0.47       0.52       0.59
rIolleetive ConsuTnTtion Assets         1.00       1.24       1.37       o.r4 4/
Other Fixed Assets                      0.54       0.24       0.24       0.375/
Total Gross Fiyed Ass.ets                  9.58      10.55      11.07      Y1    /
less Depreciation                      (1.36)     (1.77)     (2.23)     (3.3^5 K/
Nt                               idAsts                                  2878  .8 11.-_
TOTAL ASSETS                              13.25      14.59      17.26      23.04
LIA  LITTIES
UU±IC. U  -Laz..S   ±
4-T
Cur re ntU Liab,ilit ies
Short-term Debt to Banks                1.26        -          -         1.329/
Trade Payables                          0.19       0.50       0.32       0. !0
Other Current Liabilities               2.24       1.89       2.76       3.2610/
m  a'  urr n_'  T ,A al J. l-:1 -:+: 4> --  i°         )  v~ IQ .  'S - n9
I   W' -C.  u >  Q   -1 iU |  a J._L  VJLO J .L 0     _.  ,. 
Long-term Debt                             8.28      10.00       9.10       7 -394/
Fundas Of the Enterpr.ise
Business Fund                           1.23       2.14       4.791/    1o.oq98/
Reserve Funds                            -          -                        4.04  0.]1
Collective Consumption Funds            0.05       o.o6       0.25       0.l74/
1  no      1n )C                1CAT7_
Total Own Funds                            L.20.
TOTAL LIABILITIES                         13.25      14.59      17.26      23.04
Current Assets/Current Liabilities       1.36:1     2.44:1     2.74:1     2.25:1
Long-term Debt/Own Funds                  86/14      82/18      64/36      41/',9
(Notes on following page)



ANNEX 1
Page 2
LIGNOSPER
Earnings Statements
(in NMillion New Dinars)
1963        1964       1965        1966
Sales Revenues                             8.36      11.44       14.88       16.26
Operating Costs
11aterials and Overhead                1.81        6.11        8.07        8.851/
Net Wages                              0.96        1.58        2.27        2.,71
RelatedSocil Pa0ments                  0=6         1.15        1.32        1,19
Taxes and Contributions                0.44        0.39        0.42        O.52
Total Operatirg Costs                  6.99.23                12.08       13,. 7
Dzpr eclation                              037        o.L2        o.l,        0.140
n-17        nc6o 0A2.R
NJet Earnings from Operations          0.43        1.23        1.98       1.94
Nonoperating Earings                       0.25       OeL6        0.37        0.73
NJonoperatng Expenses                     (0.15)     (0.0<)\     (0021)      (0.70)
r m1j  -        ^      (v\               1 2f        1 l        0     s     0 fl)
rieOU                                                                      It7 Ldgs  A  D  V   *
Oebb ServTice CUoverage (X)                1.8I7s                  .32
i/ includes N.D. 0.60 million in additional transport costs i'or extraordinary
raw materials import order.
Notes to Balance Sheets (preceding page)
1. reflects revaluation of inventories in July, 1965.
2.  includes extraordinary finished goods inventory due 'to delays on
plywood export deliveries. Inventories have since been reduced to
normal levels.
3. includes cost-of-goods-sold for sales invoiced but not paid, other
transitory items, and prepaid expenses.
4.  reflects transfer of housing assets and associated debt to separate
enterprises in 1966.
5.  includes fixed assets not in use and fixed assets under construction.
6.  includes increase in gross value of buildings, machinery and equipment
of N.D. 4.1 million due to revaluation at year-end 1966.
7.  includes increase of N.D. 0.7 million due to year-end revaluation.
8.  includes net increase of N.D. 3.4 million due to year-end revaluation.
9. temporary financing for extraordinary inventories; reduced substantially
in early 1967.
10. includes sales value of goods invoiced but not paid, other transitory
items, and accrued charges.



ANNEX   2
Page 1
LIGNOSPER
Financial Forecasts
(in Million New Dinars)
Construction Years
Year ending Decem.ber 3:                                1967           loR9           loo           1970           1971
I. Earnings Statement
Sales Revenues 1/                                   18.44          17.02 2/       24.97         28.36          28.36
Operating Costs
Materials and Overhead                            10.20           9.51          13.99         15.62          15.62
Net Wages & ReLated Social Payments 3/             4.39           4.39           5.61          5.97           5.97
Taxes End Contributions            0..56                          0.62           0.74          0.81           0.88
Total nperating Cost                            15.15          15            2202.340                      22.147
Depreciation 4/                                      0.72           0.89           1.48          1.48           1.48
Interest                                             0.34           0.29           o.63          0.94           O.86
Net Earnings                                     2.23           1.32           2.52          3.54           3.55
I. Sources aiLd Aupli.Ctor 5Ul r Unuds
Sources
Net Earnings (Previous Year) 5/                      1.97           2.23           1.32          2.52           3.54
Interest                                            o0.34           0.29           A.63J                 00. o.6
Depreciation                                         0.72           0.89           1.48          1.48           1.48
Increase in Long-term Debt:
IBRD                                               2.52           1.90           -             -              -
YIB and other Banks                                2.34           3.63           0.47          -              -
Total Sources                                    7.89           8.94           3.90          4.94           5.88
Applications
ProJect: Fixed Assets - Foreign                      2.52           1.90           -             -              -
Local                      3.19           2.54           _             _              _
Working Capital                            -              2.10           o.65          -               -
Total Project                                    5.71         T.54             0.65          -              -
Renewals and Replacements                            0.30           0.30           0.30          0.30           0.30
Other Fixed Assets                                   -              -              -             -              -
Interest:
Existing Long-term. Debt                           o.34           0.nn           0             02             0.1
IBRD 6/                                            -              -              0.15          0.29           0.28
YIB and Other Banks (Prolect) 7/                   _                             0.23          0.44           0.41
Short-term Debt                                    _              _
Total Interest                                   0.34           0.29           o.63          0T94           o.86
Principal Repayments
Existing Long-term Debt                            o.96           o.84           0.79          0.76           0.77
IBRD v,                                            -              _              0.13          0.27           0.29
YIB and Other Banks (Project) 7/                   -              -              0.21          o.46           0.49
Total Reavyments                                 o.             o.74'          1.13                         1597 .5
Allocations to Reserve Funds 8/                      0.27           0.23           0.30          0.35           0.35
Allocations for Collective Consumption 9/            0.25           0.25           0.25          0.50           0.50
Sub-Total                                       7.8           -    v3.635835
Net Additions to Worlking Capital                    o.o6           o.49           D.64          1.36           2.32
Total Applications                               7.89           8.94         _3.90           4.94           5.88
Long-Term, Debt Service Coverage (Times) '1/         2.33           3.02           L.95          2.03
(.otes on the follo-wing page)



ANNEX 2
Page 2
LIGNOSPER
Financial Forecasts  Assumptions and Exrplana1-ions
Sales Volume and Sales Revenlues (Value in Million New Dinars)
15661/1          1967          _   1968    -        1969             1970   __         1971
C)tv.   Value    Qty.    Value   9ty.      Value             VELlUe   Qtvy.   Value,    Qty.    Value
Products
'Plywood                      4,503    7.63    5,80Ci    9.69    4,104    6,93    8,000    1.36     10,000   16.70    10,000  16.70
'Veneer                        703     4.81      683     4.50    1,1446    5.86   2,000    7-.24     2,000    7.24     2,000   7.24
Packing Cases                   -      3.72      -       4.00      *       4.01    _-       4.01      -       4.01      -       4.01
'Waste                         -       0.10      -       0.25      -      0.22      -       0.36      -       0.41      -       O.41
Total Sales Revenues               16.26            18.44             17.0C2           211.97            28.36             28.36
~~~~~~~~~~~~~=5                             = _ =                              ==
of which Exports
'Plywood                      2,550    4.72    3,204     5.83    2,458     4.47   4,000     7'.83    5,000    9.79     5,000    9.79
Veneer                         625     4.44      420     2.97      r48     3.36   1,000     4.30     1,000    4.3(     1,000   14.30
'Packing Catses                -       2.77      -       3.53      -       3.'53    -       3.53      -       3.53      -       3.53
11.93             12.33            11.36             1'5.66            17.62'           17.62
Br eakdovn between Domestic Sales
and Exrport Sales by Currency
Areas
Domestic                               4.33              6.11             5.66              9.31             10.74            10.74
Exports - Clearing Area                3.07              5.57             4.81             'r.63              9.0L             9.01
- Convertible Area             8.86              6.76              6.55             8.03              8.61              8.61
16.26             18.44            17.02             214.97            28.36            28.36
1/ On basis of paid snles     oes not qul    66 roduction or invuicei sales volumes.
Notes on Financial Forecasts (preceding page)
1. Sales forecasts as above, based on assumption that sales equals production in each year. Reduction of extraordinary inventories
(and of associated short-term debt) in early 1967 not shown  in sales, earnings or funds flow statements.
2. Reflects temporary shutdown olr ply-wood denartment for prolect implementation.
3. Variable wage distributions represent about 15% of tota] payments in each year.
.N'e lDt i-evaluation of tixed assets at year-end 1966.
5. Earned funds are released for use only in following year.
6. Interest at 615%, capitalized during two year grace period.  Penavment in 24 enual semi-annual installments f'rom July 1, 1969
7. Interest at 75%, cacitalized during two year grace period. Repayment in 20 equal semi-annual installmernts from July 1, 1969.
8. Required cash retentions unavailab:Le for other use.
9. For investment in collective consurnotiorn assets.
10. Current depreciaticn and interest on long-term debl: T lus nrevinmie vear'ls earnings over total long--term debt interest anld nrincipal payments.



A U 5 T R IA 
,._.           o~~~~.-'-.,j--  '-   >                                                                                   -
? *<s. *04                        ..       H     U     N     G     A       R      Y
(S                 *                .     '- Sj
SLO'/ENIA      *-\
>1g                         *.1 .                                    .^--             \-    R   U       A   N   I  A
-< -                      ;'(-_S.                                   .-                   .7 5
.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~~~~~~~~~S~                                                 .7 :...:
CROATIA                 ('
_ ~ ~   ~    ~   @ '*5                                                           ' ,   .., 
3~, N ,.'- '
'I  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I ~~~~~~~~~~~~BELGRADE                             __
. _ r  _  _;     w              s   ~    ~    ~    ~   ~       I 
It6   CROATIA
B oS N I A -' ER  CO VIN A 
1                                     ,,   St   ./  v   ..  \   .... ..  < '  >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r  
YUGO!iLAVIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SE :B-IA \                 : 
I.-
CZ-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5
INDIJSTRIAL   PROJECT'i LOCATION                                     X                   .,                             '
~~~~~3~~'
3' OHIS, ;KOPJE                                                                              IA   E DONIA
6.LIG NOSPER, BOSANSKI NOVI                                      i-  
7 . K IK I NDA, ~jK I K1NUGA                                             -'
...........  . REPUSETC BIDARIES
0  20  40  60  80  100 (M.\X 
I M. X jg _*_" ~~~~~~G R E E C: E
APRIL 1967                                                                                                              IBRD-2036



YTTflOST.AVTA
Memorandum on the Economic Situation
1.   This memorandum is designed to supplement and bring uy) to date the
Econo.4c Report of Septe-,ber, 1956 (F1A       Mle Report VA-1    ot    e
the progress of the Yugoslav economy and the evolution of the Yugoslav
sysL,e,U     U of economi,.c organizat.on over 1t, I )'he post-war periou.  LU uwscr.Lbed
the Economic Reform of July, 1965 and the measures associated with it
whLch const-tuted a further major step towards the creatiori of an econo,y
guided by market forces.
The Economic Refom
2.   Though Yugoslavia had achieved a remarkable record of economic growthi
since World war IH, by the early 19601s certain weaknesses in the structure
and organization of the economy had emerged. The great emphasis given to
the expansion of manufacturing had resulted in a distortior in the patter.n
of production, reflected in lagging output of agricultural products and
raw materials and deficiencies in power and transport services. The author-
ities had pressed industrial diversification to a point where in some sectors
too great a range of products was produced in too small a quantity to be
economic. Moreover, the diversity of production and the emphasis given to
developing the capital goods industries required large investments if industry
were to keep pace with advances in technology and remain competitive. It had
become clear also that given the limited internal market thie continued growth
of the economy would in future require a greater emphasis on produQtion for
export.
3.   While enterprises, operating under the system of workers self-
management, had gradually been given greater autonomy and hlad been guided
increasingly by market forces, government at various levels continued until
the mid 1960's to be mainly responsible for certain major economic decisions,
for example, decisions on investment, on the use of foreigni exchange, and to
a -onsiderable extent on prices. This had resulted in an umdue weight being
given to political considerations, particularly in regard to investment
decisions,which in turn had led to some misallocation of resources.
L.   Thus, the Economic Reform and the measures associated with it were
designed to achieve three major objectives: (1) to give still greater
resDonsibility to enternrises and further limit the role of government
in the economy by reducing the taxation of enterprises and leaving to
them daniSion q on inva+tment! (2) to rcorrAc-t by maior prie adiustments
the long-standing distortions in the pattern of output; and (3)  by
Avnivluing the d+nar, approximately halving cust-ms tariff rates, and
liberalizing imports and the foreign exchange regime to st.imulate Yugoslav
exports, to bring pressure on          enprises to ir.crease their
efficiency, and to integrate more closely the Yugoslav witl the world
econro.y,



5.   The various measures in this process occurred over a iperiod of several
years.  The Tir rencio-+Ans in the    vtvmaior. of ets          iorrea in
196h, the deval.uation of the dinar and the principal price adjustments ir
-TJlir 1041: YAnLteMSbjhnQrc 4n PhrP T 4v% Aiimin+ 104V .nA Gh L U4&nn .f,
-;~ -/v ^|Wr--                                >^ *  ^ W-              - v b__*_
imports and the foreign exchange regime in January 1967.
6.   The impact of the Reform which began to be felt in 1966, will be
.LUL   IIkIJLU  0 U L%~JA1,.&jV  .LA4  .67WS.  .&IJ.  A VJJ.V  'JL  JVV%Y.LUII11 L, .LA&  ULA   U.L.L  I  L,.LVJA1  Wj~
investments has already been sharply curtailed.   The reductions in taxa-
tion. of enterprises and the chLnges in relative prices have put agricultu.re
and the industries producing raw materials and basic services in a strong
financial position, even after meeting large wage increases in the    ecundI
half of 1965. Although the effect on output of these changes in 1966 was
necessarily limited, (agriculture, however, with favourable weather enjoyed
a bumper year) the raw material and service industries werie better able to
undertake-the required investments in new capacity.   At the same time, the
pressure brought to bear on producers of final products, wlhose prices increased
much more moderately, stimulated them to increase their ef:ficiency, to econo-
mize in the use of labor, (industrial employment fell by 1%9 in the year) to
bargain harder with suppliers and to give greater attention to export markets.
Furthermore the! required modernization and specialization in industry pro-
gressed as indicated by the rising share of expenditures on new plant anc
equipment in total industrial investment (imports of capital equipment rcse
by a third in 1.966) and by the growing number of agreementsg between enter-
prises to concentrate on particular product lines. These trends will be
strengthened as a result of the liberalization of imports and the foreign.
exchange regime in January 1967.
The Growth of Output
7.   Real output grew rapidly, by 8.6rZ. in 1966 due mainly to the record
year in agriculture.   Agricultural production is estimated at 18% above t.he
level of 1965.  The latter was a poor year, but the growth of output in 1.966
was by 1normzal" standards exceptional. Production of whea t and corn rose by
about 21% and 31% respectively above the 1963-65 average, and most other
branches did well.  This reflected unusually favourable weather as well as
the application of additional invuts. Prosperity in agriculture and the
rapid growth of tourism provided a stimulus to demand in industry, but fixed
investment as a. whole did not rise in 1966 (increased investment in mining
and agriculture was offset by a decline in housing and social investment)
and there were shifts in the nattern of consumer exnenditures as well as
a sharp rise in. household savings.  Industry proved less flexible in adjust-
ing to dmnand chAngoA  than hAd hben Arnentped and impnrt.s o:f hth r-pnital and
consumer goods rose sharply while exports increased much more slowly. As a
resulft indstrial ouluIt rose hy o.nly 1143% compared Tri+h :r.owth rates averaging
11% annually from 1960-65.
8.   Real private consumption grew by about 5%, and in linie with the objectives
nf +Ia Pnv,n,~4 n  a'av, rntkI 4n n,.-n,i,n+4- A-,,Inl4-nA I-. i  .,4- *I,p ni ny-r%nn¶q
tion.  With the stability of fixed investment and a near balance on interna-
4t4onal 4 tr asact ot on -  heu fast growth of outpiut was reflectesd 4- - sharp r.cre- -ase 
in      UA .Lo  G. t rA4es  eLCtimate  toJ. hUaUve  U'. risen byALCA jJ aAbou  25 n er
in inventories, estimated to have risen by about 25% in the year.



9.   Some part of the increase in inventories resulted from the rise in
agricultural outpuit, I nd these stockI will fVl7 as agricultural exports
proceed and in the normal course of consurnption. Other stock increases
resulted from the production of goods for which with changes in the
pattern of demand there was no market at prevailing prices.   By further
credit restric,tinon v- in the earl -onth  ofr 1967 , tea+oiisbogl
pressure on firms to clear excess stocks even at the cost of sharp price
n * ~~~A  XT~t-
r i ce  a n" II g 
10.  With uthe *major price adjustments of the third anU d fourth q-uarters
of 1965, designed to correct earlier price distortions and align prices
to the extent feasible with international prices, producer prices of
manufactured goods rose on average by about 15% (prices of materials rose
by 10.5%, of consumer goods by 12% and of capital goods by 5.5%) wnile
prices of agricultural products rose by a further 15% after increases
totalling more than 60% in the preceding 18 months.   Consumer prices
measured by the cost of living index rose by almost 30% with particularly
sharp increases in rents (63%) and fuel and light (55%). Since the end
of 1965, with some exceptions, prices have remained relatively stable.
Producer prices of manufactures rose by 2-3% and of agricultural products
by little more than 4%, while the cost of living index rose by about 7%
during 1966, with rents and prices of services increasing most sharply.
Rents are to be raised further, eventually to an economic level, and while
the price control authorities expect to make further adjustments to correct
emerging distortions or to meet changes in international prices, the broad
objective is to keep the rate of price increase in line with that among
Yugoslavia's major trading partners.
11. Prices of about 90% of manufactured products were controlled after
the Economic Reform, but at present about 35% of industria. and mine
product prices are free, as well as prices of agriculturaL products and
imports.  Prices will be progressively freed wshen the authorities consider
that domestic supplies are sufficient to meet demand and when imports can
act as a check on price policies of domestic suppliers. Thus, the further
freeing of prices will be linked partly to the progress of import liberali-
zation.
12. The Gover:nnent's policy was that the price increases in the second
half of 1965 should be comnensated by increases in wages. and enterprises
in determining personal incomes kept within this guideline until about
the middle of 1966.  In line with the nriGe chanpces of 1965. the assets
of enterprises were to be revalued as a basis for determining depreciation
provisions and the napital tay (see nara- 23).   The revaliuation of assets
was however not completed and made effective until the encd of 1966. As a
resilt of t,'his delay, enterprises made "book profits" in 1966 whirch in
some cases stimulated payment of increases in personal inc:omes in the
second half of the year w.hich the G-over-m.v, t felt were excessive.  Nominal



- h -
personal incomes were more than 30% higher in the third quarter of 19066
than in 1965. Real incomes for the year are estimated to have been 12%
higher than in 1965 while labor productivity rose by 8%.
13.  With the revaluation of assets, the greater competition afforded by
import liberalization and still more restrictive credit po:Licies in the
early months of 1967, there are indications that the rise in incomes has
been greatly moderated. The Government's policy is that wage increases
should be in proportion to productivity gains but it exercises no direct
controls over enterprises in determining wage levels. IndiLrectly, however,
the government can exert strong pressures on wages, partly through price
control, partly by influencing the overall level of demand and partly by
influencing the share of earnings which enterprises have to plough back.
With the progressive removal of price controls, the government's influence
on wage levels will diminish somewhat, but where monopolistic conditions
exist a cQntinuation of price regulation by a public authority is envisaged.
Banking and Credit
1L. The bankiniz structure and credit rolicv continued to evolve in 1966
in a manner consistent with the broad objectives of the Economic Reform.
The earlier diffCerentiation between commercial banks and irLvestment and
savings banks was dropped and in the new concept all banks are potentially
able to perform. all t.vpes of banking operations  The number of banks was
roughly halved in the course of the year as banks amalgamated, and with
+he removal of the geographical limitation on operations the larger banks
began to establish networks of branches. The process of ccnsolidation is
el-.ect+ed +to cont v;ine  tPh% _1 _ir-tn 1  er.m_+ hnnv n.^ rrT.T A r .-+. m^tm+.' fH +.hnCn )
Jr v         u...C,a,  .  =            ~       ..'  --' .-   .**  -  -,
of all banking business in the country.
15. Techniques of credit control were modified in 1966, with the emphasiS
IL  IInO fror,1 t4UliaJ.L1..t: Ve to UCL1ntative contvro'ls.  V^WA.era preQviosl
the regulation of short-term bank credits to enterprises had defined the
_c  f _ _ o.-.4-&AA -- _   -..4cl   --A   *,  h o   -1,4mrI,   .;-,-n^t
zx"s L w EVILAQ  uAL%A J.- nII.   Lt   GU.L s   w vuv FLL.V v"   wsJ a v-.W.L  nL"X 
could lend, with almost automatic rediscount facilities at the National
e<-, fro th  >.--I  96 -P    o"lec 'In-  U  b1-l-. have been- give -greater--
JXLWd.lJ2   .L.L-o 'J i vLL   eLI'.L lJ.L  .1,7V  'JIJ IA   ".JUL~L...a.  .~Lr  44   ~  . 6 -   5  - .-' ,-
freedom in their lending operations while the lJational Bank will control
the overall volLUme of creuit by- regulatingUowengits oWn lening to the cot mer-
cial banks. The latter can borrow from the National Bank by rediscountingt
specified paper to a limit which is presently set at 15% of their sight
liabilities (recuced from 20% in March 1967).  Rediscounts above this
limit may be grEnted only to finance exports. In addition, the Nabional
Bank is presently making available special credit facilities equal to the
difference between the amount of credit extended to each bank at the end
of 1966 and 20% of its sight liabilities. This special credit facility is
a transitional crrangement; it has already been quite sharply curtailed
and may eventually disappear. At that point, the principal instruments
of credit regulation would be the reserve ratio (set at 35%, the legal
maximum, since 1965) and the rediscount facilities, though credit ceilings
on the commercial banks might also be employed. Besides varying the reserve



- 5 -
a .Ad rediscol-nt ratios from time to time, +he NTa+io4nal B~n.k env.r,
changes in the types of paper to be discounted, thus securing a measure
of control over the quality as well as ther qutity of bac1, credl t.
-I.  T- Ta--.a   ,  +7 he cou merc-ial banks estalished-c arn     t  byA
which banks with reserves in excess of legal minimum   requirements could
.L~iL4.i  ~   ~   I4U  Ud.L-   I t-] - Ut _1  - IL 4. 1 ±rL±_ ±- i  LAit  P.L.L 4  - ' 4 e.J-- 4
'lend excess reserves tlo arlks in Ut:eic|     ,i  is the fLrs  step -LS   r;
arrangements for inter-bank short-term lending and may wel:L foreshadow
IUL grda   _evolut.on of mor  so.' is iate 'Ln2_^_s _aI en_s of a mo_- r 1- 1- I _u I e
Ws  UUdJ ' eVU±'Ut.JL Vi 'UX  IUI UL biUjS LL ± ULL4-U~U iLIU uri u11iiu  Vi d JIflUUeII1X II1UiiBy
market.
17.  Regulation of investment credits from the banks is primarily in terms
of defining the banks! resources which may be used for investment credits,
the only specific regulation being that not less than 20% of a bank's
investment resources should be used to finance permanent working capital.
18.  A restrictive credit policy was followed in 1966, the 5% increase in
short-term credits over the year being less than half that of 1965.
Having regard to the growth in output and the increase in lthe price level
compared with 1965, the expansion in short-term credit was very moderate.
Even so, towards the end of the year the authorities felt that in view of
the excessive build-up of stocks, credit had been granted ltoo liberally,
and further restrictions were therefore imposed in the earLy months of
1967. In the context of the stand-by agreement with the ITT of December
1966, the Yugoslav authorities agreed that short-term credLts outstanding
should not exceedD 3 billion during 1967, 8% above the level of December
1966. At April 30, 1967 the total outstanding was D 39 billion.
19. Following the reductions in taxation of enterprises and persons
accompanying the economic reform, the banks are intended to play a major
role in mobilizing the savings of enterprises and householdis and in
channeling savings to productive uses. The banks compete for savings
and time deposits and the interest rate ceiling was raised from 8% to
10% in January, 1967. The Banks' share in financing fixed investment
including housing rose slightly in 1966 (to 39% from about 37% in 1965),
but there was a much sharDer increase (over 100%) in saving2s and time
deposits, the total of which equalled almost half of the banks' lending
for fixed investment.  The banka are thus beginning to nlav their ex-
pected role as mobilizers of funds.   In the absence of a more developed
eap±tal market, howeer, and given the limited forms of sa~vigs instru-
ments and the fact that loans for investment can be made onily on fixed
termsj the authorn'tles are~ co".id  ng possible new outet   for S2.nugS
which would provide an attractive long-term return notwithstanding price
4 nflatin.Ajm niie are in pwrocss%- in -"ntroe«ning "aw legrislnatin whichI .woqile
permit enterprises to invest in other enterprises on what would approxi-
mate too n equity basis  sharing in both Management an. d profits.  This
legislation, which would also allow foreign investors to participate in
Y.ugoslav ent.erprises or. pprox4J.a.s;m4-at'IL 441 ar te.,.sia exp;n--4edA 4-t be
enacted by the middle of 1967.



-6-
20.  In accord&.ce bruh the bjct-ves o     the Econorm..  RJ.. the irPl
ence of the public sector on the economy was further reduced in 1966.
Thollugh public4( e-n>>ue   (o    'bdet)rs         y7.f,e      ndt    si
.i 410   11  F~Li'L..t- Aj~L  '"ULUO~ kLJ.L  dJ.J.  LUU6UV  O   S'Jqu  LIJ  1, .LiL Y. 
real terms after taking into account the rise in prices were substantially
ueJ.Aow  IAilJOR  C0  WILLIA  WUL'' J-11  .UCI'i  ±et=   ULIClUI  L1U  Lv4  DLAO_UU .Lt:O~ L&
the economy were reduced, export premiums abolished, and efforts were
made to keep the rise in defense and achunis-trative expenditures to a
minimum, though wages and salaries rose to offset the sharp price increases
oI the seconCd half Of iYO9 . A smal surplus on the Federal budget was a-
chieved in 1966 compared with a small deficit in 1965; on all budgets to-
gether the surplus recorded in 1966 was three times that of 1965 though
only 2% of total expenditures.
21. As a step to enforcing greater budgetary discipline a law of July
1966 precluded short-term bank lending to governments to compensate for
uneven flows of revenues.   Governments are required to build up reserve
funds to cover this need; the regulation applies to all grovernments other
than the Federal Government from January 1967 and to the Federal Govern-
ment from January 1968. Governments, are however, permitted to borrow
long-term resources from banks to finance investment.
22. With regard to extra-budgetary funds, a further step in divesting
political ent:ities of control of investment was the abolition of the
social housing funds and the transfer of these resources to the banks.
Taxes at the communal level were reduced accordingly, in the expectation
that finance for housing construction would in future be mobilized large-ly
by banks from the savings of enterprises and households, and it was hoped
that by graduaLly introducing economic rents it would be possible to a-
chieve a more economic distribution of housing space and also stimulate
home ownership). On the other hand. a partial reversal of the process of'
divesting government of control over investment funds occurred in 1966
when a large part of the resources of the social investme;nt funds which
had been transferred to the banks in 1963 and 1964 were converted into
loans from governments to the banks.   The Federal Governmetnt arranged to
make its investment resources available through the banks on the basis of
contracts with the banks. Governments at other levels followed the ex-
ample of the Federal Government but their resources for :investment have
heen sharnlv redriced.  Thms  althhough finanPinp, of fixed -investmPnts by
the Federal Government roughly doubled in 1966 as compared with 1965,
financinr' hv All governmAnts togPether fell by )sL,o and thepir share of
total financing of fixed investments was only 15% compared with 62% in
1960.
21      n=wn, in^ mni^"t +-m. fh~vn"fa  lr QAA  1-ni+. rnm~ii o%c! &Tw~ fn-O1,0 +r,
Iher  .er- _          _          _. 1966, --- measures             -_ wr  tk  to
simplify the turnover tax which had proved cumbersome in ciperation. No
chngesir. 4t                         104on  are foeen  n  1967 T he rate o f +nva  +In -hne+
capital assets of enterprises, which is the principal source of extra-



- 7 -
budgetary investment resources of the Federal Government, was reduced
from 4.0% to 3.5% in 1966, though after allowing for exemptions the
average effective rate of tax rose slightlv above the 2.9%, of 1965.
Ext+rnal qPrtor
24)  rnmmodity exArnrts ro   hy n2to   1=2M bi'on in 1966 with xynorts
to convertible currency countries rising by about a fifth and exports to
hilateral tradLng partners (accounting for 1n_$O of + +1 tln  r+iin  re-
_ v^~~~~~~~~~~ -        r--e _ -- -- 1-. --
maining stable.   Imports rose by almost 20%o to $1.57 billion with a
parti^u1 ar I t er .-+ p  o  of 4 mports -41--m fr,  bi+r I ^^iiVI c +rs, r.h ic
U1a1     L  , uU '4JLI*    ti.  W&IUjJSJ  IJI  LA.W1 WJIL ~ ~ Wwx%J. _ t~. f
rose by approximately 33%. Yugoslavia had accumulated substantial credi;I
b '&oeswithsom bwaterl prtrers .4 196-5 and uthe autbhoritles there=
fore encouraged higher imports from these countries in 1966.   Part of the
rise n1 imports was accounted for by- greater food purchases following a
poor harvest in 1965, part by greater purchases of selected consumer goods
which were imported to ease the pressure of rising demand on prices and
part by a sharp jump in imports of capital equipment. Overall the trade
deficit in 1966 rose by about two-thirds to $253 miiiion.   The increase,
however, represented almost wholly the change in bilateral trade, the
deficit with convertible currency countries being little changed. After
taking into account increases in net invisible earnings (particularly
from tourism anid transportation which rose by 30% and 20% respectively)
and private tramsfers (mainly workers' remittances) the current deficit
with convertible currency countries was substantially reduced, while a
desirable reduction was achieved in the current surplus with bilateral
partners.
25. The overaLl deficit on current account in 1966 was $32 million.
Only once before in the last decade - in 1965 - had Yugoslavia ended
the year without a large current deficit. Nevertheless the hoped for
increase in gold and foreign exchange reserves did not occur.   Reserves
at $126 million in December 1966 were only $10 million more than a year
earlier.  The authorities had planned to introduce a substantial measure
of import liberalization as an essential step in the Economic Reform, but
with exchange reserves equivalent to less than six weeks' imports from
convertible currency countries and heavy debt servicing obligations, the
authorities were hesitant to take this step while they were uncertain that
inflationary pressures in the economy had been brought under control.
However, after two years of credit restraint and supported by a neiw
standby credit of $45 million from the IMF, partial import liberalization
was introduced on January 1, 1967. Importers are now permitted to buy
without restriction items estimated to comprise about a quarter by value
of total imports from convertible currency countries.   A further 20% of
imports from the convertible area have been liberalized subject to the
fulfillment of import obligations in terms of bilateral trade agreements.
The degree of liberalization is greatest for imports of raid materials and
.sAmi-mnnufa;t.1ItwmPrq and smnllAet for imnpnrt. Of cnn1iimer goo.ds



- 8 -
26. The degree of import liberalization might have been larger had
Yugoslavia met with greater success in her efforts to reschedule the
heavy foreign debt pavments due in 1966-1969. Pavments of almost
$39 million were deferred in 1966 amounting to a sixth of total
medium- and iona-term debt renavments in that year.   Deferrments for
1967 and 1968 total only $15 million in each year.
27. Liberalization already appears to have had some impact on imports
in t.en Pearly monnth., of l1 9;7  Wono  imnorts..  however. shou1Id be sharnlv
reduced this year and prospects are that restrictive credit policies wi11
aiim, +he ty,,r.r+h o~f ~mrnrt, de.m.-l  ThN+th rear  4-j exnrn.t pnrospect  markets
in eastern Eu.rope are good, particularly for consumer products, but Yugo-
lvia needs t    ex-pand its eXports to +he convertible aea rem-  h        -
pects are somewhat less favourable as a result both of additional restric-
tions on trade in agricultural products   -posed by the EEC nr.d of the
slowdown in the German economy. On the other hand Yugos:Lavia as a full,
mmsbr  of-1 the Mr AT ahul beeftfrr.    e 4tar-iff            -04c:Lr. regtated
AIiembe,V  oA.  L41It  UIL1.L.L  &AVtAJ.L%A  UCLJ1.-LJ.  Lro .   LIUIL IJ   tA L L.L±  "U%, k.L.J11C SCr  ~ V 1
at the Kennedy round.  The authorities estimate imports in 1967 rising
UjV f;0 Cul dLU r'JLjJtJI U.V LjJJ LA E Ov rV f7w -WL tIAu aI tr a V.ddJe.d f~ i i  1. J-L, U J. b
by '71e and ex-orts by Justovr9      -hataedfctlil               agr
than in 1966 so that with a moderate rise in net earnings from services
(AU4s J~rece.ipts are e- ected, tAo rise sh  l  - by 2L  - but al90
tourist expenditures) an approximate balance on current account is
forecast for the year.
Prospects
28. The Development Plan 1966-1970, outlined in the Economic Report
(EA-162a), has not been revised, but the authorities recognize that
developments in 1966 and prospects for 1967 may necessitaite revisions.
Though output in 1966 grew at the rate projected in the F'lan (7.5-8.5%)
this resulted from the unexpectedly good year in agriculture. The growth
of industrial production at 4.3% was much below the target rate of 9-lQ9.
For 1967, the growth of output is tentatively projected at 2-2.5% and
industrial production at 4-.5%.    Agricultural production is estimated
to decline by about 7% but would still be substantially higher than in
1965.  Although the authorities expected below average growth rates in
the first two years of the Plan, as enterprises adjusted to the new
conditions brought about by the Economic Reform, it now appears that the
changes required of enterprises were greater and the adjustment process
slower than had been expected, and that the overall growth target of the
Plan may not be realized. Nevertheless, the investments needed to realize
specific targets, e.g. in steel, copper, lead and zinc, electric power,
oil and chemicals are proceeding, and prospects appear gc,od of realizinp
the targets for agriculture. The 1970 targets for production of wheat,
sugar beet and corn were reached in 1966, and although this level is not
expected to be maintained in 1967, with the stimulus provided by higher
agricultural prices to increased inputs, already evidenced on both private
and social holdings, the targets for 1970 might well be exceeded. This is
less likely for livestock where with adverse changes in export markets,
particularly for pig products, output has fallen. though this could be
partly offset by a faster expansion in other sectors of the industry.



- 9 -
29. In the external sector, the Plan projected exports rising by 11-12%,
annually, and imports by 10-12%. As indicated above, the growth rates
for exports ancl imports forecast for 1967 are somewhat below the rates in.
the Plan. It may be asked whether a growth of output of onily 2.0-2.5% is
consistent with a 9% rise in merchandise exports. Here th,e agricultural
sector is the key; agricultural output is expected to fall in 1967 while
food exports will be boosted as a result of the bumper crops of 1966.   If,
as seems likely, the rate of growth of output achieved over the Plan period
is somewhat below the projected rate. this will imDlv a slower growth of
foreign trade. There seems, however, no reason at present to revise the
authorities' exDectation of an approximate balance on curresnt account
during the Plan period. In these circumstances Yugoslavia would need to
borrow abroad little more than the amouints required to rolL over existinPg
debt during the next four to five years.
30. In the past year Yugoslavia incurred little new debt. The total debt
nntstanding rep!ayab-le 4ni convertible currencies (including *izrH aursed)
rose by less than $100 million to $1.8 billion at December 31, 1966, com-
pared wn+.h a r_se of $340 rilo    4     1965.  The shor-+er  debt     galrely
increased and repayment terms for new credits lengthened.   Debt repayment
obliga+iorns ovelr the next several years have not risen in the past year
except for 19686 when a German loan, originally due in 1966, is repayable.
4---u thebrod projection Of vugoslwala' -rs ----- ---  reur,     t Jof
J.La&" S A C JA1 V.JdA  jJLUV  UA.LAJL  I.L  1U6U.LCLVJLC  0  rl a   L.kJp. ua.L. LU%4L4.L.LC"J~1LVLU   V.L
approximately $250 million a year in 1966-70 given in the Economic Report
).L. 8I±LTLUU U ip~4'IJ .LL±UVI uJ.   a   ex'seres  Ue        U   Iapprop Uiate
31.  h-l08t$40 rniliEl f sgosa- '  a-xtrna deb  is o-eo in'er-
national organizations. $640 million represent official loans from Western
countries and $8uu mi.±lion are suppliers: and DanK credits.  Yugcslavia's
heavy reliance on suppliers' credits reflected the very liinited availability
of longer-term loans from the West. Repayment perloas ior oIIlcial loans
and suppliers credits are relatively short so that debt service in the next
four years is high - equivalent to about 25% of prospective convertible
currency earnings. It must be remembered, however, that in the case of
Yugoslavia this figure relates to the total, not only the "public",
external debt. While there are good prospects of rolling over suppliers'
credits, Yugoslavia will need further assistance - preferaibly on longer-
term - if essential import requirements are to be met.
32. Despite difficulties encountered in carrying out the Economic Reform,
there can be little doubt that the directions in which the Yugoslav economy
is now moving will lead to a more rational allocation of ressources and to
the further development of those sectors where Yugoslavia enjoys a compara-
tive advantage. The Yugoslav authorities have consistently adhered to the
objectives of the Reform and have firmly pressed forward i-ts implementation.
As economic enterprises adjust more fully to the changes brought about by
the Reform an acceleration in the growth of output and exports is likely.
In these circumstances and having regard to the continuing restraint shoiwn
by the authorities in incurring new short- and medium-term debt, as evidenced
over the past eighteen months, Yugoslavia can be regarded as creditworthy
for further Bank financing.
May 23, 1967
Europe and Midcle East Department
Attachment: Annex 1: Statistical Appendix



Yugoslavia                Annex 1
STATISTICAL APPENDIX
Gross Social Product
1966: D 913.56 billion (Preliminary)
Rate of growth (1960-65): 7.5%
(1966)   : 8.6%
Per capita      (1966)   : U.S. $500 (approx.)Y!
Per cent of Gross Social Product                    1966
Agriculture and forestry                        31
Mining and manufacturine                        33
Construction                                     7
Transnort amd communications                     8
Trade and catering                              15
Other                                            6
Pimr fp-P-+. nf    RnM.q.qonl PrnAir-+.
1965          1961-64
Gross inv=estm.ent384
Gross savings                                   38              40
Curre  nf'4      r,4-4+  + -,he   anl  n
of payments                                  --               2
Tn-eS+h . .n 4:,co -e pa.,.er,sn                 1             0.5
AA  V  OWIL U11   J.LO  " JI A %3''~IIVIV
Government current revenues                     22               23
Money and Credit                                    1966    Itate of Change
1J.  ).. .L.U    ,    g.'JL
Total money supply                             23.9         114%
Time and savings deposits                      18.1         20%
0S   A  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~^n 1  ~'
Short-term credit to private sector            IV,±         13%
Rate of change in prices (retail)               7.0%        18%
Public Sector Operations                            1966!/ R'ate of Change
(Do. DiiLlion)  .LYQ-UO
Government current receipts                    17-14        9. 0
Government current expenditures                16.1          9.6%
Surplus                                  1.3          --
Government capital expenditures                 0.9           --
1/ Adjusted to CECD National Accounts concept.
2/ Provisional



- ii x- 'Iugosla-via
External Public Debt                            1966             1960-65
(U.S.   miliiion                                              Average
Total debt outstanding                    2,141              1,090
Annual debt service                         240                140
Ratio of debt service to foreign
exchange earnings                      15%                14%
Balance of Payments                            19661/       Rate of Change
(U.S. $ million)                                             1960-65
Exports                                   1222               14%
Imports                                - 1575                 9%
Net invisibles of which                     272              26%
investment income                 -    70               31%
Net current balance                     -    32              --
Foreign Exchange Reserves                       1966             1960-65
(U.S. 7  millio)                          (December)          Average
Convertible currencies                     126                 66
Payments agreements                          91                39
;.M.F. Position                                1966             1960-65
(U.S. $ million)                            (Dec.)           Average
Quota                                      150               120
Drawings outstanding                       108                81
1/ Provisional
Currency Equivalents
U.S. - 12.50 diLnars
1 dinar-U.S. $0.08



