RESTRICTED
Report No. P-555
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPC)RT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE YUGOSLAV INVESTMENT BANK
FOR
INDUSTRIAL PROJECTS
June 30, 1967



REPORT AND RECOMMVrATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO T'HE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE YUGOSIAV INVESTMENT BANK
FOR INDUSTRIAL PROJECTS
1.     I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan in an amount in various currencies equivalent to $10.5 million to
Jugoslovenska Investiciona Banka (Yugoslav Investment Bank).
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.     The Bank has made nine loans to Yugoslavia for a total amount of
$270.7 million. After three loans aggregating $60.7 million had been
made between 1949 and 1953, lending was resumed in 1961 following the
permanent settlement of the Yugoslav prewar external debt in French
francs in 1958 and the t;emporary settlement of the debt in sterling,
Swiss francs and US dolLars in 1959. An offer for the permanent settle-
ment of the US dollar debt was made by the Yugoslav Government in March
1967. Negotiations for the permanent settlement of the sterling debt
are now being held and will be followed by negotiations on the Swiss
franc debt.
3.     The proposed loan would be the fourth for industry in Yugoslavia.
A loan of $2.7 million (20 YU) was made in 19h9 for the purchase of timber
processing equipment. Of the two following loans (51 and 73 YU), which
totalled $58.0 million equivalent and were made in 1951 and 1953 to assist
projects in various sectors of the Yugoslav economy, the major portion of
$h8.5 million assisted 38 projects in industry and mining. All projects
assisted under these loans were successfully completed and the enterprises
are reported to be in normal operation.
4.     A request for assisting the modernization of Yugoslav industrial
enterprises carried out in connection with the economic reform of July
1965 was submitted to the Bank in February 1966. To enhance our under-
standing of the role of industry within the Yugoslav economy and of the
nature of the Yugoslav enterprise system, the economic mission to Yugoslavia
in March/April 1966 reviewed as part of its assignment the industrial sector.
Its findings are contained in the report distributed last September (EA-162a
of September 8, 1966). The projects to be included in the loan now proposed
were submitted to the Bank in December 1966 and appraised by a mission in
February/March 1967. Negotiations were held in Washington between June 13
and 19. Principal members of the Yugoslav delegation were Mr. M. Bojanic,
General Manager of the Yugoslav Investment Bank, and Mr. G. Popovic, Economic
Counsellor of the Yugoslav Embassy in Washington.



- 2 -
5.     Yugoslavia has received no IDA credits and is not a member of IFC.
The following is a sumnary statement of Bank loans to Yugoslavia as of
May 31, 1967:
Amount
(US $ Million)
Loan                                                     Undisbursed
Year    Nos.         Borrower          Purpose        Amount       Balance
1949    20 YU     Federal Government  Industry          2.7          -
1951    51 YU     Federal Government Industry, Power
Agriculture &
Transport        28.0          -
1953    73 YU     Federal Government  Industry, Power
Agriculture &
Transport        30.0          -
1961   277 YU     Yugoslav Invest-    Power            30.0         0.5
ment Bank
1962   318 YU     Yugoilav Invest-    Power            30.0         0.9
ment Bank
1963   344 YU     Yugoslav Invest-    Roads            35.0          -
ment Bank
1963   361 YU     Yugoslav Invest-    Railways         35.0         1.9
ment Bank
1964   395 YU     Yugoslav Invest-    Railways         70.0        56.2
ment Bank
1967   485 YU     Yugoslav Invest-    Roads            10.0        10.0
ment Bank
TotaL                               270.7
of which has been repaid           29.3
Total now outstanding               2 1.4
Amount sold                 3.5
of which has been repaid 1.4        2.1
Total now held by Bank              239.3
TotaL undisbursed
6.     Execution of most of the projects has been satisfactory. The
closing dates of the two power loans (277 and 318 YU) have been postponed
by about one year for reasons which were outside the control of the Yugoslav
authorities. The projects are now practically completed. The 196h railway
project (395 YU) is more than one year behind schedule mainly due to slow
awarding of contracts resulting largely from the 1965 currency reform and
to modification of designs. A revised timetable for the project has been
prepared and work is now proceeding satisfactorily on almost every section
of the project.



- 3 -
7.     The Bank is presently appraising a project for constructing a
railway line from Belgrade to the Adriatic port of Bar. Discussions are
being held between the Yugoslav Investment Bank, a Yugoslav enterprise
and foreign companies on an aluminum project involving possible Bank
financing.
PART II. - DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
8. Borrower:                    Yugoslav Investment Bank
Guarantor:                  Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia
Beneficiaries:              1.  Foundry of Malleable and Grey Iron
Castings (KIKINDA), in Kikinda, Serbia;
2. Plywood and Veneer Factory Lignosper
(LIGNOSPER), in Bosanski Novi, Bosnia-
Herzegovina;
3. Naum Naumovski-Borce Organic Chemical
Industry (OHIS), in Slcopje, Macedonia;
4. Enterprise Tito (PRETIS), in Vogosca,
Bosnia-Herzegovina;
5. Iron and Steel Works (SISAK), in
Sisak, Croatia;
6. Sladkogorska Cardboard and Paper Mill
(SLADKI), in Sladki Vrh, Slovenia; and
7. Automobile and Motor Factory (TAM),
in Maribor, Slovenia.
Amount:                      Various currencies equivalent to $10.5
million.
Purpose:                     To assist in financing the foreign exchange
cost of imported equipment required for the
modernization of the Beneficiary Enterprises.
Amortization:                Term of 14 years, including 2½ years grace,
with semi-annual payment dates of February 15
and August 15, beginning February 15, 1970
and ending August 15, 1981.



- 4 -
Interest Rate:              6% per annum
Commitment Charge:          3/8 of 1% per annum
Relending Terms:            The proceeds of the loan would be relent
by the Dorrower to the Beneficiary Enter-
prises in amounts and upon terms and
conditions approved by the Bank (see para-
graph 16).
PART III - THE PROJECT
9.     A report entitled "Appraisal of Yugusla& Industrial Projects"
(LA-2a) is attached (No. 1).
10.    Yugoslav industry experienced a remarkable growth since the early
1950's. Industrial production rose by almost 12.5% annually since 1952
and accounted for over one-third of total output in 1965-66. Industrial
exports, including min:ing products, now account for about 80% of merchan-
dise exports. During the 1950's priority wias given to the development
of capital goods indus'tries which still contribute almost half of total
industrial output. In recent years, the expansion of consumer goods
industries has received greater emphasis.
11.    Weaknesses in the structure of the economy emerged in the early
1960's.  To correct them, various measures have been taken during the past
few years. Of these, particularly important was the economic reform of
July 1965, which aimed at making enterprises more efficient and more com-
petitive domestically and abroad oy giving market forces increasingly the
predominnant role in determining production, pricing and investment deci-
sions. The ability of industry to adjust to the measures introduced under
tlhe re^orm and to become competitive by international standards will be
decisive for Yugoslavia's success in integrating her economy more closely
with the world markets and liberalizing imports and the foreign exchange
regime. Modernization of enterprises will be a key factor in this process
and is expected to account for most of the investments in manufacturing
industry during the next few years, estimated at approximately $350 million
annually with a foreign exchange component of about one-third.-
12.    The Yugoslav enterprise system is unique.   The Yugoslav constitu-
tion provides that the means of production are socially owned and that
the control of an enterprise is vested in its employees acting through
elected management organs. Since the early 1950's there has been a trend
towards decentralization of economic decision-making, and the autonomy
of enterprises has been further strengthened to a considerable extent by
the reform measures of recent years. As in other countries, enterprises



- 5 -
are subject to such general government regulations as price controls,
minimum wages, safety standards, and foreign excharnge control and they
are responsive to a lesser or greater degree to general policies of the
government. It is not possible to tell to what extent individual enter-
prises at the present stage of development of the Yugoslav economic
system are influenced on broad policy matters by governmental authorities
at various levels. In their daily operations and their investments,
however, enterprises set,m to be able to make their decisions on the
basis of business considerations. The mission to Yugoslavia in February/
March concluded that jucging from the seven enterprises appraised the
system of self-managemernt does not constitute any inherent impediment
to efficiency and appears to work satisfactorily in practice.
13.    The capital required to establish a new industrial enterprise is
as a rule provided in the form of credits. In the past most of the
capital was provided by public authorities, including municipalities,
but the banks are becoming a major source of capital. for both new and
existing enterprises0 New legislation is expected to be introduced
shortly which would permit enterprises to invest in other enterprises
on a quasi-equity basis, sharing in both management and profits. Once
operating, an enterprise builds up own funds through retaining earnings.
By reducing taxes and other levies, the 1965 reform has significantly
increased the funds left at the disposal of enterprises.
14.    With the encouragement of the Government, Yugoslav enterprises are
actively seeking to increase cooperation with private foreign firms. A
law is expected to be enacted in the near future which would allow foreign
firms to share in the management and profits of enterprises as an incentive
to investing in Yugoslavia and providing technical know-how.
15.    The proposed loan would assist in financing the foreign exchange
requirements for the modernization of seven existing enterprises in various
fields cf Yugoslav industry: iron and steel, trucks and buses, bearings,
synthetic fibers, paper and wood. The principal objective of the projects
is to rationalize production, reduce costs and improve product quality.
The projects were selected by the Yugoslav Investment Bank as being of
high economic priority in various sectors of induistry0 Their total cost
is estimated at $37 million equivalent, including requirements for working
capital. The direct foreign exchange component is estimated to be about
-$14 million, of which $10.5 million would come from the proposed Bank loan
and most of the rest from a loan of II million ($2.8 million) to one enter-
prise (OHIS) from U.K. sources. The local cost equivalent to $23 million
will be provided by the enterprises themselves and through loans from
Yugoslav banks.
16.    The proposed loan, which would be guaranteed by the Yugoslav Federal
Government, would be made to the Yugoslav Investment Bank, an investment
institution established, in 1956. The Investment Bank has served as a



- 6 -
conduit for the six Bank loans to Yugoslavia since 1961, totalling $210
million equivalent. A description of the organization of the Investment
Bank and of its activities is given in Appendix 1 of the appraisal report.
The loan proceeds woulcl be relent by the Investment Bank to the Benefi-
ciary Enterprises in amounts and upon terms and conditions approved by
the Bank. It was agreed during negotiations that the repayment and grace
periods of the subsidizry loans would be the same as those of the Bank
loan to the Investment Bank. The amounts to be made available to the
individual enterprises would be as follows:
Proposed IBRD
Enterprise               Product              Loan Amount
(US$ million)
SLADKI                   Paper and Board          2.00
TAM                      Trucks and Buses         2.00
PRETIS                   Bearings                 1.87
OHIS                     Acrylic Fibers           1.50
KIKINDA                  Iron Castings            1.10
SISAK                    Steel Tubes              0.92
LIGNOSPER                Plywood and Veneer       0.36
9.75
In addition, an amount of $0.25 million would be provided for interest
during construction in the case of three enterprises. There would further-
more be a provision for contingencies of $0.5 million.   Any savings from
funds allocated for a particular project would be allocated to contingencies
and would be available, with the agreement of the Bank, for those projects
in which there was an overrun in foreign exchange costs.
17.    The projects havre been investigated in the field and have been
ionnd wTell designed and' ready for execution.  The managements of the enter-
prises are capable and should be able to carry out the projects effectively.
All enterprises have performed well in the past and their financial posi-
tion is sound. Several. of them have arrangements for cooperation with
Western firms relating to technical matters, supply of components, and
marketing.
13.    Due to the nature of the modernization projects, the loan proceeds
would be used to finance a relatively large number of mostly comparatively
small items which represent to some extent specialized equipment. The
goods would be grouped to make the contracts suitable for inviting bids
on an international basis. For contracts over approximately $100,000
equivalent, procurement; would be on the basis of inviting bids from a
list of qualified prospective suppliers from different countries, reviewed
and approved by the Barnk. Bidding documents and contract awards would
be subject to the Bank's approval. Contracts amounting to $100,000 or
less would be awarded in accordance with the usual procedures of the



- 7 -
Beneficiary Enterprises which provide that whenever practicable, not less
than three suppliers should be requested to submit quotations. It is
estimated that more than half of the loan would be used to finance con-
t-acts above $100,000.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUME12TS AND AUTHORITY
19.    The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Yugoslav Invest-
ment Bank, the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Socialist Federal
Republic of Yugoslavia and the Bank and the Report of the Committee pro-
vided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement
are being distriouted to the Executive Directors separately. These draft
agreements contain provisions generally used for projects of this type.
Attention is drawn to the following provisions of the draft Loan Agreement:
(a)  The Yugoslav Investment Bank would undertake to provide
any additional funds that may be required for the projects
(Section 6.01(b));
(b)  The Bank would have the right to cancel portions of the
Loan corresponding to amounts of the subsidiary loans
cancelled by the Yugoslav Investment Bank (Section 6.07);
and
(c)  In case of prepayment of a subsidiary loan by any of the
Beneficiary Fnterprises, the Yugoslav Investment Bank would
have to prepay a corresponding amount of the Loan (Section
6.08).
PART V - THE ECONOMY
20.    An economic memorandum dated May 23, 1967 is attached (No. 2).   It
upda-tes the economic report on "Current Economic Position and Prospects
of Yugoslavia" (EA-162a) dated September 8, 1966 which was circulated to
the Executive Directors on September 21, 1966. The memorandum reviews
the developments of the Yugoslav economy after the introduction of the
economic reform of July 1965 and the measures associated with it. It
concludes that despite the difficulties encountered in carrying out the
economic reform, the performance of the Yugoslav economy has been good,
that prospects for continued growth are favorable and that Yugoslavia
is creditworthy for further Bankc lending.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE WITH THE ARTICLES OF AGREEMENT
21.    I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.



- 8 -
PART VII - RECOMfENDATION
22.    I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolution:
RESOLUTION NO.
Approval of Loan to Yugoslav Investment Bank in an
amount equivalent to U.S. $10,500,000 to be guaranteed
by Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
RESOLVED:
THAT the Bank shall grant a loan to Yugoslav Investment
Bank to be guaranteed by Socialist Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia, in an amount in various currencies equivalent to
ten million five hundred thousand United States dollars
(U.S. $10,500,000), to mature on and prior to August 15, 1981,
to bear interest at the rate of six per cent (6%) per an-num,
arnd to be upon such other terms and conditions as shall be
substantially in accordance with the terms and conditions
set forth in the form of Loan Agreement (Industrial Projects)
between the Bank: and Yugoslav Investment Bank, and the form
of Guarantee Agreement (Industrial Projects) between Socialist
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Bank, which have been
presented to this meeting.
George D. Woods
President
Attachments
I?ashington, D.C.
June 30, 1967



