                                             Documentof
                                          The World Bank

                                  FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY



                                                                             ReportNo. 42804-GT




                                         PROJECT PAPER
                                                  ONA
                       PROPOSEDADDITIONAL FINANCINGLOAN
                          INTHE AMOUNT OF US%20.0MILLION
                            TO THE REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
                                               FOR THE
         THIRDINTEGRATED FINANCIALMANAGEMENTTECHNICAL
                                     ASSISTANCEPROJECT




                                            March4,2008




PovertyReductionand EconomicSector Management
CentralAmerica CountryManagemeutUnit
Latin America and the CaribbeanRegion

This document has a restricteddistributionand may be used by recipientsonly inthe performanceoftheir
official duties. Its contentsmay not otherwise be disclosedwithout World Bank authorization.

                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                (Exchange RateEffectiveNovember 9,2007)
                           Currency Unit = Quetzal
                               Q$l =US$0.13
                               US$1= Q$7.65
                               FISCALYEAR
                          January I December 31
                                    --

                ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AF            Additional Financing
ARF           Automatic RateFixing
CAS           CountryAssistance Strategy
CASE          Computer-AidedSoftware Engineering
CFAA          CountryFinancialAccountabilityAssessment
CGC           Comptroller General's Office
CONCYT        NationalCommissionof Science andTechnology
CPAR          CountryProcurementAssessment Report
FARAH         FinancialAccountingReportingandAuditing Handbook
FTAA          FreeTrade Area o fthe Americas
GLIN          GlobalLegalInformationNetwork
GUATECOMPRAS  GuatemalanE-procurement System
ICT           InformationandCommunicationsTechnology
IDB           Inter-AmericanDevelopmentBank
IFML I1       IntegratedFinancialManagementI1Project
IMF           InternationalMonitoryFund
INFOM         NationalInstituteofMunicipalDevelopment
INTECAP       TechnicalInstitutefor TrainingandProductivity
LAC1          LoanAdministrationChange Initiative
MOF           Ministry o fFinance (MINFIN)
MTEF          Medium-TermExpenditureFramework
NFPS          Non-FinancialPublic Sector
OM            Operational Manual
ONSEC         NationalCivil Service Office
PAD           ProjectAppraisalDocument
PCU           Project CoordinatingUnit
PER           PublicExpenditureReview
PIU           ProjectImplementingUnit
SAT           Superintendence ofTax Administration
SAG           Government Audit System
SEGEPLAN      Secretariat of PlanningandProgramming
SIAD          IntegratedAdministrative System
SIAF          IntegratedFinancialManagement System   ,

SIAFMUNI      IntegratedFinancialManagement Systemfor Municipalities
SICOIN        IntegratedAccountingSystem
SME           Smalland MediumEnterprises
SNIP          National PublicInvestment System
SOE           Statementof Expenses
UNDP          UnitedNations DevelopmentProgram
UNCTAD        UnitedNationsTrade andDevelopmentCommission

                                                                  FOROFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                         Vice President: Pamela Cox
                                       Country Director: Laura Frigenti
                                        Sector Manager: Nicholas Manning
                                    Project Team Leader: Alberto Leyton
                                        PP Team Leader: Alberto Leyton




This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without World Bank authorization.


                        REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
             THIRD INTEGRATEDFINANCIALMANAGEMENT
                    TECHNICAL ASSISTANCEPROJECT

                         ADDITIONAL FINANCING

                           TABLE OF CONTENTS




A. Introduction                                             1

B. Backgroundand Rationalefor AdditionalFinancing           1

C. ProposedChanges                                          5

D.Consistencywith CAS or CPS                                9

E.Appraisalof Scaled-upProjectActivities                    11

F.ExpectedOutcomes                                          11

G. InstitutionalArrangements for ProjectImplementation      12

H.BenefitsandRisks                                          13

I.FinancialTermsandConditionsfortheAdditionalFinancing      14

J. Allocationof ProceedsofAdditionalFinancingby Category    15


                              Project Paper Data Sheet

Date: Jan 18,2008                              Team Leader: Albert0 Leyton
Country: Guatemala                             Sector Directorhlanager: Nicholas
Project Name: ThirdIntegrated Financial        Manning
Management Technical Assistance Project        Country Director: LauraFrigenti
Project ID:P106993                             Environmental Category: C

Responsible agency: The Ministry of Finance
Revised estimated disbursements(Bank FY/US$m)
FY             I2008          I2009           I2010         I2011
Annual           3.0           7.0             7.0            3.O
Cumulative       3.O           10.0            17.0          20.0



Does the restructured or scaled-up project require any exceptions from
Bankpolicies?                                                            No
Have these beenapproved by Bank management?                              NA
I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?             No




                    Source                        Local         Foreign        Total
IBRD/IDA                                              12.00          8.00         20.00
Others
Total                                                                             20.00


A. Introduction

1.     This ProjectPaper seeks the approvalofthe ExecutiveDirectors to provide an additional loan in
the amount of US$20 million to The Republic of Guatemala to expand activities under the Third
Integrated Financial Management Technical Assistance Project (PO66175), Loan 7104-GU (the
Project).

2.     The proposed additional loan would help finance the cost of activities geared to deepen the
Government of Guatemala's public sector modernization process, by amplifying the impact and
development effectiveness of this well-performing project, and addressing pending challenges to the
overall sustainability of the reform process. Specifically, the proposed additional financing will
facilitatethe provisionoftechnical assistance necessaryto: i)further strengthenthe budget, accounting
andtreasury managementfunctions; ii)institutionalize the respective integratedfinancial management
(SIAF) and the e-procurement (GUATECOMPRAS) systems within the Ministry of Finance; iii)
supportthe municipalities' capacity to adopt and consolidatenewprocedures and systems to carry out
efficient and transparent financial management; iv) strengthen the Comptroller General's Office
(CGC); v) build-upand integratepublic planning and public investmentprocedures and systems with
the budget;.and, vi) designandinstitutionalizea permanentknowledgemanagementsysteminthe area
ofpublicexpendituremanagement.

3.     Partnership Arrangements. The proposed Additional Financing does not envisage formal
partnership arrangements with other international financing agencies. However, the Government of
The Netherlandswauld provide grant funds to complement activitiesto supportthe CGC component.

B. BackgroundandRationalefor AdditionalFinancing(AF)

4.     OriginalProjectDesign.The Projectwas approvedon February7,2002 for an amount ofUSD
29.75 million, and became effective on April 18,2003. Thereafter, inJune, 2006 the originalproject's
closingdate, September, 2006 was extendeduntil June 2008. The project's developmentobjective is to
extend and deepenthe reforms pursuedunder the IntegratedFinancialManagement I1Project (IFML
II), aimedatincreasingtheeffectiveness,efficiency,andtransparencyofpublicsectorfinancial
     which
managementandcontrol.
5.     According to the original ProjectDocument,the Project focused on: i)deepeningreforms inthe
areas of budget formulation and execution, multi-annual budgeting, accounting, cash management,
debt management, public investment, public procurement, and increased relevance of monitoring
performanceandresults; ii)extendingthe (SIAF) to the remainingagenciesandsocial funds within the
central government, and reaching executing units' levels in central government agencies; iii)
supportingGuatemala's decentralizationeffort, by underpinningthe designand implementationofnew
financial management procedures and systems in the 331 municipal governments; iv) developing and
integrating a humanresource management information sub-systeminto the Government's overall FM
system; v) strengtheningof the mainaudit institution(CGC); and, vi) promotingseverale-government
initiatives.

6.     Inpursuingthese objectives, the Project currently supportsthe implementationof the following
components: i)consolidating the       SIAF via the implementation of inter alia a Medium-Term
Expenditure Framework (MTEF) and more effective procedures, and the system's expansion to
decentralized agencies including social funds and all budget executing units; ii)strengthening the
municipalities through the development and implementation of           new procedures and systems
underlyinga more efficient, transparent and accountable financial management within the framework
of the Organic Budget Law and the annual budget laws ; iii)modernization of human resource

                                            5

management, via the strengthening of the Civil Service Office (ONSEC) and line units's capacity to
efficiently manage human resources, the design and implementation of a decentralized payroll system
and    a single database of public employees; iv) strengthening of the CGC by supporting the
modernization of its organization, internal processes, and internal audit units (UDAI) throughout all
government agencies, increased transparency and access to information, and the expansion of the audit
training program; and, v) design o f a national e-government framework primarily focused public
finance and procurement functions.
7.    Project Performance to Date. From the project's approval and as observed in the 12
Implementation Status Reports (ISR) that have been submitted to date, the overall project
implementation has consistently beenratedsatisfactory ineach of the six components that are expected
to meet their original objectives. A mid-term review conducted inNovember 2005, also rated progress
towards achieving the Project Development Objective (PDO) satisfactory and found no major issues
requiring attention, thereby obviating the need for project restructuring. InJune, 2006 the project team
sought and received approval of a 21 month closing date extension to June 2008 on the basis o f
progress achieved and to accommodate the lag in effectiveness by a lengthy process of loan approval
inCongress. Itis expectedthat the project will commit and disbursethe around 90 percent of the loan
amount before the current closing date. No outstanding issues with audits, financial management (FM)
or procurement performance, or compliance with legal covenants are currently observed.

8.    The key project outcomes already accomplished towards achieving the PDO include:

rn    Increasedeffectiveness,efficiency and transparency of public sector financial management
      and control, as evidenced by progress towards meeting the main outcome indicators identified
      at Appraisal: (i)the national budget now includes improved performance indicators consistent
      with the medium-term expenditure framework; (ii) SIAF has been extended to all central
                                                             the
      government budget executing agencies; (iii)   the budget, accounting and treasury functions are
      more efficient; and (iv) budget execution, debt service, transfers and procurement information i s
      accessibleto the public through the internet.

8     The SIAF system is now considered one of the best regionalpractices in automated public
      financial management.The system was upgraded to operate under web-based technology and
      i s now fully operational in all central government agencies and most of the decentralized
      entities, and furthermore covers approximately 300 executing-level units. It includes most o f the
      public financial management functions

rn    New financial management procedures and systems were successfully implemented in all
      municipalities. The new framework for municipal financial management SIAFMUNI has
      allowed for a more efficient and transparent model. New municipal financial management
      procedures and systems are gradually being implemented in all municipal governments in
      Guatemala.

rn    The e-procurement application GUATECOMPRAS is now operating and registering all
      central governmentagencies transactionsand is gradually beingexpandedto decentralized
      entities and municipalities. Although the application has yet to support online transactions
      (such as electronic bidding or electronic purchasing), this system has successfully promoted
      higher degrees of transparency inthe public procurement practices evidenced by improvements
      inusers perceptions and arecent award grantedbythe private sector associationinGuatemala.

      An automatic and fully integrated payroll system is being implemented throughout all
      central government agencies, including the health and education sectors. Nearly all central
      government employees are now paid through the banking system and an updated database o f
      public sector employees has been developed and integrated with the SIAF system. However
      HumanResource Management applications still needto be developed.
                                            6

       An automated workflow system to support the Comptroller General's Office's audit
       processes has been developed and is under implementation. Although not completely
.      operational and subject to further evaluations, the government audit system (SAG) is supporting
       the corebusinessprocessesofthe CGC.

       An e-government strategy to support key public sector services and processes has been
       developed.Inadditionto successful experiences inautomating financial managementand public
       procurement applications, the government i s now pursuing the expansion of these practices to
       other government services.
9.     Actual impact and economic gains yielded from these project outputs are not easy to quantify
but are evident as the project is having a direct impact on the quality of the State's macro and fiscal
management. Moreover, enhanced budget management capacity has increasedthe efficiency of public
resource allocation thereby contributing to better use o f public funds as discussed in the recent Public
Expenditure Review (PER); transparency and competition in public procurement processes have
already generated important fiscal savings from lower costs and better quality of goods and services
acquired by public entities as discussed in the recent Country Procurement Assessment Report
(CPAR); and enhanced control o f public finances and automation of processes in municipalities have
improvedthe overall quality o f expenditures; increasedtax collection and betterpublic services quality
and delivery at the local and community levels as discussed in the recent Country Financial
Accountability Assessment (CFAA). Overall, it i s reasonable to expect that increasedtransparency of
public sector management has a very significant impact on improving the country's economic and
investment climate.

10.    Despite the notable progress achieved to date, the public sector modernization agenda in these
areas has yet to be completed. Additional efforts are required inthe above cited areas to both complete
and consolidate the reform process and to ensure its sustainability. To this end, the CFANCPAR of
June, 2005 (updated in 2007) identified a number o f opportunities for improvement following
recognized international good practices. According to these reports, important issues that remainto be
addressed include:

i) Furtherdevelopmentandintegrationofbudgetmanagementwithplanningprocessesinorderto
     fully develop a medium term expenditure framework (MTEF) integrated with meaningful and
     consistent performance and results-basedindicators;

ii)Reviewandupdatethebudgetandaccountingcodifications to alignedthemwithinternational
     standards and guidelines developed by the IMFfor government finance statistics;

iii)Expansion of e-procurement practices to reach online transactional applications including e-
     bidding and e-purchasing, to support a fully automated and transparent system;

iv) Institutionalization and development of the Ministry o f Finance's own capacities to completely
     absorb the SIAF systems' operation and maintenance including further and permanent conceptual
     and technological upgrading;

v) Further development o f appropriate and specific applications to support the entire municipal
    managementcycle while maintaining integration capabilities with central systems;

vi) Institutionalization o f permanent and continuous capacity-building and knowledge management
     systems for central andmunicipal governments inareas relatedto public sector management; and

vii) Continue the strengthening and reform processes o fthe CGC to consolidate its capacity to perform
    high quality independentevaluations at the central and municipal levels.



                                            7

11. RationaleUnderlyingRequestfor AdditionalFinancing.The proposedAF would support the
implementation of complementary activities necessary to complete, consolidate and expand ongoing
governmentpublic sector reformefforts. The proposedadditional loanwould address pendingissues in
the areas of public expenditure planning and monitoring, fiscal and financial management, public
procurement, and strengthening of internal and external control functions. It would furthermore take
advantage of new windows of opportunity to advance and consolidate the already successful state
reform process. The project development objective (PDO) will remain valid given that the new
activities,proposedwithinthe context ofthis AF, will continue to supportthe same reform agenda.

12.    The Additional Financing is the most suitable financial instrument to support these
complementary activities because: i)the outcomes made by this operation offer a window of
opportunity to consolidate and expand achievements made via an` incremental approach --the AF
seems to providethe most effective mechanismto respondto the Government's requestfor additional
support ina timely manner, ii)the PDO remains the same and implementationarrangementswill not
suffer major changes,; iii)the Government of Guatemala has expressedits agreement to process this
new project on the basis of additional financing to the ongoing loan in order to consolidate reforms
obtained under the original project; iv) the new activities can easily be accommodated within the
context of the government's existing implementationcapacity and therefore full implementation of
proposed activities is expected to be completed within a three-year period; v) no environmental or
other safeguardrelated issues are expectedto arise as a result of this proposal.as it will continue with
the implementation of technical assistance activities in the same areas as the original project; and,
finally vi) all proposedactivities are fully aligned with the original PDO and therefore consistent with
the prioritiesset out in the current Country AssistanceStrategy(CAS).

C. ProposedChanges.

13.    ProposedAdditionalFinancingProject. The objective of the Project is to extend and deepen
the Borrower's financial sector reforms being pursued under the Original Project with the aim of
increasingthe effectiveness, efficiency, and transparency of public financial management. Although
the originalPDO will remainvalid, project componentsas well as the outcomes andresults framework
will be restructuredto accommodate the scaling up of existing components as well as the addition of
newcomponents, gearedto ensure that the remainingchallengeswill be addressedbotheffectively and
efficientlywithinthe 36-monthdurationofthe proposedAF.

14.    The proposedAF is expectedto deepenand consolidatereforms initiatedunderthe SIAF project
gearedto increase public sector efficiency and transparency at the central and municipal levels in the
areas of public finance planning, management,andcontrolby strengtheningthe processesand systems
and supporting the institutionalization of these processes and systems through the transfer of
ownershipto the relevantinstitutions. To this end, it will support the provisionoftechnical assistance
to: i)consolidate and institutionalize the SIAF within the Ministry of Finance; ii)implement and
consolidateefficient and transparentpublicfinancial managementat the municipallevel; iii)strengthen
the public financial control framework; iv) strengthen an integrate public planning and investment
procedures and systems to improve the design, evaluation and monitoring of public investment; v)
design and institutionalize a permanent knowledge management system in the area of public
expendituremanagement
15.    ProjectComponents.Four of the ongoing project components will be scaled-up/expandedand
continue to be supportedby the additionalloan: a) ConsolidatingandinstitutionalizingSIAF within the
Ministry of Finance; b) Strengthening Municipal Governments' Financial Management; c)
Strengtheningofthe CGC; and d) Projectcoordination.Expandedactivities for components on Human
Resource management modernization and e-Government will be included as part of Component 1.
Finally,two new components will be incorporatedunder the new AF: a) Strengtheningand integrating
                                             8

   planning and public investment procedures and systems; and b) Designing and institutionalizing a
   permanentknowledge managementsystem inthe area of public expenditure management. A detailed
   descriptionof activitiesto be supportedunder all projects components is providedbelow. Tables 2 and
   3 show the proposedallocation of resources amongscaled-up/expandedandnewcomponents.

   Onpoingscaled-upmxpandedcomponents:

   ProjectComponent 1: Consolidatingand institutionalizingSIAFwithin the Ministryof Finance

   16.New or expanded activities under this component aim at consolidating and institutionalizing the SIAF
   project within the Ministry of Finance. Provision of technical assistance, training and equipment as
   necessaryto: (i)   continue expanding SIAF coverage throughout the Borrower's central government to
   include all decentralizedentities, social h d s and Congress of the Republic; (ii)expand the reach of
   SIAF downto the Borrower's budgetexecutionunits withinministries andentities; (iii)    consolidatethe
-  medium-term expenditure framework implemented under the Original Project; (iv) deepen the
   Borrower's budgetreform(as designedand beingimplementedunderthe OriginalProject) throughthe
   strengtheningof macro-budgetcontrols; (v) reviewandupdate of SIAF modulesinorder to makethem
   consistent with international accounting, debt and budget standards; (vi) enhance the coverage of e-
   procurementprocedures and consolidate and deepenGUATECOMPRAS; and (vii) provide support to
   MOFfor the developmentof a strategicplanfor the institutionalizationof SIAF.


   17. Support a gradual transference to the MOF of the administration, operation, maintenance, and the
   development andupgradeof SIAF operationalmodules.

   18.    Sub-component l.a: Consolidation of the achievements in the area of multi-annual and
   results-oriented budget. This sub-componentwill support i)the strengtheningof the Budget Technical
   Office through the provision of necessary technical resources, training in the evaluation and budget
  performance, and the implementationof effective norms and procedures, ii)building-up of the sector
  planning system in the areas of multi-annual and results-orientedbudget formulation, execution and
   monitoring and performance; iii)assistance to central government entities in the design and
   implementationofperformanceindicatorsthroughtechnical supportandtraining.

   19.    Subcomponent 1.6: Gradual incorporation of international standards to public financial
   management in the areas of accounting, budget andpublic debt. This sub-componentwill preparean
   international standards adoption plan that will include the 2001 IMF's Government Finance Statistics
   Standards Manual and InternationalPublic Accounting Standards.This will ensure the implementation
   of a first set of internationalstandards, includingmodificationsinseveralaccountingandbudget codes,
   the required changes in the IT systems and the necessary training for its effective execution. In
   addition, international standards and new proceduresto expand the local debt capital markets and the
   use of debt instrumentswill be implemented.

  20.     Sub-component 1.c: Consolidation of the budget, treasury and accounting's capabilities
   within the Ministry of Finance to take over the management and operation of the SIAF system and
  the development of specific tools to support SIAF management. This subcomponent aims at
   strengthening the capacity of all relevant departments to manage their respective SIAF subsystem. It
  will also includethe preparationof a diagnostic to identify financial managementneedsnot coveredby
  the SIAF, the definitionofan action planto meetthem, andthe developmentofnewproceduresand IT
  tools to complementthe SIAF as identifiedby the relevantdepartments.

  21.     Sub-component l.d: Expansion of           GUATECOMPRAS's scope and functionality and
  consolidation of the system as the country'spublic procurementframework. This subcomponent will
  develop and implement new procurement planning and policies to increase cost-effectiveness and

                                                 9

define a strategic framework for the GUATECOMPRAS system. It will also expand the transactional
functionality o f GUATECOMPRAS and incorporate new products and services to both handle
automated purchasing capabilities and facilitate easier access of Small and Medium Enterprises
(SMEs) to serve as vendors for the public sector.
22.    Sub-component 1.e: Transfer of SIAF IT operation to the Ministry of Finance's Department
of Information Systems. This subcomponent will develop a plan ledby the functional and IT areas o f
the Ministry that will define the process by which the SIAF, GUATECOMPRAS and other relevant
systems will be transferred to the Ministry with the necessary information security requirements. It
will also support the development o f a strategic planthat will identify alternatives to ensure the system
sustainability, including outsourcing alternatives and other shared "best-practices" in IT systems
support. Finally, it will support the Information Systems Department's ability to incorporate the
financial and human resourcesnecessaryto adequately manage and sustain all SIAF systems.
ProjectComponent2: StrengtheningMunicipalGovernments' FinancialManagement
        On the basis o f the results already achieved in the implementation of SIAF-MUNI in all 331
municipalities, the proposed additional financing will: (i)design and implementation o f simplified
financial management systems for all municipalities; (ii)  organizational restructuring o f municipalities
and design and preparation of related procedural manuals to implement the above mentioned systems;
(iii) andimplementationofatrainingprogramformunicipal-levelstaff;(iv) developmentand
     design
implementation of further specific applications to support financial management related processes in
all municipalities; and (v) strengthening o f MOF's capacity to provide technical support to
municipalities.



23,    Sub-component 2.a: Further development and consolidation of the revamped municipal
financial management system and procedures. This sub-component will support the preparation of a
framework document that defines the key aspects of municipal financial management- procedures,
norms and systems' functionalities and a sustainability model. The development and implementation
o f the updatedfinancial information system (SIAFMUNI-WEB), including training o f relevant staff at
the municipallevel and capacity buildinginthe areaofmunicipalpublic debtmanagement.

24.    Sub-component 2.b: Strenghtening of the Ministry of Finance toprovide support in the area
of financial management. This subcomponent will strengthen the Ministry of Finance's capacity to
support and advise the municipalities inthe area of financial management by creating a governmental
unit for municipal financial management support that will have the necessary financial and human
resources; the IT department will take over the IT aspects o f the system.

ProjectComponent3: Strengtheningof the ComptrollerGeneral's Office

25.    Continuing with ongoing activities under this component, the AF will include: (i)    consolidation
of previous achievements under the Original Project in the area of public financial control; (ii)
strengthening of specialized non-financial auditing capabilities; and (iii)strengthening o f CGC's
functions andpromotionof public participation inthe public financial managementoversight.
Sub-component 3.a: Consolidation of the previous achievements in the area of public financial
control. This subcomponent will support the: i)strengthening o f the investment planning and
management capacity at the `municipal level; and ii) conceptual analysis o f SNIP and its
integratiodcoordination with SIAF.



                                            10

26.    Sub-component 3.6: Strengthening of specialized non-financial audit capabilities. This
subcomponent will support the establishment o f specific methodologies to perform Environmental,
Human Resources and Value for Money audits and the development of the CGC's institutional
capacity to carry out specialized non-financial audits to complement and enhance external control.
27.    Sub-component 3.c: Strengtheningof CGC'sfunctions andpromotion of public participation
in thepublicfinancial managementoversight. This subcomponent will strengthenthe CGC's internal            -
functions to improve its performance and efficiency and promote public participation in public sector
financial management oversight, including the creation of a claims and allegation center concerning
public finance mismanagement.

ProjectComponent4: Projectcoordination

28.    Strengthening o f the operational capacity o f the Ministry of Finance through the provision o f
training, technical assistance (including audit services) and the acquisition o f equipment required
therefore inorder to ensure that the Ministry o fFinance carries out its tasks efficiently.

New componentsto be supportedbv the additionalloan:

ProjectComponent 5: Strengtheningand integratingplanningand public investmentprocedures
and systems

29.    This component will strengthen SEGEPLAN's Public Investment system by supporting the
implementation o f its operational model, based on two strategic pillars: i)strengthening of the
investment planning and management capacity at municipal level and ii)conceptual analysis of SNIP
and integratiodcoordinationwith the SIAF.

30.    Sub-component 5.a: Strengtheningof investmentplanning and management capacitiesat the
regional and municipallevels. This subcomponent will support: i)the strengthening of a new regional
model for SEGEPLAN and development of the mechanisms for training and certification o f public
servants, ii)the analysis and update o f the Municipal Public Investment System (SMIP) and ,iii)the
development of a e-learning system inthe area of public investment at the regional and local level.

31.    Sub-component 5.6: Conceptual analysis of the SNIP and integration/coordination with the
SIAF. This subcomponent will include the preparation of an analysis and diagnostic of the current
investment cycle and its management tools, strengthening of the Public Investment Directorate to
manage the SNIP and carry out a strategic plan for the integratiodcoordination between SNIP and
SIAF  .

Project Component 6: Designing and institutionalizinga permanent knowledge management
system in the area of public expendituremanagement

32.    The project will provide support to develop and implement a knowledge management system,
with the participation of public and private institutions geared to disseminate and train public officials
at all government levels, on topics related to planning, monitoring and evaluation, financial
management, public procurement, human resource management and auditing.

33.    This component will furthermore support the preparation of a comprehensive training plan for
public servants involvedinthe above-mentioned areas, taking into consideration the current needs and
requirements under the SIAF model and according to international best-practices in these areas. It
would also make extensiveuse of e-learning.



                                            11

D. Consistency with CAS or CPS

34.    The proposed AF is consistent with the CAS and the Government's reform agenda. Both the
CAS and its 2007 Progress Report have emphasized the results achieved inbuilding a strong, efficient
andtransparent public financial management and the critical importance o f carrying on with reforms in
other areas. Accordingly, this AF aims at deepening and consolidating the progress achieved under the
previous public financial management operations, both at national and sub-national levels and focuses
on key areas that are identified as critical to ensure the sustainability o f these achievements.

E. Appraisalof Scaled-upProjectActivities

35.    Economicand financialanalyses. As inthe case o fthe original project, the expanded activities
under the proposed AF will focus on technical assistance and capacity building activities.             It is
therefore difficult to quantify outputs and benefits, and to precisely calculate rates o f return.
Nevertheless, and as mentioned earlier, since positive fiscal impacts are expected, project                 .
implementation is projected to generate economic gains. The most noteworthy economic and fiscal
savings are expected to result from: (i)  the strengthening and integration o f planning, public investment
and budget systems which are estimated to increase the economic returns o f overall public expenditure
and particularly public investments; (ii) consolidation and expansion o f the SIAF would render the
                                           the
budget preparation process as well as treasury and accounting operations more transparent and
effective, thereby permitting better budget allocation decisions and generating substantial fiscal
savings and enhanced returns in terms o f more effective and extended public services; (iii)more
transparent and automated procurement processes will discourage inefficiencies and corruption in
public procurement and will immediately generate fiscal savings; (iv) strengthened financial
management at the municipal level would generate incentives for further accountability and
effectiveness o f fiscal transfers as well as local taxes to produce more effective and beneficial
investments and other services; and (v) strengthening the institutional capacity o f the CGC would
ensure greater accountability and therefore more effective monitoring and control o f financial flows.

36.    Moreover, better qualification and training o f the government's human resources, promoted
through a comprehensive knowledge management program, should lead to improved performance and
efficiency gains by expediting processes, minimizing risks o f errors or deficient operations and making
reform achievements sustainable over time.

37.    Technical Analysis. Recent analytical work carried out by the Bank, including the
CFANCPAR and the PER, have both identified the remarkable strides made in public financial
management as well as the needto consolidate reforms and to focus on planning activities.

38.    While the PER identified a number o f significant achievements inpublic financial management,
it also highlighted several areas where more profound reform is needed in order to achieve a higher
degree o f transparency and accountability. Inparticular, this report underscored the needto strengthen
the audit process carried out by the CGC, and to increase information on budget execution - both of
which will constitute key challenges to be addressed within the context o f the proposed Additional
Financing Loan.

39.    As suggestedin the CFANCPAR, this additional financing project will support the process by
which the government and the Ministry o f Finance in particular, take full ownership of the public
financial management processes and systems; and, deepen the public procurement system by
expanding the public procurement strategy and improving its regulatory framework.

40.    Besides recommendations from such recent analytical work, participatory workshops with
relevant stakeholders in all participating agencies were conducted to further refine the set o f actions
and activities to be supported by the extended project. It was determined that the continuation and
                                               12

consolidation of activities supported under the three first components of the original project were
necessaryto complete and institutionalize the financial managementreform inthe country. Additional
efforts to further update existing systems and applications inboth central and local FM systems will be
also undertaken on the basis of the same technical analysis. Plus, as the FM reform advances to its
institutionalization at the Ministry o f Finance, expansion to the planning systems appears as an
unavoidable step to fulfill the main objective o f creating and effective MediumTerm Expenditure and
Financial framework (MTEF).

41.     All new activities under both ongoing and new components will continue to be implemented
using the original technical approach, which consists o f the use of a set o f technical assistance
activities providedby external experts and consultants for the design, development and implementation
o f tailored applications and extensive training of relevant users at all levels. Inthis case, such set o f
actions will be expanded to further transfer capacities, expertise and operational responsibilities to line
employees in all participating agencies, complemented with a selective absorption o f key experts and
consultants into government permanent structure to ensure project sustainability.

42.     Institutional Analysis. The Ministry of Finance has led the implementation of important
changes in public financial management. The results achieved so far make further reform easier,
reducing barriers to change. The institutionalization o f the reforms at the ministry's level i s the natural
endto the reformprocess that was initiateda decade ago. The Borrower has confirmed its commitment
to consolidate and expand proposed activities by actively involving top level authorities of concerned
agencies as well as technical personnel needed to take over responsibilities for operating and
maintaining and expanding system applications developed under the project. They have also confirmed
the decision to increase budget allocations to absorb a number of specialized consultants to enhance
their own capacities to facilitate project sustainability. The new activities can be accommodated
relatively easily within the government's existing implementation capacity for the project.

43.     Although the technical capacity o f most agencies responsible for the execution of project
activities i s still limited, the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) has been successful in establishing a
strong team o f consultants who are called by the project design to be further assimilated into Ministry's
line units as well as to transfer and share their knowledge and experience to facilitate project
institutionalization. This means that some selectedtechnical positions will be created inthe Ministry of
Finance as well as inother concerned agencies to incorporate specialized consultants and convert them
into permanent civil servants. In addition, external consultants will be hired to carry out specialized
tasks when deemed necessary. Therefore, core necessary capacities are considered to be sufficient
given the long country experience inthis field.

44.     Fiduciary Analysis. Fiduciary and capacity assessments of the PIU inthe Ministry of Finance
as well as on other participating entities have been undertaken as part of ongoing project supervision
activities. Also an update of the FMA recent supervision report was prepared to provide the
information necessary under the new legal format for AF. Inlight of the Ministry o f Finance's decision
to take on management o f project fiduciary functions, a capacity assessment update of the PCU-MF to
implementprocurement tasks was conducted on November 12,2007, the findings ofwhich confirm the
Average risk rating assigned during the preparation stage of the Third Integrated Financial
Management Project. N o major changes to existing institutional arrangements are expected and
fiduciary aspects related to the implementation of new activities under the AF are deemed adequate.
Further assessments will be undertaken as necessary as the government advances the absorption of
implementation responsibilities within line ministriesand units.

45.     At the time this projectpaper is being prepared, country systems are beingevaluated to agree on
the establishment of a Single Treasury Account system for External Aid. Inthis case the Designated
Account would be held by the National Treasury and would be used by the project through the PFM
system SICOIN. However, the adoption o f a Single Treasury system for designatedaccounts still needs
                                               13

a specific assessment by FMand clearance by the Bankvia LOA. Therefore untilthe Single Treasury
systemis adopted, the project will simply openan additionaldesignatedaccount inthe Central Bank in
order to maintaina separate recordof disbursements under the AF and ensure a proper closure of the
previousproject inJune.

46.     Social and Environment. This project currently triggers none of the Bank's environmentalor
social safeguardpolicies.

F. ExpectedOutcomes

47.    Proposednew activities will allow for additional outputs and outcomes as presented inTable 2
below. More detailed description of expected outcomes and results indicators are discussed in the
outcomes andresults framework for project componentsinAnnex 1.

                                  Table 1:ExpectedOutcomesandIndicators


         ExpectedOutcome                        Original OutcomeIndicators               Additional Outcome Indicators



Developmentobjective



Deepenand consolidatethe reforms initiatedwith the SIAF projectaim at increasingthe efficiencyandtransparencyofthe
public sector at the central and municipallevels inthe areas o fpublic finance planning, managementand controlby
strengtheningthe processesand systems and supportingthe institutionalizationofthese processesand systems throughthe
transfer of ownership to the relevant institutions

                                    Expectedoutcomes and indicators by component
Ongoingscaled-udexpanded compc ents
Component 1. Consolidatingand in tutionalizing SIAF within the Ministry of Finance
All SIAF developmentsand updates         Implementationof adjustmentsmade in           Performance-basedbudgetingand
have beencompletedand transferred        FY2005 budgetproposalsbasedon                 single treasury account management
to the Ministry o f Finance,assuming     efficiency and effectivenessstudies in        applications are fully operationaland
its functionalandtechnological           SIAF systems                                  under implementation.
managementand maintenance
                                         Progressin makingreal time reportingof        SIAF systems havebeentransferred
                                         disaggregatedbudget executionaccessible       and are operatedby line units in at
                                         to public on internet                         the Ministry ofFinance.

Component2. StrengtheningMunic al Governments' Financial Management
The municipalitieshave                   Number ofmunicipalitiesoperating              A framework documentthat defines
implementedproceduresand systems         financial managementsystems (100              the key aspects of municipal
to make financialmanagementmore          municipalitiesby 2003,200 by 2004, and        financial management:procedures,
efficient,transparentand accountable 300 by 2005)                                      norms and systems' functionality
                                                                                       and sustainability modelhasbeen
                                                                                       preparedand disseminatedamong
                                                                                       municipalities.

                                                                                      Newbudgetpracticesat the
                                                                                       municipallevellinking planning and
                                                                                       medium-termbudgetingprocesses
                                                                                      havebeendevelopmentand are
                                                                                       under implementation.

                                                                                      An updatedfinancialinformation
                                                                                      system (SIAFMUNI-WEB) has been
                                                     14

                                                                                                   ~~




        ExpectedOutcome                 Original Outcome Indicators           Additional Outcome Indicators

                                                                            developed.

                                                                            Number of municipalities(or % of
                                                                            total municipal budget) coveredwith
                                                                            the new proceduresand systems with
                                                                            SIAFMUNI-WEB inplace,
                                                                            includinga supportand maintenance
                                                                           plan(June 2011)




Component3. Strengtheningof the Comptroller General's Office
Enhance the efficiency level of Progressinrestructuringthe CGC
                                     I                                      SAG has beenimplementedand
Public Control System -through the                                         used inCGC, UDAIs and a
increased capacity and efficiency of                                        significantnumber ofUDAIMs
Public control institutions.
                                                                           A significantnumber o fspecialized
                                                                           non-financial audits are included in
                                                                           CGC Annual Audit Planperformed
                                                                           by CGC staff.

                                                                            Claims and AllegationCenter is in
                                                                            placeand respondingefficientlyto
                                                                          I citizens
Component 4. Project Coordination
New comDonents
Component 5. Strengtheningand integrating public planningand public investment procedures and systems
The    capacity      for    planning,I                                    IThe municipalpublic investment
management and evaluation ofpublic                                         tools have been improvedand a
investment and development policies                                        permanentsystem for training inthe
has been improved at national and                                          areas ofpublic investmentat
municipallevel                                                             regionaland local levelis inplace.
                                     I                                      A strategyto ensure consistency and
                                                                            integrationbetweenthe SNIP and
                                                                          Ithe SIAF has beenimplemented
Component6. Designingand institutionalizinga permanent knowledge managementsystem in the area of public
expenditure management                                                    IA comprehensiveset oftraining has
                                                                           beendesignedand piloted
Designing and institutionalizing a                                         throughout the central and municipal
permanent knowledge management                                             administrationwith the participation
system in the area          of pubic                                       of ministries'experts, universities,
expendituremanagement                                                      private sector, and leveraginge-
                                                                           learning


G. InstitutionalArrangementsfor ProjectImplementation

48.    The proposedAF will not introduceany major changeto existing administrativeand supervision
procedures, except for managementofprocurementandfinancial managementfunctions inview ofthe
Government's decision to take direct responsibility for performance of such fiduciary functions and
discontinue the use of the UNDP as an external procurementand financial management agent. Based
                                             15

on the above, the Ministry of Finance will now directly perform overall project management
coordination and administrative functions.

49.    The Government has also requested that administrative functions to implement components
under the supervision o f other entities as the CGC and SEGEPLAN, be gradually transferred to those
institutions. The PCU will coordinate with CGR and SEGEPLANto agree on a gradual plan to transfer
administrative functions including project procurement and financial management. The PCU in the
MinistryofFinancewill performoverall project coordinationfimctions andwill continue consolidatihg
and preparing project implementation records and reports. Steps to transfer these functions to other
entities will be authorized by the Bank at the Government's request after assessing institutional
capacities and agreeing on specific actions plans to ensure that new implementing units are capable
and trained to follow Bank procedures.
50.    The project would abandon the use of UNDP as administrative agency in use for the ongoing
operation and instead the PCU would assume the responsibilities of reporting on the use o f funds and
preparing and submitting disbursementapplications. The following methods o f disbursementwould be
usedby the PCU:

         0  Advances to a Designated Account @A).

         0  Reimbursement
         0  Direct Payments

51.   MoF would open a Designated Account @A). The flow of funds will be channeled through the
DA, as expendituresarise. Inthis way funds will only be withdrawn from the DA for specific amounts
related to expenses incurred. The designated account would be held in dollars in Guatemala's Central
Bank (BANGUAT), and as the local legal framework only allows public bank accounts held in other
currency than quetzals if specifically agreed with International institutions, it's recommended to
includethe requirementinthe minutesofnegotiations.

52.    The PCU will use Statements of Expenditures (SOEs) to report on the use of funds and will
report on the payments made from the DA on a quarterly basis. The specific documentation
requirements will be detailed in the Disbursement Letter. All supporting documentation will be
maintained by MoF for post-review and audit purposes for up to one year after the final withdrawal
from the loan.

53.   References to Bank procurement and sanctions guidelines have been updated in the legal
document in order to reflect the applicability o f the 2004 Procurement and Consultants Guidelines as
revised in October, 2006. Such adjustments have been also incorporated into the Operational Manual
approved by the Bank. An updated Procurement Plan has beenprepared to include new activities to be
supported by the project. Both the Procurement Plan and updated Operational Manual have been
approved prior to negotiations.
54.   Project closing date will be extended for three years untilJune 30,201 1.




                                             16

 H. BenefitsandRisks

 55.     The benefits associatedwith the proposedadditional loan are explainedpreviouslyinthe paper.
 In summary, the loan would help the Government of Guatemala to undertake activities needed to
 amplify the impact and effectiveness of its financial managementreform program, while ensuring its
 sustainability .
 56.    The additionalfinance will also face risks, ofwhichthe most significantare:

                     Risk                      Risk               RiskMitigation Measures             Residual
                                              Rating                                                    Risk
    Furtherinstitutionalizationof SIAF            S      This risk will be mitigated by enhancing        M
    within the Ministry of Financemay                    the training and capacity building
    be affectedby difficulty inattracting                component at the Ministry.
    qualified staff inIT-specific areas,                 Options to outsource certain I T specialized
    where marketsalaries are high and                    services will also be considered.
    skills are very specific.

    Limited capacity ofthe 333                    S      Mitigationof this risk will involve a           M
    municipalities to implement the                      thorough analysis ofthe capacity of each
    reform and ensure its sustainability.                municipality, and the correlatedprovision
                                                          of technical assistance and capacity
                                                         building programs.
                                                         The project will also supportthe
                                                          establishmentof a Unitwithin the Ministry
                                                          of Financeto assist municipalities in
                                                          financial management development.

           Risk rating: H(HighRisk), S (Substantial Risk), M(ModerateRisk), and L (Negligibleor Low Risk)

 I.FinancialTermsAndConditionsForTheAdditionalFinancing

 57.    Actual terms have been included in the Legal Agreement as discussed and agreed upon during
 negotiations.The terms were selectedby the borrower via the loanchoice worksheetwhichis an annex
 to the minutesof negotiation.

 J. ProjectCosts and Allocation of Proceeds of AdditionalFinancing



                                 Table 2: TotalProiectCosts by ComDonent
                                            {Exmessed in USD Millions)

~




                          ProjectComponents                                  Original
                                                                               costs      Additional
                                                                                             costs     Total costs .

 OnPoingscaled-udexuanded comuonents
   Consolidatingand institutionalizingSIAF withinthe Ministryo f                   9.98           5.42        15.4
   Finance
   StrengtheningMunicipalGovernments'FinancialManagement                          13.09           5-90       18.99
   Strengtheningo fthe Comptroller General's office                                3.57           5-40        8.97
   ProjectCoordination                                                             3.23           1.40        4.63
 New comuonents
   Strengthening and integrating planningand public investment                     0.00           1.37        1.37
   proceduresand systems
   Designingand institutionalizinga permanentknowledgemanagement                   0.00           0.50        0.50

   system in the area ofpublic expendituremanagement
OngoingcomDonentsnot to be exDanded
   Modernizinghumanresourcemanagement information                                           1.39        0.00        1.39

0  e-Government                                                                             1.64        0.00        1.64

Total costs                                                                                32.90       20.00        52.9

Bank financing                                                                             29.75       20.00       49.75


                 Table 3: Allocation of Proceeds of AdditionalFinancinpbv ComDonent
                                             (Emressed in USD Thousands)

ComDonent or SubcomDonent                                                                                   Total US$'OOO
1. Consolidatingand institutionalizingSIAF within the Ministry of Finance                                           5,425
1.a. Consolidation o fthe achievements inthe area of multi-annualandresults-orientedbudget                            200
1.b. Gradual incorporationof internationalstandards to public financial management inthe areas o f
     accounting, budget and public debt                                                                               125

1.c. Consolidation o f the budget,treasury and accounting's capabilitiesto take over the management
     and operationo fthe SIAF systemand developmentof specific tools to support SIAF                                2,300
     management
1.d.Expansionof GUATECOMPRAS'scope and hnctionalityand consolidationofthe systemas the
     country's publicprocurementframework                                                                             600

1.e. Transfer ofthe SIAF IT operationto the Ministry's Department o f InformationSystems                            2,200
2. StrengtheningMunicipal Governments' Financial Management                                                         5,900
2.a. Further developmentand consolidationo fthe new municipalfinancialmanagement systems and
     procedures                                                                                                     5,000

2.b. Creationofa departmentwithin the Ministry ofFinancethat, without interferingwith the
     municipalities'legalautonomy, coordinates and provides support inthe area of financial                           900
     managementunder Article 46 of Organic BudgetLaw
3. Strengtheningof the Comptroller General's office                                                                 5,400
3.a. Consolidation ofthe previous achievementsinthe area o f public financialcontrol                                5,000
3.b. Strengtheningofspecializednon-financialaudit capabilities                                                        300
3.c. StrengtheningofCGC's functions and promotionof public participationinthe public financial
     managementoversight                                                                                              100

4. Project Coordination                                                                                             1,400
5. Strengtheningand integrating public planningand investmentproceduresand systems                                  1,375
4.a. Strengtheningofthe investmentplanningand managementcapacity at municipallevel                                    675
4.b. ConceDtualanalysisof SNIP and integratiodcoordinationwith the SIAF                                               700
                                                                                ____
                                                                                      ~~~~~     ~~~~
6. Designingand institutionalizinga permanent knowledge management system in the area of
   public expenditure management                                                                                      500


Total Additional Financing                                                                                         20,000



58.     The Government may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the provisions of
World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects dated May 2006, as revised from time to time by
the Bank to: (a) finance 100% (inclusive of Taxes) of Eligible Expenditures, consisting of goods,
consultant and non-consultant services, and Training under the Project up to an aggregate o f
$19,455,000;     and (b) finance 50% (inclusive of Taxes) of Eligible Expenditures consisting of
Operational Costs under the Project, up to an aggregate of $545,000.



                                                   18

                                  Annex 1:Outcomesand ResultsFramework

              Objectives                           ProjectComponents                            ExpectedOutcomes
Deepenand consolidatethe reforms           Ongoing scaled-uolexoanded comoonents
initiated with the SIAF project aim at     Component 1.Consolidatingand
increasingthe efficiency and transparency  institutionalizing SIAF within the Ministry of
ofthe public sector at the central and     Finance
municipal levels in the areas of public    Component 2. StrengtheningMunicipal
finance planning, managementand control    Governments' FinancialManagement
by strengtheningthe processesand           Component 3. Strengtheningofthe public
systems and supportingthe                  financial control framework
institutionalization o fthese processesand Component 4. Project Coordination
systems throughthe transfer of ownership
to the relevant institutions               New comaonents
                                           Component 5. Strengtheningand integrating
                                           planningand public investment procedures
                                           and systems
                                           Component 6. Designingand
                                           institutionalizing apermanent knowledge
                                           managementsystem in the area of public
                                           expenditure management
                                           Ionents
              ComDonent.1
              --._. -.. -
                      -..                                Subcomponents                             ExpectedOutcomes
Consolidatingand institutionalizing SIAF   Subcomponent 1.a.- Consolidationof the          All SIAF developmentsand updates have
within the Ministry of Finance             achievements in the area of multi-annualand     beencompleted and transferredto the
                                           results-oriented budget                         Ministry of Finance, assuming its
                                           Subcomponent 1.b.- Gradualincorporation         functional and technologicalmanagement
                                           o f internationalstandardsto public financial   and maintenance
                                           managementinthe areas ofaccounting,
                                           budget and public debt
                                           Subcomponent 1.c.- Consolidationofthe
                                           budget, treasury and accounting's capabilities
                                           to take over the managementand operation of
                                           the SIAF systemand developmentofspecific
                                           tools to support SIAF management
                                           Subcomponent 1.d.- Expansion of
                                           GUATECOMPMS' scope and functionality
                                           and consolidationofthe system as the
                                           country's public procurement framework
                                           Subcomponent 1.e.- Transfer of the SIAF IT
                                           operation to the Ministry's Department of
                                           Information Systems
          Subcomponent 1.a                                   Activities                            ExpectedOutcomes
Consolidationof the achievements in the    1.a.1.- Strengtheningofthe Budget Technical     The budget monitoring and performance
area of multi-annualand results-oriented   Office with the necessary technical resources,  indicatorsare incorporatedinto the
budget                                     training in the evaluationand budget            budget-relateddecisions for pilot sectors.
                                           performance, implementingeffective norms
                                           and procedures                                  Starting2010, the budget is formulated
                                           1.a.2.-Build-up institutional capacities in the including monitoring and performance
                                           areas of multi-annual and results-oriented      indicators
                                           budget formulation, execution and monitoring
                                           and performance
                                           1.a.3.- Support central governmententitiesin
                                           the design and implementationo f
                                           performance indicatorsthrough technical
                                                                         -
                                           assistance and training
          Subcomponent 1.b                                   Activities                            ExpectedOutcomes
Gradual incorporationof international      1.b.1 Preparationof an international
                                                 .-                                        Starting2011, public financial
standards to public financial management   standards adoption plan which includesthe       managementoperates under international
in the areas ofaccounting, budget and      2001 IMF's Government FinanceStatistics         standards
public debt                                Standards Manual and InternationalPublic
                                           Accounting Standards                            The Ministry of Financemanages and
                                                                                           issuesdebt more efficiently
                                           l.b.2.- Implementationofa first set of
                                           internationalstandards, including
                                           modifications in several accounting and
                                           budget codes, the requiredchanges inthe IT
                                           systems and the necessarytraining for its
                                           effective implementation

                                           1.b.3.-Implementationof international
                                           standards and new proceduresto expand the

                                                      19

                                           local debt capital marketsand the useofdebt
                                           instruments
                                                                                             :.: ExpectedOutcomes ,                '

Consolidationof the budget, treasury and   1.c.1 Strengtheningof all relevant
                                                  -                                       The relevant Ministrv's deDartmentshave
accounting's capabilitiesto take over the  departments in order for them to managetheir   taken over the managemeniand operation
management and operation ofthe SIAF        respectivesubsystemof SIAF                     of SIAF
system and development of specific tools   1.c 2.- Cany out adiagnostic to identify
to support SIAF management                 financial management needs not covered by      Complementary systems havebeen
                                           the SIAF and definean action plan to meet      developedto satisfy additional ministry's
                                           them                                           needs
                                           l.c.3.- Development ofnew proceduresand
                                           IT tools complementaryto SIAF identified by
                                           relevant departments
                                                                                                   ExpectedOutcomes            '

ExpansionofGUATECOMPRAS' scope             1.d.l.- Progress indeveloping and              Government purchasingprocedureshave
and functionality and consolidationo fthe  implementingnew procurementplanningand         been simplified and new product and
system as the country's public             policies to increasecost-effectivenessand      services have been includedin the
procurementframework                       definition of astrategic framework for the     catalogue
                                           GUATECOMPRAS system

                                           l.d.2.- Developmentoftransactional             Online transactional capability has been
                                           functionality in GUATECOMPRAS and              developedand implemented in the system
                                           incorporationofnew products and services
                                           and SMEs to the system
       . Subcomponent 1.e                                                                          Expected Outcomes
Transfer the SlAF IT operationto the       1.e. 1.- DeveloDa Dlan underthe leadershioof   The DeDartmentof Infomation Systems
Ministry's Departmentof Information        the functional'andIT areas to define the   .   within {he Ministry of Financehas taken
Systems                                    process by which the SIAF,                     the responsibility of technologicalaspects
                                           GUATECOMPRAS and other relevant will be        of SIAF, including specific developments
                                           transferred to the Ministry with the necessary of the SIAF, having implemented the
                                           information security requirements;             necessaryorganizationalstructures, norms
                                                                                          and procedures and humanand financial
                                           l.e.2.- Cany out a strategic plan that will    resourcesto ensure its sustriinability
                                           discuss alternativesto ensure the
                                           sustainabilityofthe system, including
                                           outsourcingalternatives and other alternatives
                                           providedby the sharing of "best-practices" in
                                           IT systems support

                                           1.e.3.- Supportthe Information Systems
                                           Departmentto manageand support all SIAF

             Component2                                                                           ExpectedOutcomes
StrengtheningMunicipal Governments'        Subcomoonent 2.a.- Further develoDment         The municiDalitieshave imolemented
FinancialManagement                        and consolidationofthe newmunicipal            proceduresind systems to make financial
                                           financial management systemsand procedures     managementmore efficient, transparent
                                                                                          and accountable
                                           Subcomponent 2.b.- Strengtheningthe
                                           Ministry of Financethat provides support in
                                           the area of financial management
                                                             Activities                        .   ExpectedOutcomes
Further development and consolidationof    2.a. 1.- Draftingof a framework documentthat   The municipal management has become
the revampedmunicipal financial            definesthe key aspectsof municipal financial   more effective, transparent and integrated
management system and procedures           management:procedures,norms and systems'
                                           functionality and sustainabilitymodel

                                           2.a.2-Development and implementation of
                                           the updatedfinancial informationsystem
                                           (SIAFMUNI-WEB), including training of
                                           relevant staff at municipal level

                                           2.a.3.- Capacity building in the area of

         Subcomponent2.b.
 ~



Strenatheninathe Ministrv of Financethat   Developspecializedcapacities at the MOF to     The MOF has been strengthen and is
provides support in the aria of financial  support and strengtheningof the IT             providingcontinuous support to the
management                                 Departmentto take over the IT aspects of the   Municipalities.
                                           SIAFMUNI.

                                                          Subcomponents
Strengtheningand consolidationofthe        Subcomponent 3.21 Consolidationofthe
                                                                -                         Enhancethe efficiency level of Public
public financialcontrol framework          previousachievements in the area o f public    Control Systemthroughthe increased

                                                      20

                                           financial control                               capacity and efficiency of Public control
                                                                                           institutions.
                                           Subcomponent3.b Strengtheningof
                                                                -
                                           specializednon-financial audit capabilities

                                           Subcomponent3.c StrengtheningofCGC's
                                                                -
                                           functions and promotion of public
                                           participationin the public financial

                                                                                                    ExpectedOutcomes
Consolidationofthe previous                3 a 1.- Strengthening, implementationand        SAG has been implemented and used in
achievements in the area ofpublic          transfer of ownership to the CGC of the         CGC, UDAlsand a significant number of
financial control                          Governmental Audit PlanningSystem(SAG),         UDAlMs
                                           including its security certification
                                                                                           New processesand systems havebeen
                                           3.a.2.- Strengtheningofthe financial audit      implementedto carry out public financial
                                           functionsofthe CGC throughthe                   control activities more efficiently at
                                           implementationof new processes,                 nationaland municipal
                                           methodologiesand systems

                                           3.a.3 Strengtheningofthe internal control
                                                 -
                                           framework in the public sector, increasingthe
                                           capacity of internal control entitiesto improve
                                           the public sector managementand
                                           accountability

                                           3.a.4.- Strengtheningof municipal audits and
                                           expansion ofthe CGC regionalcapacity to
                                           oversee sub-national finances
          Subcomponent3.b                                    Activities                              ExpectedOutcomes
Strengthening of specialized non-financial 3.b.l.- Establishmentof specific                A significant number of specialized non-
audit capabilities                         methodologiesto performEnvironmental,           financial audits are included in CGC
                                           Human Resourcesand Value for Money audit.       Annual Audit Planperformed by CGC
                                           Development o fthe CGC institutional            staff.
                                           capacity to carry out specializednon-
                                           financial audits to complement and enhance
                                           external control.
          Subcomponent3.c                                      otiviti
StrenethenineofCGC's functionsand          3.c. 1.- StrenethenineCGC's internal            Claimsand Allegation Center is inplace
promotion oflpublic participation in the   functions to improve its performanceand         and respondingefficiently to citizens
public financial managementoversight       efficiency

                                           3.c.2.- Promotionof public participation in
                                           public sector financial managementoversight,
                                           including the creation of a claims and
                                           allegationcenter concerning public finance

                                                                                                     ExnectedOutcomes




Strengtheningand integratingplanning       Subcomponent5.9 Strengtheningof                 The capacity for planning, management
and public investment proceduresand        investment planningand management               and evaluation of public investmentand
systems                                    capacities at the regionaland municipal levels  developmentpolicieshas been improved
                                                                                           at nationaland municipal level
                                           Subcomponent5.b. Conceptualanalysis of
                                           SNIP and integratiodcoordination with the
                                           SlAF
         Subcomponent5.a.                                  . Activities
Strengtheningof investment planningand     5.a.1.- Strenethenineof a new reeionalmodel     The municipal public investment tools
managementcapacitiesat the regionaland     for SEGEPL-kl anddevelopmen;of the              havebeen improvedand a permanent
municipal levels                           mechanismsfor training and certification of     system for training in the areas ofpublic
                                           public servants                                 investmentat regionaland local level is in
                                                                                           place
                                           5.a.2.- Analyze and updatethe Municipal
                                           Public Investment System(SMIP)

                                           5..a.3 Development of a e-learning system in
                                                  -
                                           the area of public investmentat regional and
                                           local level
         Subcomponent5.b.                                                                           ExpectedOutcomes
Conceptual analysis of the SNIP and        5.b.l Analysisand diagnostic ofthe current
                                                 -                                         A strategy to ensureconsistency and
                                                       21

integratiodcoordinationwith the SIAF    investmentcycleand its managementtools         integrationbetweenthe SNIPandthe
                                                                                       SIAF has been implemented
                                        5.b.2.- Strengthening o fthe Public Investment
                                        Directorateto manage the SNIP

                                        5.b.3.-Carry out astrategic plan for the



Designingand institutionalizinga        6.a.- Designationof a unit within the Ministry A comprehensiveset of traininghas been
permanentknowledgemanagement            of Finance responsiblefor the coordinationof   designedandpilotedthroughoutthe
systeminthe area of public expenditure the knowledgemanagementsystem                   centraland municipal administrationwith
management                                                                             the participation of ministries' experts,
                                        6.b.- Designand implementationof training      universities,privatesector, and leveraging
                                       courseswith well-definedobjectives              e-learning                                *




                                                 22

