                                               CONFORMED COPY



                                          LOAN NUMBER 7522-GU




         Loan Agreement
(Additional Financing for the Third Integrated Financial
       Management Technical Assistance Project)


                       between


            REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA


                          and


INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
           AND DEVELOPMENT




                 Dated March 6, 2009
                                LOAN AGREEMENT

         Agreement dated March 6, 2009, between REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
(“Borrower”) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (“Bank”) for the purposes of providing additional financing for
activities related to the Original Project (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).
The Borrower and the Bank hereby agree as follows:

             ARTICLE I — GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS

1.01.   The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement)
        constitute an integral part of this Agreement.

1.02.   Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this
        Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions or in
        the Appendix to this Agreement.

                                ARTICLE II — LOAN

2.01.   The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or
        referred to in this Agreement, the amount of twenty million Dollars
        ($20,000,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a
        Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of this
        Agreement (“Loan”), to assist in financing the project described in Schedule 1 to
        this Agreement (“Project”).

2.02.   The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with
        Section IV of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

2.03.   The Front-end Fee payable by the Borrower shall be equal to one quarter of one
        percent (0.25%) of the Loan amount. The Borrower shall pay the Front-end Fee
        not later than 60 days after the Effective Date.

2.04.   The interest payable by the Borrower for each Interest Period shall be at a rate
        equal to LIBOR for the Loan Currency plus the Fixed Spread; provided, that
        upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, the
        interest payable by the Borrower during the Conversion Period on such amount
        shall be determined in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of
        the General Conditions. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any amount of the
        Withdrawn Loan Balance remains unpaid when due and such non-payment
        continues for a period of thirty days, then the interest payable by the Borrower
        shall instead be calculated as provided in Section 3.02 (d) of the General
        Conditions.
                                           -2-


2.05.   The Payment Dates are March 15 and September 15 in each year.

2.06.   The principal amount of the Loan shall be repaid in accordance with the
        provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.

2.07.   (a)     The Borrower may at any time request any of the following Conversions
                of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
                (i) a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal
                amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved
                Currency; (ii) a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any
                portion of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a
                Fixed Rate, or vice versa; and (iii) the setting of limits on the Variable
                Rate applicable to all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan
                withdrawn and outstanding by the establishment of an Interest Rate Cap
                or Interest Rate Collar on the Variable Rate.

        (b)     Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that
                is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined
                in the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the
                provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
                Guidelines.

2.08.   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of Section 2.07 of this
        Agreement and unless otherwise notified by the Borrower to the Bank in
        accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate
        basis applicable to consecutive withdrawals from the Loan Account, which in the
        aggregate equal twenty million Dollars ($20,000,000), shall be converted from
        the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate for the full maturity of such amount in
        accordance with the provisions of the General Conditions and of the Conversion
        Guidelines.

                             ARTICLE III — PROJECT

3.01.   The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project, and, to this
        end, shall carry out the Project through MOF (in accordance with the
        Administrative Arrangement), with due diligence and efficiency and in
        conformity with appropriate administrative, financial management and technical
        practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
        and other resources required for the Project.

3.02.   Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and
        except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
        ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of
        Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
                                          -3-


                     ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE BANK

4.01    The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely that, CGO
        and/or the Borrower, through MOF, shall have failed to perform any of their
        obligations under the Administrative Arrangement.

4.02.   The Additional Event of Acceleration consists of the following, namely that the
        event specified in Section 4.01 of this Agreement occurs and is continuing for a
        period of 60 days after notice of the event has been given by the Bank to the
        Borrower.

                         ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS

5.01.   Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the Effectiveness
        Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no
        case later than the eighteen (18) months after the Bank’s approval of the Loan
        which expire on September 28, 2009.

               ARTICLE VI — REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES

6.01.   The Borrower’s Representative is its Minister of Public Finance.

6.02.   The Borrower’s Address is:

        For the Borrower:

        Ministerio de Finanzas Públicas
        8a Avenida 20-87 zona 1
        Centro Cívico
        Ciudad de Guatemala, Guatemala

        Facsimile:

        +011 (502) 22485003     (502) 22485084
                                          -4-


6.03.   The Bank’s Address is:

        International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
        1818 H Street, N.W.
        Washington, D.C. 20433
        United States of America

        Cable address:           Telex:                  Facsimile:

        INTBAFRAD                248423(MCI) or          1-202-477-6391
        Washington, D.C.         64145(MCI)



        AGREED at the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.


                                 REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA



                                 By /s/ José Francisco Villagrán de León
                                                             Authorized Representative



                                 INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                                 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT



                                 By /s/ Laura Frigenti
                                                            Authorized Representative
                                           -5-


                                     SCHEDULE 1

                               Description of the Project

        The objective of the Project is to extend and deepen the Borrower’s financial
sector reforms being pursued under the Original Project with the aim of increasing the
effectiveness, efficiency, and transparency of public financial management.

        The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:

Part A: Consolidating and Institutionalizing Integrated Financial Management Systems
within MOF

1.       Provision of technical assistance, training and equipment as necessary to: (A)
continue expanding SIAF coverage throughout the Borrower’s central government to
include all decentralized entities, social funds and the Congress of the Republic; (B)
expand the reach of SIAF down to the Borrower’s budget execution units within
ministries and entities; (C) consolidate the medium-term expenditure framework
implemented under the Original Project; (D) deepen the Borrower’s budget reform (as
designed and being implemented under the Original Project) through the strengthening of
macro-budget controls; (E) review and update SIAF modules in order to make them
consistent with international accounting, debt and budget standards; (F) enhance the
coverage of e-procurement procedures and consolidate and deepen GUATECOMPRAS;
and (G) provide support to MOF for the development of a strategic plan for the
institutionalization of SIAF.

2.     Support a gradual transference to the MOF of the administration, operation,
maintenance and the development and upgrade of SIAF operational modules.

Part B: Strengthening Municipal Governments Financial Management

         Provision of technical assistance, training and equipment necessary to support the
expansion and implementation of SIAF at the municipal level, including inter alia: (i)
design and implementation of simplified financial management systems for all
municipalities; (ii) organizational restructuring of municipalities and design and
preparation of related procedural manuals to implement the above mentioned systems;
(iii) design and implementation of a training program for municipal-level staff; (iv)
development and implementation of further specific applications to support financial
management related processes in all municipalities; and (v) strengthening of MOF’s
capacity to provide technical support to municipalities.
                                          -6-


Part C: Strengthening of the Comptroller’s General Office

         Provision of technical assistance, training and equipment to continue with the
institutional strengthening of the CGO (being implemented under the Original Project)
through inter alia: (i) consolidation of previous achievements under the Original Project
in the area of public financial control; (ii) strengthening of specialized non-financial
auditing capabilities; and (iii) strengthening of CGC’s functions and promotion of public
participation in the public financial management oversight.

Part D: Strengthening and Integrating Planning and Public Investment Procedures and
Systems

         Provision of technical assistance, training and equipment to strengthen
SEGEPLAN’s public investment system by supporting its integration with the SIAF and
the implementation of a new operational model based upon two strategic pillars: (i)
strengthening of the investment planning and management capacity at the municipal
level; and (ii) conceptual analysis of SNIP and its integration/coordination with SIAF.

Part E: Design and Institutionalization of a Permanent Knowledge Management System
in the Area of Public Expenditure Management

         Development and implementation of a knowledge management system, with the
participation of public and private institutions geared to disseminate and train public
officials at all government levels, on topics related to planning, monitoring and
evaluation, financial management, public procurement, human resource management and
auditing.

Part F: Project Coordination

         Strengthening of the operational capacity of MOF through the provision of
training, technical assistance (including audit services) and the acquisition of equipment
required therefore in order to ensure that MOF carries out its tasks efficiently.
                                          -7-


                                     SCHEDULE 2

                                   Project Execution

Section I.      Implementation Arrangements

A.      Institutional Arrangements

        1.      Except as modified pursuant to this Agreement, all Borrower obligations
                referred to in Article III of the Original Loan Agreement shall apply to
                the execution of the Project.

        2.      Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
                Borrower, through MOF, shall carry out the Project in accordance with
                the Project Operational Manual and on the basis of the indicators set
                forth in the Additional Financing Implementation Letter. In case of any
                conflict between the terms of this Agreement and those of the Project
                Operational Manual, those of this Agreement shall prevail.

B.      Anti-Corruption

        The Borrower shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the
        provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines.

Section II.     Project Monitoring Reporting and Evaluation

A.      Project Reports

1.      The Borrower shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare
        Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.08 of the General
        Conditions and on the basis of the monitoring indicators agreed with the Bank.
        Each Project Report shall cover the period of one calendar semester, and shall be
        furnished to the Bank not later than one month after the end of the period covered
        by such report.

2.      For purposes of Section 5.08 (c) of the General Conditions, the report on the
        execution of the Project and related plan required pursuant to that Section shall
        be furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date.

B.      Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits

1.      The Borrower, through MOF, shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial
        management system in accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 of the
        General Conditions.
                                           -8-


2.      Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Borrower,
        through MOF, shall prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than forty five (45)
        days after the end of each calendar semester, interim unaudited financial reports
        for the Project covering the semester, in form and substance satisfactory to the
        Bank.

3.      The Borrower, through MOF, shall have its Financial Statements audited in
        accordance with the provisions of Section 5.09 (b) of the General Conditions.
        Each audit of the Financial Statements shall cover the period of one fiscal year of
        the Borrower. The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be
        furnished to the Bank not later than six months after the end of such period.

Section III.    Procurement

A.      General

1.      Goods and Non-Consultant Services. All goods and non-consultant services
        required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
        be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or referred to in
        Section I of the Procurement Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section.

2.      Consultants’ Services. All consultants’ services required for the Project and to
        be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be procured in accordance with
        the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the Consultant
        Guidelines and with the provisions of this Section.

3.      Definitions. The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe
        particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular
        contracts refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement
        Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be.

B.      Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-Consultant Services

1.      International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
        2 below, goods and non-consultant services shall be procured under contracts
        awarded on the basis of International Competitive Bidding procedures.

2.      Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Non-Consultant Services. The
        following table specifies the methods of procurement, other than International
        Competitive Bidding, which may be used for goods and non-consultant services.
        The Procurement Plan shall specify the circumstances under which such methods
        may be used.
                                       -9-


      Procurement Method

      (a) National Competitive Bidding
      (b) Shopping

C.   Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services

1.   Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph
     2 below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the
     basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.

2.   Other Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services. The following table
     specifies the methods of procurement, other than Quality and Cost-based
     Selection, which may be used for consultants’ services. The Procurement Plan
     shall specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used.

      Procurement Method

      (a) Quality-based Selection
      (b) Least Cost-based Selection
      (c) Fixed Budget Based Selection
      (d) Consultant’s Qualification Based Selection
      (e) Single Source Selection
      (f)Individual Consultants

D.   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions

     The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the
     Bank’s Prior Review. All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the
     Bank.

E.   Special Procurement Provisions

1.   Procurement of Goods and Non-Consultant Services. Without limitation
     upon other provisions of this Section or the Procurement Guidelines, the
     following additional provisions shall apply to all goods and non-consultant
     services procured for the Project under contracts awarded on the basis of
     National Competitive Bidding (“NCB Contracts”):

     (a)     The Borrower shall submit (or cause to be submitted) all forms and
             models of requests for quotations and bidding documents that the
             Borrower proposes to use for the procurement of goods and non-
             consultant services under NCB Contracts (the “Standard Bidding
             Documents”) to the Bank for its approval before the Borrower issues its
             first invitation for bids for any of the NCB Contracts for the Project.
                                - 10 -


      Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend,
      revise or otherwise modify or change the Standard Bidding Documents
      that have been approved by the Bank in accordance with the foregoing
      sentence (the “Approved Bidding Documents”).

(b)   Each bid shall be evaluated and the corresponding contract awarded to
      the responsive bidder: (i) who meets the appropriate technical and
      financial standards or capabilities; and (ii) whose bid has been
      determined to be the lowest evaluated bid. Such determination shall be
      made exclusively on the basis of the specifications, conditions and
      evaluation criteria stipulated in the Approved Bidding Documents. If the
      bid evaluation will consider any factor other than the amount or amounts
      of each bid, the Approved Bidding Documents will precisely stipulate
      and describe each such factor, including, inter alia, the manner in which
      such factor will be quantified and given a relative weight for purposes of
      determining the lowest evaluated bid. The award of goods and non-
      consultant service contracts shall be based exclusively on price and,
      whenever appropriate, shall also take into account factors similar to those
      referred to in paragraph 2.52 of the Procurement Guidelines; provided,
      however, that the bid evaluation shall always be based on factors that can
      be quantified objectively, and the procedure for such quantification shall
      be disclosed in the invitation to bid. For purposes of bid evaluation and
      comparison, the only bid amount or amounts to be used as a factor shall
      be the bid amount or amounts as quoted in the corresponding bid, as such
      bid may be corrected by the Borrower for arithmetic errors.

(c)   Foreign bidders shall be allowed to participate and shall not, as a
      condition for participating in the bidding process, be required to:

      (i)     be registered in the Borrower’s territory;

      (ii)    have a representative in the Borrower’s territory;

      (iii)   enter into a joint venture agreement with local bidders; or

      (iv)    legalize their bids or any documentation related to such bids with
              an embassy or consulate of the Borrower, the Borrower’s
              Ministry of Foreign Affairs, or any other governmental authority
              or representative of the Borrower, as a pre-condition to
              participating in the bidding process.

(d)   No reference value shall be required for publication in the bidding
      documents and call for bids.
                                        - 11 -


     (e)    Any standards and technical specifications (quoted in the bidding
            documents) which are at least substantially equivalent to the standards
            and technical specifications of the Borrower shall be acceptable.

     (f)    No minimum number of responsive proposals shall be required prior to
            awarding a contract for goods or non-consultant services.

     (g)    No margin of preference shall be granted for any particular category of
            bidders.

     (h)    The Borrower shall open, or cause the opening of, all bids at the
            stipulated time and place in accordance with a procedure satisfactory to
            the Bank.

     (i)    No other procurement rules or regulations of the Borrower shall apply
            without the prior review and approval of the Bank.

2.   Selection of Consultant Services

     Without limitation upon other provisions of this Section or the Consultant
     Guidelines, the following additional provisions shall apply to all consultants’
     services procured for the Project:

     (a)    Foreign consultants will be allowed to participate and will not, as a
            condition for participating in the selection process, be required to:

            (i)     be registered in the Borrower’s territory;

            (ii)    have a representative in the Borrower’s territory;

            (iii)   enter into a joint venture agreement with local consultants,
                    unless the conditions stated in paragraph 1.12 of the Consultant
                    Guidelines are met; or

            (iv)    legalize their proposals or any documentation related to such
                    proposals with an embassy or consulate of the Borrower, the
                    Borrower’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs, or any other
                    governmental authority or representative of the Borrower, as a
                    pre-condition to participating in the selection process.

     (b)    No minimum number of responsive proposals shall be required prior to
            awarding a contract for consulting services.
                                            - 12 -


Section IV.     Withdrawal of Loan Proceeds

A.      General

1.      The Borrower may withdraw the proceeds of the Loan in accordance with the
        provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such
        additional instructions as the Bank may specify by notice to the Borrower
        (including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May
        2006, as revised from time to time by the Bank and as made applicable to this
        Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to (a) finance 100% (inclusive of
        Taxes) of Eligible Expenditures, consisting of goods, consultant and non-
        consultant services, and Training under the Project up to an aggregate of
        $19,455,000; and (b) finance 50% (inclusive of Taxes) of Eligible Expenditures
        consisting of Operational Costs under the Project, up to an aggregate of
        $545,000.

For purposes of this paragraph the terms:

(i)     “Training” means expenditures incurred by the Borrower in connection with the
        carrying out of the training activities described under Parts A, B, C, D, E and F of
        Schedule 1 to this Agreement, including travel costs and per diem of trainers and
        trainees, rental of training facilities and equipment, and training materials; and

(ii)    “Operational Costs” means expenditures incurred (other than for consultant
        services) by MOF and its support staff in connection with the carrying out of its
        functions and responsibilities for the carrying out of the Project, including: office
        supplies, utilities and office rent but excluding salaries (which expenditures
        would not have been incurred absent the Project).

B.      Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period

1.      Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be
        made for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
        withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $ 2,000,000 equivalent may
        be made for payments made within twelve (12) months of this Agreement, but in
        no case prior to December 1, 2007, for Eligible Expenditures. Furthermore, no
        withdrawals shall be made from the Loan Account until the Bank has received
        payment in full of the Front-End Fee referred to in Section 2.03 of this
        Agreement.

2.      The Closing Date is June 30, 2011.
                                       - 13 -


                                  SCHEDULE 3

                             Amortization Schedule

1.   The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the
     percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal
     Payment Date (“Installment Share”). If the proceeds of the Loan have been fully
     withdrawn as of the first Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the
     Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal Payment Date shall be
     determined by the Bank by multiplying: (a) Withdrawn Loan Balance as of the
     first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the Installment Share for each Principal
     Payment Date, such repayable amount to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
     amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
     Conversion applies.

                                                           Installment Share
      Principal Payment Date                           (Expressed as a Percentage)

      On each March 15 and September 15:
      Beginning March 15, 2017
                                                                   3.03%
      through September 15, 2032
      On March 15, 2033                                            3.04%

2.   If the proceeds of the Loan have not been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal
     Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on
     each Principal Payment Date shall be determined as follows:

     (a)     To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan have been withdrawn as of
             the first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the
             Withdrawn Loan Balance as of such date in accordance with paragraph 1
             of this Schedule.

     (b)     Any amount withdrawn after the first Principal Payment Date shall be
             repaid on each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such
             withdrawal in amounts determined by the Bank by multiplying the
             amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of which is
             the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this
             Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (“Original Installment Share”)
             and the denominator of which is the sum of all remaining Original
             Installment Shares for Principal Payment Dates falling on or after such
             date, such amounts repayable to be adjusted, as necessary, to deduct any
             amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency
             Conversion applies.
                                       - 14 -


3.   (a)     Amounts of the Loan withdrawn within two calendar months prior to any
             Principal Payment Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the
             principal amounts payable on any Principal Payment Date, be treated as
             withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date
             following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each
             Principal Payment Date commencing with the second Principal Payment
             Date following the date of withdrawal.

     (b)     Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph, if
             at any time the Bank adopts a due date billing system under which
             invoices are issued on or after the respective Principal Payment Date, the
             provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer apply to any
             withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system.

4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a
     Currency Conversion of all or any portion of the Withdrawn Loan Balance to an
     Approved Currency, the amount so converted in the Approved Currency that is
     repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion
     Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its
     currency of denomination immediately prior to the Conversion by either: (a) the
     exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in the Approved Currency
     payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to the
     Conversion; or (b) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion
     Guidelines, the exchange rate component of the Screen Rate.

5.   If the Withdrawn Loan Balance is denominated in more than one Loan Currency,
     the provisions of this Schedule shall apply separately to the amount denominated
     in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate amortization schedule for
     each such amount.
                                        - 15 -


                                    APPENDIX

                                     Definitions

1.    “Additional Financing Implementation Letter” means the letter of even date
      herewith from the Borrower to the Bank setting forth the Project monitoring
      indicators referred to in Section II. A. 1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.

2.    “Administrative Arrangement” means the contractual arrangement No. 4-95,
      dated April 6, 1995, entered into between MOF and CGO which stipulates, inter
      alia, the terms under which MOF and CGO have agreed to coordinate the
      execution of the Project, as such arrangement may be amended as provided in
      Section 3.05 of the Original Loan Agreement

3.    “Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and
      Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA
      Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006.

4.    “CGO” means Office of the Borrower’s Comptroller General (Contraloría
      General de Cuentas) established pursuant to the provisions of Chapter III of Title
      V of the Borrower’s Constitution.

5.    “Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of
      Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and
      revised in October 2006.

6.    “General Conditions” means the “International Bank for Reconstruction and
      Development General Conditions for Loans”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended
      through February 12, 2008).

7.    “GUATECOMPRAS” means the Borrower’s automated public procurement
      system.

8.    “MOF” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance (Ministerio de Finanzas
      Públicas).

9.    “Original Loan Agreement” means the loan agreement dated February 10, 2003
      (Loan Number 7104-GU) between the Borrower and the Bank for the purposes of
      financing the Original Project (as hereinafter defined), as amended to the date of
      this Agreement.

10.   “Original Project” means the project described in Schedule 2 of the Original
      Loan Agreement.
                                         - 16 -


11.   “Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD
      Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in
      October 2006.

12.   “Procurement Plan” means the Borrower’s procurement plan for the Project,
      dated February 28, 2008 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement
      Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be
      updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs.

13.   “Project Operational Manual” means the Borrower’s manual dated February 20,
      2008, as shall be subsequently amended in terms acceptable to the Bank pursuant
      to Section I.A.2. of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, which sets forth, inter alia: (a)
      the administrative functions and responsibilities within MOF for the carrying out
      of the Project; (b) the Project’s chart of accounts, internal controls, and
      budgeting, accounting and financial reporting systems; (c) the format of: (i) the
      interim unaudited financial reports referred to in Section II.B.2 of Schedule 2 to
      this Agreement; and (ii) the Financial Statements; (d) the terms of reference for
      carrying out the Project audits under Section II.B.3 of Schedule 2 to this
      Agreement; (e) the Project’s flow of funds structure; (f) the Anti-Corruption
      Guidelines (as defined above); and (g) the Project’s administrative and
      procurement procedures; as said manual may be amended from time to time with
      the agreement of the Bank.

14.   “SAG” means the Borrower’s national audit system.

15.   “SEGEPLAN” means the Borrower’s Presidential Planning and Programming
      Secretariat (Secretaría de Planificación y Programación de la Presidencia de la
      Republica).

16.   “SIAF” means the Borrower’s Integrated Financial Management System
      (Sistema Integrado de Administración Financiera), a system to improve the
      efficiency, accountability and transparency of financial management of the
      Borrower’s public sector.

17.   “SNIP” means the Borrower’s National Public Investment System (Sistema
      Nacional de Inversión Pública).
