Document of
The World Bank                  844X             1.1 
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 293 1-NEP
NEPAL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MAHAKALI IRRIGATION PROJECT (STAGE I)
June 2, 1980
South Asia Projects Department
Agriculture C Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit             =       Nepalese Rupee (NR)
US$1.00                   =       NRs 12.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                         =       3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)                    =       0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)             3        =       2.47 acres
1 million cubic meter (Mm )3        =       810 acre-feet
1 cubic meter per second (m /s)   =         35.31 cubic feet per second
1 liter (1)                         =       0.26 US gallon
1 metric ton (ton)                  =       2,205 pounds
FISCAL YEAR
July 16 - July 15



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AA        -    Agricultural Assistant
AD        -    Agricultural Division
ADBN      -    Agricultural Development Bank of Nepal
AIC       -    Agricultural Inputs Corporation
CFRID     -    Committee for Forest, Resettlement and Irrigation
Development in Kanchanpur District
DA        -    Department of Agriculture
DADO      -    District Agricultural Development Officer
DIHM      -    Department of Irrigation, Hydrology and Meteorology
ERR       -    Economic Rate of Return
FPDB      -    Forest Products Development Board
GM        -    General Manager
HMGN      -    His Majesty's Government of Nepal
HYV       -    High Yielding Variety
ID        -    Irrigation Division
I&D       -    Irrigation and Drainage
ICB       -    International Competitive Bidding
JT        -    Junior Technician
JTA       -    Junior Technician Assistant
LCB       -    Local Competitive Bidding
MFA       -    Ministry of Food and Agriculture
MIDB      -    Mahakali Irrigation Development Board
MIP       -    Mahakali Irrigation Project
MWPI      -    Ministry of Water, Power and Irrigation
NEC       -    Nepal Eastern Canal
NFC       -    Nepal Food Corporation
NPV       -    Net Present Value
O&M       -    Operation and Maintenance
PLAA      -    Panchayat Level Agricultural Assistant
RD        -    Road Division
REC       -    Rice Export Company
SCF       -    Standard Conversion Factor
SMS       -    Subject Matter Specialist
TCN       -    Timber Corporation of Nepal
T&V       -    Training and Visit
WUJG      -    Water Users' Group
GLOSSARY
Panchayat - Smallest Subdivision of Government
This document has  rstricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






NEPAL
MAHAKALI IRRIGATION PROJECT (STAGE I)
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Paae No.
I.   BACKGROUND ............................................                    1
The Development Scene ................................           I        1
The Agricultural Sector ...............................                   2
The Irrigation Subsector ...... ..............                            5
Project Formulation   ................................                    7
1I.   THE PROJECT AREA ......................................                    8
Location and Communications  ..... .............                          8
Existing Irrigation, Drainage and Road Systems              ........      9
Natural Resources .........................                              10
Socio-Economic Aspects ............                            ,         12
Cultivation Practices ...............       ..     ................      14
Agricultural Supporting Services ......... ... ....   ......             14
III.    THE PROJECT ......................           .....................       16
Project Concept        .................... ...................          16
Project Features        .................... ..................          16
Detailed Features ................... ..................                 17
Water Supply and Demand ...................... I .......                 Z2
Engineering Designs and Construction Methode ,....... ,
Implementation Schedule ..............       ..     ...............      23
Environmental Effects ...............       ..     ................      23
IV.    COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL ARRANGEMENTS  ....            .........     24
Cost Estimates        ..................... ...................          24
Financing Plan        ..................... ...................          25
Procurement       ..................... ..............                   26
This report is based on the findings of a Bank mission which visited Nepal
in January 1980, comprised of Messrs. W. A. van Tuijl, Y. K. Choi, C. Diewald
(Bank) and Messrs P. Borrowman and J. Phillips (consultants).



Page No.
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ...........................           27
Project Board .27
Project Management .28
Staffing .29
Operation and Maintenance .30
Fellowships .30
Monitoring and Evaluation .31
VI.   AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS AND PRICES ..           31
Cropping Pattern and Yields .31
Agricultural Production .33
Input Requirements .33
Market Prospects .33
VII. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS .34
Farm Budgets .34
Land, Income Distribution and Poverty .35
Cost Recovery .36
VIII.   BENEFITS, RISK AND JUSTIFICATION .38
General .38
Production Benefits .39
Employment Benefits .39
Intangible Benefits .40
Economic Evaluation .40
Sensitivity and Risk .41
IX.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS .42



- iii -
SUPPORTING TABLES AND CHARTS
ANNEX 1
T-1       Climatic Data
T-2       Land Use Capability
T-3       Present and Future Land Use
T-4       Provisional List of Irrigation, Drainage and Road Works
T-5       Provisional List of Equipment Vehicles and Materials
T-6       List of Required Buildings
T-7       Water Supply and Demand
T-8       Estimated Project Cost
T-9       Cost Estimate for Consultancy Services and Fellowships
T-10      Estimated Incremental Cost of Agricultural Extension for the
Bhairawa-Lumbini Groundwater Project
T-11      Estimated Annual Cost of Operation and Maintenance
T-12      Estimated Annual Incremental Operating Cost of Agricultural
Extension and Training
T-13      Estimated Schedule of Annual Expenditures
T-14      Credit Allocation and Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
T-15      Present and Proposed Cropping Patterns
T-16      Area, Yield and Production
T-17      Total Incremental Crop Production
T-18      Crop Input Requirements, Financial and Economic Crop Budgets
T-19      Labor Requirements
T-20      Annual Farm Budgets for Typical Farm Sizes and Project Rent
T-21      Estimated Economic Cost and Benefit Streams
T-22      Sensitivity Tests
C-i       Implementation Schedule
C-2       Projected Cropping Patterns
C-3       Organization Chart
C-4       Organization Chart - Operation and Maintenance Details
ANNEX 2   Forestry Aspects
ANNEX 3   Engineering Design Criteria
ANNEX 4   Assumptions for Financial and Economic Analysis
ANNEX 5   Project Monitoring and Evaluation
ANNEX 6   Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAPS
IBRD 14898     Project Location
IBRD 14899     General Plan






NEPAL
MAHAKALI IRRIGATION PROJECT (STAGE I)
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. BACKGROUND
The Development Scene
1.01      The Kingdom of Nepal, with a per capita income of about US$110 in
1977, is anong the poorest countries in the world. It started its social and
economic development in the early fifties. Remarkable progress has been made
since then, but the country is now reaching a critical stage. Constraints are
its landlocked position, thin resource base, inaccessibility of many of its
regions, rapidly growing population (2.6% annual growth) and severe shortage
of skilled manpower and administrators. These are compounded by growing
consumer demand and population pressures on marginal land. Moreover, lack
of communication between zones is impeding economic integration of the country
and efficient use of comparative regional advantages. The critical stage that
the country has reached is highlighted by the fact that Nepal's most important
export, rice, has declined from a high level of about 500,000 tons in the six-
ties to about 100-200,000 tons in the early seventies, 30,000 tons in 1977/78,
and in 1979/80, a year with low rainfall, Nepal might already be a net importer.
1.02      The country's land area of 142,000 km2 is divided into three ecolo-
gical zones which run parallel from east to west. The Mountains in the north
comprise about 16% of the total land area, the Hills about 61%. These two
zones are the habitat of the majority (61%) of a population of 13.5 M. Only
30% of the arable land is found in these zones, whereas the Terai in the south,
an extension of the Gangetic Plain, contains about 70% of the cultivable land.
Population density in hills and mountains has reached the extraordinary level
of almost 1,500/km2 of arable land; in the Terai, density is only about 380/km2.
As a consequence, pressure on land has caused cultivation of unsuitable land
in the Hills and an exodus of hill population (about 40,000 annually) into the
plains where many settle illegally in the forest reserves.
1.03      The average size of a fragmented hill farm, supporting a family of
5-6 persons, has decreased to about 0.4 ha; in the Terai a family still farms
about 1.7 ha on average. Declining food production, mainly in the Hills but
also in the more fertile Terai, and the increasing population is reducing the
surplus from the Terai for urban consumption and export. Nutritional levels
have been low and are expected to decline further in both zones as a conse-
quence of those trends. Estimates for 1977 show available food supply in Nepal
covering only about 360 days per year of normal subsistence, more in the Terai
(562 days), but much less in the Hills and Mountains (234 days). Therefore,
any further export of foodgrains can be only at the expense of subsistence in
the Hills.



- 2-
1.04      Nepal's economic performance during the Fifth Five Year Plan (1975/76-
1979/80) has been disappointing (less than 2.4% GDP growth annually) in spite
of increasing real public investment. The shortfalls in growth are mainly due
to poor results in agricultural production (para 1.05). The trade gap has
widened steadily, but has so far been covered by increased tourism earnings
and foreign aid disbursements, thus permitting accumulation of international
reserves. Investment still amounts to only 10% of GDP. The Sixth Five Year
Plan (1980/81-1984/85), currently under preparation, calls for a 4% target
growth in GDP and increased investment outlays. Its basic principles focus
more sharply on the issues facing Nepal, while allowing for the limited finan-
cial and human resources available.  The objectives are to increase production
in agriculture and cottage and small scale industry, to increase opportunities
for productive employment, to meet certain critical basic needs and to slow the
population growth rate. A more detailed assessment of the country's economic
performance is to be found in the latest economic report. 1/
The Agricultural Sector
1.05      Agricultural Performance.  With farm production and related activ-
ities comprising more than 60% of GDP, agriculture is the key sector of
economic development. It engages almost 90% of the labor force and provides
more than 80% of all exports, mainly rice, jute, pulses and oilseeds. Only
about one sixth of the total land area is available for cultivation, of which
at most 15% is irrigated. About 90% of the cropped area is grown to food-
grains, predominantly rice (half of cropped area), followed by maize, wheat,
some other cereals and pulses. Performance of foodgrain production largely
determines agricultural growth. Less than 10% of the cropped area is under
cash crops, mainly oilseeds, jute, sugarcane, potato and tobacco. During the
period 1970/71 to 1977/78, the trend in production of major foodgrains and
potatoes has been rather disappointing, except for wheat. Production grew
at about 1.1% annually due to expansions in acreage, while yields, except for
wheat, fell at a rate of about 0.8% per year. Some bad monsoons, declining
demand in India and higher cost of fertilizers might account partly for this,
but other endogenous factors have also played a role, such as shortfalls and
delays in public investment, inappropriate pricing policies, insufficient
support services, lack of trained manpower, etc. Cash crops, however, fared
much better due to favorable prices and the fact that these crops are mainly
grown in the Terai. Production growth in cash crops, too, was derived from
expanded cultivation and not from increasing yields.
1.06      Agricultural Strategy.  An earlier strategy of regional speciali-
zation according to comparative advantages (foodgrains in Terai vs. horticul-
ture, tea and livestock in Hills) has been modified in the 6th Plan, in view
of the need for a proper foodbase in the Hills. The role of the Terai will
be to generate domestic and exportable surpluses as a resource for further
development. Since area expansion in the Terai is limited, emphasis will be
given to increasing yields, mainly by an expansion and upgrading of existing
irrigation infrastructure. First results from IDA's Narayani Zone Irrigation
1/   "Nepal, Development Performance and Prospects", 1979, Report No.
2692-NEP.



- 3 -
Project (Stage I) indicate that substantial yield improvements can be expected
from improved irrigation water supply combined with increased agricultural
inputs. The strategy stresses diversification into cash crops, whose perfor-
mance has been promising and whose marketing prospects, both locally and
abroad, are good. These crops will have to play a role in the diversification
of exports and as a basis for local agro-industries.
1.07      Agricultural Institutions.  Agricultural development and policy are
the concern of three ministries: the Ministry of Food and Agriculture (MFA),
the Ministry of Water, Power and Irrigation (MWPI) and the Ministry of Land
Reform. MFA includes the Department of Agriculture (DA) which is in charge of
promoting production through extension, training and research. MFA has also
overall responsibility for a number of public institutions such as the Agri-
cultural Development Bank of Nepal (ADBN), the Agricultural Inputs Corporation
(AIC) and the Nepal Food Corporation (NFC). The Department of Irrigation,
Hydrology and Meterology (DIHM) is within the jurisdiction of MWPI. Both MFA
and MWPI suffer from a chronic lack of trained staff and a sparse distribution
of services throughout the country. Annual increases in trained staff are
small, readily absorbed and insufficient to meet the rapidly growing demand
by projects.
1.08      Agricultural Extension.  A national agricultural extension service
is provided under DA's Division of Agricultural Training and Extension,
through offices at regional and district level. Extension workers are ranked
in descending order as Junior Technicians (JTs), Junior Technician Assistants
(JTAs) and Panchayat 1/ Level Agricultural Assistants (PLAAs), the latter being
selected farmers trained for one month as extension agents and working under
direction of JTs and JTAs. They are supposed to be guided and trained regularly
by JTs, JTAs and by Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs). Preservice training of
JTs (and partly of JTAs) is given by the Institute of Agriculture and Animal
Science of Tribbuvan University at Rampur (two years), while JTAs (one year)
and lower level workers (one month) are mostly trained at research stations.
In-service training of JTs and JTAs is carried out by DA's Division of Exten-
sion and Training. The curriculum tends to depend more on the specialties
of trainers available than on the needs of trainees. Staff is well motivated
but their effectiveness is hampered by a number of problems: (i) lack of
trainers (SMSs) and training facilities in the field; (ii) limited feedback
between research and field problems; (iii) uneven regional distribution of
trained staff, favoring certain Terai areas and the Kathmandu valley; (iv)
a rigid pay scale and promotion system, high vacancy and turnover rates; (v)
low density of extension workers in most areas; and (vi) extension workers
have on average not much advice to offer. IDA's financing of intensified and
reorganized extension services in six Terai districts 2/ promises to yield
1/   Local self-government is organized in Village Panchayats, comprising
each a small number of villages and headed by a local council. Several
Village Panchayats form a District Panchayat.
2/   Under Narayani Zone Irrigation Development Stage II Project, Cr. 856-NEP,
in the Sunsari, Morang, Bara, Parsa, Rautahat and Rupandehi Districts.



- 4 -
favorable results, as already noticeable in the Parsa district where the
Training and Visit system (T&V) is being implemented. Preparation of a
project, which IDA is expected to be asked to finance, to widen the coverage
of the T&V system over nine more districts in the Terai has already been
undertaken.
1.09      Agricultural Research and Training.  Agricultural research is carried
out at seven research stations, six agricultural, eight livestock and six
fishfarms under the direction of DA. Some agricultural research stations are
also national crop development centers (for paddy, maize, jute and wheat).
Currently, there are about 260 graduates working in research, most of them
located in Kathmandu Valley. More remote stations suffer from acute shortages
of staff, lack of facilities and equipment. Research is focused on foodgrain
improvement programs, with assistance from USAID, UNDP and CIMMYT. 1/ The major
weakness is the lack of applied research (crop trials and irrigation/cultiva-
tion practices), which would most help farmers. Graduate agriculturists are
generally trained outside the country.
1.10      Agricultural Credit.  ADBN is the main source of institutional
credit in agriculture; two commercial banks as yet play only a minor role in
this sector. ADBN extends short, medium and long-term loans to individual
farmers, groups of farmers, cooperative societies and village committees (see
para 1.11). Overall lending has increased considerably over recent years, and
covers now about 25% of total agricultural credit needs. ADBN's financial
position is sound, and loan recovery has been satisfactory under the circum-
stances; overdues ran at about 24% of loans outstanding over the past years.
Repayment performance of cooperative societies, however, has been poor; their
creditworthiness seems to be declining. Loans are extended for a wide variety
of purposes, including irrigation, mechanization, warehousing and marketing.
Interest rates vary with loan purpose between 6 and 16%. 2/ ADBN is making
efforts to reach more small farmers directly, although the rules for collat-
eral are not in favor of farmers with very small holdings. Application
procedures for institutional credit are lengthy and cumbersome, so that many
farmers avoid this source in favor of easier credit from private lenders at
higher cost.
1.11      Agricultural Input Supply.  Agricultural input supply (fertilizers,
seeds, chemicals and some implements) is exclusively entrusted to the AIC.
AIC procures, both abroad and locally, stores and distributes all inputs
through a network of regional and district branches. AIC fixes retail prices
for inputs and provides them according to district plans in coordination with
District Agricultural Development Officers (DADOs), ADBN and Cooperatives.
The activities of AIC have been rapidly extending; its services in the Terai
are fairly satisfactory in the light of supply problems and of bottlenecks
related to credit and cooperatives.
1/   International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center (Mexico).
2/   The interest rate for crop loans is 14%.



- 5 -
1.12      Cooperative Movement.  Since 1976, the Cooperative Movement has
been reorganized under the name Sajha. In order to vitalize the movement,
reach more farmers and mobilize local savings, the program converted existing
"guided" societies (under ADBN management) and village committees into village
cooperative societies, under the direction of village panchayats. They are to
provide credit, inputs, marketing services and some basic consumer goods. They
function as collective borrowers towards ADBN and as agents of national trad-
ing organizations. So far, 723 Sajha cooperatives have been established in 30
districts, covering all Terai districts and three Hill districts. Membership
is compulsory for all families previously participating in the compulsory sav-
ings scheme. These savings, deposited with ADBN, constitute the share capital
of village societies and are the main collateral for collective loans. Sajha
societies still suffer from lack of trained management, high default rates and
local political interference. Cooperatives act as retailers for agricultural
inputs, but only few societies are engaged in marketing of crops, where they
face serious competition from private traders. Scarcity of suitable warehouses
and transportation facilities reduce Sajhas' capacity to distribute inputs and
to market farmers' produce. Sajha functions mainly at the Village Panchayat
level, although there are District Cooperative Unions as an interim solution
until District Sajhas are formed. District Unions work as intermediaries
between AIC and the village cooperative and have so far showed a rather poor
performance.
The Irrigation Sub-Sector
1.13      Water Resources Utilization:  Nepal has abundant water resources,
including major rivers with annual average discharges totaling about 150 bil-
lion m3 and capable of irrigating 6 to 8 M ha. However, there are only about
1.3 M ha of land suitable for surface irrigation in the country. Exploitable
groundwater resources, largely concentrated in the Terai, can provide tubewell
irrigation for about 0.4 to 0.6 M ha. Total irrigation potential is therefore
less than 2 M ha. Utilization of water resources for irrigation is limited by
several factors: (i) there are few reliable sources of perennial surface water
for year-round irrigation except for the eight major rivers 1/; (ii) these
large rivers are costly to develop particularly for relatively small command
areas typical in the Terai; (iii) heavy sedimentation in riverbeds creates
considerable problems in construction, operation and maintenance of irrigation
systems; and (iv) power supplies to energize tubewells are severely restricted
in extent and amount. At present, only about 300,000 ha (about 23% of the
potential surface irrigable area) are provided with some form of irrigation,
of which about 150,000 ha are under public schemes.
1.14      Irrigation Development:  Before the launching of Nepal's first
Development Plan in 1957, few substantial irrigation works had been undertaken
by HMGN. The main reasons were limited financial resources and shortage of
trained manpower. Nevertheless, with schemes such as the 11,000 ha Chandra
Project (1922), farmers' stream diversions, bucket-lift, and other traditional
methods, irrigation had been provided to an area of some 154,000 ha, mainly in
1/   The Mahakali (Sarda), Karnali, Babai, Rapti, Narayani (Gandak), Baghmati,
Kosi and Kankai Rivers.



- 6 -
the Hills. During the First and Second Development Plans (1957-62 and 1962-
65 respectively), HMGN's irrigation programs were concentrated on building
medium sized systems (15-60,000 ha) in the Eastern, Central and Mid-Western
Terai. In the Third Plan (1965-70), however, a program was launched for
construction of minor irrigation projects, mostly in the Terai, to encourage
greater farmer participation and to expand irrigated areas rapidly. Due to
poor investigations and construction, many of these projects fell short of
expectations, which resulted in discouraging response from farmers. HMGN
switched back in the Fourth Plan (1970-75) to a policy of constructing medium-
sized irrigation projects, mainly in the Terai.  In keeping with the priority
given to quick yielding investments, the emphasis shifted in the Fifth Plan
(1975-80) towards the completion of on-going schemes and new investment in
projects with short gestation periods and high returns, including groundwater
development for irrigation by tubewells. For this period the target was to
bring 146,000 additional ha under irrigation, however it has been estimated
that by the end of the Fifth Plan only about 100,000 ha will have been added.
The main reasons for the shortfall are (i) the shortage of technical personnel
for design, construction, supervision and project management; (ii) chronic
shortages in cement and steel; (iii) shortages in local civil works contrac-
tors; (iv) slow procurement due to the country being landlocked and to admin-
istrative bottlenecks; and (v) scarcity of investment funds. Preliminary
targets set for the Sixth Plan (1980-85) call for the irrigation of 12% of
agricultural land in the Hills and 40% in the Terai by 1990 (presently 12%
in the Terai and much less in the Hills).
1.15      Bank Group's Participation in Irrigation Development.  The Bank
Group is presently involved in four on-going projects. The Bank has also
acted as executing agency for UNDP in the preparation of feasibility studies,
prepared by Tahal Consulting Engineers (Israel), for the Mahakali Irrigation
Project (Stage I) (1978), the Babai Irrigation Project (1978) and the Mahakali
Irrigation Project (Stages II and III) (1979). The Birganj Irrigation Project
(Narayani Zone) (Cr. 373-NEP, US$6.0 M, 1973), under construction since 1974,
was originally designed to improve and upgrade 28,700 ha of its command area.
In November 1977, IDA agreed to reduce the scope of the project and limit
the works to 16,000 ha of the command area so as to accommodate a 50% cost
overrun during 1974-77. After a slow start due to procurement and staffing
difficulties, project implementation has steadily improved. All civil works
and equipment contracts have been awarded, and construction is about 95%
complete. The executing agency, the Narayani Zone Irrigation Development
Board, is operating effectively. Crop yields achieved under irrigated
conditions are promising. The project is expected to be completed by mid-1980.
The Narayani Zone Irrigation Development (Stage II) Project (Cr. 856-NEP,
US$14.0 M, 1978) is also proceeding satisfactorily. Construction works are
on-going in three of the six irrigation Blocks and contracts for two addi-
tional Blocks were awarded in February 1980.
1.16      The Bhairawa-Lumbini Groundwater Project (Cr. 654-NEP, US$9.0 M,
1976), the first full scale tubewell project in Nepal, provides for construc-
tion of 63 deep wells, detailed development of the 7,500 ha command area
and agricultural supporting services. Actual work on the project started
in July 1977. Of the 63 planned tubewells, 27 have been constructed. The
schedule is to complete all drilling by July 1980, to have 33 wells fully



-7 -
equipped by June 1980 and all 63 wells by June 1981. Unfortunately, progress
in irrigation works is far behind schedule due mainly to poor performance and
shortage of local contractors. The project is scheduled for completion by
June 1982. The Sunsari-Morang Irrigation & Drainage Development Project
(Cr. 812-NEP, US$30 M, 1978) is designed to upgrade and improve the Chatra
canal system, covering about 66,000 ha, as well as to develop the irrigation
and drainage networks to farm level in about 6,400 ha within tne Chatra canal
system command. Progress on this project has so far been satisfactory,
although construction activities have only been started on a small scale. The
First Rural Development Project (Cr. 617-NEP, US$8.0 M, 1976) is providing for
improvement of small scale hill irrigation schemes and development of a high
lift scheme on the Batar plateau in Nuwakot District; progress is satisfactory.
The Second Rural Development Project (Cr. 939-NEP, US$11.0 M, 1979) is provid-
ing assistance for improvement of small scale Hill irrigation schemes in the
Mahakali Zone. Implementation of this project is just starting.
1.17      Technical Manpower.  One of the main constraints in the implement-
ation of irrigation projects in Nepal is the shortage of technical personnel
in DIHM for design and construction supervision. Available staff is very
thinly spread over the various Regions, Divisions and projects, and is hardly
sufficient to meet present needs. The shortage in engineers will be a major
constraint in implementing the irrigation projects anticipated for inclusion
in the Six Year Plan. For the Sunsari-Morang Irrigation and Drainage Develop-
ment Project, DIHM was not able to provide the necessary design staff. The
solution found was to have local consulting firms work together with a small
project staff and project consultants. However, only a limited number of
local consulting firms is available. Moreover, any completed project would
require about as much staff for operation and maintenance as is now available
for construction. The number of irrigation engineers in the country has thus
to be increased drastically if irrigation development is to be accelerated.
Project Formulation
1.18      The Far West Region is relatively undeveloped compared to other
Regions in Nepal. Of the Kanchanpur District 58% is still under forest. The
district has a good potential for agricultural development, especially irri-
gated agriculture, since it is bordered by the Mahakali River 1/ which is one
of Nepal's major rivers. Although a barrage across this river was constructed
in 1928 by India, Nepal has so far only utilized a small portion of the river
flow that it is entitled to use. As population pressure from the Hills is
becoming acute in the Far West Region, HMGN now gives high priority to irriga-
tion development. In December 1979, HMGN approved a comprehensive masterplan
for development of the Kanchanpur District. The proposed project is a key
element in this plan. The development plan delineates areas to be maintained
as commercial forest, wild life reserves, areas to be reforested and areas to
be developed for rainfed and irrigated agriculture, including resettlement and
1/   Called Sarda River in India.



-8-
settlement of landless farm families. The plan anticipates that the Mahakali
Irrigation Project (MIP, 3,400 ha net) ultimately be extended to 23,000 ha.
Development would be in stages. Under MIP Stage I, the proposed project, the
existing irrigation scheme would be extended to 6,600 ha net. The MIP Stage II
(6,600 ha net) and MIP Stage III (9,800 ha net) areas are located east of the
Chaudar River; feasibility studies for these schemes have already been prepared
(para 1.15).
1.19      Implementation of MIP (Stage I) would involve the clearing of 1,700
ha of commercial forest and 500 ha of forest partly occupied by encroachers.
Forest clearing is an on-going activity being undertaken by the Forest Products
Development Board (FPDB). Forest clearing would not be included in the pro-
posed project, since it would be highly profitable and can finance itself in
the short run. Procedures for the clearing are satisfactory, and the activity
is justified on its own economic grounds. Because of heavy influx of Hill
population into the Terai there is an abundance of families eager to settle
on the new lands. However, the district's masterplan provides for resettle-
ment of farm families now living along the Mahakali and Chaudar Rivers, where
their lands are subject to occasional flooding. 1/ Responsibility for this
activity has been given to the Resettlement Department of the Ministry of
Forests. HMGN has not requested IDA assistance for resettlement operations
in the Mahakali area; settlement policies and procedures have been reviewed
by the mission and found satisfactory. Settlement is therefore not a component
of the proposed project. The definition of the project is to provide the
necessary irrigation, drainage and road infrastructure with the objective to
increase agricultural production. The project would be designed to the
standards of a modern irrigation scheme in which a high level of operational
efficiency can be achieved. Because of serious shortages in technical staff
in Nepal, the project would also include the provision of fellowships for 82
Nepali students to study civil engineering, mechanical engineering or agri-
culture in other Asian countries.
II. THE PROJECT AREA
Location and Communications
2.01      The project, covering a gross area of about 8,500 ha is located in
the Far West Region of Nepal, in the Kanchanpur District of the Mahakali Zone
(Map IBRD 14898).  The project area is bordered in the west by the Mahakali
River and in the east by the Chaudar River (Map IBRD 14899).  In the north,
it is bordered by the existing main canal which receives water from the Sarda
barrage; in the south by the Royal Shuklaphanta Wild Life Reserve Forest that
extends up to the Nepal-Indian border. The district's headquarters, Mahendra-
nagar, is located adjacent to the project area. Access to the project area
1/ These areas are outside the confines of the proposed project.



- 9 -
and Mahendranagar from other parts of Nepal is difficult, the main communi-
cation routes being via Indian road and rail systems. A grass airstrip at
Mahendranagar is served by a weekly Royal Nepalese Airlines flight from
Nepalganj when weather permits. A completed stretch of the East-West Highway
passes through the project area and will link it eventually with Nepalganj and
Kathmandu.
Existing Irrigation, Drainage and Road Systems
2.02      Irrigation and Drainage.  The existing irrigation system commanding
3,400 ha (net) diverts water from the Mahakali River and the Sarda Barrage
which is located on Indian territory just over 1 km from the Nepalese border.
The barrage was completed by India in 1928 following an agreement with Nepal
in 1920 on the use of the Mahakali River waters (para 3 319).  A main canal on
the right bank, with a capacity of 14,000 cusecs (396 m Is), conveys water
to the Indian Sarda Irrigation Project. The Sarda headworks are connected to
the main canal of the MIP--situated on the left bank--by a 1.1 km long convey-
ance canal, alSo built by India. The design capacity of this canal is 1,000
cusecs (28.3 m Is). The discharge into the conveyance canal is regulated
at the Sarda headworks by Indian irrigation personnel.
2.03      The existing irrigation system is commanded by a 13 k4  long main
cana3. The main canal capacity decreases gradually from 28.3 m Is to adout
26 m Is at 6.8 km. For its remaining length the capacity is about 12 m Is.
These capacities are more than sufficient for the proposed project as the canal
was originally designed to irrigate a much larger area than the MIP Stage I.
The cross section of the main canal has undergone deterioration partly because
of steep and unstable side-slopes but mainly because of siltation from sedi-
ments entering the canal. No sediment control devices have been provided so
far. The main canal has only two cross regulators which are insufficient for
adequate water level control. A tail regulator at the end of the canal is also
lacking.
2.04      From the main canal irrigation water is released into eleven distri-
butaries and several minors with a total length of some 60 km. From these
canals water is released into tertiary units. Within the tertiary units
tertiary canals have been constructed (80 km) to facilitate irrigation within
the units. The existing system has several defects. The capacities of the
distributaries are generally less than 1.0 1/s/ha which are insufficient to
meet the water requirements during the land preparation period. Siltation
problems are quite severe. The number of tertiary outlets and length of
tertiary canals constructed are insufficient for proper water distribution.
About 50% of the present project area is not yet served by tertiary outlets
or is served by outlets commanding areas between 40 ha and 200 ha. The
tertiary outlets consist of concrete pipes without upstream control. No
control structures have been constructed along the tertiary canals. Field
channels serving individual farms are also lacking. Overall, water managment
in the project area is, therefore, poor. So far, this has not been a great
bottleneck as an abundant supply of water is available. However, this would
become a problem as the irrigated area is extended under Stages II and III.



- 10 -
2.05      The existing natural drainage system is fairly dense and is gener-
ally adequate to serve as major drainage system. Existing drainage channels
run in north-south direction. For drainage across the main canal, four
inverted syphons have been constructed under the major drainage channels,
several smaller streams, culverts, and superpassages. A few additional super-
passages are still needed. Drainage within the tertiary units, however, is
inadequate for modern cropping systems due to the absence of tertiary drains.
2.06      Roads.  On completion of two river crossings, the East-West Highway
would provide all weather access along the northern edge of the project area.
The rest of the area is served only by a haphazard network of cart tracks
interconnecting villages and earth service tracks along the main canal and
upper reaches of most distributaries. The existing service track on the
northern embankment of the main canal is interrupted by four river crossings.
There is no service track on the southern embankment where it is most needed
to control the head regulators of the distributaries. Being unpaved, the
entire system becomes impassable during the monsoon season. Many of the cart
tracks have been eroded to below surrounding ground level so that they become
water courses in wet weather. The service tracks on the distributary banks
are also inadequate, which discourages farmers to produce marketable surpluses
and makes effective operation and maintenance of the canal system impossible.
Natural Resources
2.07      Climate.  The climate is sub-tropical, mean monthly temperatures
range from 14.7 C in January to 30.60C in May.  The monsoonal rainfall
pattern varies distinctly between the wet season (June-October) and the dry
season (November-May). Maximum rainfall occurs in July (554 mm) and November
is the driest month (5 mm). Of the average annual precipitation of 1,750 mm,
more than 90% falls in the wet season. Rainfall during the dry season occurs
in occasional showers. The relative humidity ranges from 53-78% during the
dry season and 71-84% during the wet period. Assured water control is essen-
tial for year-round crop production, to meet shortages in the dry season and
to drain excess runoff in the wet season (Annex 1, T-1).
2.08      Topography and Soils.  The area is flat and forms a gently inclined
plain from north to south, with an average land slope of about 3%.  The soils
in the project area are alluvial and fall into two main types: (i) yellowish
and grey brown soils, developed under forest cover, coarse to moderately
coarse textured and well drained; and (ii) deep alluvial soils consisting
mainly of medium to moderately fine textured clay to silty loams, less permea-
ble and poorly drained. Both soil types are moderately acid to moderately
alkaline, generally low to medium in organic matter content and fertility.
Over 95% of the area has been classified by US Bureau of Reclamation standards
as Class II and III for irrigation. Type (i) soils are suited for irrigated
farming of mainly upland crops such as wheat, cotton, maize and pulses because
of their coarser structure and higher permeability, while type (ii) soils,
with proper drainage, are suitable for both irrigated paddy and upland crops.
Land use capability in terms of soil type, drainage conditions and crops
recommended is detailed in Annex 1, T-2. For present and future land use, see
Annex 1, T-3.



- 11 -
2.09      Forest.  There are some 2,000 ha of natural forest within the project
area boundaries, plus some 500 ha of partially felled forest which has been
occupied by encroachers. About 2,200 ha of this forest would be cleared and
become part of MIP. Clearing of the forest is already underway and being
undertaken by the Forest Products Development Board (FPDB). Over 90% of the
existing standing volume of forest is said to be Sal 3(Shorea robusta).  The
sawlog volume per hectare is estimated at about 70 m . The forest is over-
mature and from the view point of industrial production, a wasting asset. The
growth of immature timber is equalled or even exceeded by the mortality of the
old. 1/ For further details, see Annex 2.
2.10      In the Nepal Settlement Project (Cr. 505-NEP), serious problems
had initially been experienced with the slow rate of forest clearing due to
delays in procurement of equipment for log extraction, delays in construction
of sawmills, and the still continuing problem of transporting logs to sawmill
yards because of poor road conditions. After increased rates of felling had
been achieved, the problem of deteriorating log stocks emerged due to a ban on
the export of logs and insufficient capacity of Timber Corporation of Nepal's
(TCN) sawmill operations. These problems are not anticipated in the MIP as
(i) all clearing operations are carried out by manual labor and an adequate
labor force is available; (ii) 20 privately owned sawmills are already operat-
ing in the project area and an additional 20 are under construction; this
would provide sufficient sawmill capacity; (iii) due to good road connections
and proximity to the Indian market, which currently absorbs some 95% of FPDB's
output, there would be no difficulty in disposing of the sawn timber.
2.11      Surface Water.  The source of water supply for the 3roject area is
the Mahakali R4ver which has monthly flows ranging from 130 m Is in May
up to 11,000 m Is in the wet season. Sediment concentrations are high
during the monsoon period when mean monthly concentrations of over 1,000 ppm
are usual and sometimes exceed 4,000 ppm. Daily values may be as high as
16,000 ppm. The Chaudar River bordering the project area on the east carries
considerable flash floods in the monsoon but its base flow in the dry season
is only about 1.0 m /s. The four major drainage channels, crossing the
main canal, carry flash floods in the monsoon but are dry during the winter
season.
2.12      Groundwater.  The groundwater potential of the Kanchanpur District
has been studied since 1973 by DIHM and the United States Geological Survey
in a study sponsored by USAID. A considerable portion of the project area
overlies groundwater aquifers. A phreatic alluvial zone, located two to three
meters below ground level and about 10 to 20 meters thick, forms the upper
aquifer; its water table is 1.5 to 4 meters below ground level. Numerous
dugwells and hand-pumped wells take water from this aquifer. A semi-confined
and confined sub-aquifer of new alluvial sediments underlies the phreatic
1/   An economic evaluation of the net present value of clearfelling and thaS
of an alternative use (annual exploitation of net growth of about 1.4 m /ha
under active management and after rejuvenation) showed a clear prefer-
ability of clearfelling for discount rates higher than 3%.



- 12 -
alluvial zone, descending to a depth of about 150 meters. In the eastern
portion of the project area this aquifer is artesian. The available supply of
surface water is sufficient to meet the requirements of the project. However,
when areas east of the Chaudar River are to be developed under Stages II and
III, the need for a supplementary supply of groundwater may arise. The
water from all sub-aquifers in the project area is generally chemically
suitable for domestic water supply, livestock and irrigation.
Socio-Economic Aspects
2.13      Population.  Present population in the project area is estimated at
about 9,000 living in 18 villages and organized in two panchayats. Mahendra-
nagar, with a population of about 10,000 is the major urban center of the
Region. Households comprise extended families, varying considerably with size
of landholding and averaging about 7-8 members. Kanchanpur District, as all
the Far Western Terai, has experienced a considerably higher population growth
(more than 10% per year) than the average of the country in the sixties.
This was, and still is, due to migration from the Hills, which has also brought
about a mixing of the native Tharu caste (about 60% of local population) with
Pahari settlers from the Hills. The Tharu hold strong traditional beliefs
and are only moderately open to change. The immigrated Paharis live in similar
socio-economic conditions as Tharu, but are more open to change. Literacy
among these settlers is much higher than among the Tharu.
2.14      Land Distribution.  Data on distribution of operational holdings,
i.e., including those not owned by farmers is available at the district level
only (Census 1971), but is believed to be similar for the project area.
Percentage of   Percentage of Total  Average Farm
Farm Size         all Farms            Farm Land             Size
(ha)
Less than 1 ha           25.4                 5.8                0.76
1-2 ha                   27.4               13.2                 1.63
2-5  ha                  26.6               26.6                 3.39
5-10 ha                  15.7               32.7                 7.09
10 ha and more            4.9               21.8                15.35
100.0              100.0                 3.40
According to these data, 21% of the largest farms occupied about 55% of all
farm land, whereas 53% of the smallest had only 19% of the total available.
However, this might overstate inequity since in this area large farms are often
associated with large extended families as is the custom of the Tharu caste.
This might also be the reason for the high average farm size figure (3.4 ha)
in comparison with the average size for the Terai of 1.7 ha. However, con-
tinuing immigration and settlement after 1971 have further reduced the average
farm size to about 2.8-3.0 ha, as suggested by more recent data.
2.15      Land Tenure and Land Reform.  According to statistics from the
Department of Land Reform, 85% of registered land is being farmed by its
owners (89% of all farmers). The remaining land is leased to tenants under



- 13 -
various arrangements, mostly sharecropping. These statistics do not include
encroachers, for which ownership in a practical sense might be assumed. Land
reform, in terms of redistribution, has reportedly nearly been completed
in the district. The size of a landholding that can be owned by an adult man
was limited to 18.4 ha and excess land was distributed to tenants and landless
families in lots no larger than 2.7 ha. Also, tenants' rights were protected
by law and made permanent and inheritable, and the landlord's share from
sharecropping was restricted to 50% of the product.
2.16      Farm Incomes.  No data are available on income levels, income dis-
tribution and poverty incidence for the project area or for Kanchanpur Dis-
trict. Farm budgets as prepared for financial analysis in this report (para
7.01) suggest that per capita income (including income from sources other
than crop production) might vary between about NRs 450-1,200, averaging about
NRs 780 per year. (Surveys from neighboring Khailali District give a similar
range of NRs 700-1,200 per year.) Average per capita income corresponds
closely to the estimated absolute poverty level of NRs 780 per year (para
7.03).
2.17      Settlement.  The masterplan for the Kanchanpur District (para 1.18)
includes detailed provisions for resettlement of existing farm population,
settlement of landless families and legalization of encroachers occupying
about 1,000 ha of land within the project area. The farm families to be
relocated to the project area are now living on about 1,700 ha along the
Mahakali and Chaudar rivers where their lands are subject to occasional
flooding. It may be stressed that this resettlement is not project related
but would be undertaken to unite two sections of the Royal Suklaphanta Wildlife
Reserve and for reforestation along the river banks. Farmers to be resettled
were interviewed by the mission and indicated their willingness to move.
Details of HMGN's settlement policy were reviewed by the mission and found
satisfactory; details are available on file (Annex 6). Also, settlement
operations under the IDA financed Nepal Settlement Project (Cr. 505 NEP) have
been going smoothly.
2.18      Farmers to be moved to the project area would receive a houselot in
a village and a parcel of irrigable land equal in size to their present
holding.  Moreover they would receive compensation for their existing houses,
fences, transportation, etc. They would also be provided with pumps for
drinking water and wood to build new homes. The balance of the cleared land
(700 ha) would be available for settling landless farmers of which large
numbers are eager to settle on these new lands. The landless farmers would
also receive a houselot in a village and a farm plot, in total about 1 ha of
land. New arrivals would be provided with temporary shelter, drinking water
and food rations. They are entitled to land ownership after having cultivated
the land for five years. In the meantime, they are not allowed to mortgage or
divide their land. Both relocated farmers and new settlers would be employed
in forest clearing operations. The new villages to be established in the
project area, both for the relocated farmers and the landless farmers, will be
provided with amenities such as schools, panchayat office buildings, godowns
and health posts. Coordination of matters concerning settlement, clearing and
irrigation development rests with the Committee for Forest, Resettlement and
Irrigation Development in Kanchanpur District (CFRID) (para 5.06). Responsi-
bility for settlement is mainly the task of the Resettlement Department of



- 14 -
HMGN's Ministry of Forest. Peoples representatives (Panchayat and Ward
Chairmen) are closely involved in the implementation of the settlement plans
and serve in Sub-Committees of the CFRID.
Cultivation Practices
2.19      Present Cropping Pattern.  The crops grown in the project area are
mainly paddy and maize during the wet season, and wheat, oilseeds, pulses and
vegetables during the dry season. Most common cropping sequences are: (i)
paddy-wheat; (ii) paddy-pulses; and (iii) maize-oilseeds. The present cropping
intensity of about 132% is a weighted average of rainfed areas (121% over an
area of about 800 ha net) and irrigated areas (134% over an area of about 3,400
ha net). This intensity is made up of 68% paddy, 19% maize, 16% wheat, 15%
oilseeds and 12% pulses over the total cropped area of some 7,600 ha. Some
vegetables (1%) are also grown, mostly for home consumption. Details of the
existing cropping pattern are shown in Annex 1, T-15.
2.20      Crop Yields.  Most of the paddy grown in the area are local lowland
varieties producing low yields, about 1.0 ton/ha for rainfed paddy and 1.3
tons/ha for irrigated paddy. Some High Yielding Varieties (HYVs) such as
IR 8, IR 28, Parwanipur I and Masuli are grown on a limited area but yields
at 2.1 tons/ha are below their potential because of poor cultural practices.
Traditional upland paddy varieties are broadcast at the beginning of the
monsoon on slightly elevated areas. Yield of this paddy is low at 0.8 ton/ha.
Maize is sown mostly during the wet season using improved varieties (Rampur
yellow and Hetauda composite), but yields are low at 1.2 tons/ha due to
inadequate use of fertilizers and plant protection chemicals. RR 21 and NL 30
are the two major wheat varieties grown in the project area, producing a
yield of 1.1 tons/ha. This low yield is attributed to unreliable rainfall and
untimely planting. It can be improved if wheat is planted around mid-November.
oilseed crops grown are mustard and rapeseed. Because of poor crop management,
yield is about 0.5 ton/ha. Pulses and vegetables are grown for home consump-
tion and their low yields (about 0.6 and 7.0 tons/ha, respectively) offer
scope for improvement. In general, there is a need for improved irrigation
and water management, better cultural practices, and improved use of agri-
cultural inputs such as fertilizer and agro-chemicals.
2.21      Inputs Used.  At present, no  fertilizers and plant protection chem-
icals are used for crops grown under rainfed conditions. The use of fertil-
izers and agro-chemicals is mostly limited to HYV paddy, wheat and vegetables
grown by some progressive farmers. Average amounts used, however, are very
low. Only about 10% of the farmers in the project area are using certified
seeds (paddy, wheat and maize); most farmers meet their seed requirements
from their previous harvests or fellow-farmers. There are about 2,800 pairs
of draft animals; they provide adequate farm power for land preparation and
other cropping operations.
Agricultural Supporting Services
2.22      Research, Extension and Training.  The agricultural station for the
Region is located near Nepalganj. It has 80 ha for field research and is
staffed with 9 research officers. The station conducts field trials mainly on
paddy, wheat and maize which are directed by coordinators of the Rice Research



- 15 -
Development Center at the Parwanipur Research Farm near Birganj and the Wheat
Research Development Center at the Bhairawa Research Farm. These trials also
demonstrate performance of different varieties to extension workers and
farmers. Some varietal trials on oilseeds, maize and cotton are also being
carried out. In addition, about half of the land area in the station is used
for seed multiplication of various cereals and cash crops throughout the year.
The station also conducts, on a small scale, some trials on planting methods,
pest control, fertilizer application, and irrigation timing. The station would
be upgraded under the Agricultural Extension and Research project now under
preparation (para 1.08).
2.23      Agricultural extension service in the project area is the responsi-
bility of the District Agricultural Development Officer (DADO), who reports to
the Regional Director of Agriculture, Far Western Region. At present, DADO is
supported by five Junior Technicians (JTs) and 10 Junior Technician Assistants
(JTAs), of which one JT and two JTAs serve the project area. There are 12 Agri-
cultural Assistants (AAs) throughout the district, who are assisting JTAs in
establishing crop demonstration plots at their respective farms. The T&V
extension system has not yet been introduced to the area. One JTA currently
serves about 2,000 ha or about 700 farm families. This is not adequate
particularly as extension workers are not provided with transport and housing.
2.24      Credit and Input Supply.  ADBN has established a branch office in
Mahendranagar, serving the entire project area. Credit is distributed mainly
through two Sajha cooperatives, who in turn administer individual credits to
farmers. Most of the credit is for short term production purposes. The
recovery rate from Sajha in recent years has not been very satisfactory, but
it is proposed to merge the two cooperatives and to streamline their internal
credit management and cut down on overhead. For individual credit, land is
virtually always the collateral, favoring the larger farmers, whereas loans
from Sajha need only the standing crop as security. ADBN intends to promote
"joint liability groups" of farmers as borrowers, e.g., Water Users Groups
(WUG), in order to facilitate credit in a more expedient way, either through
cooperatives or ADBN directly. Besides, there are two commercial banks in the
area, but their involvement in agricultural lending has been limited. Lending
from private sources is still widespread but no reliable data on this are
available.
2.25      The main source of supply for certified seeds in the project area
is the AIC through its regional office in Nepalganj for paddy and maize, and
its branch office in Mahendranagar for wheat. As areas cultivated with these
crops are not significant at present, the required amount of seeds is ade-
quately met. To handle any significant increased intensity of cultivation,
however, seed production would need to be supplemented to meet the demand at
full development (para 6.05).
2.26      AIC also supplies fertilizers and plant protection chemicals through
its branch office in the project area. The Sajha cooperatives are responsible
for its distribution to the farm level. Although supply of fertilizers is
generally adequate and available, average usage is low. In 1978/1979, AIC
supplied about 34 nutrient tons of urea and complex fertilizer (20-20-0) or
an average of about 6 kg/ha. The use of plant protection chemicals is nominal.
To encourage farmers to practice proper pest control, AIC rents simple sprayers



- 16 -
to the farmers at a nominal fee. The low usage of fertilizer and agro-
chemicals results from farmers' aversion of risks because of unreliable water
supply, traditional cultural practices, lack of extension service and difficult
access to production credit.
2.27      Marketing and Processing.  No formal markets at central locations
and at fixed days exist in the Mahakali Zone but individual marketing channels
are well developed. There is a rice milling capacity of about 4.5 tons/day
in Mahendranagar, mostly serving NFC and the export market. There are also a
number of small rice hullers serving the local population. Rice mills buy
directly from farmers and dealers, or operate for NFC and the Seti Mahakali
Rice Export Company (REC). Rice used to be exported exclusively by the REC
company, but recently HMGN lifted this restriction. REC, which is partly
government owned, exports now mainly to countries other than India, whereas
private dealers and farmers are engaged in "petty trade" across the open border
with India. NFC has presently a storage capacity of 500 tons, another 500 tons
are under construction, and the proposed IDA-assisted Nepal Foodgrain Storage
Project, recently appraised and negotiated, would add another 2,000 tons.
Besides rice, NFC purchases mainly maize and wheat through cooperatives or
directly from the farmers and dealers. Other crops serve mainly the local
market. Processing of oilseeds is done by primitive village presses or by
farmers themselves; a small part of the production is sold to India.
III. THE PROJECT
Project Concept
3.01      The proposed project would improve the existing irrigation system
(3,400 ha net) and extend it to 6,600 ha (net) with the objective to (a) im-
prove within the existing system the reliability of water deliveries to the
farmers and in the quantities required; (b) extend irrigation facilities to an
additional 3,200 ha; (c) improve communications and operating efficiency by
providing all weather access throughout the existing and extended irrigated
areas; and; (d) accelerate agricultural development and thus increase agricul-
tural production, farm incomes and rural development. To achieve the above
objectives, the project is designed to (a) increase the capacity of the exist-
ing distribution system and extend it to new areas; (b) improve the handling
of sediment in the main canal; (c) improve water control through additional
control structures and extension of the distribution system down to 7-8 ha
groups of farms; (d) improve drainage conditions; (e) provide a complete public
road network and all weather service roads on all canals; (f) intensify agri-
cultural extension, research and training; and (g) develop technical staff by
providing fellowships for Nepali students to study engineering and agriculture
abroad.
Project Features
3.02      The main components of the project would be:
(a)  improvements to the existing irrigation and drainage system
in about 3,400 ha (net) (para 3.05);



- 17 -
(b)  extension of irrigation and drainage systems by 3,200 ha to
6,600 ha (net) (paras 3.06 and 3.07);
(c)  construction of an interconnected network of all weather
public roads and canal service roads (para 3.08);
(d)  construction of buildings for engineering and agricultural
activities and staff quarters (para 3.15);
(e)  strengthening agricultural extension and training activities,
including construction and operation of a pilot demonstration
farm cum training center (paras 3.11 and 3.12);
(f)  procurement of materials, equipment and vehicles for con-
struction, survey and laboratory activities and project
operation and maintenance (para 3.14);
(g)  provision of technical services, including foreign and
local consultants for project implementation and aerial
photography and mapping (paras 3.16 and 3.17);
(h)  fellowships for Nepali students to study civil and
mechanical engineering and agriculture (para 3.09); and
(i)  undertaking agricultural development activities in the
Bhairawa-Lumbini Groundwater Project (Cr. 654-NEP) over
a three-year period (para 3.13).
3.03      The project will have an estimated cost of US$19.5 M including
US$0.15 M in taxes and duties, and will be executed over a five-year period
by the Mahakali Irrigation Development Board (MIDB).
Detailed Features 1/
3.04      Improvements to Main Canal.  The original design capacity has been
reduced considerably due to siltation but is still more than adequate for
Stage I.  It was decided not to undertake any major reshaping of the main canal
under MIP (Stage I) as there are still a number of uncertainties regarding
the implementation of Stages II and III, particularly regarding available
water supply (see para 3.19) and size of command area for Stage III.  There-
fore, no decision can yet be made regarding the ultimate required capacity of
the main canal.  A number of improvements, however, would be made under Stage
I. Sediments entering the main canal would be reduced by the construction of
two or three sediment ejectors (vortex tubes) at sites where major drainage
channels cross the canal. These structures would be combined with low level
escapes to facilitate emptying the canal for maintenance purposes. To improve
water control three additional control structures and one tail regulator would
be constructed. To avoid damage to side slopes of the canal by cattle,
watering points would be provided along the canal at regular intervals.
A 3.0 m wide surface road would be constructed on the right canal embankment.
1/   For a listing of irrigation, drainage and road works, see Annex 1, T-4.



- 18 -
3.05      Improvements and Extension of Existing Irrigation System.  The
design capacities of the irrigation distributaries would be increased to
enable extension of their command areas. Furthermore, the design duty for
these canals would be increased to meet the peak water demands (see Annex 3
for design criteria). These increases in canal design capacity would require
modification of existing structures. Where required, additional control struc-
tures would be built for improved water control. Additional tertiary turnouts
would be constructed to reduce the size of the tertiary units to a maximum of
40 ha. Existing turnouts would be replaced by gated structures suitable for
discharge measurement. The distribution system beyond the tertiary outlets
would be extended down to outlets serving farm groups of 7-8 ha throughout the
project area. This would involve the extension and construction of additional
tertiary canals. All existing and new tertiary canals would be provided with
outlet structures for each farm group and necessary division boxes, check
structures, drops, and culverts for drainage channels and cart track crossings.
A bicycle path (1.0 m wide) would be provided on one of the embankments of the
tertiary canals. Within the farm groups field channels and field drains would
be built by the cooperative action of local labor under the supervision of
project staff. All canals would be unlined.
3.06      Extension of Irrigation Distribution System.  The existing system
would be extended by 3,200 ha to 6,600 ha. This would be achieved by extending
the existing distributaries, requiring some 30 km of new distributaries and 115
km of tertiary canals, complete with related structures such as drops, cross
regulators, turnouts and culverts. As for the existing system the irrigation
distribution system would be extended down to outlets serving farm groups of
7-8 ha. Field channels and field drains would be constructed as in the
existing areas.
3.07      Drainage Improvements.  The capacity of the existing natural drain-
age channels is generally sufficient but would be increased where necessary to
provide the required capacity. To improve drainage within the tertiary units
about 200 km of tertiary drains would be constructed under the project to
provide for drainage of farm group areas. Design capacities of 3.0 1/s/ha
and 4.5 1/s/ha, respectively, have been adopted for rice growing areas and
upland areas.
3.08      Roads.  The roads component would encourage the production of market-
able surpluses by providing all weather access to irrigated areas. It would
make possible effective operation and maintenance of the canal system by pro-
viding quick access to all canals and control structures. The component would
comprise: (a) the construction of some 40 km of all-weather public access roads,
of which about 26 km would be built on canal embankments; most of the balance
of 14 km would follow the alignments of existing tracks; (b) the construction
of some 65 km of all-weather canal service roads to be built along the south
bank of the main canal and the east banks of all other canals; and (c) the
provision of adequate road crossing structures over canals and streams.
3.09      Fellowships for Engineering and Agricultural Studies. 1/  Because of
a sharp increase in the number of agricultural development projects in Nepal
1/   For cost details, see Annex 1, T-9.



- 19 -
in recent years, the availability of suitably trained engineering and agricul-
tural staff would provide a major constraint in the implementation of addi-
tional irrigation projects. To develop additional manpower IDA is assisting
Nepal with the Technical Education Project (Cr. 772-NEP, 5.7 M, 1978) which
would build up the capacity of the Institute of Engineering and establish
teaching programs in civil engineering. The first output of graduates is
expected for 1981 (20 diploma holders, 120 certificate holders), but these
levels would not meet requirements of fully graduated engineers (BSc).
Another component of the Technical Education Project is the preparation of a
project for the establishment of a polytechnical school in Pokhara. IDA
is also assisting with a manpower study for MFA. As an interim measure, until
Nepal can produce its own engineers and agriculturalists, the project would
include the provision of fellowships for 82 Nepali students to study civil
engineering, mechanical engineering and agriculture in other Asian countries.
When successful such a training component may also be included in future
irrigation projects. An assurance has been obtained from HMGN that it would
carry out the training activities in accordance with a plan satisfactory to
IDA.
3.10      The trainees would require the following basic education, (i) an
engineering certificate, or (ii) an intermediate science certificate of
Tribhuwan University. Sixty students would be trained as civil engineers and
ten as mechanical engineers. Of the 60 engineering students, seven would be
Overseers already working in DIHM. Twelve persons would receive an education
leading to a BSc in agriculture. HMGN would make every effort to send the
students for training within the next two years. Prior to going for training
the trainees would enter into a contract with the concerned Department commit-
ting themselves to work on development projects for a period of five years
following the completion of their studies. Prior to their return HMGN would
sanction the necessary number of positions for the returning graduates and
make adequate budgetary allocations available for this purpose.
3.11      Agricultural Extension and Training for MIP.  Extension services in
the project area would be modeled after the T&V system which has already been
introduced in six Districts in the Terai under the Narayani Zone Irrigation
Development (Stage II) Project (Cr. 856-NEP). Under the project, eight PLAAs
would be recruited so that one JT would supervise two JTAs and one JTA four
PLAAs. This intensity (one PLAA for about 300 farm families or about 800
ha) would allow visits by PLAAs to farmers' groups on the same day every week
and supervision of all activities. To support the extension activities, the
project would provide motorcycles, bicycles, a pilot farm-cum-training center
and staff quarters on the premises of the pilot farm.
3.12      Since most of the farmers have inadequate knowledge of water man-
agement and of cultivation of relatively new crops like cotton, soybean, and
groundnut, a 20 ha pilot farm with training center would be established under
the project. The area under the pilot farm would comprise farm units owned
by individual farmers. The pilot farm would demonstrate to extension staff
and farmers: (a) on-farm water management; (b) recommended cropping patterns;
and (iii) improved farming techniques. An important function of the farm
would be to provide in-service training for extension workers and farmers.
The pilot farm would be guided by the DA through DADO and supported by at least
two full-time SMSs in field crops and cotton agronomy. To ensure success of



- 20 -
the farm's operation, these specialists would be assisted by consultants (para
3.17). The project would provide offices, transportation facilities and staff
quarters for the SMSs, as well as some low-cost farm equipment such as power
tillers, threshers and sprayers. Training facilities including quarters for
trainees and audio-visual aids would also be provided. The pilot scheme would
be made operational as early as possible.
3.13      Agricultural Extension for Bhairawa-Lumbini Groundwater Project.
The IDA-assisted Bhairawa Lumbini Groundwater Project (Cr. 654-NEP, 1976)
provided for reorganisation and strengthening of the then existing agricultural
extension service in the project area along the lines of the T&V system.
Most of the lower level staff has now been recruited, but there is a serious
lack of Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs). Also, financing of agricultural
supporting services is running out in 1981/82, and provisions of additional
extension and training services under the Narayani Zone Irrigation Development
Project Stage II (Cr. 856-NEP) for Rupandehi District, where the groundwater
project is located, are taken up by the needs of the remainder of the district.
As about half of the tubewells will be operational by June 1980, and since the
water pumped will be rather costly, continuation and further strengthening of
on-going agricultural extension becomes highly important. Emphasis would be
laid on advising WUGs on water management, new crop varieties and improved
agricultural practices. As DA lacks qualified staff to supplement these
activities and is experiencing financial constraints, the project would
provide about 36 man-months for a local consultant and additional operational
funds to undertake urgent required extension activities. Estimated cost per
man-month is NRs 5,000 including salary, local travel and allowances. The
consultant would assist project staff in preparation and implementation of
rotational irrigation schedules and assist in establishing field demonstration
plots for recommended cropping patterns, with special regard to wheat culti-
vation under different soil and drainage conditions. In addition, the con-
sultant would assist project staff in carrying out routine in-service training
for extension workers and farmers. 1/
3.14      Materials, Equipment and Vehicles.  As local contractors lack con-
struction equipment the project would provide for essential items such as
compaction equipment, water trucks, concrete mixers, pumps etc. Project
management would lease this equipment, together with operators, to the contrac-
tors. The project would also provide equipment and vehicles for survey, office
and laboratory needs, construction supervision, operation and maintenance, for
agricultural extension, research and monitoring, for technical services, and
workshop equipment for maintenance and repairs. Because of chronic shortage
in Nepal of cement and reinforcement steel the project would procure these
materials and make them available to the contractors. The equipment and
vehicles would be imported together with spare parts; a list of the estimated
requirements is presented in Annex 1, T-5. In view of the need for qualified
personnel to operate and maintain the equipment provided under the project
MIDB would provide equipment operators, mechanical overseers, and mechanics
with appropriate incentives and would recruit the required personnel from
abroad if necessary.
1/   For cost details, see Annex 1, T-10.



- 21 -
3.15      Buildings and Facilities.  Additional offices, a material testing
laboratory, a workshop, cement store, a 1,000 tons capacity warehouse for
agricultural inputs, appropriate quarters for the expatriate consultants and
quarters for additional local staff would be built at or near the existing
project headquarters in Mahendranagar (see Annex 1, T-6). Three field offices
would be constructed for the Overseers in charge of operation and maintenance
of the irrigation distribution system. On the pilot farm, offices and quarters
would be constructed for its operational staff, a classroom for JTs, JTAs and
farmers, quarters for trainees, and storage facilities for agricultural inputs
and implements. A telephone line would be constructed along the main canal,
also connecting the main office in Mahendranagar with the field offices. A
radio communication system would be installed, as soon as possible, for liaison
with the regional office in Nepalganj and DIHM headquarters in Kathmandu.
3.16      Aerial Photography and Mapping.  Aerial photography would be under-
taken to prepare, inter alia, semi-controlled photo mosaics at scale 1:10,000
and photogrammetric maps to a scale of 1:5,000, featuring 0.30 meter contours.
The latter would be used for the detailed planning and design of irrigation
systems, including farm ditches within the 7-8 ha farm group areas. The
aerial photography may be phased over three subsequent dry seasons to map the
areas cleared from forest during the previous season.
3.17      Consultants. 1/  An assurance has been obtained from HMGN that it
would recruit an expatriate consultant firm to assist in project implementation
and whose qualifications, experience and terms of conditions of employment
would be satisfactory to IDA. The project consultants would provide in-service
training, advice and guidance to project engineering staff in project planning
and scheduling, design of irrigation, drainage and road systems, preparation
of bid documents and bid evaluation, modern construction techniques, con-
struction quality control, monitoring of progress and costs and operation and
maintenance. About 110 man-months of engineering services would be provided
at an estimated cost of US$8,500 per man-month (including salary, costs, fees,
international travel and subsistence). The selection of the engineering
consultants would be a condition of credit effectiveness. As DIHM lacks
sufficient staff to work as counterpart staff with the project consultants,
HMGN would also enter into contract with local consulting firms to conduct
part of the survey and design work, which would be supervised by the project
consultants. This arrangement is working satisfactorily for the Sunsari-Morang
project. Also, one mechanical overseer would be financed under the project
(if necessary, recruited from abroad) to head the equipment and workshop unit.
Furthermore, an assurance has been obtained from HMGN that two agricultural
consultants (at estimated cost of about US$8,500 per man-month) would be
engaged to assist with the operation of the pilot farm, in particular to
develop suitable cropping patterns, assist in water management and provide
in-service training for extension workers and farmers. A field crop agronomist
would work on the farm for 12 months and a cotton agronomist for six months.
Their qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment would
be satisfactory to IDA.
1/   For cost details, see Annex 1, T-9.



- 22 -
Water Supply and Demand
3.18      Water for the existing irrigation system is supplied from the Sarda
Barrage on the Indian side of the border under a bilateral agreement which
dates back to 1920. This agreement stipulates the following water righSs
for Nepal: (a) from May 15 to October 15 a supply of 460 cusecs (13.0 m Is)
and, prsvided a surplus is available, a supply of up to 1,000 cusecs
(28.3 m3/s); and (b) from October 15 to May 15, a supply of 150 cusecs
(4.25 m Is). The agreement further stipulates that from October 15 to May
15 the supply canal to Nepal would be alternately closed and opered for ten
days at a time and that the canal could run at 300 cusecs (8.5 m Is) capacity
whenever the canal is open. 1/ These stipulated quantities are only minor
portions of the flows in the Mahakali River, and India would have no difficulty
in providing these flows. The estimated project water requirements are
presented in detail in Annex 1, T-7 and are summarized below:
Jan. Feb. Mar. Apr.   May   Jun. Jul. Aug. Sep. Oct.  Nov.  Dec.
-___________---------------m /s-------------------------------
Guaranteed   4.25 4.25 4.25 4.25 4.25 /a 13.0 13.0 13.0 13.0 13.00 4.25  4.25
supply                            13.00 /b                        4.25
Requirement
at Main
Canal Intake 1.6  2.2  0.2   -   0.3 /a   6.9   -    -    -   0.3   0.8  2.6
1.7  1.5             1.8 lb   5.4                   2.2   3.8  2.3
/a   in first half of the month.
7b   in second half of the month.
3.19      The above shows that Nepal's allocation exceeds considerably proj-
ect water demands. HMGN considers to utilize the available excess flow for a
Stage II project of 6,600 ha. A Stage III commanding 9,800 ha is also under
consideration. implementation of Stage III could only be possible if the
supply of 28.3 m Is in the monsoon season could be ensured and also the
supply during the dry season increased. This would require negotiations
between Nepal and India to revise the existing water rights agreement.
Engineering Design and Construction Methods
3.20      As the irrigation works to be implemented under the project are
relatively small hydraulic structures and canals, design of these works will
not present any particular problems. The standard designs and construction
methods now being developed and tested for the Sunsari-Morang Project would
generally be suitable for use in the Project. The canals would be designed
for a non-scour, non-siltation situation on average.
1/   DIHM officials indicated that, in practice, supply has always been
continuous.



- 23 -
3.21      The outline road layout (Map 14899) has been designed to provide all
weather access by the public road network to within a distance of about 3 km
from all parts of the areas to be irrigated. Wherever possible, road align-
ments would be located on canal banks in order to maximize land available for
cultivation and minimize cost of earthworks. To meet the operational needs
of a modernized canal system, all-weather canal service roads would be provided
on distributaries which do not have a public road on their banks. As it is not
practical to prevent farm traffic from using the service roads, these would be
specifically designed to serve also as feeder roads to the public road networks.
The earthworks for all roads following canal alignments would be constructed
concurrently with the canal earthworks.
3.22      Structures would generally be built of mass concrete.  Mass concrete
is favored over bricks as the available bricks are of low quality. Reinforced
concrete would only be used in structural components with tensile stress. The
components of smaller structures would as much as possible be prefabricated.
Labor-intensive methods would be adopted for construction. However, compaction
of canal embankments, earthworks for roads and road pavements would be executed
by machinery under rigorous quality control. A material testing laboratory
would be set up to ensure quality of construction. Special care would be
taken to ensure that pavement construction follows closely behind completion
of earthworks in order to avoid damage to the road formation, which inevitably
results from time lag occurring between these two operations.
Implementation Schedule
3.23      The project would be implemented in five years from 1980 to 1985
(Annex 1, C-1). Initially, high priority would be given to the design and
construction of additional offices, quarters, workshops, and stores for con-
struction materials. This activity would already be started by DIHM before
the consultants are in the field. Survey and design work and procurement of
equipment and materials would start as soon as project consultants have been
recruited and have arrived in the field, i.e., at the beginning of the 1980/81
dry season. Work during the first year would concentrate on surveys and
designs for the improvement of the existing system. First priority would be
given to improve the existing system in order to generate project benefits as
soon as possible. Forest clearing for the new areas to be brought under irri-
gation is scheduled to be completed by mid-1982. After forest clearing of the
first 1,100 ha during the 1980/81 construction season, survey and design work
would start for this area. Construction of the irrigation systems in the
extension area is scheduled to start in 1983 and would be completed by mid-
1985. Detailed planning for implementation of the roads component would be
closely tied to that for the canal system.
Environmental Effects
3.24      In view of Nepal's grave fuel shortage and soil erosion problems,
the environmental effects of the project have been carefully considered, espe-
cially the clearing of about 2,200 ha of forest (para 2.09). MIP is only
one element in a comprehensive masterplan for development of the Kanchanpur
District. This plan delineates areas to be maintained as commercial forest,



- 24 -
areas assigned to rainfed and irrigated agriculture (flat surfaces through-
out), areas to be reforested and areas to be maintained as wildlife reserve.
The overall environmental effects of the masterplan--including the project--
would be minimal as (a) the Ministry of Forest reinvests most of the
substantial profits from forest clearing in reforestation projects in Nepal;
(b) the masterplan for the district envisages reforestation of zones along
the foot of the hills and along the rivers to check erosion; (c) the master-
plan also provides that in areas to be deforested and settled 10% of the
forest would be kept intact; (d) clearing operations are entirely carried out
by manual labor thereby minimizing erosion and damage to the soil structure;
and (e) as a source of long-term wood supply the forest is of rather poor
quality (para 2.09). HMGN has also decided to relocate the farm population
now living on 1,300 ha of cultivated land along the Chaudar river to the
project area in order to unite two sections of the Royal Suklaphanta Wildlife
Reserve Forest which would then cover a total area of some 300 sq. km.
IV. COST ESTIMATES AND FINANCIAL INFORMATION
Cost Estimates
4.01      The total project cost estimated at US$19.5 M equivalent including
about US$0.15 M in taxes and duties is summarized below and detailed in
Annex 1, T-8. The foreign exchange component would be about US$9.5 M equiv-
alent or 48% of project cost. Annual operation and maintenance costs on
completion of the project have been estimated and are presented in Annex 1,
T-ll and T-12. The estimated c.i.f. costs of equipment and vehicles needed
for project construction, operation and maintenance are listed in Annex 1,
T-5. An estimated schedule of annual expenditures is given in Annex 1, T-13.
4.02      The estimated costs for civil works are based on recent contract
awards in the Terai; unit prices for equipment and materials are based on
1979 quotations from suppliers, with an allowance for transportation to
Mahendranagar. Allowances have been included for the supply of spare parts,
estimated at an average 30% of equipment value. Physical contingencies
allowed for in project costs were 20% for civil works and establishment and
10% for equipment, materials, technical services and fellowships. Price
contingencies are estimated at about 22% of project cost, based on the fol-
lowing inflation rates: 1/
1980   1981/82   1982/83   1983/84   1984/85
 ____________________%_____________________
Civil Works and Local Services       9       8           7         7          6
Equipment and Foreign Services    12        10.5         9         8          7
1/   The base-month for all cost estimates is May 1980.



- 25 -
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COST
Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign   Total
-----(Rs Million) ------   ------(US$ Million)----
Civil Works
Irrigation and
Drainage Systems              31.0       8.8     39.8       1.6      0.7       3.3
Roads                           27.5       7.7      35.2      2.3      0.6       2.9
Buildings                        6.6       1.6       8.2     0.6       0.1       0.7
Sub-Total                   65.1      18.1      83.2      5.5       1.4       6.9
Equipment and Materials             -       29.9      29.9       -        2.5       2.5
Technical Services                 2.6      14.7      17.3      0.2       1.2       1.4
Fellowships                        0.6      11.2      11.8       -        1.0       1.0
Project Engineering
and Overhead                     7.6       1.9       9.5     0.6       0.2       0.8
Base Cost                   75.9      75.8    151.7       6.3       6.3      12.6
Contingencies
Physical                        12.2      12.2      24.4      1.0       1.1      2.1
Price                           25.5      25.4      50.9      2.1      2.1       4.2
Sub-Total                  113.6    113.4    227.0        9.4       9.5      18.9
Land Acquisition, Taxes
and Duties                         6.0       -         6.0      0.5        -       0.5
Incremental Cost of
Agricultural Extension
for Bhairawa-Lumbini
Project                            1.0       -         1.0      0.1        -       0.1
TOTAL PROJECT COST         120.6    113.4    234.0    10.0          9.5      19.5
Financial Plan
4.03       The proposed IDA credit of US$16.0 M equivalent would finance the
full foreign exchange cost of the project (US$9.5 M) and about 65% of local
costs, or about 82% of total project cost. HMGN would contribute most of the
remainder, with farmers providing labor estimated at US$0.2 M as shown in the
financial plan below:
Foreign Exchange    Local Currency              Total
US$M Equiv.   %    US$M Equiv.   %    US$M Equiv.   %
IDA               9.5        100       6.5        65        16.0       82
Local Financing
-    HMGN                              3.3        33          3.3      17
-    Farmers                           0.2          2        0.2        1



- 26 -
The relatively high proportion of cost financing is justified because of
the strains already imposed on HMGN's budget by a number of other development
projects. If current trends continue, only 15% of public investment would be
available for financing minor public works or projects which are unlikely to
attract foreign aid, and these funds would be insufficient to meet Nepal's
needs.
Procurement
4.04      Civil Works.  Civil works construction valued at US$6.9 M, 1/ would
be limited to the dry season and generally carried out through labor-intensive
methods. Works would be small and scattered throughout the project area.
These works would not attract large foreign contractors and would only be
suitable for local competitive bidding (LCB). Because of the very poor com-
munications between the project area and other parts of Nepal and also the
shortage of contractors in this type of civil works it can be expected that
interest from Nepalese contractors would be limited. HMGN expressed the
intention that MIDB would also advertise tender notices for project works
abroad and allow foreign contractors to tender for the works. For tendering
purposes civil works can be grouped as follows: (a) LCB works (5.5 M). 1/
With the exception of force account works, all civil works would be suitable
for LCB. The unit price contract would be used. Generally, contracts would
be let for approximately 1,500 ha development units comprising all necessary
irrigation, drainage and road works within that area. Separate contracts
would be let for priority items such as buildings, quarters, workshops and
stores and for urgent required repair works and control structures in the main
canal. 2/ (b) Force Account Works (US$1.4 M). 1/ Force account would be used
for works where quantities are difficult to measure--mainly small repair works
in the existing system--and would be limited to a maximum of 20% of all civil
works.
4.05      Construction Materials, Vehicles and Equipment (US$2.5 M). 1/  Most
of the required construction materials, equipment, vehicles and spare parts
for construction, project operation and maintenance as well as survey office
and laboratory equipment are imported items and would be procured under ICB
contracts. Items costing less than US$75,000 each and which are not suitable
for international tendering would be purchased through normal government
procurement methods, to a limiting total of US$500,000 through procedures
which are satisfactory to IDA. Purchases under these arrangements would
be monitored during IDA supervision missions. 3/
1/   Net of physical and price contingencies.
2/   The limit of estimated cost for contracts not subject to prior IDA review
would be US$200,000. For all other contracts tender and bidding documents
as well as MIDB's recommendations of award would be reviewed by IDA
before award.
3/   Contracts for goods estimated to cost less than US$75,000 would not be
subject to prior IDA review of ICB documents and recommendations.



- 27 -
4.06      Disbursements.  Disbursements from the Credit would be made against
(a) 100% of foreign expenditures of directly imported materials, equipment,
vehicles, and spare parts; (b) 100% of the ex-factory price for materials and
equipment manufactured locally; (c) 75% of total cost for imported equipment
and materials procured locally under off-the-shelf procedures; (d) 100% of
expenditure for technical services; (e) 75% of expenditure on salaries and
allowances for extension workers; (f) 100% of expenditure on fellowships;
(g) 100% of foreign expenditure and 80% of local expenditure on civil works
carried out by contract; and (h) 80% of expenditure on civil works carried out
by force account. Disbursement for force account works under item (h) above
and for salaries and allowances of extension staff under item (e) above, would
be made against statements of expenditure certified by the Project Manager.
Supporting data for such statements would be retained by the project and would
be available for inspection by IDA supervision missions. A schedule of
estimated disbursements and the proposed allocation of the proceeds of the
credit are presented in Annex 1, T-14. Disbursements are expected to be
completed by December 1985.
4.07      Accounts and Audits.  Assurances have been obtained that HMGN
would cause the PM of MIDB: (a) to establish and maintain separate accounts
for the project, in accordance with sound accounting practices; (b) to have
its accounts and financial statements audited annually by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA; and (c) to send the certified copies of the audited accounts
and the auditor's report to IDA within six months after the close of each
fiscal year. The audit report would be required to include, inter alia, a
statement that funds disbursed against statements of expenditure had been used
for the purpose for which they were provided.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
Project Board
5.01      In accordance with HMGN's established policy and for effective
project implementation, a governing board would be created for executing the
proposed project under the Development Board Act of 1956 (Annex 1, C-3). The
Mahakali Irrigation Development Board (MIDB) would be a semi-autonomous agency.
It would be chaired by the Secretary to Government, Ministry of Water Power
and Irrigation with members including representatives from the Ministries of
Finance, Food and Agriculture, Forests, Land Reform, the Planning Commission,
the Directors-General of DIHM and DA, Regional Directors of DIHM and DA, (Far
Western Region), and the Project Manager (Secretary). MIDB's functions would
include: (a) approval of annual budget proposals for executing the project;
(b) staff appointments; (c) approval of award of large contracts and consul-
tants' agreements; (d) semi-annual reviews of implementation programs and
progress; and (e) coordination of policy matters on programming, budgeting
and finance. MIDB would be funded by an annual budget allocation sufficient
to cover all estimated project engineering, agriculture and administrative
costs. MIDB would channel funds to project management, headed by the Project
Manager (PM), who would then allocate the budgeted funds to five divisions
under his supervision (para 5.03). The establishment of MIDB would be a
condition of credit effectiveness.



- 28 -
Project Management
5.02      The PM, located at Mahendranagar, would have overall responsibility
for (a) preparation of annual project work programs, budget and staffing
schedules to present to the Board; (b) administration of project staff,
including consultants; (c) authorization of works constructed by force account
as well as civil works (upto NRs 2 M) and equipment contracts (upto NRs
100,000); and (d) coordination of all project activities at Regional and
District levels. The PM would be a senior technical officer of high caliber
and appropriate experience. He would be assisted by a team of consultants
throughout project implementation (para 3.17). An assurance has been obtained
from HMGN that the PM would have qualifications and experience satisfactory to
IDA. His appointment would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
5.03      Under the PM, five divisions would be established.  The Irrigation
Division (ID) would be responsible for planning, design, monitoring of costs
and progress, preparation of bid documents and evaluation, supervision of con-
struction, operation and maintenance of the irrigation and drainage systems,
and for preparing lay-outs of irrigation and drainage field channels within
the 7-8 ha sub-units.
5.04      The Road Division (RD) would perform all the same tasks related
to the roads component as the Irrigation Division would undertake for the
irrigation and drainage components. The Road Division would be headed by
a senior roads engineer who would report directly to the PM. An Equipment
Maintenance Unit would be established for the maintenance of all project
equipment. The Agricultural Division (AD) would be responsible for extension,
the operation of the pilot farm and training center, monitoring of agricultural
progress and advising farmers on on-farm water management within the 7-8 ha
sub-units. The Division would be headed by an agricultural development
officer who would work full-time on the project and report on technical
matters to the DADO. However, he would be primarily responsible to the
PM on administrative matters, such as work performance of staff and budget.
In view of the imperative need for good communications and effective extension
activities, the appointment of the senior roads engineer and agricultural
development officer, with qualifications and experience satisfactory to IDA,
would be a condition of credit effectiveness.
5.05      The Administration and Finance Division would be responsible for
personnel, contract procurement, land acquisition, water charge assessment,
general administration of project headquarters, project budgeting, finance,
internal audit, stores, inventory control of equipment and supplies and col-
lection of water charges. The Farm Group Development Division would be headed
by a Cooperative Officer who would be responsible for organizing Water Users'
Groups (para 5.07). A number of Overseers would be working in this Division
to assist the farmers with the construction of field channels and field drains
for which layouts would be prepared in the ID. The Division, with assistance
of the extension staff would train Farmers Leaders and Sub-Leaders in water
distribution among the 7-8 ha sub-units and within these sub-units. The
Division would also assist the farmers in dealing with ADBN, Sajhas and AIC.



- 29 -
5.06      Project Coordination.  Forest clearing in the project area would
be carried out under the responsibility of FPDB's Divisional Forest Officer.
Responsibility for moving to the project area farmers now living along the
Mahakali and Chaudar rivers would be the responsibility of the Resettlement
Officer (Mahakali Zone) of the Resettlement Department. Coordination of
matters concerning forest clearing, settlement and irrigation development
rests with the existing Committee for Forest, Resettlement and Irrigation
Development for Kanchanpur District (CFRID). The Committee is chaired by the
Mahakali Zonal Commissioner and has as members the Project Manager of the MIP,
the Conservator of the Seti and Mahakali Circle, the President of the District
Panchayat, the Superintendent of Police, the Resettlement Officer, the Chief
District Officer, the Land Revenue Officer, the Project Chief of the Resettle-
ment Co., and the District Forest Officer. Assurances have been obtained from
HMGN that (a) it would coordinate through its CFRID all matters concerning
forest clearing, irrigation development and settlement; and (b) the FPDB would
clear the forest area within the project area by May 31, 1982.
5.07      Farmers Organization.  Farmers would participate in the implementa-
tion, operation and maintenance of the project through WUGs organized by
project staff. A WUG would be established for each tertiary outlet command
serving groups of farms of about 40 ha before water is delivered. Each WUG
would be represented by a leader and sub-leaders for the 7-8 ha sub-groups
elected by the farmers. These representatives would work with project staff
in mobilizing farmers to construct field channels and drains and to operate
and maintain the irrigation system below the tertiary outlet. WUGs would be
legal entities established under the Cooperatives Act and eligible for borrow-
ing from ADBN.
Staffing
5.08      The technical staff needed to carry out the implementation program
would be approximately as follows:
Required Numbers of Staff
Staff                       FY80/81   FY81/82   FY82/83   FY83/84   FY84/85
Engineering
Superintending Engineer (PM)         1          1          1         1          1
Executive Engineers                  2          2          2         2          2
Assistant Engineers                  4          6          8         8          5
Overseers                           10         15         20        20         10
Agriculture
Agricultural Officer                 1          1          1         1          1
Subject Matter Specialists           2          2         2          2          2
JTs and JTAs                         3          3         3          3          3
PLAs                                 8          8         8          8          8
Farm Group Development
Cooperative Officer                             1         1          1          1
Cooperative Assistants                                    3          5          5
Overseers                                                 1          2          2



- 30 -
An assurance has been obtained from HMGN that the project would be adequately
staffed in accordance with a staffing plan satisfactory to IDA (such as the
above schedule), and subject to review and revision, as necessary, during
supervision.
Operation and Maintenance
5.09      Details of the O&M Unit are shown in Annex 1, C-4.  One subdivision
would be responsible for overall water distribution planning and operation of
the main canal, including turn-outs for its distributaries. A second subdi-
vision would be responsible for water distribution within the command area.
A mechanical sub-division would be responsible for workshops and field main-
tenance. During the project period, the Road Division would be responsible
for road maintenance, which would commence for each section of road in the
year immediately following its construction. On completion of construction,
one road sub-division would be transferred to the Irrigation O&M Unit to
undertake this task. Water distribution would be based on rotational deliver-
ies proportional to individual holdings. Before each crop season, a distri-
bution program would be formulated and agreed upon with representatives of
concerned WUGs. Water would be released to tertiary outlets according to the
agreed program, and distribution of water beyond these outlets would be
carried out by the WUGs. An assurance has been obtained that water would only
be made available on a regular basis to a tertiary unit completed or improved
under the project when a WUG has been formed for the unit, field channels
constructed and satisfactory distribution routines established.
5.10      The ID would be responsible for keeping maintenance schedules of all
canals and structures of the system, with the assistance of project consultants.
Maintenance work would include regular desilting and weed clearance to maintain
designed discharge capacities. Beyond tertiary canal outlets, the maintenance
of channels and drains would be the responsibility of WUGs under the supervi-
sion of project staff. Assurances have been obtained from HMGN that (a) MIDB
would prepare, with assistance of project consultants, a comprehensive Opera-
tion and Maintenance Manual for the system, and furnish it in draft to IDA by
October 1, 1982, and in its final form by October 1, 1983; (b) funds and
facilities required for adequate maintenance and repair of the system would
be provided promptly as needed; that views would be exchanged with IDA on a
yearly basis on the amount of such funds required annually; and that by July 31
each year IDA would receive a copy of the annual operation and maintenance
budget for the system.
Fellowships
5.11      The program of fellowships for Nepali High School graduates to
study engineering and agriculture abroad (para 3.09) would be administered by
the Ministry of Education. The administrative and organizational procedures
for the selection and contracting of the candidates are laid down in the
Scholarships Act of 1964.



- 31 -
Monitoring and Evaluation
5.12      The project staff would be responsible for project monitoring.  This
would include: (a) continuous testing of materials and quality achieved in
civil works, under the guidance of the project consultants who would carry
out 10% of the tests themselves; (b) monitoring of project implementation pro-
gress and costs of the works; (c) measurements of canal discharges and losses,
and measurement of on-farm losses; (d) annual compilation of cropping patterns
and yields and the impact of extension services; and (e) monthly observation
of depth to watertable from ground level. Detailed descriptions of monitoring
and reporting requirements are presented in Annex 5.
5.13      In order to create a reliable benchmark for comparison with future
developments, a survey would be carried out during the first two years of
project implementation, which would cover details on present cropping patterns,
yields, prices, input application, employment, cash income and on-farm con-
sumption, source and cost of credit and farm household characteristics. The
survey would distinguish between presently rainfed and presently irrigated
areas. 1/ The results of the survey would be reported to IDA by June 30,
1982. A similar survey would be conducted when project works are completed,
and a report prepared and submitted to IDA not later than December 31, 1986.
This report would also indicate the approximate number of farmers provided
with improved or first irrigation. An assurance has been obtained from HMGN
regarding the undertaking of the two evaluation studies; the studies would be
carried out under the authority of MIDB.
5.14      The agricultural staff in the district would be responsible for
compiling annually data on changes in cropping patterns, yields and cultivated
areas within the project area. These data, together with information on number
of contact farmers reached by the extension service and frequency of visits
would be made available to regular IDA supervision missions. An assurance
has been obtained from HMGN that MIDB would prepare a project completion report
with a coverage proposed in Annex 5, within six months after final disbursement
of the Credit.
VI. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION, MARKET PROSPECTS AND PRICES
Cropping Pattern and Yields
6.01      Cropping patterns for the future with and without project 2/ were
projected based on district statistics, a short survey of the project area
and on discussions with local agricultural staff and farmers. The future
without project patterns are assumed to be similar to the present patterns
(rainfed and irrigated). Projections for the future with project were made
for the total project area as a whole, assuring consistency of land preparation,
1/   Rainfed areas might be located outside the proposed project area.
2/   For 3,200 ha potentially rainfed cultivated area and for 3,400 ha land
with unimproved irrigation.



- 32 -
planting and growing periods among crops and with water supply.  In the wet
season, paddy would continue to be the dominant crop. The availability of a
reliable water supply and intensified extension services would cause the area
cultivated with local paddy to be reduced and area cropped with HYV paddy to
be increased substantially. Maize would remain an important crop. As most of
the land to be developed under the project comprises well-drained forest areas,
much of these areas would be used for growing maize, cotton, groundnut and
soybean. In the dry season, wheat would remain a major cereal crop. The area
under oilseeds and pulses would expand under the project. Some vegetables would
be grown on a small portion of the area. On the whole, it is estimated that the
cropping intensity would increase from the present 131% to about 165% in the
future with project (Annex 1, T-15 and C-2).
6.02      As more farmers adopt high quality seeds and improved methods of
cultivation, minor yield increases in HYV paddy and wheat grown in irrigated
areas are considered possible in the future without project situation. With
the project and at full development (seven years after completion of physical
facilities), it is estimated that yields of HYV paddy would reach about 3.3
tons/ha, local paddy 2.1 tons/ha, upland paddy 1.4 tons/ha, maize 2.0 tons/ha,
wheat 2.1 tons/ha, and cotton 1.1 tons/ha. Some yield increases of oilseeds
and pulses are also envisaged. These yields reflect increased use of fertil-
izers, agro-chemicals, improved cultural practices and intensified extension
services. To achieve these yields, demonstrations to farmers on on-farm water
management and improved cultural techniques would be essential. Provision is
made for these activities under the project (para 3.12). For purposes of
economic analysis, an adoption rate of 100% for improved varieties and culti-
vation practices has been assumed at full development.
6.03      Present and projected cropping patterns and yields are summarized
below:
Future                Future
Present            Without Project         With Project
Area   Yield /a      Area      Yield /a      Area      Yield.
(%)   (ton/ha)       (%)      (ton/ha)       (%)    (ton/ha)
Paddy
Local                55      1.2           53         1.2          15       2.1
HYV                   3      2.1            2         2.2          37       3.3
Upland               10      1.0           10         1.0           4       1.4
Maize                  19      1.2           21         1.2          21        2.0
Cotton                 -        -            -           -           10        1.1
Soybean                -        -            -           -            3        1.0
Groundnut              -        -            -           -            4        1.4
Wheat                 16       1.1           14         1.2          24        2.1
Oilseeds              15       0.5           15         0.5          23        0.6
Pulses                12       0.6           12         0.6          21       0.7
Vegetables             1       7.0            1         7.0           2       11.0
Cropping
Intensity (%)      131                    128                    165
/a   Weighted average yield of crops grown under rainfed and irrigated areas.



- 33 -
,,gricultural Production
6.04      Based on projected cropping patterns and yields, the annual incre-
mental production at full development (early 1990's) is expected to be as
follows (Annex 1, T-17).
Future            Future       Incremental
Without Project   With Project   Production  /b
------------------'000 tons-----------------
Foodgrains /a           6.4                 14.0             7.5
Cash Crops
Cotton                 -                   0.7             0.7
Oilseeds              0.5                  1.0             0.5
Groundnut              -                   0.4             0.4
Vegetables              0.2                  2.2             2.0
/a   Includes rice, wheat, maize, pulses and soybeans.
/b   Figures may not add up due to rounding.
Input Requirements
6.05      Present and projected input requirements are presented in Annex 1,
T-18. Intensified cropping patterns, improved farming practices and intensive
in-service training for farmers would considerably increase the use of better
seeds, fertilizers and plant protection chemicals. Under "future with project"
situation, about 230 tons of good quality seeds (60 tons for HYV paddy, 140
tons for wheat, and 30 tons for maize) and about 930 tons of fertilizers in
nutrient (470 tons of nitrogen, 260 tons of phosphate and 200 tons of potash)
would be required. As AIC and Sajha have been expanding input supply facili-
ties in the project area, and a 1,000 ton capacity input storage would be
constructed under the project to complement the existing facilities, these
increases in input demand could be adequately met. As a result of the project,
labor requirements would increase from some 0.7 M man-days at present to 1.0 M
man-days which would be covered by a projected family labor supply of 2.0 M
man-days at full development. During the months of June and July, the peak
demand for hired labor would be met by local landless laborers and migrant
labor from the Hills and the neighboring Indian State of Uttar Pradesh. Secur-
ing agricultural short-term credit from ADBN would be facilitated through
formation of WUGs, which would obtain such credit collectively as "joint
liability groups".
Market Prospects
6.06      In view of growing foodgrain deficits within Nepal, no difficulty
is foreseen to market surpluses of rice, wheat or maize from the project.
NFC is strengthening its capacity to transport foodgrains to deficit areas,
and the proposed increase in foodgrain storage (see para 2.27) in Mahendra-
nagar would facilitate a higher absorption of surpluses through NFC and REC.
(The two companies are intended to be merged for a more efficient and



- 34 -
coordinated market intervention). In addition, HMGN's intention to give wheat
a priority for home consumption while releasing additional surpluses of rice
for export--through a re-orientation of the population's consumption habits--
might lead to a higher use of wheat production on the farm. The near and open
border to India, together with recently lifted export restrictions for private
traders, would provide a residual outlet for surpluses also. Crops such as oil-
seeds, pulses and vegetables will continue to be in deficit in Nepal, and the
amount generated in the project is relatively small. Mahendranagar, as the
regional urban center, is expected to benefit from the proposed project indi-
rectly, and thus would provide an additional outlet for any surplus in those
crops. It is also expected that HMGN would set up a cotton marketing board
which would have to address questions on processing and transport of cotton
to the textile mill in Hetauda. The annual requirements of this mill are
estimated at around 2,300 tons, and the project's full development production
would contribute about 10% of this amount. Construction of a network of public
roads in the project area would greatly facilitate marketing of produce to
Mahendranagar.
VII. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
Farm Budgets
7.01      For purposes of farm budget analysis, two representative farm sizes
(1.5 ha and 5 ha) were selected and distinction made between presently rainfed
and irrigated conditions. Farm budgets were calculated for the future without
project and for full development, expected to be reached about seven years
after improved or first irrigation. Budgets are based on size-specific crop-
ping patterns as shown in Annex 4, T-2, and on crop budgets at financial prices
as in Annex 1, T-18B and C. Financial prices, in constant 1980 NRs, are based
on recent farmgate prices received in Kanchanpur District and are assumed to
maintain their past relationships in the future. Expected changes in farm
family income 1/ are summarized below:
1/   Includes income from other sources, estimated as 10% of income from
farm.



- 35 -
Future Without   Future With   Percentage
Farm Size and Present Condition           Project         Project         Change
1.5 ha rainfed   - per farm             2,710             7,340           170%
- per capita            470               930           98%
1.5 ha irrigated - per farm             3,210             8,200           155%
- per capita            550             1,040           89%
5.0 ha rainfed   - per farm             7,920            25,850           226%
- per capita            780             1,860          138%
5.0 ha irrigated - per farm            12,230            24,460           100%
- per capita          1,200             1,760           47%
Weighted
Average /a      - per farm            5,920            14,620           148%
- per capita            780             1,420           82%
/a   The average excludes income changes for landless settlers, as they have
not been estimated. It has been derived by assuming average per ha
incomes of about NRs 2,050 and NRs 5,080 at present and full development
respectively, population densities of 7.6 and 10.3 persons per ha,
respectively, and an average farm size of 2.9 ha.
7.02      As a result, farm family incomes, including income from other sources,
are expected to increase by 100-220%, depending on size and initial condition.
On a per capita basis, increases would be smaller, since natural population
growth over the build-up period has to be taken into account. 1! Nevertheless,
per capita increases are expected to rise by between 40% and 140%, and on
average, by about 80% from NRs 780 to about NRs 1,420 (US$65 to US$118), close
to the present national average of an estimated US$120 per year. Cash income
would increase considerably more than total income in relative terms, but less
so in absolute terms. Income changes for landless farmers settling on new land
have not been estimated, but they would be higher than those mentioned above.
The project would be attractive to farmers.
Land, Income Distribution and Poverty
7.03      Under the assumption that resettlement will take place as planned
under the district masterplan, land distribution for existing and relocated
farmers would hardly change, but an estimated 700 landless families, receiv-
ing about one ha each, would contribute to a more equitable land distribution:
the percentage of farms with less than 2 ha would rise from about 63% to 73%,
their share of total land from about 29% to 37%. The average farm size would
1/   Family sizes of 5.8 and 10.2 respectively would increase to about 7.9
and 13.9 in the course of 12 years, under a growth rate of 2.6% per
annum.



- 36 -
decrease to 2.4 ha. 1/ It can be assumed that the change in land distribution
would bring about a corresponding change in income distribution, although such
effect was not attempted to quantify. In addition, increased employment for
landless laborers and off-farm work for very small farms would allocate a
higher share of income to the least favored population. Tentatively translat-
ing size distribution into incidence of poverty on the basis of estimated per
capita incomes with and without project, the percentage of farm families at or
below an estimated absolute poverty line of NRs 780 (US$65) per capita per
year, 2/ would decrease from about 65% to about 40%. The project would thus
contribute to alleviation of poverty in the project and surrounding area.
Cost Recovery
7.04      The total investment cost of the irrigation system (excluding O&M
equipment) would amount to about NRs 113.4 M, equivalent to an annual financial
requirement of NRs 11.4 M at 10% interest over 50 years. Distributed over the
future command area of 6,600 ha net, each hectare would carry an annual capital
cost of NRs 1,730. Irrigation O&M was estimated at NRs 280 per ha per year.
Thus total annual cost per ha would be about NRs 2,010.
7.05      Water Charges.  The Irrigation, Electricity and Related Resources
Act of 1967 stipulates that water charges should be collected from water
supplied to farmers by irrigation projects classified as public schemes and
operated by DIHM. At present, a flat charge of about NRs 60 per ha and crop
is charged in areas irrigated by surface schemes such as in parts of the
project area. Water charges are assessed and billed through DIHM, but collected
by Land Revenue Offices of HMG's Ministry of Finance. This amounts to about
NRs 80 per ha of net command area under present conditions in the project area.
For the projected cropping pattern with a cropping intensity of about 165%,
the revenue would be about NRs 100 per ha of net irrigated area.
7.06      Other Agricultural Taxes.  A land tax is levied on farmers, which
varies between NRs 40/ha for low fertility uplands to about NRs 75/ha of good
paddy land. Taxes on new land made available through forest clearing (2,200
ha) could raise an additional NRs 132,000 per year. 3/ There are no agricul-
tural sales taxes, but an excise of NRs 50/ton is levied on milling and a duty
of NRs 130/ton on export of rice. It can be expected that at least 60% of the
expected increase in annual rice production of about 3.5 M tons would be either
exported or offset a reduction of exports (and export taxes) elsewhere. Thus,
the excise and duty would result in an additional revenue of about NRs 0.4 M
per year, not counting duties on other exported agricultural commodities
(pulses, some oilseeds).
1/   The Census land distribution (1970) has been tentatively adjusted to allow
for changes having occurred since then due to immigration and settlement.
2/   Based on a calorie need of 2,350 cal/day, derived from 480 g of rice
and 160 g of pulses. Non-food expenditure assumed as 20% of total
expenditure.
3/   Irrigation availability does not affect the tax rate.



- 37 -
7.07      Accordingly, cost recovery at full development would be approximately
as follows:
Cost/Revenue      Recovery Index
(NRs/ha)
Annual Capital Cost                          1,730
Annual Irrigation O&M Cost                     280
Total Annual Cost                       2,010
Direct Cost Recovery
Water charges under present rate          100              5.0%
Incremental land revenue                   20              1.0%
Indirect Cost Recovery
Excise on milling and duty
on export of rice                        57              2.8%
Total Cost Recovery                       177              8.8%
7.08      All incremental revenues would cover about 9% of total cost at pre-
vailing rates.  However, revenues attributable to farmers, i.e., land revenue
and water charges, would cover 42% of O&M costs only. Since it is HMGN's
policy to cover all O&M costs and in addition as much as possible of the
capital cost from benefiting farmers as a means of financing further develop-
mental investments, water rates would have to be raised in the future.
7.09      For an assessment of farmers' willingness and ability to pay, the
incremental land rent (project rent) per ha of net cultivated area has been
estimated. 1/ This value was compared to different cost recovery levels and
their corresponding water charges. The analysis indicates that on average
there is scope for considerable capital cost recovery. However, 100% recovery
would require a twenty-fold increase in current water charges.
Annual Charge   Rent Recovery Index /a
(NRs/ha)
I.  Present Rate                100                4.3%
II.  Full Cost Recovery        2,010                87.4%
III.  O&M Cost Recovery           280                12.1%
/a  Defined as ratio of water charge to project rent.
1/   The project rent is defined as incremental net farm income per ha, after
deducting a certain risk equivalent from the expected gross income and
after allowing for family labor input and a fee for managerial skills.
For an estimation of project rents for different farm sizes see Annex 1,
T-20. For the project an average project rent of NRs 2,300 per ha was
adopted.



- 38 -
Apart from being politically difficult, such a high rate would reduce the
initial incentives to farmers to develop their land for irrigation, and would
impose a heavy burden on them during the benefit build-up period, when incre-
mental cash income would be low. Furthermore, land distribution in the project
area is heavily skewed, although inequity would be reduced somewhat through
settlement during project implementation. Even large farmers do not realize
much higher per capita incomes than small farmers, due to large extended
families of the Tharu caste. Per capita income for most of farmers (about
NRs 780 average) is presently well below the national per capita income
(NRs 1,400), and for many they would still be low at full development.
Discriminating charges according to size of holding would be justifiable, but
administratively not practical.
7.10      Against this background assurances have been obtained from HMGN that
not later than one year after completion of the works in an area commanded by
a distributary, HMGN would establish and collect water charges to (a) cover
the O&M costs as they are incurred, and (b) recover, in progressive steps over
a reasonable period of time, the investment cost of the project to the fullest
extent possible, having due regard to the farmers' ability to pay, the neces-
sary incentives for their participation in the project, and the need for public
savings to finance other development activities. HMGN would review and adjust
water charges, after consultation with IDA, not less than once every three
years. HMGN would commence charging in the project area the same rate as is
presently fixed for the Narayani Irrigation Project, Stages I and II, 1/ i.e.,
NRs 100 per ha per crop.
7.11      MIDB would also introduce, on an experimental basis and on a limited
area, a charging system that takes into account the number of irrigations
received by farmers instead of the present flat rate system. This is intended
as a step towards a volumetric water charge and more efficient water use by
the farmers.
VIII. BENEFITS, RISK AND JUSTIFICATION
General
8.01      The project would change the conditions under which agriculture in
the project is traditionally operating. Improved irrigation and drainage in
the existing scheme would provide farmers with a more reliable supply of water,
reduce dependence on erratic monsoon rainfalls and thus increase the incentives
for higher input application and adoption of advanced farming practices.
Project benefits would be generated specifically through (a) structural improve-
ments and rehabilitation of the existing irrigation system (3,400 ha), allowing
regulated and more reliable water supply down to 7-8 ha farm group outlets; (b)
introduction of full scale irrigation to an area coming under cultivation for
the first time (3,200 ha); (c) organizing farmers in Water Users Groups and
training them in on-farm development and water management; and (d) through
1/   Cr. 373-NEP and 856-NEP.



- 39 -
strengthening and streamlining of the local agricultural extension and training
system. As a result, cropping intensity and yields would improve considerably
in about seven years after implementation. Additional employment opportunities
would be created for family workers on the farm and for landless families.
Foodgrain production would be increased to provide, apart from better nutrition,
a surplus for export and/or distribution to food-deficit area. in Nepal.
Introduction of new cash crops would diversify the agricultural spectrum and
provide for additional foreign exchange earnings or savings. Major project
benefits are summarized below:
ESTIMATED PROJECT BENEFITS
Farm Families to Benefit                                       2,600-2,800
Changes in Irrigated Area:
(a)  Increase in command area                                  +3,200 ha
(b)  Improvement of existing irrigation                        +3,400 ha
Increase in Cropped Area:                                      +2,500 ha
Increase in Production:
(a)  Foodgrains  (+7,500 tons)                                 +120%
(b)  Other crops (+ NRs 11 M)                                  +540%
(c)  All crops   (+ NRs 27 M)                                  +173%
(at financial prices)
Incremental Employment:
(a) Farm employment and self-employment at
full development (+0.36 M md/year)                     +53%
(b) Employment in construction, average
during five years                                      +0.8 M mandays/year
Average Increase in Per Capita Income
(from US$65 to US$118 per year)                              +82%
Production Benefits
8.02      At full development, production of rice would have increased by
about 3,500 tons and other foodgrains by about 4,100 tons, equivalent to an
overall increase of 120%. Cash crops, which are of little importance at pre-
sent, would increase from a gross value of about NRs 3 M to about NRs 13 M,
mostly through introduction of new crops (cotton and groundnut). This would
substitute, in part, for present imports of raw cotton and oil. The antici-
pated foodgrain production would increase foreign exchange earnings and
improve nutritional standards both in the Terai and, through public distri-
bution programs, in the Hills.
Employment Benefits
8.03      Overall, labor requirements in agriculture are estimated to rise
from about 0.7 M to about 1.0 M mandays per year at full development. This
would be brought about by higher cropping intensities requiring more labor.



- 40 -
Taking into account the expected population growth, it is estimated that the
rate of (male) farm labor utilization would increase from approximately 30%
at present to about 48%. Most of the employment benefits would affect self-
employed family labor on their own farms, to a certain extent also landless
laborers. It is expected that employment in the rural and urban non-farm
sector would increase correspondingly as additional demands for marketing,
transport and processing facilities arise. During the implementation period,
construction works would temporarily open employment opportunities of about
4 M mandays, or an average of 0.8 M mandays per year.
Intangible Benefits
8.04      For further development of the agricultural sector, and of irriga-
tion in particular, trained manpower is a crucial resource. Through training
of motivated students in civil and mechanical engineering and agricultural
science abroad, the project would increase the pool of qualified staff over
the medium term and contribute to prevent otherwise inevitable shortfalls of
such manpower in Nepal. Funds for agricultural development activities to
complement ongoing investments in the Bhairawa-Lumbini Groundwater Project
would help to bring about the benefits expected from this project and to
prevent wasting of relatively costly irrigation water, through demonstrations
and field trials for new varieties, better cultivation practices and water
management. Construction of public access roads would stimulate general eco-
nomic development of the project area, facilitating marketing of produce and
travelling to and from Mahendranagar. Some benefits would occur under the
project, but are not directly dependent on its execution: HMGN's intention
to move farm families from neighboring areas into the project area would
permit the unification of two presently divided wildlife reserves and provide
for better wildlife management, apart from providing resettled families with
irrigated land. The balance of the deforested area would benefit landless
settlers from the Hills or from the local area, and thus relieve some of the
land pressure experienced by the Hill population to a modest degree.
Economic Evaluation
8.05      For purposes of quantitative cost-benefit analysis, only those
economic benefits and costs have been taken into account that are directly
attributable to land improvements due to irrigation and to agricultural
extension. In particular, the net benefit of forest clearing and the cost
of settlement were not included. Both activities can be assumed to take
place even without the project, leading to rainfed cultivation of cleared
and settled areas. Therefore, the future without project situation was
defined as rainfed cultivation of 3,200 ha and as unimproved irrigated
cultivation of 3,400 ha. This situation was assumed as stable and as almost
identical to the present situation, since no significant improvements in
yields and cropping intensities have been observed in the past.
8.06      Economic costs were obtained from financial costs (at the official
exchange rate) by means of standard and special conversion factors. Economic
prices of tradeable agriculture outputs and inputs were derived from world
market prices projected for 1985, in constant 1980 terms. Nepal was assumed
to be a net exporter of foodgrains and oilseeds; this is a more conservative



- 41 -
assumption than import substitution, which would warrant considerably higher
economic output prices, since the transport margin would have to be added to
port prices (Calcutta) rather than deducted. Other crop prices were derived
by applying observed historical retail price relationships to the price of
traded outputs. Details on the derivation of economic prices are shown in
Annex 4, T-3 and T-4.
8.07      Combining projected cropping patterns (para 6.03) and economic crop
budgets (Annex 1, T-18D) gives the following economic costs and returns per
hectare:
Future Without Project   Future With Project
Rainfed       Irrigated         Irrigated
Gross benefit per ha (NRs)           2,760          4,120             9,380
Operating cost per ha (NRs)          1,450          1,900             3,520
Net benefit per ha (NRs)             1,310          2,220             5,860
Applying these values to the corresponding project areas, allowing for
command-area build up (5 years) and yield build-up (7 years), and after enter-
ing corresponding costs, the project would result in an economic rate of return
(ERR) of 14% and a net present value (NPV) of NRs 43 M at a discount rate of
10%.
Sensitivity and Risk
8.08      The project's estimated economic outcome has been tested for its
sensitivity to variations in certain key parameter assumptions, the results
of which are presented in Annex 1, T-22. In particular, values of parameters
which would ceteris paribus reduce the project's net present value to zero
(switching values) have been calculated. As a result it was found that the
net present value is most sensitive to assumptions on future gross benefits
per ha with project. Given the assumed build-up of benefits and given the
without-project situation, gross returns should not fall by more than 14%,
compared to appraisal values. However, the absolute increase in gross returns,
whatever the without-project situation might be, could be allowed to fall by
22%. This still overstates the risk associated with farmers' response, since
lower outputs would most probably be associated with lower input cost. Assum-
ing proportionality between gross return and cost increases, as suggested by
the original estimates, would allow for a 20% shortfall in gross returns per
ha at full development, the without-project situation being unchanged. Finally,
the absolute increase in net returns on the given area, equal to the incre-
mental net benefits of the project, would have to fall by about 32% to reduce
the project's NPV to zero (18% given a cost overrun of 20%).
8.09      The project is not significantly sensitive to delayed benefits, due
in part to already cautious assumptions on benefit build-up. Even a 40% lon-
ger time span for yield build-up and a construction period stretched over
seven instead of five years would still result in an ERR of 12%. An efficient
and timely agricultural extension service would be most critical to minimize
these risks. Yield performance and effectiveness of the extension service
would be closely monitored under the project.



- 42 -
8.10      Sensitivity to cost overruns is moderate.  Construction cost could
rise by 70%, total investment cost by 53% and total project cost (including
recurrent costs) by about 46%, before rendering the project marginal. A
total cost overrun of 20% combined with a shortfall in incremental net bene-
fits of 20% would still result in an ERR of 10%. Underestimation of conver-
sion factors would have no significant effect on economic viability.
8.11      Cost overruns (in constant prices) or shortfalls in benefits exceed-
ing the critical limits as indicated above are not considered likely. No
significant risks beyond those usually associated with irrigation projects
are expected. The project would be economically viable and risks would be
acceptable.
IX.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
9.01      Assurances have been received from HMGN that:
(a) it shall provide fellowships for engineering and agricul-
tural students in accordance with a plan satisfactory to
IDA (para 3.09);
(b) it would recruit an engineering firm to assist in project
implementation, whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment would be satisfactory to IDA
(para 3.17);
(c) two agricultural consultants, whose qualifications, experi-
ence and terms and conditions of employment would be
satisfactory to IDA, would be appointed to the project
by MIDB by May 31, 1982 (para 3.17).
(d) the PM of MIDB would: (i) establish and maintain separate
accounts for the project in accordance with sound accounting
practices; (ii) ensure that these accounts would be audited
annually by an independent auditor acceptable to IDA; and
(iii) send the certified copies of the audited accounts and
the auditor's report to IDA within six months after the close
of each fiscal year (para 4.07);
(e) it would cause the CFRID to coordinate all matters concerning
forest clearing, irrigation development and settlement
(para 5.06);
(f) it would cause the FPDB to clear the forest within the project
boundaries by May 31, 1982 (para 5.06);
(g) the project would be adequately staffed in accordance with
a staffing plan satisfactory to IDA (para 5.08), including
a PM with qualifications and experience satisfactory to
IDA (para 5.02);



- 43 -
(h)  for areas completed or improved under the project water would
only be made available on a regular basis to a tertiary unit
when the Water Users' Group has been formed for the unit,
field channels constructed and satisfactory distribution
routines established (para 5.09);
(i)  MIDB would prepare a comprehensive Operation and Maintenance
Manual to be transmitted in draft to IDA by October 1, 1982,
and in final form by October 1, 1983 (para 5.10);
(j)  funds and facilities required for adequate maintenance and
repair would be provided promptly as needed; views would be
exchanged with IDA on a yearly basis on the amount of funds
required for operation and maintenance (O&M) of the system
and the O&M budget for the system would be submitted to IDA
not later than July 31 in each year (para 5.10);
(k)  under the authority of MIDB two comprehensive evaluation
studies of the project would be prepared, to be submitted to
IDA by June 30, 1982 and December 31, 1986, for review and
comments (para 5.13).
(1)  MIDB would prepare a project completion report within six
months after final disbursements of the Credit and would
submit the report to IDA for review and comment (para 5.14);
(m)  not later than one year after completion of the works in
an area commanded by a distributary, water charges would
be collected to (i) cover the O&M costs and (ii) recover,
in progressive steps over a reasonable period of time,
the investment cost of the project to the fullest extent
possible, having due regard to the farmers' ability to pay,
the necessary incentives for their participation in the
project, and the need for public savings to finance other
development activities (para 7.10); and
(n)  in consultation with IDA, water charges would be reviewed
and adjusted at regular intervals not exceeding three
years (para 7.10).
9.02      Conditions of credit effectiveness would be that:
(a)  a firm of engineering consultants satisfactory to IDA had
been selected (para 3.17);
(b)  the MIDB had been established (para 5.01); and
(c)  a PM, senior roads engineer and agricultural development
officer had been appointed with qualifications and exper-
ience satisfactory to IDA (paras 5.02 and 5.04).
9.03      With the above conditions and assurances, the proposed project would
be suitable for an IDA credit of US$16 M on standard IDA terms. The Borrower
would be His Majesty's Government of Nepal.



NEPAL                                              Latitude  : 29 0N
Longitude : 800E
MAHAKALI IRRIGATION PROJECT (STAGE I)                             Elevation :  200 metres
CLIMATIC DATA
'Item                       Jan.   Feb.   Mar.   Apr.   May   June   July   Aug.   Sept.   Oct.  Nov.   Dec.   Total
Mean daily temperature ( C)
- Max                                   22.0   25.0   31.2   37.2   38.2   36.6   33.0   32.2   31.5   30.9   27.6   23.9
- Min                                    7.3    7.9   12.1   18.0   23.0   24.7   24.9   24.8   24.2   20.6   12.5    8.8
- Mean                                  14.7   16.5   21.6   27.6   30.6   30.3   29.0   28.5   27.9   25.8   20.1   16.4
Relative humidity at noon (M)
- Range of monthly means                45-86  43-74  30-58  24-76  24-54  42-77  68-95  73-90  60-97  60-76  57-69  64-87
- Mean                                    67      59     41      40     37      60     79      79     74      70    *63      70
Duration of bright sunshine 2/           0.65   0.75   0.73   0.76   0.66   0.60   0.39   0.44   0.46   0.69   0.81   0.83
Wind speed at 2 m above ground           0.34   0.38   0.53   0.66   0.56   0.84   0.90   0.46   0.38   0.35   0.32   0.27
(M/sec)
Rainfall (mm)
- 50% probability                           27     22     21      14     42    272    554    404    294        87      5       9  1,751
- 80% probability                            9     16     24      17     29    133    470    356    299        58      3       8  1,422
Class A pan evaporation (mm/month)          69     92    181    264    291    272    180    171    125    112         91      67  1,915
Water use by reference crop 3/              63     82    129    171    192    184    152    140    119    111         77      58  1,448
(ETO); (mm/month)
1/  Climatic data for Nepalganj (since 1968);  rainfall data for Dhanghrhi Station (since 1956)
2/  Expressed as a fraction of the maximum possible duration of bright sunshine
3/  Estimated by empirical formula using pan evaporation and climatic data.



-45-                                ANNEX 1
T- 2
NEPAL
MAHAKALI IRRIGATION PROJECT (STAGE I)
Land Use Capability
Land Use Class
4Rsd        3sd             2sd            2s          Total
1.  Drainage          Poorly      Imperfectly    Moderately    Well-
conditions        drained    drained         well-          drained
lowland    lowland         drained        upland
lowland
2.  Soil type         Fine-      Medium to       Moderately    Moderately
textured   fine-           coarse to      coarse
clay loam  textured        fine-          sandy
or silty   loam to         textured       loam
clay loam  silty loam      loam to
silty loam
3. Crops
recommended
Wet season        Paddy      Paddy           Paddy          Paddy (upland)
Cotton        Maize
Soybean       Groundnut
Vegetables    Cotton
Vegetables
Dry season       Pulses      Wheat           Wheat          Oilseeds
Pulses         Oilseeds       Pulses
Pulses        Vegetables
Vegetables
4.  Cultivated         140         1,580            1,380           1,100     4,200
area (ha)
(present)
5.  To be              120           210              200           1,870     2,400
developed (ha)
(under project)
Total
cultivable         260        1,790            1,580           2,970      6,600
area (ha)
(4 + 5)



ANNEX 1
T- 3
NEPAL
MAHAKALI IRRIGATION PROJECT (STAGE I)
Present and Future Land Use
(ha)
Present               Future
Gross      Net         Gross       Net
1.  Forests                 2,500                     300
2.  Deforested                600 -/                   -
3.  Cultivated (rainfed)      900         800          -
4.  Cultivated (irrigable) 4,000        3,400       7,700      6,600
5.  Others 2/                 500                     500
6.  Sub-Total               8,500                   8,500
7.  Mahendranagar Town      1,200                   1,200
Total         9,700                   9,700
8. Additional
Command Area                                   3,700       3 200
_        ,_j
1/    By July 1980
2/    Airport, swamps, villages etc.



ANNEX 1
NEPAL                                   T- 4
MAHAKALI IRRIGATION PROJECT (STAGE I)
Provisional List of Irrigation, Drainage and Road Works
Main Canal
Earthwork for canal road .13 km
Structures
Cross Regulators (new) .3 NOS
Turnouts (new) .4 NOS
Tail Escape (new) .1 NOS
Superpassages .3 NOS
Causeway .........................                             1 NOS
Silt Ejectors and Escapes .2 NOS
Distributaries, Branches & Minors
Rehabilitation and Extension               .....    75 km'
Structures
Drops (modification) .....   37 NOS
Drops (new) .....  27 NOS
Checks (new) .....  15 NOS
Turnouts (new) .....   8 NOS
Tail Escapes (new) .....  11 NOS
Check-drops (modification) .....   9 NOS
Check-drops (new) .....  18 NOS
Inverted Syphons (new) .....   1 NO
Culverts (new) .....  15 NOS
Tertiary Canals .....  115 km
Drainage Canals
Reshaping of natural drains .....  110 km
Tertiary drains .....  200 km
Roads
Public Roads .....  40 km
Canal Service Roads .....  65 km
Structures
Paved bed level crossings in drainage channels (5m wide) .. 980 m
Concrete slab bridges .....   15 NOS
Extensions to existing crossings under canals ..       ...  35 NOS



-48-
NEPAL                                                    ASINEX 1
T-5
Mahakali Irrization Prol8ct (Stage I)
Provisional List of Equipment, Vehicles and Materials
Quantity           Unit Price              Total Cost
Cif, Calcutta (US $)          (US"S)
I.  Construction Equipment & Vehicles
1.  Wheel tractor with trailer                                4                25,000                  100,000
2.  Sheepfoot roller (towed)                                  4                25,000                   30,000
3.  Self-propolled vibrating roller (6t)                      4                45,000                  180,000
4.  Road roller (8-li ton, diesel)                            4                25,000                  100,000
5.  Tar boilers/sprayers                                      4                 2,000                     8,000
6.  Dozer (D7; 200 HP)                                        1               150,000                  150,000
7.  Water sprinkler truck, 6 m3                               8                20,000                  160,000
8.  Diesel truck - flat bed (7 t)                             1                18,000                   18,000
9.  Servicing truck (2.5 t)                                   1                35,000                   35,000
10.  Truck crane (6.0 t)                                       1                50,000                    50,000
11.  Pick-up (3/4 t)                                           1                15,000                    15,000
12.  4-wheel drive vehicles (hard top)                        10                11,000                  110,000
13.  Motor cycles (125 cc)                                    15                 1,900                    28,500
14.  Cycles                                                   20                     90                    1,800
15.  Concrete mixer 10/7                                       3                 5,000                   15,000
16.  Concrete mixer  7/5                                       6                 4,000                    24,000
17.  Water pump 16 HP                                          2                 1,750                     3,500
18.  Water pump 10 HP                                          2                 1,200                     2,400
19.  Water pump  7 HP                                          6                    950                    5,700
20.  Vibrators                                                 6                    600                    3,600
21.  Generators 10 kW                                          1                 4,000                     4,000
22.  Generator   5 kW                                          2                 3,000                     6,000
23,  Generator   3 kW                                          4                 2,000                     8,000
24.  On-site fuel tank (7,000 1)                               1                 8,000                    S,000
25.  Portable welder (500 amps)                                1                 7,500                     7,500
26.  Prefabrication yard equipment                           L.S.                                       100,000
27.  Portable air compressor & air tools                       2                 7,000                   14,000
28.  Paving breaker                                            2                    750                    1,500
29.  Telephone system                                         L.S.                                       20,000
30.  Workahop equipment 4 tools                               L.S.                                       50,000
31.  Radio communication VHF                                   4 sets            6,000                    24,000
32.  Walki-talki                                              L.S.                                         5,000
33.  Small tools 6 plants                                                                                 50,000
34.  Spares (30%)                                                                                       391,500
Total coet, oif Calcutta                                                                              1,730,000
Freight Calcutta - Mahendranagar (5%)                                                                     90,000
Total               1,820,00n
II.  Equipment & Materials for Survey Office & Laboratory                           Total Cost
Cif ,Calcutta (US S)
1.  Theodolites (3 Nos.)                                                       10,000
2.  Levelling instruments (20 Noe)                                             10,000
3.  Other survey equipment                                                      5,000
4.  Drawing office equipment 6 materials                                        5,000
5.  Hydrological equipment (sediment samplers, staff
guages, current meters)                                                     2,000
6.  Technical books                                                             2,000
7.  Office equipment                                                           10,000
8.  Air conditioners (20 Nos.)                                                 10,000
9.  Furniture for otfices 6 quarters                                           20,000
10.  Camping Equipment                                                           8,000
11.  Quality control laboratory equipment                                       10,000
12.  Refridgerators                                                              4,000
13.  Stoves                                                                      1,000
14.  Other electrical appliances                                                 2,000
15.  Groundwater observation wells                                               1,000
Total cost, cif Calcutta                                                       100,000
Freight Calcutta - Mahendranagar (5%)                                            5,000
Total          105,000
III.  Equipment 6 Vehicles fur Agricultural Operation              Quantity          Unit Price               Total Cost
Cif, Calcutta (US 0)             (110_0)
1.  Pick-up, four wheel drive                                 1               15,000                     15,000
2.  Jeep-type, four wheel drive                               1               11,000                     11,000
3.  Motorcycle (for SMS)                                      2                1,900                      3,800
4.  Bicycle                                                  11                    90                       990
5.  Tractor (35 hP)                                           1               17,000                     17,000
6.  Power tiller (8-10 HP)                                    4                2,000                      8,000
7.  Thresher-pedal                                            3                   500                     1,500
8.  Sprayer, knapsack type                                   10                  300                      3,000
9.  Audio-visual aids                                         I lot           12,000                     12,U00
10.  Generator, portable                                       2                3,000                      6,000
11.  Farm implements                                           1 lot            1,400                      1,400
12.  Office equipment 6 furniture                              1 lot                                      40,000
13.  Spaces                                                                                               10,000
Total cost, cif Calcutta                                                                                 129,690
Preight Calcutta - Mahendranagar (5%)                                                                      6,310
Total                    136,000
IV.  Materials S Supplies
Quantity          Unit Price               Total Cost
Cif, Mahandranacer (US S)        (US-$)
1.  C.sent                                                   2,500 n.t.             132                 330,000
2.  Reinforced steel                                           150 m.t.             670                 100,000
Total cost, cif Maheodranagar                                                                           430,000



49                                 ANNEX 1
T-6
NEPAL
Mahakali Irrigation Project (Stage I)
List of Required Buildings -
A.  For Engineering and Construction                                      Rs '000
Consultants' Accomodation                                                800
Office for Consultants                                                 1,100
Bungalows for : E.E. (2 Nos)                                           2,200
A.E. (8 Nos)
Accommodation for Overseers:
3 permanent type buildings                                          1,000
15 semi-permanent type buildings
Workshop Building and Yard                                               500
Cement Store                                                             450
Water Supply System                                                      200
Total A       6,250
B. For Agricultural Development
B.1 Pilot Scheme
Office (for 2 SMS, 1 JT and 2 JTA)
Classroom (25 trainees)                                             150
Housing (SMS, JT and JTA)                                           440
Quarters for Trainees                                               150
Storage for Agro-inputs and Implements                              225
Open Dry Area (concrete)                                             50
B.2  Agricultural Inputs Warehouse (1,000 m.t.)                          765
Total B       1,970
Total A + B NRS 8,220,000
or US$ 685,000
1/ including electricity and fixtures.



NEPAL
MAKAKALI IRRIGATION PROJECT (STAGE I)
Water Supply and Demand
A. Net Water Requirements
(i) Basic Assumptions:
(a)  Potential Evapotranspiration (ETO)   calculated by modified Penman method (see T-1
(b) Lowland Paddv:
- Land preparation 100 mm (net of evaporation and on-farm losses)
- Nursery 40 mm
- Percolation losses : 2 ma/day
(c)  Field Crops:  60 mm pre-irrigation for upland paddy, maize, cotton, soybean, summer vegetables, groundnut, wheat,
oilseeds and winter vegetables.
(d) Design Rainfall : rainfall with 807 probability of exceedance.
(ii)  Net Farm Water Requirements (mm)
Crop                 Planting        Area      Jan         Feb          Mar         Apr          May         Jun         Jul          Aug          Sep         Oct          Nov         Dec
Period       Planted   ----------------------------------------------- half month periods ---------------------------------------------------------
7-
1.  HYV Paddy        June  1-15       22      -   -       -   -       -   -        -   -      10  52       195  -        -   -       -   -       -  
2.  HYV Paddy        June 15-30       15      -           -                                    -  10         2  138                                   - -  -   -  -     
3.  Local Paddy    June 15-30         15      -   -       -   -       -   -        -   -       -  10         2  138      -   -       -   -       -  
4.  Upland Paddy   June  1-15          4      -   -       -                                                 77   -
5. Maize             June 1-15  10   - -   - -                          - --                                49 --
6. Maize             June 15-30  11   - -   - -                         - --                               -  12
7.  Cotton           June 15-30        4   -       -       -       -        --                      -       -       --                      -        -       --                        -   -
8.  Cotton           July  1-15        6                                                                 - 23  27                                                  -         -   -
9. Soybean    June 15-30   3--                           -- ---                                  --               12          - - 
10.  Vegetables       June 15-30        1        -         -                                       -               -
11.  Groundnuts       June  1-15        4        -         -                                                 49   -
12.  Wheat            Nov  15-30       18    25  25       31   -       -   -        -   -       -   -        -                                                                 69      15  25
13. Wheat             Dec 1-15   6  22 25  31 42                             -  -  -  -  -   -   -                                                           -                         67 12
14.  Pulses           Nov  15-30       16    22  24       28  28        -   -       -              -               -       -              -                                    16      16  21
15.  Pulses           Dec   1-15        5    18  23       30  38      35   -        -   -       -   -        -                                   -                                     13  13
16.  Oilseeds         Oct  15-31       23    -   -        -   -        -   -        -   -       -   -        -             -58                                            23  37       31  26
17.  Vegetables       Nov  15-30        2    18  21       26  36       -   -          -            -       -                                                     -69                    8  12
B.  Diversion Requirement (m3/sec) 1/    1.82 1.69  2.16 1.47  0.23  -              -     -   0.31 1.77  6.94 5.40    -         -    -       -    -    -   0.31 2.24  0.77 3.78  2.62 2.32
C.  Available Supply (m3/sec)                4.25 4.25  4.25 4.25  4.25 4.25  4.25 4.25  4.25 13.0  13.0 13.0  13.0 13.0  13.0 13.0  13.0 13.0  13.0 4.25  4.25 4.25  4.25 4.25
1/     Irrigation Efficiencies assumed:
-  On-farm efficiency 85% for paddy, 707 for upland crops; tertiary canal efficiency 80%; tertiary unit efficiency 687 for paddy, 567 for upland crops.
-  Seepage and operational losses in distribution system 407.



-51-
NEPAL
MAARAKALI IRRIGATION PROJECT (STAGE I)                                    ANNEX1
I-T
Eqtii;Ated JEgject CCqt
Local     Foreign      Total      Local     Foreign      Total      I Foreign
--------- NRs '000                         us $ 000---              Exchange
1. Civil Works and Buildings
1.1  ImrvmnsExisting Irrigation
System
()K Main Canal                         3,696       1,044      4,740       230           65       295
(b)  Laterals & Sub-laterals           3,180         900      4,080       343           97       440
(c)  Major Drainage                    1,920         540      2,460       160           45        205
(d)  Tertiary Unit Development         5,052       1,428      6,480       421          119        540
(e)  On-Farm Development               1,032         288      1,320        86           24        110
Sub-total 1.1   14,880       4,200      19,080    1,240           350     1,590         22
1.2  Extension of Irrigation System
(a)  Laterals and Sub-laterals         5,292       1,488      6,780       441          124        565
(b)  Major Drainage                    2,100         600      2,700       175           50        225
(c)  Tertiary Unit Development         7,908       2,232     10,140       659          186        845
(d)  On-Farm Development                 840         240      1,080        70           20         90
Sub-total 1.2   16,140       4,560      20,700    1,345           380     1,725         22
1.3  Roads
(a)  Public Roads                     18,480       5,220     23,700    1,540           435      1,975
(bl  Canal Service Roads               8,976       2,520     11,496       748          210        958
Sub-total 1.3   27,456       7,740      35,196    2,288           645     2,933         22
1.4  Buildings                              6,576       1,644       8,220       548          137       685         20
Sub-total 1.                          65,052      18,144      83,196    5,421        1,512      6,933
2.  Equipment
(a)  Constructici & 0 & v, equipment
8 spares                                -         21,840      21,840      -          1,820      1,820        180
(b)  Equipmenit & Mlaterials for
Survey, Office & Laboratory             -          1,260       l,260      -            105        105       100
(c)  Equipment 6 Vehicles for
Agricultural Operation                  -          1,632                  -            136        136       100
Sub-total 2.                                     24,732      24,032       -          2,061     2,061
3.  Materials
(a)  Cement                                             3,960       3,960       -            330       330        100
(b)  Steel                                   _          1,200       1.200       -           100        100        100
Sub-total 3.                                       5,160       5,160      -            430        430
4.   Technical Services
(R)  Consultants                            2,400      13,656      16,056        200      1,138      1,338        85
(b)  Air Photography & mapping                240         960       1,200         20         80        100        80
Sub-total 4.                           2,640      14,616     17,256        220       1,218      1,438
5.   Fellowships for Students in
EngineeringA r A cu_lt ure                     600     11,208      11,808         50         934       98h         95
6.   ProJect Overhead  1/
(a)  Engineering & Administration
6,480      1,620       8,100        540         135       675         20
(b) l,cremental Agricultural
Operating Cost                         1,152         288      1440         96          24        120        20
Sub-total 6.                           7,632       1,908    _.540          636         159        795        20
Sub-total 1 -6   75,924       75,768    151,692       6,372       6,314    12,641         50
7.   Contingencies
(a)  Physical contingencies                12,216      12,216      24,432     1,018       1,018      2,036        50
kb)  Price  -ontingencias                  25_464      25.4952    5.9 6       2,122       4,121     4,243         50
Su1,-total 1 - 7 113,604    113,436    227,040        9,467       9,453    18,920         50
8.   Land Acq  "sarin                             4,200        -         4,200        350         -         350         -
9.   Taxes and Duties                             1,800       -          1,800        150         -         150         -
10.   Incremental Coat of Agricultural
Extersion for Bheirawa^Lurbini Project         960       -            960         80         -          80_-
11.   TOTAL PROJECT COST                         120,564    113,436    234,000    10.047         9,453    19,500         48
1/   Including 0 & M( of irrigeation, drainage and road works during construction period.



-52-
ANNEX 1
NEPAL                                   T-9
MAHAKALI IRRIGATION PROJECT (STAGE I)
Cost Estimate for Consultancy Services and Fellowships
Estimated      Overall Cost      Total Cost
A.  Consultancy Services                     Man-months    petr man-month    US $ Eguiv.
US $ Equiv.
1.  Project Engineering Consultants         110            8,500            935,000
2.  Expatriate Agricultural Experts          18            8,500            153,000
3.  Mechanical Overseer                      50            1,000             50,000
4. Local Consultants -/
(a) Survey and Design                                                  190,000
(b) Benchmark Surveys                                                    10,000
Total          1,338,000
B. Fellowships
1. Tuition, board, lodging and
miscellaneous
82 persons @ 4 years @ $ 2,000/year                                     656,000
2. Annual Travel
82 persons @ 4 years @ $ 1,000                                          328,000
Total            984,000
1/      Cost for Consultant for Bhairawa Lumbini included in T-l0.



-53-                                ANNEX 1
T-10
NEPAL
MAHAKALI IRRIGATION PROJECT (STAGE I)
Incremental Cost of Agricultural Extension
for Bhairawa-Lumbini Groundwater Project
1. Rice-based Cropping System Demonstration
No. of
Tubewell        Size of
to be     Demonstration/    Cost
Year       Operated   Tubewell(ha) a/   Rs/ha b/   Total Cost (Rs)
(81)           (2) 01,                   (4)=(l)x(2)x(3)
1980/81       10              6            1,500            90,000
1981/82       20              6            1,500           180,000
1982/83       33              6            1,500           297,000
Sub-total                       567,000
2. Consultant (36 man-months)
Rs 5,000 x 36 man-months                             180,000
3. Extension workers-/                                         73,140
Salary    21 PLAA x Rs 150 x 12 months = 37,800
Allowance 21 PLAA x Rs 45 x 12 months  = 11,340
10 JT and JTA x Rs200 x 12 months = 24,000
Sub-Total                            820,140
Contingencies                     139,860
Total             NRS 960,000
(US$ 80,000)
a/ 3 ha for wet season crop (paddy) and 3 ha for dry season crop (wheat).
b/ Fertilizer, seed, agro-chemicals, etc.
c/  Credit 654 provides salary for PLAAs up to 1981/82.



-54-
NEPAL                                      ANNEX I
MAHAKALI IRRIGATION PROJECT (STAGE I)                       T- 11
Estimated Annual Cost of Operation and Maintenance
A. Irrigation and Drainage Systems
1.  Equipment and Vehicles                                         Estimated Value
1.1    Equipment and Vehicle Costs                                in US $ Equivalent
4 jeeps                                                          44,000
6 motorcycles                                                    11,400
80 cycles                                                           7,200
Portable air compressor                                            7,000
Portable welder                                                    7,500
Vibrator                                                              600
Paving breaker                                                        750
2 x 4" pumps                                                       1,200
Pick-up (4 wheel drive)                                           15,000
Portable generating plant (5 kW                                    3,000
Tractor and trailer                                               25,000
Concrete mixer                                                     4,000
Truck                                                             18)00
$144,650
1.2    Annual Cost (amortized over 10 years @ 10%)                       $24,000
1.3    Annual Operating Cost                                             $20,000
Total Annual Cost                                $44,000
2.  0 & M Buildings                                                       $5,000
3.  Labor & Materials                                                    $25,000
4.  Staff Costs                                                            NRs
1 Executive Engineer                                                15,000
3 Assistant Engineers                                               36,000
7 Overseers                                                         52,500
13 Ditch Tenders                                                      66,300
66 Gate Operators                                                   264,000
8 Drivers                                                           32,000
1 Accountant                                                        12,000
6 Clerks                                                            45,000
522,800
($43,600)
Total 1-4                                                       US$117,600
or                                                              US$ 17.80/ha
or                                                              NRs2l5/ha
B. Road Systems
Estimated 0 & M Costs:   (i)  Public Roads               Rs 8,900/km
(ii)  Canal Service Roads    Rs 6,600/km; NRs 65/ha
C.  Annual 0 & M Costs (NRs million)
FY 83        FY 84        FY 85        FY 86 onwards
Irrigation & Drainage System    -             0.2           0.9          1.4
Public Roads                     0.1           0.2          0.3          0.4
Canal Service Roads                -           0.1          0.2          0.4
Total            0.1          0.5          1.4          2.2



ANNEX 1
-55-                               T-12
NEPAL
MAHAKALI IRRIGATION PROJECT (STAGE I)
Estimated Incremental Annual Operating Cost for
Agricultural Extension and Training (NRs)
Project       Field
Number   Salary   Allowance   Allowance   Total        Cost/Year
Rs.
A. Staff
Extension
DADO              1        -         210           -         210    2,520
AO a/             1        -         210           -         210    2,520
JT a/             1        -         120           80        200    2,400
JTA a/            2        -          75           50        125    3,000
PLAA              8       150         45           -         195   18,720
Sub-total                                                      29,160
Pilot Farm
SMS               2     1,000        210           -      1,210   29,040
Accountant        1       400         50           -         450    5,400
Driver            1       250         50           50        350    4,200
Peon              3       150         45           -         195    7,020
Sub-total                                                      45,660
B.  Fuel and Maintenance (Jeep, motor-cycle, bicycle, etc.)                90,000
C.  Extension Activities (Demonstration)                                    60,000
@ Rs 1,300/ha x 20 ha x 2 times
D.  Training                                                                55,500
JT & JTA Rs 30 x 14 days x 6 times x 10 trainees = 25,000
PLAA      Rs 30 x 14 days x 6 times x  8 trainees  -  20,000
Farmers   Rs 10 x 14 days x 3 times x 25 farmers   =  10,500
TOTAL                                    280,320
(us$ 24,000)
Over five years                         US$120,000
a/ Will be assigned to the pilot farm.



NEPAL
MAHAKALI IRRIGATION PROJECT (STAGE I)
Estimated Schedule of Annual Exnenndrites
(US $ '000)
Total-------------- Fiscal Year------------------
Cost       FY81       FY82       FY83       FY84       FY85
1. Civil Works
1.1  Improvements Existing Irrigation System    1,590           -           380       615        415        180
1.2  Extension of Irrigation System                1,725        -            -        340        850        535
1.3  Roads                                          2,933       -           650       725        758        800
1.4  Buildings                                        685      300          385
2.  Equipment & Materials                               2,491      891        1,150        450
3.  Technical Services                                  1,438      438          485        270        145        100
4.  Fellowships for Students in
Engineering and Agriculture                           984                   246       246        246        246
5.  Project Establishment                                 795       84          114        152        184        261
Sub-total 1 - 5      12,641   1,713         3,410      2,798      2,598      2,122
6.  Physical Contingencies                              2,036      233          479        458        472        376
Sub-total 1 - 6      14,677   1,946         3,907      3,256      3,070      2,498
7.  Price Contingencies                                 4,243      230          811        925     1,085      1,192
Sub-total 1 - 7      18,920   2,176         4,718      4,181      4,155      3,690
8.  Land Acquisition & Taxes                              500      100          150        150        100        -              >
9. Incremental Cost of Agricultural
Extension for Bhairawa-Lumbini Project                 80       20           25        35
Total Project Cost   19,500   2,296          4,893      4,366      4,255      3,690



-57-                                  _ANEX 1
T-14
NEPAL
MAHAKALI IRRIGATION PROJECT (STAGE I)
A. Proposed Credit Allocation
Amount of the             % of
Credit Allocated    Expenditures
Category                    (US$ Million)      to be Financed
(1)  Civil works
(a)  By contract                  7.0            100% of foreign expenditures
80% of local expenditures
(b)  By force account             1.7             80% of local expenditures
(2)  Equipment, materials,              3.3
vehicles and spare
parts
(a)  Directly imported                           100% of foreign expenditures
(b)  Locally manufactured                        100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory)
(c)  Locally procured                             75%
(3)  Consultants' and                   1.8           100%
technical services
(4)  Agricultural extension             0.1             75%
and training staff
(5)  Fellowships                        1.3            100%
(6)  Unallocated                        0.8
TOTAL       16.0
B. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Disbursement
IDA Fiscal Year & Semester                                  (US $ M Equivalent)
Semester           Cumulative
FY81
1st
2nd                                                      0.3                  0.3
FY82
1st                                                      1.6                  1.9
2nd                                                      1.9                  3.8
FY83
1st                                                      2.1                  5.9
2nd                                                      1.8                  7.7
FY84
1st                                                      1.7                  9.4
2nd                                                      1.7                 11.1
FY85
1st                                                      1.9                 13.0
2nd                                                      1.6                 14.6
FY86
1st                                                      1.4                 16.0



-58-
ANNEX 1
NEPAL                               T-15
MAHAKALI IRRIGATION PROJECT (STAGE I)
Present and Proposed Cropping Patterns
(as percentages of net cultivable area)
Crops                         Present and Future               Future With
Without Project                   Project
Rainfed  Irrigated               Irrigated
Wet Season
Paddy
Local                         48        57                     15
HYV                           -          4                      37
Upland                        11        10                       4
Maize                           25        17                      21
Cotton                          -         -                       10
Soybean                         -         -                        3
Groundnut                       -         -                        4
Vegetables                      -         -                        1
Sub-total           84        88                      95
Dry Season
Wheat                           10        17                      24
Oilseeds                        14        16                      23
Pulses                          13        12                      21
Vegetables                      -          1                       2
Sub-total           37        46                      70
Cropping Intensity             121       134                     165



NEPAL
MAHAKALI IRRIGATION PROJECT (STAGE I)
AREA, YIELD AND PRODUCTION 1/
Present                                                     Future Without Project                             Future With Project
Rainfed             Irrigated                   Total               Rainfed                Irrigated                Total                  Irrigated
Area  Yield Prod.   Area  Yield  Prod.    Area  Yield   Prod. Area  Yield Prod.   Area  Yield   Prod.   Area  Yield   Prod.    Area  Yield   Prod.
Wet Season
Paddy
Local        384   1.0   384   1,938   1.3   2,519   2,322   1.2   3,123 1,536   1.0 1,536   1,938   1.3   2,519   3,474   1.2   4,055                    990   2.1   2,079
HYV            -      -     -      136   2.1       286      136   2.1      286      -     -      -      136   2.2      299       136   2.2      299    2,442   3.3   8,059
Upland         87   0.8    70      340   1.0       340     427   1.0       410   349   0.8   280        340   1.0      340       689   1.0      4!0       264   1.4       370
Maize           200   1.1   220      578   1.3       751      778   1.2      971   800   1.1   881        578   1.3       751   1,378   1.2   1,63i    1,386   2.0   2,772
Cotton           -      -      -       -      -        -        -     -        -      -      -     -        -      -        -        -     -        -       660   1.1       726
Soybean          -      -      -                           -      -       -      -       -       -       -       -     -                            -       198   1.0       198
Groundnut                   -      -           -           -      -       -       - -  -  -  -     -                                                -       264   1.4       370
Vegetables       -      -      -       -      -        -        -     -        -      -      -     -        -      -        --                               66  11.0       726
Sub-total    672                 2,992                   3,664                 2,888'                2,992                    5,680                     6,270
Dry Season
Wheat            80   1.0    80      576   1.2       691     656    1.1      771   3201   1.0   320       578   1.3       751      898   1.2    1,071    1,584   2.1   3,326
Oilseeds       112  0.4    45        546   0.5       273     658    0.5      318   448   0.4   179        544   0.5      272       992   0.5      451    1,518   0.6        910
Pulses         104   0.5    52       408   0.6       245     512    0.6     297   416    0.5   207       408   0.6       245       623   0.6      452    1,386   0.7        970
Vegetables       -      -      -      34   7.0       238       34   7.0      238      -     -      -       34   7.0      238        34   7.0      238       132  11.0   1,452
Sub-total    296                 1,564                  1,860                  1,184                 1,564                    2,748                    4,620
TOTAL        968                 4,556                 _5,5Z4                 3,872                  4,556                     8,428
1/  Area in ha.
Yield in tons/ha.
Production in tons.



-60-
ANNEX 1
NEPAL                                     T-17
MAHAKALI IRRIGATION PROJECT (STAGE I)
Total Incremental Crop Production
------------ '000 tons -----------
Present    Future      Future      Incremental    Increase in
Without     With          Due to          Percent
Project    Project      Project
Foodgrains
Rice a/            2.4        3.2          6.7         3.5
Wheat              0.8        1.1          3.3         2.2              210
Maize              1.0        1.6          2.8         1.2               70
Pulses             0.3        0.5          1.0         0.4              115
Soybean             -          -           0.2         0.2
Total         4.5       6.4         14.0          7.5              120
Cash Crops
Cotton              -          -           0.7         0.7
Groundnut           -          -           0.4         0.4
Oilseeds           0.3        0.5          1,0         0.5              102
Vegetables         0.2        0.2          2.2         2.0              815
a/     Converted from paddy at a milling ratio of 64%.
b/     Figures may not add up due to rounding.



NEPAL
MAHAKALI IRRIGATION PROJECT (STAGE I)
CROP INPUT REQUIREMENTS PER HECTARE
CROP                       YIELD    SEED          N          P          K      AGROCHEM  BULLOCKS   LABOUR
TON/HA   KG/HA       KG/HA      KG/HA      KG/HA    NRS/HA        PD/HA      MD/HA
PADDY,LOCAL   RF  FWO   1.00          35          0          0          0          0          45        104
PADDY,LOCAL    IRF FWO   1.30         35          5          0          0          0          46        108
PADDY,LOCAL   IRR FW    2.10          30         30         15         15         60          50        114
PADDY, HYV    IRR FWO   2.20          25         20         10         10         50          49        120
PADDY, HYV    IRR FW    3.30          25         60         30         20        220          51        135
PADDY,UPLAND  PF  FWO   0.80          50          0          0          0          0          23         73
PADDY,UPLAND  IRF FWO   1.00          50          5          0          0          0          24         77
PADDY,UPLAND  IRF FW    1.40          50         30         is         15         60          31        100
MAIZE          RF  FWO   1.10         20          0          0          0          0          10         65
MAIZE          IRF FWO   1.30         20         10          5          2          0          10         67
MAIZE          IRF FW    2.00         20         50         30          15        50          25         83
WHEAT          RF  FWO   1.00        100          0          0          0          0          30         78
WHEAT          IRF FWO   1.30        100         15         10          10        50          31         88
WHEAT          IRR FW    2.10         90         60         30         20         120         39        105
PULSES         RF  FWO   0.50         25          0          0          0          0          10         29
PULSES         IRF FWO   0.60         25          0          0          0          0          10         33
PULSES         IRF FW    0.70         25         15         15         10          0          12         39
OILSEEDS       RF  FWO   0.40          9          0          0          0          0          20         49
OILSEEDS       IRF FWO   0.50          9          0          0          0           0         20         54
OILSEEDS       IRF FW    0.60          9         15          5          5          0          26         62
COTTON         IRR FW    1.10         20         60         30         30        250          30        132
SOYBEAN        IRR FW    1.00         70         20         20         20         50          25         68
GROUNDNUT      IRR FW    1.40         80         50         30         15         50          30         85
VEGETABLES     IRF FWO   7.00          2         30          0          0         80          20         97
VEGETABLES     IRR FW   11.00          2         70         30         20        250          30        120
FINANCIAL INPUT PRICE                         6.24        6.73       2.89       1.00      20.00       10.00
ECONOMIC  INPUT PRICE                          7.54       6.98       2.93       1.00       18.00       7.00
"IRR" = IRRIGATED       "IRF" = PARTIALLY IRRIGATED         "RF" = RAINFED
"FWO" = FUTURE WITHOUT PROJECT         "FW" = FUTURE WITH PROJECT
"PD" = animal pair-day
'MD" = manday



NEPAL
MAHAKALI IRRIGATION PROJECT (STAGE I)
-------------------------------------
FINANCIAL CROPBUDGETS: SUMMARY
______________________________
(NRs/ha)
CROP            YIELD     PRICE     GROSS RETURN    COST OF INPUTS         NET RETURN
TON/HA
PADDY,LOCAL   RF  FWO   1.00       1500         1500              253                1247
PADDY,LOCAL   IRF FwD   1.30       1500         1950              292                1657
PADDY.LOCAL   IRR FW    2.10       1500         3150              710                2439
PADDY. HYV    IRR FWO   2.20       1500         3300              577                2723
PADDY. HYV    IRR FW    3.30       1500         4950              1249               3701
PADDY,UPLAND  RF  FWO   0.80       1500         1200               176               1023
PADDY,UPLAND  IRF FWO   1.00       1500         1500              216                1284
PADDY,UPLAND  IRF FW    1.40       1500         2100              655                1444
MAIZE         RF  FWO   1.10       1550         1705               108               1596
MAIZE         IRF FWO   1.30       1550         2015              224                1791
MAIZE         IRF FW    2.00       1550         3100              862                2237
WHEAT         RF  FWO   1.00       1900         1900              399                1500
WHEAT         IRF FWO   1.30       1900         2470              676                1793
WHEAT         IRR FW    2.10       1900         3990              1268               2722
PULSES        RF  FWO   0.50      3400          1700               156               1544
PULSES        IRF FWO   0.60      3400          2040               156               1884
PULSES        IRF FW    0.70      3400          2380              419                1961
DILSEEDS      RF  FWO   0.40      3300          1320               121               1199
OILSEEDS      IRF FWO   0.50       3300         1650               121               1529
OILSEEDS      IRF FW    0.60      3300          1980              307                1672
COTTON        IRR FW    1.10      6000          6600              1165               5434
SOYBEAN       IRR FW    1.00      2400          2400              842                1558
GROUNDNUT     IRR FW    1.40      3800          5320              1090               4229
VEGETABLES    IRF FWO   7.00       1700        11900              406               11493
VEGETABLES    IRR FW   11.00       1700        18700             1222               17478
"IRR" = IRRIGATED     "IRF" = PARTIALLY IRRIGATED      "RF" = RAINFED
"FWO" = FUTURE WITHOUT PROJECT     "FW" = FUTURE WITH PROJECT
b X



NEPAL
MAHAKALI IRRIGATION PROJECT (STAGE I)
FINANCIAL CROPBUDGETS: COST DETAILS
(NRs /ha)
CROP                       SEED        N         P         K    AGROCHEM BULLOCKS  LABOUR               INTEREST MISCELL.   TOTAL
PADDY.LOCAL   RF  FWO       56         0         0        0         0       180         0                   5        12        253
PAODY,LOCAL   IRF FWO       56        31         0         0        0       184         0                   7        14        292
PADOY,LOCAL   IRR FW        48       187       10I       43        60       200         0                  37        34        710
PADDY, HYV    IRR FWO       55       125        67        29       50       196         0                  27        27        577
PADDY, HYV    IRR FW        55       374       202       58       220       204         0                  76        59       1249
PADDY,UPLAND  RF  FWO       70         0         0         0        0        92         0                   6         8        176
PADDY,UPLAND  IRF FWO       70        31         0         0        0        96         0                   9        10        216
PADOY,UPLAND  IRF FW        70       187       101        43       60       124         0                  39        31        655
MAIZE          RF  FWO      58         0         0         0        0        40         0                   5         5        108
MAIZE          IRF FWO      58        62        34         6        0        40         0                  13        11        224
MAIZE          IRF FW       58       312       202        43       50       100         0                  56        41        862
WHEAT          RF  FWO    240          0         0         0        0       120         0                  20        19        399
WHEAT          IRF FWO    240         94        67        29       50       124         0                  40        32        676
WHEAT          IRR FW      216       374       202        58      120       156         0                  81        60       1268
PULSES         RF  FWO    100          0         0         0        0        40         0                   8         7        156
PULSES         IRF FWO    100          0         0         0        0        40         0                   8         7        156
PULSES         IRF FW      100        94       101        29        0        48         0                  27        20        419
OILSEEDS       RF  FWO      32         0         0         0        0        80         0                   3         6        121
OILSEEDS       IRF FWO      32         0         0         0        0        80         0                   3         6        121
OILSEEDS       IRF FW       32        94        34        14        0       104         0                  15        15        307
COTTON         IRR FW        0       374       202        87      250       120         0                  77        55       1165
SOYBEAN        IRR FW      280       125       135        58       50       100         0                  54        40        842
GROUNDNUT      IRR FW      240       312       202        43       50       120         0                  71        52       1090
VEGETABLES    IRF FWO       16       187         0        0        80        80         0                  24        19        406
VEGETABLES    IRR FW        16       437       202        58      250       120         0                  81        58       1222
COST DOES NOT INCLUDE HIRED LABOUR. INCLUDES 20% OF BULLOCK COST (CASH PART).
INTEREST FOR 60% OF COST AT A RATE OF 14% PER YEAR.
MISCELLANEOUS ITEMS ARE   5% OF TOTAL COST.
"IRR" = IRRIGATED       "IRF" = PARTIALLY IRRIGATED        "RF" = RAINFED
"FWO" = FUTURE WITHOUT PROJECT        "FW" = FUTURE WITH PROJECT
0LI



NEPAL
MAHAKALI IRRIGATION PROJECT (STAGE I)
ECONOMIC CROPBUDGETS: SUMMARY
(NRs/ha)
CROP             YIELD      PRICE      GROSS BENEFIT        LABOR COST      OTHER COSTS      NET BENEFIT
TON/HA
PADOY,LOCAL   RF  FWO   1.00         2400          2400                  728             971               700
PADDY,LOCAL   IRF FWO   1.30         2400          3120                  756            1031              1332
PADDY,LOCAL   IRR FW    2.10         2400          5040                  798            1514             2728
PADDY. HYV    IRR FWO   2.20         2400          5280                  840            1362             3078
PADDY, HYV    IRR FW    3.30         2400          7920                  945            2077              4897
PADDY,UPLAND  RF  FWO   0.80         2400          1920                  511             565               843
PADDY,UPLAND  IRF FWO   1.00         2400          2400                  539             625              1235
PADDY,UPLAND  IRF FW    1.40         2400          3360                  700            1182              1477
MAIZE          RF  FWO   1.10        2180          2398                  455             300              1643
MAIZE          IRF FWO   1.30        2180          2834                  469             423              1942
MAIZE          IRF FW    2.00        2180          4360                  581            1304              2474                           1
WHEAT          RF  FWO   1.00        2730          2730                  546             930              1253                           0
WHEAT          IRF FWO   1.30        2730          3549                  616            1228              1704
WHEAT          IRR FW    2.10        2730          5733                  735            1959              3039
PULSES         RF  FWO   0.50        4900          2450                  203             330              1916
PULSES         IRF FWO   0.60        4900          2940                  231             332              2377
PULSES         IRF FW    0.70        4900          3430                  273             631              2525
OILSEEDS       RF  FWO   0.40        3690          1476                  343             433               700
OILSEEDS       IRF FWO   0.50        3690          1845                  378             435              1032
OILSEEDS       IRF FW    0.60        3690          2214                  434             722              1058
COTTON         IRR FW    1.10        8500          9350                  924            1755              6670
SOYBEAN        IRR FW    1.00        3500          3500                  476            1239              1785
GROUNDNUT      IRR FW    1.40        4200          5880                  595            1647              3637
VEGETABLES    IRF FWO   7.00         2300         16100                  679             757             14664
VEGETABLES    IRR FW   11.00         2300         25300                  840            1730            22729
"IRR" = IRRIGATED       "IRF" = PARTIALLY IRRIGATED        "RF"   RAINFED
"FWO" = FUTURE WITHOUT PROJECT        "FW" = FUTURE WITH PROJECT
00 X



NEPAL
MAHAKALI IRRIGATION PROJECT (STAGE I)
ECONOMIC CROPBUDGETS: COST DETAILS
(NRs /ha)
CROP                         SEED        N          P         K    AGROCHEM BULLOCKS  LABOUR  INTEREST MISCELL.    TOTAL
PADOY,LOCAL   RF  FWO         81         0          0         0          0       810       728          0         81       1699
PADDY,LOCAL    IRF FWO        81        38          0         0         0        828       756          0        85        1787
PADDY,LOCAL    IRR FW         69       226        105        44        60        900       798          0       110        2312
PADDY, HYV      IRR FWO       75       151         70        29        50        882       840          0       105        2202
PADDY. HYV      IRR FW        75       452       209         59       220        918       945          0        144       3022
PADDY,UPLAND  RF  FWO        100         0          0         0          0       414       511          0        51        1076
PADDY,UPLAND  IRF FWO        100        38          0         0         0        432       539          0        55        1164
PADDY,UPLAND  IRF FW         100       226        105        44        60        558       700          0        90        1882
MAIZE           RF  FWO       84         0          0         0          0       180       455          0         36        755
MAIZE           IRF FWO       84        75         35         6          0       180       469          0        42         892
MAIZE           IRF FW        84       377       209         44         50       450       581          0        90        1885
WHEAT           RF  FWO    320           0          0         0          0       540       546          0        70        1476
WHEAT           IRF FWO      320       113         70        29         50       558       616          0        88        1844
WHEAT           IRR FW       288       452       209         59        120       702       735          0       128        2694
PULSES          RF  FWO      125         0          0         0          0       180       203          0        25         533              0
PULSES          IRF FWO      125         0          0         0          0       180       231          0        27         563              U
PULSES          IRF FW       125       113        105        29          0       216       273          0        43         904
OILSEEDS        RF  FWO       36         0          0         0          0       360       343          0        37         776
OILSEEDS        IRF FWO       36         0          0         0          0       360       378          0        39         813
OILSEEDS        IRF FW        36       113         35        15          0       468       434          0        55        1156
COTTON          IRR FW        88       452       209         88       250        540       924          0       128        2679
SOYBEAN         IRR FW       308       151        140        59        50        450       476          0        82        1715
GROUNDNUT       IRR FW       320       377       209         44         50       540       595          0       107        2242
VEGETABLES      IRF rwo       22       226          0         0         80       360       679          0        68        1436
VEGETABLES      IRR FW        22       528       209         59       250        540       840          0       122        2570
NO INTEREST FOR SHORT TERM LOANS ENTERED.
MISCELLANEOUS COSTS AS 5 % OF TOTAL COST.
H>
"IRR" = IRRIGATED        "IR" = PARTIALLY IRRIGATED           "R   = RAINFED                                          
"FWO" = FUTURE WITHOUl PROJECT          "FW" = FUTURE WITH PROJECT



NEPAL
MAHAKALI IRRIGATION PROJECT (STAGE I)
Labor Reauire-ents per hectare
(man-days)
Yield
Crop           (t/ha)        Jan   Feb   Mar   Apr   Nay   Jun   Jul   A          Sep    Oct   Nov   Dec          Total
Local paddy         1.0                                      6    38    32       5      5   ~10        8                104
1.3                                      6    38    32       5      5      12    10                 108
2.1                                      6    38    32       7      T      13    11                 114
HYV paddy
2.2                                      6    44    28       9      8      25                       120
3.3                                      6    44    28    15    12         30                       135
Upland paddy        0.8                                     10    35      6      6    11        5                        73
1.0                                     10    35      6      6    15        5                        79
1.4                                     15    30    14    13    22          6                       100
Wheat               1.0           6      5      4    18                                               25    20           78
1.3           6      5     4    24                                                25    24           88
2.1           9    14      7    30                                                25    20          105
Maize               1.1                                      5    15       6     5    30        4                        65
1.2                                      5    15      6      5    30        5                        65
2.0                                      5    20      9      9    35        5                        83
Pulses              0.5           -      -    10      4                                                5    10           29
0.6           -      -    14      4                                                5    10           33
0.7           -      3    15      4                                                5    12           39
Oilseeds            0.4          15      8      -     -                                         5    15      6           49
0.5          18    10      -      -                                         5    15      6           54
0.6          20    12      -      -                                         5    17      8           62
Cotton              1.1                                      5    18    15       5    14       15    30    30           132
Soybean             1.0                                            30    10      5      5      18                        68
Groundnut           1.4                                            31    10      8    10       26                        85
Vegetables                                                                                                                      I z
(Winter)         7.0           16    10    16                                                      36    19           97      4 w
11.0          19    15    20                                                       40    26          120       X
(Summer)        11.0                                            40    26    19    15        20                       120



67
ANNEX 1
T-20
NEPAL
MAHALI IRRIGATION PROJECT (STAGE I)
ESTIM5ATED FARM BIIDGETS AND PROJECT RENT
Presently Rainfed Farms                                       Presently irrigated Farms
1.5 Ha Farm                  5.0 Ha Farm                      1.5 Ha Farm                 5.0 Ha Farm
FWO I/  FW 1/  INCKEN    FWO         EN        INCREM.    FWO       FW        INCREM.   FWO        FW        INCREM.
FARM BUDGET
Gross Value of Production        2965    9750    6785        8800    32680    23880         3870      10550    6680        14035    31370    17335
Cost of Cash Inputs (-)           410    2430    2020        1295      7245      5950        730       2455    1725         2i45      7200     5055
Cost of Hired Labor (-)             0     100      100          0       300       300          0        100      100          80       300      220
Tax and Watercharge (-)2/          90     544      454        300      1636      1336        222        544      321         684      1636      952
Net Farm Income                  2465    6676    4211        7205    23499    16294         2918       7451    4534        11126    22234    11108
3/
On-Farm Consumption (-)          2372    3051      679       7040      9428      2388       2918       3586      668       11126    12860      1734
Net Farm Cash Income               93    3626    3533         165    14071    13906            0       3866    3866            0     9375      9375
PROJECT RENT
Net FarmI Income                 2465    6676    4211        7205    23499    16294         2918       7451    4534        11126    22234    11108
Risk Equivalent (-) 4/            890    1463      573       1760      3268      1508       1161       1583      422        2807     3137       330
Reward to Family Labor (-)5/  1015    1652         637       1883      3024      1141       1281       1687      406        2268     2947       679
Net Retutrn to Farm               561    3562    3001        3562    17207    13645          476       4182    3706         6051    16150    10099
Management Fee (-) 6/              56     356      300        356      1720      1364         47        418      371         605      1615     1010
Add Watercharge (+) 7/              0     454      454          0      1336      1336        132        454      321         384     1336       952
Implicit Land Rent               504    3659    3155         3206    16823    13617          561       4217    3656        5830    15871    10041
Project Rent                                      3155                          13617                           3656                          10041
Project Rent Per Ha                               2103                           2723                           2437                           2008
1/  "FWO" = Future without project, 'FW" - Future with project.
2/  Tax: NRs 60/ha net cultivated area; Watercharge: NRs 60/ha cropped area without project;
NRs 168/ha cropped area with project, corresponding to 0 & M cost recovery.
3/  On-farm consumption: 80% of gross production without project or equal to net farm income; if this is less.
Increase in on-farm consumption assumed as 10% of incremental gross production.
4/  Some studies of farmers' behaviour show that a simple approach can be adopted to take into account the
farmers' risk aversion by estimating a risk equivalent value (RE) of the expected value (EV). The
formula used is: RE - n x c x EV, where c = the coefficient of variation and n - a factor that expresses
the farmers' risk aversion. The studies indicate that the farmers' choice of cropping patterns and
production techniques can be predicted for values of n in the interval 1 to 2 and that n decreases when
the farm size increases. For this analysis, it is assumed that n = 1.5 for a 1.5 ha farm and n = 1 for a 5 ha farm.
The variation in gross return was assumed to be 20% of the expected values without project and 10% with project.
5/  Family labor valued at weighted average wage rate of NRs 7/manday.
6/  The reward tor management and entrepreneurship is primarily a premium for special skills that farm
management requires. It has been assumed that the "management fee" is equal to 10% of the net returns.
7/  Since project rent should show the incremental land rent before watercharges to be paid, watercharge
is added before calculating land rent.



NEPAL
MAUdAKALI IRRIGATION PROJECT (STAGE I)
ESTIMATED ECONOMIC COST AND BENEFIT STREAMS
(NRs '000)
1         2         3        4          5         6         7         8         9        10        11       12-20      21       22-30
BENEFITS
Agr. Gross Benefits W/P       22857    22857    22857    24038    30215    39408    47005    53004    57426    60257    61581    61882    61882    61882
Agr. Operating Cost W/P        tlO94    11094    11094    11460    13383    16251          18621    20493    21873    22756    23170    23264    23264    23264
Net Agr. Benefits W/P         11763    11763    11763    12579    16832    23157    28384    32512    35554    37501    38411    38518    38618    38618
Agr. Gross Benefits WO/P    22857    22857    22857    22B57    22857    22857    22857    22857    22857    22857    22857    22857    22857    22857
Agr. Operating Cost WO/P    11094    11094    11094    11094    11094    11094    11094    11094    11094    11094    11094    11094    L1094    11094
Net Agr. Benefits WO/p       -11763   -11763   -11763   -11763   -11763   -11763   -11763   -11763   -11763   -11763   -11763   -11763   -11763   -11763
Total Increnmental Benefits    -           -         -         816      5069    11395    16622    20749    23791    2573,8    26648    26855    26855    26855
OD
COSTS *
Construction Cost              13127    23644    18121    18076    14154    -9240            -         -         -         -        1750       -        1750
Engineering and Overhead        6511      7496      5023      3373      2779       -         -         -         -         -         -         -          -
Total Investment Cost          19638    31140    23144    21449    16933    -9240            -         -         -         -        1750       -        1750
Operation & Maintenance          -         -         -         182       891      1417      1417      1417      1417      1417      1417      1417      1417      1417
Agr. Extension/Training          321       321       321       321       321       321       321       321       321       321       321       321       321       321
Total Recurrent Cost             321       321       321       503      1212      1738      1738      1738      1738      1738      1738      1738      1738      1738
_  -      -- -      -- -      -- -      -- -      -- -      --_-      -- -      ----      -- -      -- -      -- -      --  -     ----
Total Increm. Costs            19959    31461    23465    21952    18145    -7502           1738      1738      1738      1738      3488      1738      3488      1738                 X
NET BENEFITS
Increm. Net Benefits         -19959   -31461   -23465   -21136   -13076    18897    14884    19011    22053    24001    23161    25118    23368    25118
W/P = With Project, WO/P = Without Project.
* All cost streams include physical contingencies.
The economic rate of return is 14%.



-69-
ANNEX 1
NEPAL                          T-22A
MAHAKALI IRRIGATION PROJECT (STAGE 1)
Sensitivity Tests
A. Switching Values
(Discount Rate = 10%
Parameter              Appraisal Value -/   Switching Value -    Admissible Change
1. Gross Return per ha at
Full Development
a)  input cost the same         NRs 9,380                8,070                   - 14%
b)  input cost reduced          NRs 9,380
7,500                  - 20%
2. Gross Return per ha,
Future Without Project
a)  input cost the same         NRs 3,460                4,700                   + 36%
b) input cost reduced
NRs 3,460               5,330                   + 54%
3. Increase in Gross Return
per ha
a)  input cost the same         NRs 5,920                4,620                   - 22%
b)  input cost reduced          NRs 5,920
4,030                  - 32%
4. Net Return per ha, at
Full Development              NRs 5,860                4,570                  - 22%
5. Increase in Net Return per
ha, at Full Development       NRs 4,080                2,770                  - 32%
6.  Command Area                         6,600 ha            4,490 ha                - 32%
7.  Output Prices                       -                       -                    - 22%
8. Construction Cost per ha
(Economic Present Value)        NRs 9,370               15,900                  + 70%
9. Investment Cost per ha
(Economic Present Value)       NRs 12,390               18,960                  + 53%
10. Total Cost per ha
(Economic Present Value)       NRs 14,160               20,670                  + 46%
11.  Standard Conversion Factor          0.9                  2.93                   + 225%
12. Unskilled Labor Conversion
Factor                           0.67                  1.60                  + 139%
1/   Returns and costs are expressed at economic prices.



-70-
ANNEX 1
NEPAL                           T-22B
MAHAKALI IRRIGATION PROJECT (STAGE 1)
Sensitivity Tests
B. Changes in Net Present Value and Economic Rate of Return
for Variation of Key Parameters
(Discount Rate = 10%)
Parameter                                     NPV               ERR
(NRs Million)          (%)
1.  Base Case                                                     43.0               14.3
2.  Yield Build-up Period  + 3 years                              31.3               13.0
3.  Construction Stretched over 7 years                           31.3                13.1
4.  Combination of 2) and 3)                                      20.7               12.0
5.  Incremental Net Benefits
lagged by one year                                          29.2               12.8
lagged by two years                                         16.6               11.5
6.  Incremental Net Benefits and Construction
- lagged by one year                                          34.8               13.7
- lagged by two years                                         27.4               13.1
7.  Construction Cost + 10%                                       36.8               13.5
+ 20%                                      30.6               12.8
8.  Total Cost + 10%                                              33.6               13.2
+ 20%                                              24.3               12.2
9.  Net Incremental Benefits - 10%                                29.3               13.0
- 20%                               15.7               11.7
10.  Output Prices - 10%                                           23.1                12.4
- 20%,                                           3.3               10.4
11.  Agricultural Input Prices (Including Labor) + 10%             36.8                13.7
+ 20%           32.1               13.3
12.  Combination of Total Cost + 10%                               20.0                11.9
Total Benefits - 10%
Total Cost + 20%                              -3.0                9.7
Total Benefits - 20%
13.  Standard Conversion Factor = 1.0                               40.8               14.0
14.  Unskilled Labor Conversion Factor = 0.74 (+ 10%)              41.6                14.1



-71-
ANNEX 1
C-I
NEPAL
MAHAKALI IRRIGATION PROJECT (STAGE I)
Implementation Schedule
CALENDAR YEAR                               1980    |    1981             1982           1983           1984           1985
FINANCIAL YEAR                          FY80        FY81          FY82            FY83           FY84          FY85        FY86
PROJECT YEAR                                          1              2             3              4               5
Quarter                                  I  I  IIII IV   I | II  Ill IV   I  11 III IV| I | II  Il IV| I      IIl IV  I |I  II  IV
Monsoon Season                                   /           //                /    /       r             //             //
Credit Effective
Recruitment of Consultants
Aerial Photography and Mapping
Procurement of Equipment and Materials
International Shopping
International Competitive Bidding                 _  _  _  _  _  _          _   _
Forest Clearing (2,200 ha)
Construction Activities
85            1,700          850
Improvement of Existing Irrigation &
Drainage Systems 13,400 ha net)                                     _
Irrigation and Drainage Systems for                                                                    1,600          1,600
Extension Area 13,200 ha net)
Public Roads                                                              1             3
Along Existing Tracks   14KM                                                          10              10            6
On Canal Banks         26KM                                    .Il                              ii_iiiii_  I    _  _   3
7          2~     ~~2 36
Canal Service Roads     65KM
Settlement
World Bank - 21431



NEPAL
MAHAKALI IRRIGATION PROJECT (STAGE I)
Projected Cropping Pattern
May           June           July         August       September       October      November       December       January        February        March         April
/                  ~~~~~Cotton 10% 
s  _    _                               {                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Vegetable 2%
[    oybean 3%                 Vegetable_1%                        z 
/                 ~~~~~Groundnut 4%,
Maize                                                       Oilseeds
21%                                                          23%
/ ~~~Upland Paddy 4% _
Pulses
21%
/Nu rsery   /HYV Paddy/                                                           
/     and                                      37%
Land Prep.
Wheat
/            /I/I24%
' Nursery     / 
and                               Local Paddy
/   Land Prep.                               15%
May           June           July          August      September       October      November    December          January       February        March          April
I___          }___ ____                      Weteason_ _____---_    L _---- _____Wet Season  I_ DrySeason                                               _
Cropping Intensity                        95%
World Bank - 21432



NEPAL
MAHAKALI IRRIGATION PROJECT (STAGE I)
Organization Chart
Mahakali Irrigation
Development Board  MIODB)
Chairman: Secretary,
I          --                                --                       -    Ministry of Water, Power &
l                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I rrigation
Forest Products     .                                                             Secretary: Project Manager                                                                        Deparl ent of
Development Board                          Resetlement Department _                               r                                                                                     Agrimu Iture
Chairman: Chief
Conservator
*                                                                                           R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~egionalDrcof
Ag ricutr
Committee for Forest                                                                            Nepalganj
Resettlement & Irrigation                                                                   Agricultural Station
Development in Kanchanpur
r                            ~~~~~~~~District.           hDis'trict Agricultural
r                                       Chairman: Mahakali Zone                                                                                                      Development Dfficer
I                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~Commissioner
District Sub-Cttee. orLocal Representatives
Chairman: Conservator                            I            Sub-Committee                 Project Manager
Divisional Forest              Resettlement Officer        Compensation
Officer                      Mahakali Zone            Sub-Committee
Farm GrouA dministration &                                                                                                                                             Agricultural
L   Farm Group  i    | Roads Div,sion |  |FIrrigation Division  |                                                      |  Finance Division                       Divition
Development Division,                                                                                                                                          Diiso                          Dii on  [. l   
Equipment              Planning,             Irrigation            Operation &                                    Finance             Subject Mater
VWater Users' Group         Sub-Division           Maintenance            Survey and            & Drainage            Maintenance            Admin. Unit               Unit                 Specialistst
Development                                        Unit                Design Unit          Construction               Unit                                                              Specialists
|                   1   ~~~~~~Sub-Division  |       Workshops  |         Design&             Sub-Division  |          Sub-Division  |      Personneel   |           Stores     |-|       Extension |
L   DeveloDpment              Sub-Division  |4      Field Design  |L         Survey     |-|Sub-Division  |                Sub-Division  |       Procurement |          Accounts   |    Training Center
4E Sub-Division                                                    4 p  Sub-Division]          Sub-Division          Waer-Char |              Revenue               Monitoring
Line of Command
-  -  -  -  Liaison                                                                                                                                                                       World Bank - 21433



ANNEX 1
-74-                                                C-4
NEPAL
MAHAKALI IRRIGATION PROJECT (STAGE I)
Organization Chart: Operation and Maintenance Details
Operation & Maintenance
Unit
(Executive;Engineer)
Main Canal       lIrrigation                  lRoads                                   Mechnica
Sub-D ivision               Sub-Division                  Sub- Division               Sub-D visionic
(Assistant Engineer)        (Assistant Engineer)         (Assistant Engineer)  j
Water Distribution
Planning Section                Section I                    Section I                 Workshop Section
(Overseer)                  (Overseer)                    (Overseer)
Main Canal       l             Section II     l             Section II     l          Field Maintenance 
Operation Section               (Overseer)                   lOverseer)                     Section
(Overseer)                                                 .vs                                     _
Records Section                Section III
(Overseer)
Ditch Tenders (per 500 ha)
I
Gate Operators (per 100 ha)
Farmers' Leaders (per 3-50 ha)
Farmers' Sub-Leaders (per 7-10 ha)
l/ To be maintained after completion
of construction.                                                                 World Bank- 21573



-75-
ANNEX 2
Page 1
NEPAL
MAHAKALI IRRIGATION PROJECT (STAGE I)
Forestry Aspects
Forest Resource
1.        After making allowance for the forest area to be cleared by June
1980, some 2,000 hectares of natural forest are included within the boundaries
of the MIP. In addition, some 500 ha of partially felled forest is still
present on areas occupied by encroachers. The forest, whose main function at
this time is to provide a wildlife habitat, is overmature and is probably not
increasing in value from one year to the next. Visual inspection coupled with
a few pris! sample plots, tentatively indicite a per hectare sawlog volume of
about 70 m  per hectare.  In addition, 55 m  per ha of fuelwood is said to be
recovered during clearing operations.
Forest Products Development Board
2.        This Board is, through their office in Mahendranagar, in charge of
clearing the forest within the Project area. The FPDB was created in 1976 as
a non-profit organization to undertake forest clearing operations. Unlike the
Timber Corporation of Nepal, which owns and operates sawmills and is logging
the forest, the Board sells logs and fuelwood directly to private purchasers.
Sales prices are fixed by the Board to cover logging costs, royalties and an
allowance for profit. The Rs 10 million profit made during 1979 are being
invested in quick-growing forest plantations.
3.        Although it will be necessary to increase the Board's staff in
Mahendranagar to complete forest clearing within the next two years, this task
appears to be well within its capability. The only constraint foreseen at
present would be in obtaining more staff from the Forest Department to fill
positions for Forest Rangers and Foresters. However, temporary transfer
should be possible.
4.        The budget for the Mahadranagar office is allocated from Kathmandu
in accordance with the Divisional Forest Officer's estimate of the timber
volume to be extracted during the year. Normal salaries and expenses are
authorized separately. Present and suggested staffing levels are shown in
Table 1.
Forest Clearing
5.        All forest clearing is done normally with labor recruited locally or
from India. Since the manual skills required can be easily learned on the job



-76-                          ANNEX 2
Page 2
and a large pool of labor is said to be available, it is considered that no
difficulty will be encountered in increasing the rate of clearing to that
required for clearing the 2,200 ha of forest within the project boundaries in
two years.
6.        All operations are done on a contract basis, including transport
from the forest to the Log Storage Yard in Mahendranagar. The fuelwood is
sold in the forest and some 90% exported to India. Sawlogs are stored in the
Log Yard and sold at that point. Since log exports are not permitted, all
logs are sawn into lumber at sawmills in and around Mahendranagar.
Markets
7.        All sawlogs produced through FPDB's operations in Mahendranagar are
bought by sawmill operators in the area. In January 1980, 20 additional
sawmills were under construction and expected to be in production soon.  There
will thus be 40 sawmills in the area. If an average lig intake of 2,000 m
per yeaS is reached, annual capacity would be 80,000 m . Assuming a recovery
of 70 m per hectare over 1,100 ha cleared in one year, sawmill capacity would
be sufficient to handle all logs generated from clearing operations.
Economic Value of Forest Land
8.        At present price levels, the net value of forest products realized
per hectare of forest cleared exceeds extraction and handling costs, including
an allowance for FPDB's overhead and salaries, by some Rs 15,000.
9.        The economic net present value of forest clearing on 2,200 ha,
carried out during 2 years, is estimated as NRs 73 M at a discount rate of
10%. In addition, the net present value of cleared land, if used for rainfed
farming, is estimated at about NRs 26 M. In comparison, the net present value
of an alternative use of the forest, assumed to be exploitation of annual
growth under good management and after initial rejuvenation, would only be
about NRs 38 M at the same discount rate. At .a rate of 3%, the net present
value of this alternative would still be only NRs 86 M. Thus, immediate
forest clearing and subsequent rainfed cultivation of these 2,200 ha repre-
sents the most economical alternative, and its net present value the opportun-
ity cost of this land for irrigated agriculture. Forest clearing, even if
entered as a project component, would thus contribute a net incremental
benefit of zero.



-77-
ANNEX 2
Table 1
NEPAL
MAHAKALI IRRIGATION PROJECT (STAGE I)
Present and Suggested Staff Levels for Forest Clearing
Level suggested to
Present Staff          clear 2,200 ha in
Category                                 Employed                    2 years
Member Secretary                            1                           1
Attached Officer                            1                           1
Accountants - all grades                    3                           5
Clerks - all grades                         3                           5
Peons                                       2                           2
10                         14
Felling Unit
Rangers                                     4                           8
Foresters                                   9                          20
Accountants - all grades                    9                          12
Recorders - all grades                     19                          40
Peons                                       5                           7
Watchmen                                   11                           7
57                        117
Log Yard
Rangers                                     4                           5
Foresters                                   9                          20
Accountants - all grades                    9                          12
Recorders - all grades                     19                          40
Peons                                       5                           6
Watchmen                                   11                          15
57                          98
Total                  124                        229



NEPAL
MAIIAKALI IRRIGATION PROJECT (STAGE I)
Economic Costs and Benefits of Forest Clearing
A)  EC(ffIC NET BENEFIT FO CLEAR FELLING                                                                    B)   ECONCMIC NET BEUEFIT OF UNCLEARED FOREST
Total  Labor  Other                                                                                           Total  Labor   Other
1)   Cost per ha:                                                                                           1)   First Year Cost, per ha:
Uprooting                                            400     380      20                                    Felling and Logging                                    205      195      10
(80 trees @ NRs 5)                                                                                          (500 cu. ft. @ NRs 0.41)
Topping ad Crosscutting                             1025     975       50                                   Loading, Transport, Unloading                         1200      580     620
(2500 cu. ft. @ NRs 0.41)
Total per ha                                     1405      775     630
Loading, Transport, Unloading                       6000    2900    3100
2)  First Year Cost, on 2200 ha:                    NRa   3.124    1.7M4   1.4N4
Ineremental Overhead Cost                           1200       -    1200
-                                                   Economic Cost                               NRe   2.37M4
Total Cost per ha                              8625    4255    4370
(49X)   (51%)                             3)   First Years Benefit, per ha:
2)   Cost of 2200 ha                 NRs 18,975,000                                                              Sale of Logo                                         10000
Say NRB 19 million                                                          (500 cu. ft. @ NRs 20)
3)  Economic Cost of 2208 ha:        19 x (0.51 x 0.65 + 0.49 x 0.3)                                             Sale of Fuel wood                                      800
(1000 cu. ft. @ NRs 0.80)
NRs 14.7M                                                                                                                       10860
(Implicit Conversion Factor: 0.773)
4)   First Year Benefit, on 2200 ha:
4)  Gross Benefit from Clear Felling per ha:
NRs 23.8m4
Production of saw logs           50000                                                                                                             (No Conversion)
(2500 cu. ft. @ NRs 20)
Productioyn of fuel wood          1600                                                                 5)   Net Economic Benefit, on 2200 ha:
(2000 cu. ft. @ NRs 0.80)                                                                                                                         NRa 21.4314
Total                      51600                                                                  6)   Cost Following Years. per ha and year:
5)  Gross Benefit on 2200 ha:                                                                                    Felling and Logging                                     21       19       2
NRa 56.8M                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(50 cu. ft. (9 NRs 0.41)
NRa 56. 8M
(no conversion)                                                            Loading, Transport                                     120       58      62
6)  Net Benefit on 2200 ha:                                                                                       Management and Protection                                9       5       4
NRs 42.1M4                                                                      Total per ha                                       150      82       68
7)   Total Cost for 2200 ha. per year:                    0.33M  0.180M  0.150M
Economic Cost:                    NRa 0.254
8)   Gross Benefit Following Years. per ha and year:
Log Production                            1000
(50 cu. ft. @ NRs 20)
Fuel Wood Production                        12
(15 cu. ft. @ NRa 0.80)
Nousebuilding and Roofing Material          20
(5 cu. ft. @ NRs 3.80, 2 tons @ NRs 0.21)
i432
9)   Total Gross Benefits on 2200 ha per year:
NRs 2.27M1
10)   Total Net Benefits on 2200 ha per year                              Ii
2.02Mj



-79-
ANNEX 3
Page 1
NEPAL
MAHAKALI IRRIGATION PROJECT (STAGE I)
Engineering Design Criteria
A.   Irrigation Systems
1.        The project area includes 3,600 ha of low lands suitable for paddy
cultivation and 3,000 ha of uplands suitable only for growing field crops.
The growing of paddy in upland areas would be discouraged as much as possible
and inlet capacities of tertiary units would be limited to the growing of
field crops only. The following design criteria are recommended:
2.        Lowland Areas.  In lowland areas capacities for tertiary unit inlets
and distributaries have been determined with the formula:
MT
Me                0.1157
MT          ef x et x ed
e-1
in which:
I    =    supply (in 1/s/ha) required during the presaturation period over
the area to be irrigated;
M    =    supply (in mm) required for maintaining the water layer after
presaturation is completed (2 mm/day seepage losses plus 6.4 mm/day
evaporation equals 8.4 mm/day);
T         duration of presaturation period (in days);
s         quantity (in mm) of water required for presaturation and nurseries
(140 mm);
ef   =    farm group efficiency (0.85);
t   =    tertiary canal efficiency (0.85);
ed        conveyance efficiency of distributaries (0.80)



-80-
ANNEX 3
Page 2
Design capacities thus become:
(a)  inlet for tertiary unit                     2.25 1/s/ha 1/
(b)  distributary serving < 500 ha               2.00 1/s/ha 2/
(c)  distributary serving > 500 ha               1.80 1/s/ha 3/
3.        Upland Areas.  Required capacities have been calculated with the
formula:
0.1157 D
Q =
ef x et x ed
in which:
Q    =    required supply (1/s/ha)
D    =    net irrigation requirement (58 mm for oilseeds in second half
of October)
T    =    duration of supply (15 days)
ef   =    farm group efficiency (0.70)
et    =    tertiary canal efficiency (0.85)
ed   =    conveyance efficiency of distributaries (0.75)
Design capacities thus become: 4/
(a)  inlet for tertiary unit              0.75 1/s/ha
(b)  distributary                          1.00 1/s/ha
4.        Mixed Areas.  For mixed areas > 500 ha with A ha lowland and B ha
upland the capacity of a distributary becomes:
1.8 A + 1.0 B   1/s/ha
A + B
1/   for T = 15 days
2/   for I = 30 days
3/   for T = 45 days
4/   Based on requirement of 58 mm in 15 days (oilseeds in October).



-81-
ANNEX 3
Page 3
B.   Drainage Systems
1.   Paddy areas.  The 282 mm design rainfall adopted was the
maximum cumulative rainfall occurring in three days with a
probability of exceedence of 20% (once in five years). Such
a rainfall generally occurs in July. The drainage criterion
adopted was that the duration of flooding in the paddy fields
to a depth over 20 cm should be less than three days. On the
basis of these criteria project drains would be designed for
a discharge of 3.0 1/sec/ha.
2.   Upland areas.  A design rainfall was adopted of 175 mm per
day, being the maximum one day rainfall with a probability of
exceedence of 20%. Adopting the criterion that excess runoff
should be drained in 40 hours and allowing for infiltration,
the design modulus becomes 4.5 1/sec/ha.
C.   Roads
1.   The road network would be designed to provide all weather
access to within a distance of about 3 km from all parts
of the areas to be irrigated. Design criteria would be as
follows:
Item                            Public Roads      Canal Service Roads
Formation:  Width                              7.Om                  3.Om
Minimum height (to underside
of pavement)                           0.7m                   0.7m
Pavement:  Width                               3.5m                  2.4m
Gravel base minimum thickness 1/         200m                   200m
Waterbound Macadam top course
minimum thickness                      100mm                   75mm
Black top surfacing                       50mm full grout       none
Bituminous seal coat                      on hard shoulders   on pavement
Hard shoulders, comprising 200mm
gravel base and 75mm Waterbound
Macadam top course                             2xlm wide             none
Passing places, 15m long x 4.Om wide
built to canal service road pavement
specification and identified by
marker posts                                   none                  about 500m spacing
Paved access ramps, 3.5m wide,                 on both sides 2/      on landward side,
maximum grade 1 in 6                           about 500m            about 500m spacing
spacing
1/   Thickness would be increased where necessary when CBR values of sub-soils
are known.
2/   On landward side only for roads on canal banks.



-82-                           ANNEX 4
Page 1
NEPAL
MAHAKALI IRRIGATION PROJECT (STAGE I)
Assumptions for Financial and Economic Analysis
Official Exchange Rate
1.        The Nepalese Rupee is pegged to the US dollar and the Indian Rupee
at rates of NRs 12.00 and NRs 1.45 respectively. Parity towards other cur-
rencies is established daily. For merchandise transactions with countries
other than India, a premium rate of NRs 16.00 per US dollar is applied, except
for imports of some development goods. Conversions from local into foreign
currency and vice versa were made uniformly at the rate of NRs 12.00 = 1 US$.
Standard Conversion Factor (SCF)
2.        If all costs and benefits are to be valued on a common basis (border
price equivalent in local currency), locally traded goods and services have to
be converted to this basis. In the absence of specific information on cost-
composition of these goods and conversion factors for their components, a
standard conversion factor (SCF) is applied to all local cost items. The SCF
is meant to reflect the degree of price distortion in the economy vis a vis
world market prices through taxes and subsidies on imports, exports and local
transactions, through non-tariff trade regulations, etc. An approximating
formula for the SCF is given by
SCF =             X  +  M               1/
(x + Sx - TX) + (M - Sm + Tm)
Using available data (on import/export taxes only) for the years 1976/77-
1978/79 yields a SCF = 0.90.  However, the premium exchange rate of NRs
16/US$ is equivalent to an additional import tax and export subsidy of 33% on
merchandise transactions with countries other than India. Estimating and
adding the value of this tax/subsidy for 1978/79 yields an SCF = 0.84. The
premium rate was introduced together with considerable trade liberalization,
so that non-tariff restrictions (or their tax equivalent) are not assumed to
lower the SCF much further. Unregistered exports/imports over the open border
with India are not included in the formula; they are naturally not affected by
1/   X = export value, M = import value, Sx = export subsidy, Sm = import
subisdy, Tx = export taxes, Tm = import taxes.



-83-                      ANNEX 4
Page 2
duties and regulations. Since the SCF can only be approximately estimated
and since it is applied to cost items, the higher value of 0.90 has been
adopted.
Prices of Agricultural Output
3.        Economic prices of tradable agricultural outputs (paddy, wheat,
maize, oilseeds, cotton) were derived from IBRD projections of world market
prices for 1985 in constant 1980 terms. Adjustments for transport, handling
and processing down to the farmgate level were made on the assumption that
Nepal would, on the margin, remain a net exporter of foodgrains, although
some projections indicate that this might not be the case after 1985. How-
ever, the net-exporter assumption represents a more conservative approach,
since import substitution would warrant higher economic output prices. Oil-
seeds (mustard) are priced at adjusted border prices for rapeseed; groundnuts
on a similar basis. Prices for pulses, a non-tradable, were derived by appli-
cation of long term historical retail price ratios between these crops and
paddy to the economic paddy price. Soybean price was related to the price
of pulses, for which soybeans are considered a substitute, on the basis of
observed local price ratios. The price of seed cotton was estimated from
world market "Mexican" lint prices (assuming a 15% quality difference for the
project's "American" variety) and cottonseed prices jointly, at a processing
ratio of 32:67 and processing costs of 3% of seed cotton value. Domestic
cost elements have been multiplied by the SCF = 0.9. For derivation of eco-
nomic prices of tradables, see T-4.
4.        Financial output prices were based on recent reports of farmgate
prices received in the project area, since there is no data on historical
wholesale or farmgate prices available that would permit trend projections.
However, care was taken to maintain recent price relationships as observed
at the retail level. Prices thus estimated are similar to those recently
projected for the neighboring Indian State of Uttar Pradesh, which, given
an open border, tend to influence Nepalese prices, especially in border areas
such as the project area. Soybean and groundnut prices (crops that are not
grown presently in the project area) have been tentatively estimated on the
basis of observed national retail price relationships, applied to the prices
of pulses and oilseeds respectively. Financial and economic prices are sum-
marized in T-3.
Agricultural Input Prices
5.        Economic prices for fertilizer were derived from IBRD projected
1 985 constant world market prices for urea, TSP and muriate of potash.
Increasingly, compound/complex fertilizers are used by farmers, so that esti-
mation of prices per nutrient ton might not be exact for phosphate and potash;
but there are no world market projections for these types of fertilizers.
Financial prices were calculated on the basis of economic prices and the
present rate of subsidy (about 17% for urea, 3-4% for TSP and 1-2% for MOP),
assuming that HMGN would not be able to maintain present low prices in the



-84-
ANNEX 4
Page 3
long run, but yet would continue to subsidize these inputs. 1/ Financial
and economic prices for seeds were established on the basis of corresponding
crop prices and present prices of improved seeds as supplied by AIC. Cotton-
seed would be distributed free of cost to promote cotton cultivation, but
for economic analysis its price was assumed to be double that of cotton (oil)
seeds due to expensive treatment before planting. The cost of agrochemicals,
which are also subsidized to some degree, has been entered at market prices,
assuming the subsidy offsets the influence of the SCF. The financial price
of animal labor is based on observed prices for rental of a pair of bullocks
per day plus an allowance for additional feed to be provided by the user.
It was converted into the economic price by applying the SCF.
Human Labor
6.        The market wages for human agricultural labor vary from NRs 5-6 per
day during the slack season to about NRs 10 2/ in the peak season (June/July).
Hired labor is supplied mainly from neighboring India and by local families
with no or little land, but also by seasonal migrants from the hills. In many
cases, one or two modest meals have also to be supplied by the employer. For
financial analysis, where the cost of labor refers to hired labor only, a value
of NRs 10 was considered realistic, since most of hired labor is employed during
peak months.
7.        Since the labor market during peak and near-peak months may be con-
sidered fairly competitive, the financial peak rate (NRs 10) was assumed to
be an adequate estimate for the shadow peak wage rate. Although there is no
doubt that considerable unemployment is occurring during slack periods, 3/
even after project implementation, it is not evident that unemployment by
itself would justify the assumption of zero opportunity cost of farm labor
during slack months. It was assumed instead that the lowest financial rate
(Nrs 5, or its equivalent of about 2 kg of rice) reflects the minimum incen-
tive to work, thus indicating the opportunity cost of foregone activities and
leisure, plus an allowance for additional subsistence costs for additional
work done. A weighted average rate, based on an analysis of labor utilization
rates with and without project, of NRs 7 was adopted for the shadow wage.
1/   Fertilizer supplied free of cost by aid-donors was not taken into
account.
2/   Indian workers are reported to earn sometimes as much as NRs 14 per day,
when paid on a piecework basis.
3/   For the present, a minimum (average) labor utilization rate of about
9-14% was estimated (January to April), which would increase under the
project to about 20-34% (see T-8 and explaining note). However, this
does not include any necessary and productive activity other than
farming.



-85-
ANNEX 4
Page 4
8.        In order to arrive at the economic price of agricultural labor, the
shadow wage was converted into border prices by a conversion factor of 1.0,
since foregone output would probably consist to a great part of agricultural
crops, which have implicit conversion factors of greater than 1, and partly
of other local goods and services with an SCF of 0.9. Employment of Indian
labor constitutes a direct import and its wages are, therefore, already ex-
pressed in border prices. Thus, the final estimate of the economic price of
agricultural labor is NRs 7.
Economic Cost of Construction
9.        Construction of irrigation works, buildings and roads would be
implemented by contractors. It was assumed that their cost consists to 30%
of materials, fuel and equipment, 15% of nontraded items (skilled labor and
overheads, and 55% of unskilled labor. This composition reflects that most
materials and part of the construction equipment would be provided by the
project. For materials, fuel and equipment a conversion factor of 0.99
was adopted, since these items will be almost entirely imported free of duty.
Local unskilled labor has been assigned a conversion factor of 0.65 (or an
economic wage of NRs 6.5 vs a financial wage of NRs 10/manday), since it
would be employed during the slack season. To a basic opportunity cost of
labor of NRs 5 in the slack season a premium of 30% for the heavier type of
work has been applied, and the result again weighted by a conversion factor
of 1.0, as for agricultural labor. The nontraded portion of construction
costs was weighted by the SCF. Thus an overall conversion factor of 0.79 is
implied in the economic cost of construction. Project-supplied materials and
equipment (imported) were taken at financial cost (conversion factor = 1.0),
including a residual value for equipment in year 6 entered as a benefit. The
cost of project engineering and overhead was divided into traded and non-traded
parts, applying the SCF to the latter. Consultants services were entered at
financial value.
11.       Operation and maintenance and agricultural extension and training
costs were split into investment and recurrent costs and the latter again into
traded and nontraded components. Phasing of O&M cost is in proportion with
assumed command area build-up. The construction of public roads (as against
canal service roads) was not debited to the project, since it is supposed to
stimulate general economic development in the area. To all cost items their
respective physical contingencies were added. Sensitivity tests were done on
the amount of construction and other costs, as well as on their phasing
(stretching of implementation and/or lagging). Variations in conversion
factors used were checked for their impact on the project's economic viability.
Benefits
12.       Incremental net benefits from agricultural production were based on:
(i) separate build-up schedules for improved irrigation in the existing
command area (3,400 ha) and irrigation extension into new areas (3,200 ha)
in line with estimated construction schedules (see T-5); (ii) a non-linear



-86-
ANNEX 4
Page 5
build-up of per hectare incremental gross values and operating costs super-
imposed upon the staggered entry of each block into improved/new irrigation,
realizing full development within 7 years after entry (10 years as alternative
for sensitivity analysis), as shown below 1/:
Assumed Build-up of Incremental Net Benefits from Agricultural Production
(in percent of full development values)
Years after Entry:    1    2    3    4    5    6    7         8       9 1  10
Base Case             27   49   67   82   92   98   100   etc.
Alternative           19   36   51   64   75   84    91    96    99   100   etc.
Total benefit build-up as shown in row 3 of T-21 in Annex 4 is thus a combined
result of both command area and yield/cost build-up schedules.
13.       The "without project" situation was assumed to be constant in terms
of yield and input use, since no significant development has taken place in
the area over the recent past. The underlying area for the "without project"
situation was assumed to be 3,200 ha (rainfed) plus 3,400 ha (irrigated).
Separate cropping patterns for rainfed and irrigated agriculture are the basis
for estimates of "without-project" net benefits. A uniform cropping pattern
was assumed for development under the project for the total area of 6,600 ha.
Estimation of Farm Budgets
14.       Farm budgets for two typical farm sizes, 1.5 ha and 5 ha, both for
presently rainfed and irrigated conditions, were estimated as shown in
Annex 1, T-20 using the farm size specific cropping patterns (Annex 1, T-20),
and crop input requirements as in Annex 1, T-18. Gross income from crops was
calculated from financial crop prices and expected yields, not considering any
byproducts, as these are consumed mostly by animals. (Cost of draft animals
has been entered accordingly only as 20% of estimated rental value, represent-
ing actual cash component within input costs). The full cost of fertilizers,
seeds and agrochemicals was deducted together with the reduced cost of bullock
use. 14% interest on 60% of total cash cost for short term credit was added
to total cash input costs (equivalent to 7 months credit). Requirements of
hired labor were estimated according to assumed monthly family labor avail-
ability and peak total labor requirements. Additionally, taxes (NRs 60/ha)
and water charges, if applicable, were entered as cost, assuming a pre-project
water rate of NRs 60/ha and crop and a with project rate of NRs 130/ha and
crop, the latter estimated to cover full 0 & M costs with given cropping
intensities (see para 7.09, main report). The balance of gross income and
1/   Build-up rates are derived from degressive quadratic functions of incre-
mental yield/operating cost over time.



-87-
ANNEX 4
Page 6
costs is net farm income. Net farm cash income was estimated by deducting
90% of gross income without project as home consumption, and assuming that
with project home consumption would increase by 10% of the incremental gross
income. Assumptions for the calculation of project rent are opelled out in
the footnote to Annex 1, T-20.
Family Labor Supply
15.       Sample surveys in the Far Western Terai and independent estimates on
the basis of land and population statistics give a range for the number of
working age population per hectare of cultivated land from about 0.91 to 1.85,
with an average of about 1.42. Considering the time lapse since estimates
were made and a natural population growth of 2.1% per annum, a value of 1.60
working age persons per cultivated hectare was adopted for the present.
Applying the apparent ratio of adult men to adult women (53:47), male working
force would be 0.85/ha at present. Taking into account a projected natural
growth of 2.6% per year, the corresponding figure at full development would be
1.15/ha. The number of working days per month available for agricultural
activities was assumed to be 24 for non-peak and 30 for peak months. It is
probable that women and older children would be available in times of peak
demand, but this was not considered when estimating family labor supply and
utilization rates.



ANNEX 4
Table 1
-88-
NEPAL
MAHAKALI IRRIGATION PROJECT (STAGE I)
Tentative Projections of Farm Population
and Land Allocation under Kanchanpur
District Master Plan in the ProJect Area
Number of              Area Allocated
1.  Presently Cultivated Areas                    Families                      (ha)
a)  irrigated areas                              900                     3,400
b)  rainfed areas (encroached)                   500                        800
c)  landless                                     (75)                      --
1,400                     4,200
2. Areas to be Developed
a)  relocated families                           5701                    1,700
b)  new settlers                           .<   700                         700
< 1,270                     2,400
3.  Total                                        < 2,670                      6,600
4.  Estimate of Total Population                              19,000 - 21,000
1/ Relocated families (mostly Tharu) are probably 2-3 times as large as
others (mostly Pahari).



-89-
ANNEX 4
Table 2
NEPAL
MAHAKALI IRRIGATION PROJECT (STAGE I)
FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
CROPPING PATTERNS BY SIZE OF FARM
(as percent of net cultivable area)
Presently Rainfed                     Presently Irrigated
1.5 ha        5.0 ha                 1.5 ha        5.0 ha
FWO     FW   FWO       FW            FWO   FW      FWO   FW
Crop              (%)      -     - /.-)(
Local paddy          48      16    48       13             61   11      57    13
HYV paddy              -     50      -      41              -   52       4    44
Upland paddy         13       -    12        4             13    -       9      -
Maize                 24     24    14       18             20   22      15    19
Wheat                 15     28    15       20             21   28      16    20
Pulses                13     25    11       19             15   25      11    19
Oilseeds              14     27    14       23             16   27      14    23
Cotton                -       -      -     18               -    8       -    11
Groundnut             -      10             -               -    -             -
Soybean               -       _-            -               -    4       -     7
Vegetables             -      -      -       3              1    3       2      3
Cropping
Intensity (%)      127    180   114    159               147  180    128   159
FWO: Future without project
FW:   Future with project
March 1980



-90-
ANNEX 4
Table 3
NEPAL
MAHAKALI IRRIGATION PROJECT (STAGE I)
Projected 1985 Financial and Economic Prices
(In constant 1980 NRs)
Financial          Economic
Outputs                       (NRs/ton)          (NRs/ton)
Paddy (average quality)    1,500                 2,400
Wheat                        1,900               2,730
Maize                        1,550               2,180
Pulses                       3,400               4,900
Oilseeds                    3,300                3,690
Cotton (Kapas)              6,000                8,500
Groundnut (in shell)        3,800                4,200
Soybean                     2,400                3,500
Vegetables                   1,700               2,300
Inputs
Nitrogen                     6,240               7,540
Phosphate                   6,730                6,980
Potash                       2,890               2,930
Seeds:  Paddy local         1,600                2,300
Paddy HYV           2,200               3,000
Paddy Upland        1,400               2,000
Wheat               2,900               4,200
Maize               2,400               3,200
Pulses              4,000               5,000
oilseeds            3,600               4,000
Cotton                  -               4,400
Groundnut           4,000               4,400
Soybean             3,000               4,000
Vegetables          8,000              LL,000
Human labor                 lO/manday               7/manday
Animal labor               20/pairday             18/pairday
February 1980



-91-
ANNEX 4
Table 4
NEPAL
MAHAKALI IRRIGATION PROJECT (STAGE 1)
DERIVATION OF ECONOMIC PRICES FOR MAJOR CROPS AND INPUTS
Triple    Muriate
Cotton                  Super      of
Paddy   Wheat   Maize  Mustard   Lint         Seed    Urea  Phosphate  Potash
Projected 1985 World Market-/
Price (US$ per ton)                      488      216      175     332      2,133      216      207     189        85
Quality Adjustment2/                       -30%       -        -      +5%       -10%       -        -        -        -
Projected Price Adjusted for
Quality Differences (US$/ton)            342      216      175     348      1,920      216      207     189        85
International Shipping and
Handling (US$/ton)                       +30      +45     +40        -          -        -     +33      +40       +21
FOB/CIF price Calcutta Port
(US$/ton)                                372     261      215      348      1,920      216     240      222       110
Transport and Handling to/from-/
Nepal border CUS$/ton)                   -25      -20.    -20      -25          - A-/  -20     +32      +40       +21
Equivalent in NRs/ton                    4,160   2,890   2,340   3,880    23,040   2,350   3,260   3,140    1,570
Domestic Transport/Handling
to/from Wholesale Point or
Mill (NRs/ton x SCF)                    -180    -110    -110    -140         -240    -110    +170    +170        +150
Processing Ratio                           64%      100%    100%    100%         32%      67%    100%    100%       100%
Processing Cost (NRS/ton x SCF)          -110         -        -       -            -240            -       -         -
Transport/Handling to/from
Farmgate (NRs/ton x SCF)                -50      -50      -50      -50             -60         +40      +40       +40
Farmgate Economic Price (NRs/ton)    2,200    2,730   2,180   3,690                8,500       3,470   3,350    1,760
(rounded)    tv
Price per ton of nutrient content-           -        -        -       -                -      7,540   6,980    2,930
(N)   (P205)    (K)
1/  Source:  IBRD Commodity Price Forecasts, May 1979.  Forecasts are at constant 1980 prices.
Pricing Basis:
Wheat: Canadian No. 1, Western Red Spring, in store Thunderbay
Paddy/Rice: Thai, milled, 5% broken, FOB Bangkok
Maize: US No. 2, yellow, FOB Gulf Ports
Mustard: Rapeseed, Canadian, 40%, bulk, CIF Europe
Cotton lint: Mexican SM 1-1/16 inch, CIF N. Europe
Cotton seed: CIF Japan, from Sudan
Urea: FOB, bagged, Europe
TSP:   FOB US Gulf
MOP:   FOB Vancouver
2/  Since most of rice produced is traded locally, with a high content of brokens (25-35%), price is assumed
to be 30% lower. Mustard oilseed is preferred over rapeseed because of higher oil content and pungency;
therefore premium of 5% added. Cotton is assumed to be of quality "American", with a 10% lower price
compared to "Mexican".
3/  With the-exception of cotton lint and fertilizers Nepal is considered to be a net exporter of the quoted
commodities. Maize and wheat are not officially traded presently, but their export-equivalent price is
considered a lower boundary for their economic value.
4/  Calculations for cotton assume import substitution; cost of transport/handling from Calcutta to mill in
Hetanda are assumed similar to those from project area to mill (through India). Opening of direct road
to mill through Nepal would increase value of locally produced lint to economy.
5/  Nutrient content is 46%, 48% and 60%, respectively.
February 1980



-92-                             ANNEX 4
Table 5
NEPAL
MAHAKALI IRRIGATION PROJECT (STAGE I)
Economic Analysis: Assumed Phasing of Constry7tion Cost
and Related Build-up of Command Area-
(a)   Basic Projection:
(in percent of total construction cost/command area)
Year     1      2     3      4     5       6      7     8
Phasing of        2/
Construction Cost-                -      9Z   25%   27%   29%       -     -
Area with improved
Irrigation (ha)                 -     -      -    850  1700    850    -       -
Area with new
Irrigation(ha)                  -     -      -     -   1600   1600    -       -
(b)   Implementation Stretched by one Year:
Phasing of        2/
Construction Cost-                -      7%   16%   28%   29%    19%    -
Area with improved
Irrigation (ha)                 -      -     -    850   850    850   850    -
Area with new
Irrigation (ha)                 -     --    960    960  1280    -
(c)   Implementation Stretched by two Years:
Phasing of        2/
Construction Cost-                -      5%   14%   21%   23%    22%   15%
Area with improved
Irrigation (ha)                 -     -      -    680   680    680   680   680
Area with new
Irrigation (ha)                 -     -      -      -    800    800   800   800
1/   Only irrigation-related construction included, i.e., improvement of existing
system, extension of irrigated area, service roads; materials and equipment
procured by project not included.
2/   Distribution of cost results from assumed underlying distribution of components,
which are approximately proportional to respective areas involved.
March 1980



-93-
ANNEX 5
Page 1
NEPAL
MAHAKALI IRRIGATION PROJECT (STAGE I)
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
Objectives
1.        The objectives of monitoring and evaluation would be to:
(a) ensure that project works are constructed to the required
standards;
(b) provide early warning of any problems arising during project
implementation and operation;
(c) assess the benefits of irrigation and of agricultural sup-
porting services; and
(d) provide data for refinining the technical design parameters
for future stages of development.
Activities
2.        Quality of Construction.  The Irrigation and Road Divisions assisted
by project consultants would test materials and workmanship and ensure that
specifications are being adhered to by contractors and in force account work.
In the event of faulty work being discovered in tests, the Executive Engineers
would be empowered to order that it be replaced satisfactorily at the contrac-
tor's cost. The ED, under the guidance of the project consultants throughout
the construction period, would test random samples of construction materials
in accordance wih internationally recognized standards. Site tests of compacted
earthwork and road surfacing would be carried out (for density), and checks
made of concrete weight-batching apparatus, cement content and water-cement
ratio; concrete cube samples would be taken for testing crushing strength at
intervals specified in the contracts. The project consultants would closely
advise quality control staff, and would carry out about 10% of the tests.
Results and calculations would be checked by a qualified engineer, and entered
on weekly test sheets, with comments on unusual variations. Failed tests would
immediately be reported to the Executive Engineer of the Division.
3.        Progress and Cost Control.  Project progress would be reported to
IDA quarterly in similar form to that presently used for the Birganj (Narayani)
and Sunsari Morang Irrigation Projects. Each report would contain brief
descriptions of the main events during the period, the status of project
staffing, the growth of the area effectively commanded by canals and, as a
management tool, charts showing progress on survey and design, land acqui-
sition; tendering, evaluation and award of contracts; delivery of equipment;



-94-
ANNEX 5
Page 2
and construction progress based on (a) quantities completed in proportion to
the final total, and (b) value of work completed in relation to total cost.
Costs of both contract and force account work would be monitored and the
estimated total cost of the project would be updated annually. Rate of forest
clearing and progress in settlement would also be indicated in the progress
reports. Schedules for civil works construction, procurement and disbursements
would be revised annually.
4.        Hydrology.  To monitor the effectiveness of the distribution system
and to analyze losses, the discharge into the main canal would be recorded
daily. All inflows into distributaries would be gauged and recorded daily at
their head regulators as well as at each tertiary outlet, and water deliveries
computed monthly. Discharges of the major drains would also be gauged and
recorded for drainage design purposes. For a limited number of typical
tertiary units, water deliveries will be measured to farms located at the
upper, middle and lower reach of the tertiary canal and soil moisture will be
measured before and after irrigation to determine on-farm water use efficien-
cies and overall efficiency within the tertiary unit. Climatic data will be
collected in Mahendranagar.
5.        Monitoring of Watertable.  About 50 small observation pipes would be
installed at selected sites in the command area to monitor the depth to
watertable from ground level and to provide early warning of any potential
waterlogging hazards. The ID staff would be responsible for the measurement
which is simple and requires little skill. Records would be retained at
project headquarters.
6.        Annual Compilation of Cropping Patterns, Yields, and Impact of
Extension Services. This data would be collected by the agricultural extension
staff under the direction of the ADADO. In addition to farmers' indications,
staff would rely on crop cutting experiments to estimate actual yields of
major crops. Besides recording seasonally cultivated and irrigated areas,
yields and cropping patterns, information should be collected on the number of
contact farmers and their "followers" visited by extension staff and estimated
yield differences between "followers" annd "non-followers." 1/ Average fre-
quency of visits to contact farmers should be compiled from staff's own
records, and a summary of extension "messages" prepared. Results would be
submitted to regular IDA supervision missions.
7.        Benchmark Report.  MIDB would cause an initial survey to be conduc-
ted on agricultural conditions in and around the project area. The survey
would cover a random sample of at least 60 farms, stratified into three farm
size classes, and would be conducted over three seasons, both in presently
irrigated and presently rainfed areas. Rainfed areas might include those from
where farmers would be relocated to the project area. A report on the survey
would be submitted to IDA by June 1982. It would cover the following variables
of interest:
1/   Where "followers" and "non-followers" operate under comparable conditions.



-95-
ANNEX 5
Page 3
characteristics of farm family
cropping pattern
yields
physical input application
use of hired and family labor, hired and owned bullock labor
output prices received
prices of inputs, wages for labor and cost of draft power
income from farming, total and cash income
non-farm incomes and their sources
marketing channels and farmgate/wholesale/retail margins
credit sources, credit amounts, credit cost, relations to cooperative
tenancy patterns and arrangements
8.        Evaluation Report.  One year after inception of improved or first
irrigation in areas commanded by distributaries, a survey similar to the one
described in para 7.0 would be conducted. This report would put emphasis on
variables crucial to the project's success, such as yields, cropping pattern,
input use, employment and farm incomes. It would try to identify major bottle-
necks in the process of benefit buildup. In addition, the report on this
survey, which would be submitted to IDA by December 1986, would include data
on progress of on-farm developments and water users organization. The major
findings of this report would be part of the completion report.
9.        Project Completion Report.  The Mahakali Irrigation Project Develop-
ment Board would prepare a project completion report to cover actual project
implementation schedule, project expenditures, cost of executing project
works, staffing schedule, design, and construction standards. The report
should analyze any major deviation from the appraisal estimates. The project
completion report would be completed within six months after final disburse-
ments of the Credit and submitted to IDA for review.



-96-
ANNEX 6
NEPAL
MAHAKALI IRRIGATION PROJECT (STAGE I)
Related Documents and Data Available in Project File
A.   Documents relating to the project
1.   Feasibility Study Report on Mahakali Irrigation Project, Vol. I-III,
Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Irrigation, HMGN, November 1978.
2.   Mahakali Irrigation Project Reconnaissance Study, Vol. I-III,
Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Irrigation, HMGN, November 1977.
3.   Agreement between India and Nepal on use of Mahakali River water.
4.   IDA Consultant's Report on Settlement Aspects in Kanchanpur District,
December 1979.
5.   IDA Consultant's Report on Roads Component of the Mahakali Irrigation
Project (Stage I), March 1980.
6.   IDA Consultant's Report on Forest Aspects of Kanchanpur District,
January 1980.
7.   Kanchanpur District Master Plan for Resettlement, HMGN, February
1977.
8.   Cotton Development Program (Draft), UNDP, October 1979.
9.   Cotton Production Development Phase II Establishment of Bikeri
Settlement (Draft), UNDP, February 1980.
10.   Agricultural Marketing Information, Vol. IX, No. 1, (Special Issue),
Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Irrigation, HMGN, Nepal, January
1979.
11.   Scholarships Legislation, Kathmandu, Nepal.
B.   Selected Working Papers
1.   Statistics of Area, Yield and Production in Kanchanpur District,
Department of Food and Agricultural Marketing Services, Ministry of
Food and Agriculture, HMGN, 1978.
2.   Calculation of Crop Water Requirements.
3.   Calculation of Switching Values in Sensitivity Analysis.



_______________________ 80  8______________________88_                                                                                   IBRD   14898
00                                              SM                                                       O&                                                      R&  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MARCH 1950
NE PAL
'.t  r   C H I N A                                                  MAHAKALI IRRIGATION PROJECT (STAGE I)
INDIA                  >4s'y'r <'~Hy                                                                                                                      PROJECT LOCATION
3D-
Mojetoin Region                      .--  Rivers
Hill Region                                   Develvopment Region Boundares
loner TeRei                                   Administrative  Zon,al Boundories
X,s n /.It.>                                                          v.s ..................  -  ,  -  -  ...                                - Teri  Distrlct Bovndoanes
arthmondu Volley                              Intere,tionpo     Bondaes
c- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~9
)~~~-s~~~~  RI/LOANI-TDH                                                    R
I   I                                           ta   NARAEdNJZO/J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  1    A> ~ ~       H I          
~~~'v~~~~~~ 0/iRMA                                                 PROJECT                   !      v0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~j  'T                                      8
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- trur .    .  i                                                                                                 '1
.'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 20   da  00I  00t te 05L'   2 20  1ILS00  100                                           84LvJvi JPN JJJJiC C/i , i i i   8'5JM                           t%       --
Lrhe             .         en                                                RiO O  R                  _                       N_        D        I        I4         ON    _Si O    DLVLPJNTPOJL
Se  N                                                                                                                                                                  Js's"nvvsivsBHUTAN0s,d5v
)~~5ei LANKA  0                MilEs                                                                                            u,isvsnds,s si'/svnps',isnsvuv.,,s siisvvsd vs d,,~~~~,s'ssJusiJivn
K,)  3M                                                                N        ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      vn sins yr ni/i on/Nv n/n/s sysi//ni/"/i/i/ K  80~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HN~
92~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                        -~~~~~A






IBRD 14899
8 { /   E0'10'                           9Qo0                    )                    t)                            zt                       80O2O'                          MARCH 105O
'.INI  ( \, 0t!t  NEPAL
,03   4 K,I-oete-                                                        MAHAKALI IRRIGATION  PROJECT (STAGE I)
in    1' ~~\   0  \   %,   0  1  2     3 M,IeK                  K;<;t                                            I d          General  Plan
' -   -  \W |___PROJECT AREA BOUNDARY
PROPOSED IRRIGATION CANALS
PROPOSED PUBLIC ROADS
DRAINAG CANALS TOBE IMPOVED
EITING IRRIGATION CANALS
______EXISTING HIGIHWAYS
'x                                                                ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EXISTING BARRAGE
TOWNSHIP OF MAHENDRANAGAR
+        AIRPORT
- -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
~~~ ~~CHINA
1-~AK1STAN    A~            BHUTANI
INDIA                UN
R O Y A L    S H U K L A PHANTA   WILLDLIFE           -.                                                                                   H
TherepontowAlc/  rtached    -.-__   r\   >. s                         ~~~~~~~~~~~R E S E R V E-.4o6n                                                                                             Ll\
Ao nt 'p' rz tfhe paOt othe  ',- u                                                                                                                                                      Sea                Bo)ya of B eogo/ 
80 10'                                                                                                             LANK vd             \,



