Document of
The World Bank                       Lt copt
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2847-NEP
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
FOR THE
MAHAKALI IRRIGATION PROJECT (STAGE I)
June 5, 1980
This document bhs a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornnce of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank a-uthorintion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Nepalese Rupee (NR)
Since March 20, 1978
US$1.00            NR* 12.00
NR 1.00      -     Us$0.08
NRs 100      -     US$8.33
FINANCIAL YEAR
July 16 - July 15
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADBN     -   Agricultural Development Bank of Nepal
AIC      -   Agricultural Inputs Corporation
DA       -   Department of Agriculture
DCA      -   Development Credit Agreement
DIHM     -   Department of Irrigation, Hydrology and Meteorology
HMGN     -   His Majesty's Government of Nepal
MFA      -   Ministry of Food and Agriculture
MIDB     -   Mahakali Irrigation Development Board
MWPI     -   Ministry of Water, Power and Irrigation
NFC      -   Nepal Food Corporation
O&M      -   Operation and Maintenance
PM       -   Project Manager
REC      -   Rice Export Company
WUG      -   Water Users' Group



NEPAL                   FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MAHAKALI IRRIGATION PROJECT (STAGE I)
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:            Kingdom of Nepal
Amount:              US$16.0 million
Terms:               Standard
Project
Description:      The proposed project would improve an existing irriga-
tion system (3,400 ha) and extend it to 6,600 ha with
the objective of (a) improving the reliability of water
deliveries to the farmers within the existing system and
in the quantities required; (b) extending irrigation
facilities by an additional 3,200 ha; (c) improving comr
munications and operating efficiencies by providing all
weather access throughout the existing and extended irri-
gated areas; and (d) accelerating agricultural development
and thus increasing farm incomes. The proposed project
would also strengthen the agricultural extension services
under the ongoing Bhairawa-Lumbini Groundwater Project
(Cr. 654-NEP).
The proposed project would consist of: (i) improvements
to the existing irrigation and drainage system in about
3,400 ha and its extension by another 3,200 ha; (ii) con-
struction of a connected network of all weather access
and canal service roads; (iii) construction of buildings
for engineering and agricultural activities and staff
quarters; (iv) strengthening agricultural extension,
research and training activities, including construction
of a pilot demonstration farm cum training center; (v)
procurement of equipment for construction, survey and
laboratory activities and project operation and mainte-
nance; (vi) provision of technical services; (vii) fellow-
ships for Nepali students to study civil and mechanical
engineering and agriculture; and (viii) strengthening
agricultural development activities in the Bhairawa-Lumbini
Groundwater Project (Cr. 654-NEP). The project faces no
special risks.
Thb document has a reticted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost                                           US$ Million Equivalent
of Project:          Component                         Local   Foreign   Total
Civil Works
Irrigation & Drainage Systems   1.6         0.7       3.3
Tracks                            2.3       0.6       2.9
Buildings                         0.6       0.1       0.7
Sub-Total                      5.5       1.4      6.9
Equipment and Materials               -       2.5       2.5
Technical Services                  0.2       1.2       1.4
Fellowships                          -        1.0       1.0
Project Overheads                   0.6       0.2       0.8
Land Acquisition                    0.3        -        0.3
Incremental Cost of
Agricultural Extension
for Bhairawa-Lumbini Project        0.1        -        0.1
Base Cost                      6.7       6.3     13.0
Contingencies
Physical                          1.0       1.1       2.1
Price                             2.1       2.1       4.2
Sub-Total                      9.8       9.5     19.3
Duties and Taxes                    0.2        -        0.2
TOTAL PROJECT COST            10.0       9.5     19.5
Financing Plan:                                          US$ Million Equivalent
Local   Foreign  Total
IDA                                       6.5        9.5    16.0
Government                                3.3         -      3.3
Farmers                                   0.2         -      0.2
Total                                  10.0       9.5    19.5
Estimated IDA                                    US$ Million Equivalent
Disbursements:       IDA FY           1981    1982    1983    1984  1985  1986
Annual           0.3      3.5     3.9      3.4   3.5   1.4
Cumulative       0.3      3.8     7.7    11.1  14.6  16.0
Rate of Return:      14%
Staff Appraisal
Report:            No. 2931-NEP dated June 2, 1980.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE KINGDOM OF NEPAL
FOR THE MAHAKALI IRRIGATION PROJECT (STAGE I)
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Kingdom of Nepal for the equivalent of US$16.0
million on standard IDA terms to help finance the Mahakali Irrigation Project
(Stage I).
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        The most recent economic report entitled "Nepal-Development Perform-
ance and Prospects" (Report No. 2692-NEP) was distributed to the Executive
Directors on December 14, 1979. The principal findings of the Report are
described below. Country data are shown in Annex I.
3.        Nepal is one of the least developed countries in the world.  Per
capita income is estimated at $110 (1977), and health and education standards
are well below the average of South Asia: life expectancy at birth is about
45 years, infant mortality 150 per thousand, and adult literacy 19%. The
population, growing at the rate of 2.6% a year, is estimated to be 13.3
million (1978). Over 90% of the population live in rural areas.
4.        The economy of Nepal centers around agriculture.  It accounts for
more than 60% of GDP and 75% of merchandise exports, and provides a livelihood
to over 90% of the population. In addition, most of the industrial sector,
which comprises about 9% of GDP, processes agricultural raw materials. About
25% of total rural incomes are estimated to arise from non-agricultural
activities. Cottage industries are one of the most important of these,
engaging over I million people and comprising about 6% of GDP. They provide
basic consumer goods in the many small, isolated markets where such goods
would otherwise not be available.
5.        As a small open economy, Nepal is highly susceptible to develop-
ments in India. The Terai, which lies along the Indian border, has close
and virtually free trading links with India, and accounts for about 60% of
the country's GDP, and about 40% of the population. The Kathmandu Valley,
the administrative and commercial center, is closely linked with the Terai,
but at significant transportation costs. The rest of the country, the Hills
and Mountains, is almost inaccessible and consists of a large number of
fragmented markets.
1/ Part I of this Report is substantially the same as Part I of the Report
and Recommendation of the President to the Executive Directors on a
proposed credit to the Kingdom of Nepal for a Community Forestry Develop-
ment and Training Project (Report No. P-2763-NEP of April 2, 1980).



6.        When Nepal adopted economic and social development as major govern-
ment objectives in the early 1950s, there was virtually no economic or
administrative infrastructure. Initial development efforts were necessarily
concentrated on establishing a foundation for future development. During
these early stages, it was inevitable that growth would remain slow and that
there would be little if any increase in per capita income. However, the
Fifth Development Plan (1975/76 - 1979/80) was to be a turning point; it was
believed that the country was poised for more rapid growth on the order of 4 -
5% annually. The level of investment was to increase substantially and its
focus to shift towards the more directly productive sectors and the social
services.
7.        Public investment performance has been excellent; development
expenditures have grown at over 15% annually in real terms and the Government
has been relatively successful in reorienting investment away from the trans-
port sector towards agriculture and the social services. However, few of the
other Fifth Plan objectives have been achieved. The GDP growth rate is likely
to average only 2.4% per year, mainly because of poor agricultural performance.
Little progress has been made in increasing agricultural productivity and
agricultural production increased at an annual rate of only 0.7% during the
first four years of the Fifth Plan. Growth in other sectors has been mixed,
with the poor agricultural performance limiting the growth of agro-related
industries. Production in several large industries including jute goods,
sugar, leather goods, and cement have increased but most Fifth Plan targets
will go unmet. In the services sector, tourism has been dynamic, but it
still only contributes about 1% of GDP.
8.        The economic situation deteriorated markedly in 1979/80 and is now
worse than it has been in many years. The poor monsoon in South Asia in 1979
has had a severe impact on Nepal's foodgrain production in 1979/80. Both the
maize and rice crops suffered major losses, and as a result, agricultural
production is likely to decline by 4%. The non-agricultural sector continues
to be constrained by supply bottleneck problems and delays in the preparation
of new development projects in the public sector. This sector's growth is
expected to be only about 4% in 1979/80, which when combined with the decline
in agriculture, gives a 1% decline in GDP.
9.        The disappointing overall performance of the domestic economy during
the Fifth Plan period has been accompanied by a widening trade deficit.
Imports have grown under the impetus of the Government's development program
while the trend in export earnings has been sluggish due to declining rice
exports. The deterioration on the trade account has been partly covered by
increased tourism receipts and remittances from Gurkhas (soldiers from Nepal
serving in the British or Indian armies). Foreign assistance in the form of
grants and concessionary financing have generally ensured that the overall
balance remained in surplus. Foreign exchange reserves in July 1979 were
equivalent to nearly nine months of imports. However, the shortfall in food-
grain production in 1979/80 could have a serious impact on Nepal's external
position, since not only will rice exports further decline, but foodgrains
will have to be imported, this all coming at a time when Nepal's oil bill is
rising steeply. The Government has therefore appealed to the international
community for emergency assistance in obtaining foodgrains and for help in



-3-
distributing food to the shortfall areas; by the end of January 1980 donors
had committed 33,000 tons of foodgrains.
10.       On March 31, 1978, the authorities replaced a complex svstem of
multiple exchange rates and exchange and trade restrictions with a dual
exchange system. Transactions with India, which were virtually free from
restrictions, were unaffected by these changes. New treaties on trade
and transit with India were also concluded in March 1978. Under the dual
exchange rate system, Nepal maintains a basic rate of Rs 12.00 per dollar,
with a second, premium rate applying for all merchandise trade with third
countries except for imports of certain development goods. On February 21,
1980, the premium rate was changed from Rs 16.00 per dollar to Rs 14.00
per dollar, but the exemption was restricted to only imports of petrol and
petroleum products, cement and chemical fertilizers. These exchange rate
adjustments involved an appreciation of about 14% for exports to third coun-
tries and an overall appreciation of about 2% for imports from third countries.
But this was partly offset by (i) withdrawing the 12% duty on exports of raw
jute; and (ii) raising import duties on a wide range of imports from third
countries. However, with the exception of raw jute exports, earnings in
domestic currency from exports to third countries will decline, leading to a
possible shift of some exports to India. The overall trade balance is likely
to be adversely affected by the recent measures.
11.       The poor long-run performance of the economy is chiefly due to the
failure of agricultural production to keep pace with population growth. Over
the period 1967-77, foodgrain production grew at an average annual rate of
only 1.5%. Increases in the area under cultivation account for almost all of
this, since average yields rose by only 0.1% annually. Although poor monsoons
have adversely affected agricultural production, the more fundamental reason
is the failure to more fully exploit the irrigation infrastructure. In the
past, insufficient attention has been paid to bringing water down to the farm
level and this has been compounded by inadequate support services such as
extension and research, timely supplies of improved seed and fertilizer and
other inputs, credit and farm-to-market roads. However, recent major irriga-
tion projects financed by IDA and the Asian Development Bank are addressing
these problems by taking more comprehensive and integrated approaches.
12.       In the Hills and Mountains, which contain only one-third of the
country's agricultural land and yet have nearly two-thirds of the population,
population pressures have pushed cultivation up steep hillsides and onto
marginal land; average yields have actually declined. Population density on
agricultural land in these areas is higher than in Bangladesh. Malnutrition
is acute; food production meets only two-thirds of minimum subsistence needs.
Because they have little to trade except their labor, one-third of the inhab-
itants of these Hill areas migrate seasonally to the Terai plains and northern
India for food and work. Since the early sixties, an estimated 400,000 have
migrated permanently, and there are signs that this exodus is accelerating.
13.       The seriousness of the economic and social problems confronting
Nepal calls for a well focused development strategy that directly addresses
the difficult choices to be made. The revised Fundamental Principles of the



-4-
Sixth Plan recently adopted by the GovernmenL and endorsed by members of the
Nepal Aid Group at its January 31, 1980 meeting, is an important milestone irf
the Government's efforts to evolve a program that meets Nepal's needs.  T,he
highest priority is placed on developing agriculture, including revitalizatior
of Hill food production to meet local requirements since significant agro-
climatic specialization between the Hills and Terai is feasible only in the
longer run. At the same time, since land holdings in the Hills are too small
to generate much more than subsistence needs, programs will be started to
encourage diversification into other activities such as small-scale and cottage
industries to supplement Hill incomes. For the Terai, the strategy is to
continue efforts to realize the Terai's considerable potential for increasing
production of foodgrains and cash crops. The irrigation infrastructure is to
be more fully utilized and improvements to extension services and associated
inputs concentrated on those areas with irrigation facilities. Rural electri-
fication is seen as an important element in providing for increased production
in rural areas. Reafforestation programs are given priority in order to
provide fuelwood and fodder as well as to reduce soil erosion.
14.       While these efforts in the directly productive sectors merit urgent
attention, Nepal faces similar challenges in developing its human resources.
Although curbing population growth requires major actions, selective programs
in education and health can greatly assist population planning as well as
alleviate human suffering and lay the basis for future increases in productiv-
ity. The Government's strategy recognises that the approach must be selective
since programs for meeting basic needs generally have only a long-term impact
on manpower development but divert resources away from activities more directly
and immediately related to production. Increasing foodgrains production will
meet the major need of improved nutrition. Better and more readily available
supplies of drinking water and fuelwood will meet other needs, while also
freeing labor currently spent in their collection. Basic health facilities
are to be expanded through integrated community health posts, while in educa-
tion, stress is placed on improving the quality of primary and adult vocational
education. Family planning programs are to be stepped up. The other basic
need to be met in rural areas is improved transport, and the Sixth Plan will
include programs to improve trails, tracks, and suspension bridges.
15.       For Nepal to establish a basis for more rapid and sustained growth,
the structure of its economy will need to change since its present dependence
on agriculture limits the economy's overall growth potential to about 4% per
year. Tourism offers perhaps the best near-term potential for increased
foreign exchange earnings; however, efforts are needed to reduce its capital
intensity, strengthen linkages with other local industries and extend its
benefits beyond the Kathmandu Valley. Hydropower also offers some possibil-
ities, but neither it nor tourism will ever be substantial generators of
employment. In the long run, Nepal must diversify and develop its industrial
sector. Obviously, efforts in this sector must be on a highly selective basis.
The multiplicity and complexity of the constraints to industrial development,
including the lack of natural resources and a skilled labor force, as well as
Nepal's small domestic market and landlocked position will nullify any general-
ized approach. Public enterprises need to operate more efficiently, village
and cottage industries should be promoted. Beyond this, joint ventures with



- 5 -
India, for example, as in cement production, may be attractive.  The precon-
ditions for industrialization must be established in the near future or there
is a danger that Nepal will always be struggling to move its economy beyond
subsistence.  These include providing financial incentives, research and
extension services on the technical, financial and marketing aspects of enter-
prise, and the upgrading of manpower skills in the areas where Nepal may have
a comparative advantage.
16.       Nepal has made significant progress in mobilizing domestic resources
to support its development efforts, considering the extreme poverty, low degree
of monetization, and fragmented nature of the economy.  Revenue grew at 16% a
year in current terms between 1969/70 and 1978/79, while as a percentage of
GDP it increased from 5% in 1969/70 to about 9% in 1978/79. Over the same
period, the Government was able to maintain savings on current account in
excess of 2% of GDP, a good achievement for a country in Nepal's economic
position. However, this excellent record is now in jeopardy. Revenues from
income and land taxes declined in 1978/79 and although total revenues grew by
14%, the bulk of the increase came from taxes on international trade as a
result of higher imports. No real growth in total revenues is expected during
1979/80, after allowing for inflation. This slowdown reflects not only the
weak economy in 1979/80, but also the impact on the tax system of the political
difficulties facing Nepal. While only limited scope exists for discretionary
tax measures, there is a potential for increased tax revenues from agriculture,
particularly in the Terai. Revenues could be increased through improving the
tax machinery, and the government has approved, in principle, various admin-
istrative reforms in this direction, including the formation of a Special
Revenue Service.
17.       Foreign assistance has been a decisive factor in Nepal's development.
During the Fifth Plan, foreign financing equalled about 45% of development
expenditures. In view of the limited prospects for increased domestic resource
mobilization, foreign financing requirements may be about 60% of planned Sixth
Plan development expenditures, which amount to about NRs 10 billion or over
$800 million at 1979/80 prices. Aid commitments need to average about $225
million annually during 1980-82 compared with $160 million during 1977-79.
However, even this level of foreign assistance would not provide the Government
with sufficient resources to meet increasing consumption demands. Additional
aid, either through financing a higher proportion of total project costs or in
the form of commodity assistance, could provide budgetary support to meet
pressing recurrent expenditure requirements, particularly in the social
sectors. To assist with overall coordination of financial and technical
assistance efforts, the Nepal Aid Group was formed in 1976. The Group has met
three times at plenary meetings under the chairmanship of the Bank to discuss
overall external assistance needs as well as at the local level in Kathmandu
to discuss and coordinate the strategy. At the latest plenary meeting, which
was held in Paris in January 31, 1980, and was attended by representatives
from eight countries and six international organizations, Nepal received aid
indications exceeding US$200 million equivalent.
18.       Although foreign aid commitments and disbursements grew by over
25% annually during the Fifth Plan period, only 40% of disbursements included
in the Government's budget were from foreign borrowing, the remainder being



- 6 -
grants. As of December 31, 1978, official foreign debt outstanding was only
$88 million, of which $75 million was due to multilateral agencies. These
loans were obtained on a highly concessional basis and the grant element of
total aid remains in excess of 90%. As a result, debt service payments were
only US$3.1 million during 1978/79, equivalent to less than 2% of exports of
goods and services. Medium-term prospects are also good; by 1981/82 total
service on existing debt is expected to amount to only US$5.1 million, still
less than 2% of projected goods and services exports.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NEPAL
19.       Bank Group operations in Nepal began in FY70 with an IDA credit
of US$1.7 million equivalent for a telecommunications project. Since then,
19 additional credits have been approved, bringing total IDA assistance to
Nepal to US$218.4 million equivalent, net of cancellations. In view of
Nepal's many development needs, this assistance has been for projects in a
wide variety of sectors. Six of these sectors account for 82% of IDA credits
by amount: irrigation ($59.0 million for 4 projects); power ($40.8 million
for 1 project); telecommunications ($21.7 million for 3 projects); highways
($19.5 million for 2 projects); water supply and sewerage ($19.8 million for
2 projects), and rural development ($19.0 million for 2 projects). The
remaining $39.0 million of IDA assistance has been for one project in each of
the areas of settlement, technical education, tourism, technical assistance,
forestry and industrial development financing. The proposed credit would be
the second in FY80, bringing the total amount of IDA assistance to Nepal to
US$234.4 million equivalent, net of cancellations. No Bank loans have been
made to Nepal. IFC made its first investment in Nepal ($3.1 million) in a
hotel project in Kathmandu in FY75. Annex II contains a summary statement of
Bank Group operations as of April 30, 1980, and notes on the execution of
ongoing IDA projects. It shows certain delays in the implementation of these
projects, particularly during the initial periods. These delays have been
largely due to Nepal's limited technical and managerial capabilities. In
order to assist Nepal in coping with this constraint, considerable technical
assistance is being given by Bank Group staff, including our Resident Mission
in Kathmandu. As a result, improvement in the rate of disbursements is being
realized. During FY78, US$11.8 million equivalent were disbursed compared to
US$12.8 million equivalent disbursed during the entire previous seven years;
disbursements during FY79 indicate a further improvement, disbursing a further
$18.2 million equivalent. Disbursements in the first ten months of FY80
reached US$17.2 million equivalent.
20.       Bank Group lending to Nepal has so far been at a modest level
compared to the country's need for external assistance. The international
community has shown considerable interest in Nepal's economic development and,
to date, shortage of funds has not been a bottleneck. The main constraint on
the utilization of increased aid has been Nepal's limited absorptive capacity,
affecting the pace of project preparation and implementation. The Bank is



affecting the pace of project preparation and implementation. The Bank is
assisting the Government in project preparation through the Technical Assis-
tance Credit and by acting as Executing Agency for a number of technical
assistance projects in the current UNDP Five-Year Program. The Bank Group
has also addressed the problem of absorptive capacity through its role in
organizing the Aid Group for Nepal (para 17).
21.       The Bank Group's current strategy places major emphasis upon the
directly-productive sectors (particularly agriculture) and the development
of complementary infrastructure, including feeder roads (particularly con-
necting the Hills to the Terai), communications and hydroelectric power.
Preparation of projects in irrigation, Hill food production, agricultural
extension, cottage/small scale industry, water supply and power is under way.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
22.       Agriculture is the key sector for Nepal's economic development:
farm production and related activities contribute more than 60% of GDP, pro-
vide almost 90% of employment and about 75% of merchandise exports, mostly
foodgrains2 jute and oilseed. Only about one sixth of Nepal's gross area of
141,000 km is cultivable. Foodgrains account for about 90% of cropped area,
rice being the most important (50%), followed by maize, wheat, other cereals
and pulses. The rest of the cropped area is under oilseeds, jute, potato,
tobacco, sugarcane and horticultural crops. Growth of agricultural production
(average 1.1% per year 1970-77), which is largely determined by foodgrain
performance, has not kept up with population growth. Growth has primarily
come from area expansion since yields have largely stagnated (para 11).
23.       The Government has had to moderate its earlier approach to regional
specialization according to comparative advantage (foodgrains in Terai vs.
horticulture, tea and livestock in Hills) in view of the need for a proper
foodbase in the Hills. The role of the Terai will continue to be the genera-
tion of domestic and exportable foodgrain surpluses as a resource for further
development. Since area expansion is limited in the Terai, emphasis will be
given to increasing yields, mainly by an expansion and upgrading of existing
irrigation infrastructure and inputs. Initial results from the IDA-assisted
Narayani Zone Irrigation Project (Stage I) indicate that substantial yield
improvements can be expected from improved irrigation water supply combined
with increased agricultural inputs and effective extension services.
24.       Agricultural Institutions.  Apart from the Ministry of Forest, the
Government has three major Ministries dealing with agriculture: the Ministry
of Food and Agriculture (MFA); the Ministry of Land Reform; and the Ministry
of Water, Power and Irrigation. Irrigation projects are the responsibility
of the MWPI which includes the Department of Irrigation, Hydrology and
Meteorology (DIHM). MFA includes the Department of Agriculture (DA), and
the Department of Food and Agriculture Marketing Services. MFA also has



- 8 -
overall responsibility for a number of public sector corporations which
include the Agricultural Inputs Corporation (AIC), Agricultural Development
Bank of Nepal (ADBN) and Nepal Food Corporation. In general, like rmany
other government agencies, agricultural institutions suffer from lack of
trained staff.
25.       Agricultural Extension, Research and Training.  The DA's Division
of Agricultural Extension and Training is responsible for operation of agri-
cultural extension services through offices located at the regional and
district levels. Effectiveness of extension services is hampered by inade-
quate staff training and lack of communication, transportation, and housing
facilities at the village level.
26.       The DA carries out research, mainly in food crop production, in a
research complex near Kathmandu and in 12 smaller stations dispersed through-
out Nepal. Some agricultural research stations are also national crop devel-
opment headquarters. 1/ The United States Agency for International Develop-
ment (USAID) has supported research in cereal improvement based on high
yielding varieties of wheat from India and rice from the Philippines. The
United Nations Development Programme, in conjunction with the International
Maize and Wheat Improvement Center, Is assisting with a high protein maize
program. The linkage between research and extension activities is poor,
however, and the products of research are not always directly well dissemi-
nated to farmers. With technical assistance from USAID, the Institute of
Agriculture and Animal Science of Tribhuvan University is responsible for
formal agricultural training of extension workers. The Institute also
provides vocational training for agricultural teachers and in-service train-
ing for leading farmers. Recently, research stations have also been involved
in training activities for extension workers and farmers. However, this
training suffers from shortage of experienced instructors and training
facilities. IDA's financing of intensified and reorganized extension serv-
ices in six Terai districts under ongoing irrigation projects (para 33)
promises to yield favorable results, as already noticeable in the Parsa
district where the Training and Visit system is being implemented. A project
for agricultural research and extension for eight more districts in the Terai
is being prepared.
27.       Agricultural Inputs Supply.  AIC is mainly responsible for the
marketing of fertilizers, seed, pesticides, and agricultural equipment.
AIC distributes these inputs to cooperative societies (Sajhas), village
committees, other public organizations, and private traders, fixes retail
prices for all inputs, and is responsible for input storage. Provision
of inputs is coordinated with District Agricultural Officers, ADBN and
cooperatives. The activities of AIC have been rapidly expanding and are
fairly satisfactory.
28.       Agricultural Credit.  ADBN is the main source of institutional
credit in agriculture; two commercial banks play only a minor role in this
1/   The national development programs for paddy, maize, jute and wheat have
their headquarters in Parwanipur (Birganj Irrigation Project, Naryani
Zone), Rampur, and Tarahara Agriculture Stations, and Bahirawa Agricul-
ture Farm (in Bhairawa-Lumbini Groundwater Project), respectively.



- 9 -
sector. ADBN extends short, medium and long-term loans to individual farmers,
groups of farmers, cooperative societies and village committees. Overall
lending has increased considerably over recent years, and now covers about
25% of total agricultural credit needs. ADBN's financial position is reason-
ably sound, although overdues run at about 24% of loans outstanding. Repayment
performance of cooperative societies has even been poorer. Loans are extended
for a wide variety of purposes, including irrigation, mechanization, warehous-
ing and marketing. Interest rates vary between 6 and 16% according to borrower
and purpose. Application procedures for institutional credit are lengthy and
cumbersome. Consequently, many farmers avoid this source in favor of easier
credit from private lenders at higher cost. With the assistance of the Asian
Development Bank, ADBN is making efforts to improve its procedures in order
to reach a larger number of small farmers.
29.       Cooperative Movement.  Since 1976, the cooperative movement has
been reorganized under the name Sajha. In order to reach more farmers and
mobilize local savings, the Government converted existing "guided" societies
(under ADBN management) and village committees into village cooperative
societies, under the direction of village panchayats. They are to provide
credit, inputs, marketing services and some basic consumer goods. They
function as collective borrowers towards ADBN and as agents of national trad-
ing organizations. So far, 723 Sajha cooperatives have been established in
30 districts, covering all Terai districts and three Hill districts. They
employ paid managers and are directed by the heads of constituting village
panchayats. Membership is compulsory for all participants in a previous
compulsory saving scheme. These savings, deposited with ADBN, constitute the
share capital of village societies and are the main collateral for collective
loans. Sajhas suffer from lack of trained management, high default rates and
local political interference. Only a few societies are engaged in marketing
of crops, where they face serious competition from private traders. Suitable
warehouse and transportation facilities are scarce, reducing Sajhas' capacity
to distribute inputs to farmers and to market their produce. The Cooperative
Department of the Ministry of Land Reform is currently making efforts to
improve management of Sajhas through training and consolidation of smaller
units.
30.       Marketing and Transportation.  Domestic marketing services in Nepal
are not well developed, due to the lack of roads, telecommunications systems,
and warehouses. Since the late 1960s, several public sector organizations
have been established for marketing major farm products. These include the
Nepal Food Corporation (NFC), Rice Export Companies (RECs), National Trading
Ltd., and Jute Development and Trade Corporation. Officially, export of rice
was exclusively the responsibility of RECs, which are joint ventures with the
private sector traditionally involved in rice trading, with the majority of
shares held by the Government. In practice, however, since the Indian border
is open, extensive free trading occurs, for which no reliable data is avail-
able. The Government has recently liberalized export trading for foodgrains,
and plans to place control of public sector domestic and export trading in NFC
and strengthen it so that it may be better able to promote government foodgrain
policies.



- 10 -
The Irrigation Sub-Sector
31.       Water Resources Utilization.  Nepal has abundant water resources,
including3major rivers with annual average discharges totaling about 150
billion m and capable of irrigating 6 to 8 million ha. However, there are
only about 1.3 million ha of land suitable for surface irrigation in the
country. Exploitable groundwater resources, largely concentrated in the
Terai, could provide tubewell irrigation for about 0.4 to 0.6 million ha.
Total irrigation potential is, therefore, less than 2 million ha. Utilization
of water resources for irrigation is limited by several factors: (i) there
are few reliable sources of perennial surface water for year-round irrigation
except for the eight major rivers 1/; (ii) these large rivers are costly to
develop particularly for relatively small command areas typical in the Terai;
(iii) heavy sedimentation in riverbeds creates considerable problems in
construction, operation and maintenance of irrigation systems; and (iv) power
supplies to energize tubewells are severely restricted in extent and amount.
At present, only about 300,000 ha (about 23% of the potential surface irri-
gable area) are provided with some form of irrigation, of which about 150,000
ha are under public schemes.
32.       Irrigation Development.  Before the launching of Nepal's first
Development Plan in 1957, few substantial irrigation works had been under-
taken by the Government. The main reasons were limited financial resources
and shortage of trained manpower. Nevertheless, with schemes such as the
11,000 ha Chandra Project (1922), farmers' stream diversions, bucket-lift,
and other traditional methods, irrigation had been provided to an area of
some 154,000 ha, mainly in the Hills. During the First and Second Develop-
ment Plans (1957-62 and 1962-65 respectively), the Government's irrigation
programs were concentrated on building medium sized systems (15-16,000 ha)
in the Terai. In the Third Plan (1965-70), however, a program was launched
for construction of minor irrigation projects, mostly in the Terai, to
encourage greater farmer participation and to expand irrigated areas rapidly.
Due to poor investigations and construction, many of these projects fell short
of expectations, which resulted in discouraging response from farmers. The
Government switched back in the Fourth Plan (1970-75) to a policy of con-
structing medium-sized irrigation projects. In keeping with the priority
given to quick yielding investments, the emphasis shifted in the Fifth Plan
(1975-80) towards the completion of ongoing schemes and new investment in
projects with short gestation periods and high returns, including groundwater
development for irrigation by tubewells. The target was to bring 146,000 ha
under irrigation in addition to the present 300,000 ha. However, it is esti-
mated that by the end of the Fifth Plan, only about 100,000 ha will have been
completed. The main reasons for the shortfall are (i) the shortage of tech-
nical personnel for design, construction, supervision and project management;
(ii) chronic shortages in cement and steel; (iii) weak local civil works con-
tractors; and (iv) slow procurement due to the country being landlocked and
to administrative bottlenecks. Bank Group strategy is to assist the Government
in resolving these constraints through financial and technical assistance,
including components of the proposed project. Preliminary targets set for the
1/   The Mahakali (Sarda), Karnali, Babai, Rapti, Narayani (Gandak), Bagmati,
Kosi and Kankai Rivers.



- 11 -
Sixth Plan (1980-85) call for the irrigation of 40% of agricultural land in
the Terai and 12% in the Hills by 1990 (presently 12% in the Terai and much
less in the Hills). The irrigation infrastructure is to be more fully utilized
and extension services and associated inputs to irrigated areas to be enhanced
(para 13).
33.       Bank Group's Participation in Irrigation Development.  The Bank
Group is presently involved in four ongoing irrigation projects and two rural
development projects with irrigation components. The Bank has also acted as
Executing Agency for UNDP in the preparation of feasibility studies, prepared
by Tahal Consulting Engineers (Israel), under the Major Irrigation (Far West
Region) Project. The Birganj Irrigation Project (Narayani Zone) (Cr. 373-NEP,
US$6.0 M, 1973), under construction since 1974, was originally designed to
improve and upgrade 28,700 ha of its command area. In November 1977, the
Government and the Association agreed to reduce the scope of the project
and limit the works to 16,000 ha of the command area so as to accommodate
a 50% cost overrun during 1974-77. After a slow start due to procurement
and staffing difficulties, project implementation has steadily improved.
All civil works and equipment contracts have been awarded, and construction
is about 95% complete. The executing agency, the Narayani Zone Irrigation
Development Board, is operating effectively. Crop yields achieved under
irrigated conditions are promising. Water charges are being levied in areas
reached by irrigation, and farmers' acceptance is satisfactory. The project
if expected to be completed by mid-1980. The Narayani Zone Irrigation Devel-
opment (Stage II) Project (Cr. 856-NEP, US$14.0 M, 1978) is also proceeding
satisfactorily. Construction works are ongoing in three of the six irrigation
blocks and contracts for two additional blocks were awarded in February 1980.
The Bhairawa-Lumbini Groundwater Project (Cr. 654-NEP, US$9.0 M, 1976),
the first full scale tubewell project in Nepal provides for construction
of 63 deep wells, detailed development of the 7,500 ha command area and
agricultural supporting services. Actual work on the project started in July
1977. Twenty seven tubewells have been constructed. Thirty-three wells are
scheduled to be fully equipped by June 1980. All drilling is to be completed
by July 1980, and all 63 wells are to be fully equipped by June 1981. Un-
fortunately, progress in irrigation works is about 18 months behind original
schedule due mainly to shortage and poor performance of local contractors.
This problem is being overcome through Bank staff and consultants' assistance
to the project authority in procurement matters and supervision. The project
is scheduled for completion by June 1982. The Sunsari-Morang Irrigation and
Development Project (Cr. 812-NEP, US$30.0 M, 1978) provides for the substantial
upgrading of the existing Chatra Canal irrigation system in Eastern Nepal by
almost doubling the irrigated area from 35,000 ha, at present, to about 66,000
ha. Studies for major canal structural repairs, sediment control and river
training are well advanced. Contracts for priority works have been awarded
and procurement action for equipment and civil works for Chatra Main Canal is
underway. An EEC Special Action Credit of about US$4.0 million equivalent was
approved in June 1979 to help finance part of the Government's share of the
local cost. A component in the First Rural Development Project (Cr. 617-NEP,
US$8.0 M, 1976) is providing for improvement of small scale Hill irrigation
schemes and development of a high lift scheme on the Batar plateau in Nuwakot
District. This consists of the improved irrigation for approximately 1,900 ha.



- 12 -
Construction of the major works for the Batar plateau (approximately 200
ha) has been completed, and satisfactory progress has been achieved for the
development of the small scale schemes. The Second Rural Development Project
(Cr. 939-NEP, US$11.0 M, 1979) also includes a component for providing assist-
ance for improvement of small scale Hill irrigation schemes in the Mahakali
Zone. Implementation of this project is just starting.
34.       Manpower Situation.  One of the main constraints in the implemen-
tation of irrigation projects in Nepal is the shortage of technical personnel
in DIHM for design and construction supervision. Available staff is very
thinly spread over the various regions, divisions, and projects, and is hardly
sufficient to meet present needs. The shortage of engineers will be a major
constraint in implementing the irrigation projects under the Sixth Five Year
Plan. For the Sunsari-Morang Irrigation and Drainage Development Project,
DIHM was unable to provide the necessary design staff. Local consulting firms
were called upon to work together with a small project staff and project con-
sultants in order to meet manpower requirements. Only a limited number of
local consulting firms is available. Any completed project would require
about as much staff for operation and maintenance as is now available for
construction. Hence, the number of irrigation engineers in the country has
to be increased drastically if irrigation development is to be accelerated.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
35.       The proposed project would implement part of a comprehensive master-
plan for the development of the Kanchanpur District in the Far West Region of
Nepal. The Plan was approved by the Government in December 1979. The Plan
delineates areas to be maintained as commercial forest and wildlife reserves,
areas to be reforested and areas in the Terai to be developed for rainfed and
irrigated agriculture, including resettlement and settlement of landless farm
families. The proposed project would implement a first phase of the irrigation
development under this Plan. The proposed project was identified by a Bank
mission in 1976 and a feasibility study was prepared by Tahal Consulting
Engineers (Israel). The study was financed by UNDP, with the Bank as Executing
Agency, and the Project was appraised in January 1980.
36.       Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. in May 1980.  The Nepalese
delegation was led by Mr. P.P. Shah, Secretary, Ministry of Water, Power and
Irrigation. A report entitled "Nepal - Staff Appraisal Report - Mahakali
Irrigation Project (Stage I)," Report No. 2931, dated June 2, 1980 is being
distributed separately. A supplementary data sheet is attached as Annex III.
37.       The proposed project would rehabilitate and upgrade the existing
irrigation system on the left bank of the Mahakali River in the Far Western
Region of Nepal. The 1920 Agreement between the Governments of India and
Nepal regulates the use of the Mahakali (Sarda) River waters. Following this
agreemeit, India built a barrage on the river inside India and a 1,000 cusecs
(28.3 m /s) capacity conveyance canal into Nepalese territory. This system
diverts water from the Mahakali River at the Sarda Barrage into Nepal through
the conveyance canal. Construction was completed in 1928. The agreement
stipulates the following water rights for nepal: (a) from May 15 to
October 15, a supply of 460 cusecs (13.0 m Is) and, provided a surplus



- 13 -
is available, a supply of up to 1,000 cusecs (28.3 m3Is); and (b) from
October 15 to May 15, a supply of 150 cusecs (4.25 m Is). So far, Nepal uses
substantially less than half the waters it is entitled to use and the water
requirements for the proposed project are well within its agreed water alloca-
tion.
38.       The present irrigation system is commanded by a 13 km long main
canal. The canal lacks adequate water level control and the inflow of sedi-
ments poses serious maintenance and operational problems. Irrigation water
is released from the main canal into 11 distributary canals and several minor
canals. From these canals the water is released into tertiary units, where
tertiary canals have been constructed. The existing irrigation system has
several defects: the capacities of the distributaries are generally insuffi-
cient to meet the peak water requirements; the number of tertiary outlets and
length of tertiary canals constructed is insufficient for proper water distri-
bution; water flow in the tertiary canals and outlets cannot be controlled,
and field irrigation and drainage channels serving individual farms are lack-
ing. Overall water management in the project area is poor. A completed
section of the East-West Highway passes through the project area but otherwise
the area is served only by a haphazard road network of cart tracks intercon-
necting villages and service tracks along the main canal and the upper reaches
of most distributaries. The entire track system becomes impassable during the
monsoon season.
Project Objectives
39.       The proposed project would improve the existing irrigation system
(3,400 ha) and extend it to 6,600 ha (net) with the objective of: (a) improv-
ing the reliability of water deliveries in the quantities required to the
farmers within the existing system; (b) extending irrigation facilities to an
additional 3,200 ha; (c) improving communications and operating efficiency by
providing all weather access throughout the existing and extended irrigated
areas; and (d) accelerating agricultural development and thus increasing
farm incomes. To achieve the above objectives, the project is designed to:
(a) increase the capacity of the existing distribution system and extend it to
new areas; (b) improve the handling of sediment in the main canal; (c) improve
water control through additional control structures and through the extension
of the distribution system to outlets serving 7-8 ha of land; (d) improve
drainage conditions; (e) provide a complete public access road network and
all weather service roads along canals; (f) intensify agricultural extension,
research and training; (g) develop technical staff by providing fellowships
for Nepali students to study engineering and agriculture abroad.
Project Description
40.       The main components of the project would be:
(a)  improvements to the existing irrigation and drainage system
in about 3,400 ha;
(b) extension of irrigation and drainage systems by 3,200 ha
to a total of 6,600 ha;
(c) construction of an interconnected network of all weather
access and canal service roads;



- 14 -
(d) construction of buildings for engineering and agricultural
activities and staff quarters;
(e) strengthening agricultural extension, research and training
activities, including construction of a pilot demonstration
farm-cum-training center;
(f) procurement of materials, equipment and vehicles for con-
struction, survey and laboratory activities and project
operation and maintenance;
(g) provision of technical services, including foreign and
local consultants for project implementation and aerial
photography and mapping;
(h) fellowships for Nepali students to study civil and
mechanical engineering and agriculture; and
(i) strengthening agricultural development activities in the
on-going Bhairawa-Lumbini Groundwater Project (Cr. 654-NEP)
over a three-year period.
Organization and Implementation
41.       In accordance with the Government's established practice, implemen-
tation of the project would be carried out by a board to be established under
the Development Board Act of 1956. The Mahakali Irrigation Development Board
(MIDB) would be chaired by the Secretary of the Ministry of Water, Power and
Irrigation. It would include representatives from the Ministries of Finance,
Food and Agriculture, Forest, and Land Reform, and the National Planning
Commission, and the Directors General of the Departments of Agriculture and of
Irrigation, Hydrology and Meteorology. In addition, the Project Manager (PM)
would be a member of MIDB, would be stationed at Mahendranagar and would be
responsible for day-to-day management of project implementation. MIDB would
be staffed during implementation of the project in accordance with a plan
satisfactory to the Association (Section 3.03(a) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement (DCA)). Formation of MIDB and the appointment of the PM with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to IDA would be conditions of
effectiveness of the proposed Credit (Section 6.01(a) and (b) of the draft
DCA). Under the PM, five divisions would be established for: Irrigation,
Roads, Agriculture, Administration and Finance, and Farm Group Development.
An Equipment Maintenance Unit would be established under the Irrigation
Division of MIDB. The Irrigation Division would be responsible for carrying
out the irrigation and drainage works of the project and for maintaining the
canal network down to tertiary outlets. The Road Division, headed by a senior
roads engineer, would construct and maintain the roads component. As local
contractors lack construction equipment, equipment procured under the project
would be leased to contractors together with operators. The Government plans
to provide incentives to enable the PM to recruit equipment operators and
mechanics. Views would be exchanged with the Association on a yearly basis on
the amount of funds required for operation and maintenance (O&M) and the O&M
budget would be submitted to the Association not later than July 31 in each
year (Section 4.03(a) of the draft DCA). The Irrigation Division would also



- 15 -
prepare a comprehensive operation and maintenance manual to be transmitted to
IDA in draft by October 1, 1982 and in final form by October 1, 1983 (Section
4.03(b) of the draft DCA). The Agricultural Division, headed by an agricul-
tural development officer would be responsible for extension and the operation
of the pilot farm and training center. The Administration and Finance Division
would be responsible for general administration, accounting, finance, procure-
ment and inventory control, and collection of water charges. The Farm Group
Development Division, headed by a Cooperative Officer, would be responsible
for organizing water users' groups (para 43). In view of the urgent need for
good communications and effective extension activities, the appointment of
the senior roads engineer and the agricultural development officer, with
qualifications and experience satisfactory to IDA, would be conditions of
credit effectiveness (Section 6.01(c) of the draft DCA).
42.       About 2,200 ha of over-mature and unproductive Terai Plain forest
would be cleared within the project area, as part of the development plan
for the Kanchanpur District (para 35), prior to project implementation on
the corresponding area. Clearing is already being undertaken by the Forest
Products Development Board, and would be completed by May 31, 1982 (Section
3.05(b) of the draft DCA). In order to unite two sections of a wildlife
reserve and reduce river bank erosion, the Government intends to move farm
families now living along the Mahakali and Chaudar Rivers to the project
area. Responsibility for moving these farmers rests with the Resettlement
Department of the Ministry of Forest. The existing committee for forest,
resettlement and irrigation development in Kanchanpur District would coor-
dinate matters concerning forest clearing, settlement and project construction
(Section 3.05(a) of the draft DCA). This Committee is chaired by the Mahakali
Zonal Commissioner. Members of the Committee include the PM of MIDB, the
Conservator of the Seti and Mahakali Circles, the President of the District
Panchayat, the Resettlement Officer, the Chief District Officer, the Land
Revenue Officer, and the District Forest Officer.
43.       Throughout the project area, tertiary turnouts would be constructed
to provide water control to units of a maximum of 40 ha. The distribution
beyond the tertiary outlets would be extended to outlets serving groups of
farms of 7-8 ha. Within the 40 ha tertiary units, Water Users' Groups (WUGs)
would be established to regulate water distribution based on rotational
deliveries proportional to individual holdings. Each WUG would be represented
by a leader, and sub-leaders for the 7-8 ha sub-groups, all elected by the
farmers. Water would be made available on a regular basis to a tertiary
canal unit improved or completed under the project only after a WUG has been
formed, field channels constructed and satisfactory distribution routines
formulated (Section 4.04 of the draft DCA).
Technical Assistance
44.       Because of a sharp increase in the number of development projects
in Nepal in recent years, the availability of suitably trained engineering
and agricultural staff is a major constraint in the implementation of addi-
tional irrigation projects. To develop additional manpower, IDA is assisting



- 16 -
Nepal with the Technical Education Project (Credit No. 772-NEP, US$5.7 M,
1978) which would build up the capacity of the Institute of Engineering and
establish teaching programs in civil engineering.  A component of this Projecr
assists in the preparation of a project for the establishment of a polytech-
nical school in Pokhara. IDA is also assisting in the preparation of a manpower
study for the agricultural sector. However, graduates of the Institute of
Engineering will only be of the diploma level and too few to meet the expected
demand. In order to assist in meeting the need for trained manpower at the
B.Sc. level, financing is provided under the proposed credit for fellowships
for about 80 Nepali students to study civil engineering, mechanical engineer-
ing and agriculture in accordance with a plan satisfactory to the Association
(Section 3.04 of the draft DCA). Students would be sent for training within
the next two years. This represents a substantial increase in the civil engi-
neering staff of the Irrigation Department. Prior to going for training in
other Asian countries, the trainee would enter into a contract with the con-
cerned Government Department committing himself to work on development projects
for five years following completion of these studies. The Government would
sanction the necessary number of positions and make adequate budgetary alloca-
tions for this purpose, sufficiently in advance of the return of the graduates
from abroad.
45.       The staff of the Board would be assisted and trained by consultants
in project planning and scheduling, design of project works, preparation of
bid documents and bid evaluation, modern construction techniques, construc-
tion quality control, monitoring of progress and costs, and operation and
maintenance. About 110 man-months of engineering services would be provided
over a five year period. Technical assistance costs, at US$8,500 per man
month (including salaries, fees, international travel, subsistence and
ancillary costs), are estimated at US$0.9 million equivalent. Selection of
these consultants with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the
Association would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed credit
(Section 6.01(d) of the draft DCA).
46.        Since most of the farmers have inadequate knowledge of water man-
agement and cultivation of relatively new crops like cotton, soybean, and
groundnuts, a 20-ha pilot farm with training center would be established
under the project. By May 31, 1982, two agricultural consultants (a field
crop agronomist and a cotton agronomist) with qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment satisfactory to IDA would be engaged to
assist with the operation of the pilot farm, in particular to develop suitable
cropping patterns, assist in water management and provide in-service training
for extension workers and farmers (Section 3.02(b) of the draft DCA). The
cost of this technical assistance component is estimated at US$150,000 equiv-
alent.
47.        The IDA-assisted Bhairawa-Lumbini Groundwater Project (Credit No.
654-NEP, US$9.0 million) was approved in 1976 for the development of ground-
water irrigation in the Lumbini Zone. Agriculture extension for the Project
is carried out by DA. Little progress has been achieved in the extension
services due to shortage of qualified DA staff, which is more severe than
anticipated at the time of appraisal. As construction of about half of the 63
tubewells under this Project will be completed by June 1980, the strengthening
of ongoing agricultural extension work for the project becomes essential.



- 17 -
Therefore, the proposed credit would finance a local consultant for about 36
months, and related operational costs. Total cost of this component is approx-
imately US$0.1 million equivalent. The consultant would assist project staff
in preparation and implementation of rotational irrigation schedules and assist
in establishing field demonstration plots for recommended cropping patterns,
with special regard to wheat cultivation under different soil and drainage
conditions. The consultant would also assist project staff in carrying out
routine in-service training for extension workers and farmers.
Monitoring and Evaluation
48.       In order to obtain a reliable data base MIDB would carry out a
benchmark survey during the first two years of project implementation. The
survey would be furnished to the Association by June 30, 1982. A similar
survey would be conducted when project works are completed, and a report
prepared and furnished to the Association by December 31, 1986 (Section
3.07(c) of the draft DCA). MIDB would also prepare a project completion
report within six months after final disbursements of the Credit and would
submit the report to the Association (Section 3.07(d) of the draft DCA).
Cost and Financing
49.       The total project cost is estimated at US$19.5 M equivalent includ-
ing about US$0.15 M in duties and taxes and US$0.35 M in land acquisition.
The foreign exchange component is estimated at US$9.5 M equivalent, about 48%
of the total project cost. The proposed credit of US$16.0 M would finance the
entire foreign exchange cost of the project plus US$6.5 M equivalent of local
cost, amounting to about 83% of total project costs net of taxes and duties.
Local cost financing is recommended in view of the country's very limited
capacity to generate resources (para 17 above). The Government would finance
US$3.3 M equivalent of the local cost and the farmers would contribute in
labor the balance of US$0.2 M equivalent.
Procurement and Disbursement
50.       Procurement of materials, equipment, vehicles and spare parts would
be on the basis of international competitive bidding following IDA guidelines.
Items costing less than US$75,000 equivalent each, up to US$500,000 equivalent
in the aggregate, would be procured in accordance with Government procurement
procedures, which are satisfactory to IDA. Civil works construction would
be limited to the dry season and generally carried out through labor inten-
sive methods. In addition, works would be small and scattered throughout the
project area. These works, totalling US$6.9 million equivalent over three and
a half years, would not attract large foreign contractors and would, therefore,
be let on the basis of local competitive bidding in accordance with Government
procedures, which are satisfactory. It is expected that contractors from
neighboring districts of India would participate in the tendering. This would
supplement the few Nepalese contractors for this type of civil works near the
project area. Small repair works in the existing system totaling about US$1.4
million equivalent would be carried out through force account.



- 18 -
51.       Disbursement would be made against:  (a) 100% of foreign expendi-
tures and 80% of local expenditures for civil works (by contract or by force
account); (b) 100% of foreign expenditures of directly imported materials,
equipment, vehicles, and spare parts; (c) 100% of the ex-factory price for
such materials and equipment manufactured locally; (d) 75% of total cost for
equipment and materials procured locally under off-the-shelf procedures;
(e) 100% of total expenditures for technical services and fellowships; and
(f) 75% of expenditures for agricultural extension and training staff.
Cost Recovery
52.       The investment cost related to irrigation would amount to about
NRs 17,000 (US$1,416) per ha of the 6,600 ha net project area. This is
equivalent to an annual capital cost of about NRs 1,730 (US$144) per ha, over
50 years at a 10% interest rate. Annual O&M cost is estimated at about NRs
280 (US$23) per ha. Thus, a watercharge of about NRs 2,000 (US$167) per ha
would be necessary for full cost recovery. Water charges in the project area
have increased from NRs 6 to NRs 60 per ha per crop since 1975.  Under the
present cropping intensity of about 130%, this amounts to about NRs 80 per ha
per year.  With a projected cropping intensity of 165% at full development,
the total charge would be about NRs 100 per ha per year.  Indirectly, increases
in land tax revenues, from cleared land and in duties on milling and export of
rice, would contribute a further NRs 75 per ha per year.  However, since it is
the Government's policy to cover O&M cost and as much as feasible of capital
cost from benefitting farmers, water rates would have to be raised substan-
tially.
53.       Full recovery of the irrigation investment cost (NRs 2,000 per ha
per year) would imply a twenty-fold increase of present rates and would tax
away more than 85% of the estimated average project rent per ha (65% of
average incremental farm income). The vast majority of the benefitting farm
households are living under subsistence conditions, with an average per capita
income of about NRs 780 (US$65) per year, approximately half the national
average. Even after full development many would not exceed the projected
average income of about NRs 1,420 ((US$118) after payment of water charges
covering O&M costs. Imposing a full recovery charge at full development would
keep average incomes   well below the national average and would reduce or
even eliminate the incentive of farmers to participate in the scheme and to
take the risks associated with it. Since fixing charges according to size of
holding is not administratively practical, water charges would have to be set
at a level that takes into account the ability to pay of farmers with incomes
below the average. However, there is scope for partial capital cost recovery,
since water rates set to recover O&M costs would only amount to about 12% of
the average project rent, equivalent to an increase of about 180% over present
levels.
54.       Not later than one year after completion of the works in an area
commanded by a distributary, the Government would establish and collect water
charges sufficient to: (a) cover O&M costs; and (b) recover, in progressive
steps over a reasonable period of time, the investment cost of irrigation
works to the fullest extent possible, having due regard to the farmers'
ability to pay, the necessary incentives for their participation in the pro-
ject, and the need for public savings to finance other development activities



- 19 -
(Section 4.02(a) of the draft DCA). The Government intends, on an experi-
mental basis, to introduce on a limited area a charging system that takes into
account the number of irrigations received by farmers instead of the present
flat rate system. This is intended as a step towards a volumetric water
charge and to encourage more efficient water use by farmers.
Benefits and Risk
55.       The project would improve irrigation and drainage in the existing
irrigated area as well as expand the area under irrigation. It would provide
farmers with a more reliable supply of water, reduce dependence on erratic
monsoon rainfall and thus increase the incentives for higher input use and
adoption of more advanced farming practices. Project benefits would be
generated through: (a) structural improvements and rehabilitation of the
existing irrigation system (3,400 ha), allowing regulated and more reliable
water supply down to 7-8 ha farm group outlets; (b) introduction of full scale
irrigation to an area coming under cultivation for the first time (3,200 ha);
(c) improving farm and water management practices by organizing farmers in
Water Users Groups and providing them with appropriate training; and (d)
improving the quality of advice given to farmers through strengthening and
stream-lining of the local agricultural extension system.
56.       The principal benefits of the project would be increases in the
annual production of foodgrains (7,600 tons), cash crops (1,600 tons) and
vegetables (2,000 tons) in the project area valued at a little over US$2.0
million equivalent. Increased employment opportunities would also be brought
about by the project. Increased farm labor requirements are estimated at
about 360,000 mandays a year at full development. Construction activities and
forest clearing also would create employment in the order of 4 million mandays
during the five years of project implementation.
57.       Other benefits of the project weoid include improved future avail-
ability of trained engineers and agriculturisI.s as a consequence of the
project's training component.
58.       Poverty in the project area weiiid ;e reduced bv the project siace
the number of farm families presently with NRs 780 per capita per year cr less
would be reduced roughly from about 65% to about 40%.  Average pFr capita
income at full development would almost double to abouit NRs 1,420, close to
the national average.
59.       The economic rate of return of the project is estimated at 14%.
Analysis indicates that the project's viability would not be seriously affected
by longer implementation and benefit build-up periods. Sensitivity to cost
overruns is also moderate. The rate of return is, however, sensitive to
deviations from the assumed level of gross returns at full development. It is
not likely that shortfalls in benefits would exceed the critical limit, since
market prospects for crops to be produced are good and since a strengthened
extension service, tailored to the needs of farmers, would be an important
component of the project.



- 20 -
60.       There are no risks attached to this project beyond those that are
typically present in agriculture and irrigation development schemes in Nepal.
The project would have no adverse environmental impact.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
61.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Kingdom of Nepal
and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement, are being distributed
to the Executive Directors separately.
62.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Special conditions of effectiveness are:
(a) selection of engineering consultants;
(b) establishment of MIDB; and
(c) appointment of a Project Manager, senior roads engineer
and an agricultural development officer with qualifica-
tions and experience satisfactory to the Association.
63.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
64.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 5, 1980



- 21 -
WADL!         C                               Page   of 5 pages
ISIPAXs - 50CLAL 15DID'C1DG DOAT  SluT
zu     Ic  GEUPS (115J73T 6^I0
L43   14  TOSA40. '.                                                          - IM.)  MAL     ISTmAT
T      STCL IL    40.2                                 WISS IICZ"S      C0A1C DCOlt
1960  &     1970 l   STtSA    b       ICIOIt       GM"P 1A    G3020  1
G0N FM CAnT  MM                        40.0         40.0 o   120.0 a191.1                209.6        67.5
sIMu  OF COAl. zv*m               sa          .ao       U.A              9.1        U.0        2U2.1
A0  vr!AL STATIMSo
IOFGLhXZOM   n u   nnoa L  (RX6"Ona I  9.3        11.6                                     .      3*
1134  Pa0Yg30al    (P1=T or TOMAL)  3.1           3.          .3.            1.2        162          26
POPOLATIO  U 2T0      0 (MOIo So )           *         *
STAoUMT 701U1ICS  (XS =S)                                 31.0
SZ S;O=T MPUf     IS 2      120 .                    .
ooiuL&TIo cxXSUT
?a sq. ft.                     '    6.0        41.0       96.0            ".6         .9.4        43.3
M  Sq. fL .0COLT0ZL LAW           :43.0       286.0      331.0           330.2        32.0       169.0
porL.L?Z0 A43 52100C01 (?ZLU17
0-14 TIS.                          41.3         2.0      62.0             '.3         43.1        65.2
1s-46 Ts.                           56.0        53.0      15.0             32.6        33.2        51.9
5 TSS. AM ,ABo                       2.7         3.0        3.0             3.1         3.0         2.8
POPULATION GIOVU 12A1 (?UCT)
%0TAL                               L.1         2.0        2.2             2.4         2.4         2.7
12548                               6.5         4.3        6.4    .       .4.1         6.6         *.3
m3CDI Sm7  UTZ (PI  IUS&0'1n        6.0         45.0      46.0              64.6       62.4         39.4
CR1M2 DrATU RAZ (PER MOOSAW)         29.0         23.0      19.0             16.4       Li.9         11.7
02053 Ru30c0so0   ILi                 3.0         3.0        3.2              3.2        2.9         2.7
ADCI11015, ANNUL. (SZOUSJS           ..        37.4      1..
MlS  (1RCE I? OP Wh f ;,tD           ..         0.7        3.0             7.9        1.2I2        L3.2
DD2  of 1000 PIRDUCTION
U 011TA (1969-71-100;             110.7       102.0       U.4             ST.4        96.2        99.6
U CUPT  S0?T  or
RQEIW4iiZs)                      92.0        90.6a      95.0            93.0        93.3        96.7
21ME S tC2MS 3E  DAY)              51.0        52.0      50.0             56.1        32.1        56.3
Of WW3R ANtLAL AM  ?sr            9.0         1.0        9.2            10.4        13.6        17.4
C8L  (405 1- 1   ALIZ7  R            35.0        D.0        23.0            19.2       1U3.          11.4
Zn tFC.E2PCT A  A  8I7   (11657)   37.0          42.0      45.0             69.1        49.3        54.7
TOU55AM)                               *-       120/          .. O5                                68.7
ACCiS TO WE s A ;   (PUCUrr or
?POLMA.r1052
=A:                               ..         2.0        9.0            31.5        26.3        36.4
0144.5                               ..        53.0       01.0            U3.9        5$.         57.9
UIRAi.                              ..           *-        5.0            L0.          5. 8       11.2
ACCESS 50 tJ9XCL  13905t.L (15trL
.L                                  ..          1.0       L.0             15.7        16.0        -.8.
7134.31                             ..         14.0       t4.0            66.8        65.1        71.3
tGs                           -         *-             ~~~ ~ ~~~          ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2.5  3.3  27-t
10?  4 t: cY ?tgPER -T d         r:o00.0      477O0.0/f 3365C401         7137.9    it396.4       6799.4
PMi 5 ULSMG nlso           ..      4632C.3  52770.0a          12064.0     3312.4        522.1
.u3?-.A20  71  &.sP14  323
813C.0      6750.7    6630.0           2728.4      I117.1       716.5
CR13.i;                              ..          ..         ..              ..       197.13      272.7
IrAL                                 .           ..         ..              ..      445.9       106...
A0MZSS33IS ?fl 405112. SD3             -.          -. ..                       .                    27.5
4115401 SUZ OF ?.OS0CLD
0TL6                                ..          5.3        ..               ..         !.3         5.4
=3                                 3.4          ..         ..              ..         4.9         5.1
ALZL                                 ..          ..         .               ..         3.6         5.3
7MACt  LAtR to  PRs13508s P1R 30mom
M'AL                                ..           ..       ..               . .
R54 *2\;..                                       ..        ..               .           ..
,r . q^L;cS)
1A3                                20 ..2         .         ..              ..          . .    .5:1
*mA!                                 ..           .9 ..                     ..          ..         9.9



- 22 -
P. 2
TABLe 3A                                      Page  2  of  5  pages
fEPAL - S )CtAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LRUE=UC C2OUPS  ADJUSTED  SVERMM
- )05T UCZ!tT ESTIXAT
SAME        SMO       'Mr. fICHER
MOS? SECErN      EOcRArIC    LNCOMZ          DCOCME
1960 /b     1970 /b ZSTMATZ lb        RCEION /I   GROUP /d    C2DU? /*
EDUCATION
A.US D ENROLLMENT ZAT2IO
ftmAa:       WrAL                   9.0         26.0      60.0             59.5       63.3         82.7
MALE                  L6.0        44.0       95.0            74.9        79.1         87.3
FINAL                  1.0         6.0       25.0            43.7        48.4        75.8
StCOM=Y:   MAL                      6.0          9.0      12.0             L9.3       16.7        21.4
NAU                   11.0        15.0       20.0            27.8        22.1         33.0
MAIS                   La2.0       3.0        *.0             10.0       10.2        15.5
VOCATtONAL EQOL. ( 0  SECONDARY)   0.2             6.0      22.0/i            1.3        5.6          9.8
MtL-TECE  RAATIO
lR7YARY                            33.0        22.0       31.0           4*.2         '1.0         34.1
SECONDARY                         31.0         21.0       28.0               ..         .7         23.4
AWLT LuT.  ACY       (PtE&=)          9.OLI       La0       19.2             25.5        31.2        54.0
PASSENGER CAS PU TEUSAXI
POPULATION                          0.2         0.4         ..              L3         L.           9.3
3.6510 RECEIVES ?a TEOSAID
FOPULAXION                          1.0         3.0        6.0             15.5       27.2         76.9
TV RECEIVERS FM TOUSAND
POPLATION                            ..           ..        ..               ..        L4          13.5
NKS?APIU (OVAILLT GI4UL
V=rSuSr) CIRCLATION? PE
1U056AN  POPULATION                   0.8          2.0       8.0              6.2        5.3         18.3
C7IS  AlarUAL An'ACZ P   CA            ..           ..        ..               ..         1. 
LABOR FORCE
WEAL LABO  FORCE (THOUSAI)         4300.0       1553.0    6336.0
FMUL  (PEMCIY)                     40.3         60.3       0.0             U.4        24.8         29.2
AGRIC1LTU  (PERCMeE)               94.6         93.9      93.0             66.3       69.4         62.7
DUSLIE (?PMCECN)                    2.0         2.1        2 0              9.6       10.0         11.9
PARTICIPATION gAIT (PECZNr)
TOTAL                                50.0         48.7      61.3             35.8       36.9         37.1
HALE:                               "59.8         58.3      58.1             52.3       52.          4 8 .8
FEMALE                               40.2         39.2      38.5             15.7       18.0         Z0.'
5CGOlIC DEENIDEYCT RATIO                0.9          1.1       0.9              1.3        1.2          1.4
nicaHE oDISRrIBUrToN
PMENtu  r OF ?RIVAIT 24CM                                     _
tEEIVED Ot
EaCHEST 5 ?ERCNEr OF HOOSESOLDS       .           ..        ..               ..          .         15.2
RGIHEST 20 PEUCITE 0r 80031MOL0      ..           ..        ..               ..         .. O8.2
LOWEST 20 PrCrI-c   or ?oUSESOLDS    ..           ..        ..               ..         ..          6.3
LOVET 40 PUCE2IT 0t HOUSEEOLOS       ..           ..        ..               ..         ..         16.3
POVEXT! A'r    C.CtPOLs
ESTL'CATEED ~LSSGL:77 ?OVUIT INICOME
LETVL (OSS PER CAPITA)
MRAN                           .     ..           ..      8.0              S6.5       99.2       241.3
RLRAL                                ..           ..      40a              74.2       78.9       136.6
ESTIhATED RETAT:VE POVETT 0tCKE
LEVL (USS PER CAPITA)
LRBA-                                ..           ..        ..               ..       91.9       179.7
IELL                                  -           -       37.0             50.4       54.8       103.7
ESTELATEOD POPLAITIO  BEIOV ABSOL=I
POVRTY INCOME 'EVEL (VERCErT)
8AN                                  ..           ..      55. a             4.3       44.1        24.S
UL.                                  ..           ..                       52.4       53.9         37.5
.ot avatlabli
Not applicabl.
TL he adjusted group a&"rages for each indicacor are populacion  eighted otic otcans, *scluding the uxcrete
valuQs of the Loditacor and the aoat populacad coantry In each group.  :overage of coLntries anong V^A
tndicators depends oan availability of daca and is noc uniform.
/b    Unless  crterwise ooted, data for 1960 refer co any  ear bocween 1959 and 196l; for !970  between L969
and 1971; anm for Most R.cenc Esitmate, between 1974 and 1977.
/I    SouCh Asia;  !d  Lov 'ncome (5280 or less per capita 1976):  /a  Lower MUddle income (S2l-j50 7er   pitca.
1976);   !f  ?ersonn-l In government services-   j  incluring amdwives ann assistant 'urss;  ,h  L971-73;
it "ppar secondary (grades 3-10) only; r 96.
Scat Retnc Encitoate of CtY per capits is for .978.
Juaat. 1979



- 23 -                                                             ANNEX I
DEFINTIM   F SOIAL IIDICTORSPage   3   of  5   pages
RWiyfShAO  the = datariha   finm awaic  geeamasw  iSia  C.e eat ms*cribative mad r1olehi, it ohm" also he antS that thp St sot ha otrm--
lack of stedardisad defaftimit, ad soeOaap, sad IV difftacet ocetrnistonoaet Ca10%M A Sata, mab acts arc, Doltalno,
uxaful to daserih  cidr." of  amitada, Loin0sa, treds, mad  bchaatema cartsi, Major dtffwraao  baton cO-timL.
=c      [P15232gyog  f-r ash idicator  ra, paani-                     Sitsgatric as, sinldlg tha airus  mina. of tha  .Adloator end tha so.t popitad
omaryta a          . hato tak of data, gaoup anraga  or all ladicabaors for Cetal mcpica Oil MKpates cad of LuindIatrs of Aao-a  - WUstr ad 3-ra,n
Mapoas, Noslag, Ucma Mistributin ad towarby fbi oath ca-tap gsps aWe pnpaLatiwa-eltetd gasmmtric Se wittmt a-basis of tha satin nialma ad
the AmIt pMMnaatd caty         le   acy ~fati                         aiiamwda.-alniloof data Pd i  me t aifomm   catifa eat ha eaarelaad
ia relati   nema  of malaUcto Wt meal.                                       o,"-WUU-.0m compra   'aW
'I C     (t a aad      kg..)                                                          tao   otn.Msai  orcto   oaain      oa.cb.   d rura-
-C toa-rieae    Wis." led  are. Mad ibsamd entaro                                Ca fpol  Iti  is,adnaa)ero   yacsadsoa
tJu~-  - -49t roost attist. of  lariatural  -n  Oad tisporcIti                     pactno f tocir rapacity  poulatiom.. toceota disposal May iciada
or peremnetly fee crap.,ptastr-., Markat Mad kitao.  garde. or to                   tha colisotia ad dlapocal, otto or otibaut trtantt, of bin   -ort
ito fllow.                                                                          NAd watc-tabo  by watar-b-em   aysit-  or tbs -sa of pit pita-. a   .aollar
a"  mCAP=(06)- MP par s.Pita aatiatca at czarcat merkat picas,                   lOsi.tiar.acias- Poyaltio., diuidad by uouac  of preatietog phyaiciaa
cahenscc   opa    oi-*eriaC mathd as  ariA batk Atlas (1976-78 baatah              119alasa             a dWWW7 1c  cboci at antersity level.
196, 1970   ad978 data.                                                             hoalatloo m.fiujim,..rs:j  - PopsUicio  6iditad by mumb- of praCticiag Mal.
7sIus   Ay9       - AnManicoat    of carsta   ...'                         Mal f.-iagradatc.rsa*prawtical warso, ad Casiaisnt nor....
1iaI   0lti7dt60,noraOL ga. ad hydro-, maI-  ad Sao-                           Potosltioc par Ept-al a     oa.c .a   oa     oaain(oa,ubn
temlnctriiy  iilogrem. of coal aqia"lea   par capita; i960,                  tad rnatl) dividod by terralobv  ocWo  o   opitl bed  anlalato
1970, ad 1976 4ata.                                                                   poalic and Frirst, genaral ad apatialind hoatpitaL and rehbtlibtton costar..
.Ibsptala are aatbliab.nta parmnotly  tf fad by at toast one pdsyatCia.
POPJIATIW An VITAL WCAIBTICS                                                             Uatahiabaaata provding pricipally cuatodial ono ar  not includd. coral
Tota  Fppaiatioa. EIn--Yoarallitaa) - A. of Poly 1; 1960, 1970, ad                    bhapital., homoer, leloda health and madical c_tor. nOt permnetly ti&ffnd
by a phatoiian (but by a madinal asa.itact, corac, aidwifo, ate.) ohiob offer
Ure  osltte   parrt ofttl)-Itic of cib  to total population;                      In-ptatte  aocinodctioo, ad provde a liditd rang  of eadical factiltia..
difrat deiiio.o   rb    ra eC   ffat osar-btilty of data                         diao.wr laia   a    Ttota   .. or of admaiona- to or dioohatgea fro
saog caoutrics; 196, 1970, ad 197  data.                                            hCptl  dvdi  y the Can,r ofbes
- Curret ppaltio    projactiona are based on              uGn
1Wit7pop.alc-tio  b  age and en  ad their mrtality and fartility          AeaoSo   fioeed(esn   e   oshl)-ttl   ia.a   ua 
rat.a. ProJotion p-ratora for Mortality rat.a ospriar of thre.                    A hahld -oaaaofagop  fidviul  Acaaelia    ortr   n
laeis-   soao  life nopctacy at birth la,rassing  itho ecetey',                   their sin MCLI.. A boarder or loAer my or Sy act be included Lo toe
par capita inca  leel ca d f a-li lit. 5spoetacy  tabbilinteg at                  houachld for sttietiral piepoass.
77.5 yoara. The peslters for fertility rate also tare tisrac leaa               Avrg ndroforc    e  room -Ltotal,uran,andrrl- Aa                          cme
asuawaig declice be fertility  -ccodiog to toes- lave  ad pest                    opesnprroml                 uba,drrlocpid- cove -ia  d--lioga,
ffaA] 1 osaine performance. Knob coosstry ta this asaig.d way of tbh..            ropaprtierly,  D-1og. e-olude  o-pienot strutures and unoccupied porte.
ni-o estia-tca  of Mortality and fertility trauda for projfotion                Acoca. to Ectricity (nr t ogf delna  - total,t urban. end  ral Coo-
Purpoaca        ioiattoaypnto    hnn~~                                            ootmldeln.rt   lcrct  in liv,Inqurroc pereoboe0
st.ti-   i.. - T . tti-7 pop~ltioo th- i. C.Cr..thtotal, urbn, and rura  dooliga. riapoti-ely.
ra. hate L. equal to the death rate, ad aLa.. to. age
at-oture ri-lea contant. Thi. i. ahieved  c1y after fertility vatoa          EDtTEyIOg
decin  t  the roplacet leve  of unit not reprductiaon into, chn              A,iitd.o.lebOto
each gertion of   an replaces itocif ecatly.T. thestionaty pop.-                  Prier   cho -. total,cb odfml  - Grna, total, ane and female  -aroll
lati- at,. en  ectimted on the basia of toe projected cbaracteriaticas                    fal  gea thepiayfleve  as percntada of rospettee primary
of th  popolnito  In the feat 200, and the rate of danlioc of fr-tility             cobol-ogo popolatioob; normally includes children, aged 6-11 year  but
rate to replaaanit leve.                                                            adjuatad for different lengths of priaty eduction; for c-utriro otb
Year attionaor oclatica i. reached - The year he  atationory popastice                univrsal edcatica encolimat  t  -eoed lii pirceot ci-r  c.i pupil,
stag has hi  reahed.                                                                ate helm r  bove the official achool age.
Pop,ulation DensIty                                                                   lcITdar scol-Coa,  aead     -i     optedasnl-e;-ooodary
Per on. he: - mid-yea  population per square kilomter (lit bhotars) of                edcto  riuiv  atlat fuyesof approved prosoy icatruction,
total atnp-id-a general  -octionl, or teachr training instructio-  for pupil,
piar. to.  agiutua -ad - Compted as above for agricultural land                       usualy of 12 to 17 Yea,ofao  correpondenc   --uee  are g-irlY
onLY.                                                                               rolded.
Po9oaLatloa Aee Otrctore (cereet) - Childr-  (0-14 yoars), oorkin,-ace                Poctiocal aurolit (coret of oeodato( - Vorsticoal io.titutio.. i.olode
(15-6. Ye---), cad retired (h5 pecr  and over) as perCentW.e of mid-yost              technial.., ndcr,oother program .hc operate todepodetlyore
population; 19b0, 1970, and 1977 data.                                                deprtacta of ooondcry i-etitutiona.
Poultoniroh bat  pecn)- total - Ancurl ercith ratra of total aid-               Pupil-teacher rati  -  rusy  no !sondy  - Total stdeots  urdled in
peorpopuatios fo  195-60,l9oU70,ad 1970-77.                                 priar   ndseory     y  ee.dvddby comber, of teachers in tic co rn-
Population, iro-tb Rtot   pret  -uban - Annua gr-th mica of urba                        apoodiag leve..I.
poalctlona- for 1950-bO, 19b0-70, cod 1970-75.                                      Adult literac  rnte (errc...t) - Litirat   Adiot  able no read nod orit) a.
Crude  itoPt S    rprS76psas A) - 4Ana live birth. per th .Cua.d of aid-                apercetugi of total nduit popolatioc aged 15 yeare and over.
cy                             antid1   1977 data
Cr.dft. D..th   r th.  A nnuAlal deatho per toocoand of old-year         CiohjMpTtIfl
populitom   ~0   970  an 977 dt.                                           Paeercora  pee icocdrroplatico) - P ...ce  car,  con prior  uto rcAr
to opoduct on 5         -ag. nua.  ofnCaghterea Of   ill ber.                      aentlg less tb . eigh   perc; euclude   osu -coc  lre  and nilitor
to her coral reproduotl- period if  h abrperie-ce  pres..ot age-                    vebiole.
apecific fert ility mica.; u-ully five-year averages ending i. 1960,              badlo peivert,oc  thoocad cpulatica) - ill type. of reciver  for radio
1970, oad 1975.                                                                     broadsto tognral public per thousad of population; -clodiC oclicen..ed
Family PI-anao  - AcI.Ptora. Annua )thouaanICd.) - Anau.l outer of                    reeie. icoontrica and i. years  hen r-giotratico of radi  orbcoi
acceptors of birt-cotrol device  coder nucpi-e  of cationa.l famIly                 effect; data for r-cut year. soy not bv coparble ulcer eotcotre
planni   pr-gran                                                                    aboliahd lre.-ig.
Faelly Planein                F sr   oret of arie  oCc) - Por-etage of snortd       TV evivera- (per thouaad population) - TV receiver  for broadonut to gocciral
wmnof child:b-bern   aSe  b1-ipa   h   c  brth-control device                    public per thousand pocltc;eooi   nicenard TVrec-lcro  incoctries
to all Married com   t.no a    ge grop.                                             and in   -   heo a e   regictrstico of TV oneoa  in effect.
per Cpita(196971-l0)                        coscacr Cioulaioc (er touaad cojolatica  - b              heovrge  iclto
of"dily genra  Loterectcspapr R, deflard  ope.ro-dicoI p  obct ion
Index of Food  M C1:,fCi.(997=0)- Todec of pe  capitao                                deouted primarily to recording geo..raI aeo.  It is conidered no be  daily'
anul  rduto  of al f:pond    odittes. Prod-otic          _ ocldes aed ro             ri  per   ilec   ortr       et
feed cod is   c cleodar year baei. Comditioc covr prioygoode.Ana Attod tc per Caita. cc  er-  nr.cth   one o.ih
(e.g.  agaran  inara o~f_sugar))hiob  are edible and o-otait  ceet                cddrn   h   er  oloigncoio   odiei   ir    and  kch ti
(eg -ofead te  ocr e     Ildod. Aggregate production of i.-b  -utry          unit..
Per capta coecy of cloriraZceroen  ofrotoCoto  - Compted fro.          lItb FORCE
co-gyp equivalt ofart fond eupicaalabl  in co-try per c-pits                    Total Labor Forc  (thou-ad.) - tcoco-i-a y active pci-cone, incodi'd arcd
per dy.  Avalable -uppliec -onprior d-metic prcductloc, isporte lean              force  and unepivyd but occluding hcurio-c, studecto, etc  Defiit-t
ecporta  and chace  In tooth.  let copplico  -Iclde anioal feed, seede,           ic   -aiu  coutriec  -c con c-parble.
quantities used in food prooac:.iog, and loobi dictribotion. Require             iae(pp    -aPole labor foro  a, pi-cetag  of total labor force.
sn,wreCtisted by TAO hed cc phyoiolngi-nloeed   for nomal                   riutue rI          o)-Labor force in farming, forectry, hunting and
activity cod health ..ocaid-rlg e-irorrtal tsprrnturr, body wegts                 iohig so peretage of total labor frce.
age codar  dietribution, of populat-, and alocing It peerot for                 Iaduatry (percent) - Labor force ic mining, conotrotion, ecfaetring nod
wasIte at hoshold leve.                                                            electicity, water cod gao no percetage of total labor fror.
Per ccpita   pplyofprmteic (grmo Per day   Protein vontit of pc-             Pticipatio  Onto (ocoet) - total, male, and fesnle - Participntioc or
cap ta  o  spply of food per~ dp. iNet supply of foud i. defined us            aciiyrte   r opoted no total, sal, nod frsnlr inbr forc.. per-
above. Pquir_te for all coutries established by Uito provide for a.               -etage  of total, od  ad female populatio  of all ages respectively;
abd     allcaceof 601 gr-m  of total protein per day and 20d gram  of             1960, 1970, cod 1975 data. Ther.  or  I101, porticiputio  i-atec reflectin
snmlad pulse protein, of ohich 10 gre  hiold be animal protein.                ge-ore structur  ofthe population, and  og tine trend. Afen estimate
These standards ar  Ins-  than those of 75 grom  of total protein nod             Ir-fo    to       . crve..
23 gree  of cioial protein as an average for the world, propu.. d by iAO        -cnmcPpneo   ni       ai   fPloainudr1  o   ~ad  -ci  to
inteTidwol  odlroy1h=aorfrei  g  group of 15-64 years.
Pe1r cpita pr araupl fro  anmlad pulse - Prottl. eupply of food
Cidags1-4)itilt  oe(e  thousad)    Annual. deaths per thousan.d               Peonaeo   rvte cnabth Ic cash and kind)   H Orcivo  by richest
Ic ae gr,sp  -b yar,,to children in this age group; fo   otde-5prcet rices  2  pecn,post2peet,cderattpret
oping  -outrios data derived fron life tables,                                      of housholds.
HEALTH                                                                              POVEiRrY TAPGIM GROUIPS
lie Foetac  a   irh  -ror) - Avrg   ubro   rr   flf                            aitdAalt  Povrt.Ic -coo                Ive  (iU1P.pc on,Pita) -ubac and rural-
reales   t b,itrth;I 190  1970, and 1977. data.                                Absolute poverty inoelvl is thet income1- lev l  heln obih a mlica
brfact Mortality Rtot  (earrthousand) - dA-u.I deathe of infants under on_ntritionally adequate dirt plu  essen..tial non-food requirouentc is cot
Year of age Per thousad live birth..                                                nffordblc.
...eaa to S.eWae  (poroost ofp-uaIo - total uban. sn  f  -l                        Ectiated ORlatle Poverty Inca-  avl (U00 per onpita) - urban and rurl1
Csro  pol    tota, urban, and  ura   etbraoal   ces oRrlrltv    oerytr.lcli   n-third of averagepr  ca,pita
safe enter eupply )taclodec treated suface oasis or ontreated hut                   personal Incom  of the coutry. urban leve  is dirtied f ron tbe rura  leve
uncotaminated sater such as that from protected borehols, epringa,                  eith ndjusbmrst for higher cot of living is urban arena.
cod eanitary well.) as percetages of their rpapstive populatlon. In               Eitimtedl Po  abletlon Absolut Povert incom  Lev l ( rcet( - urba  and
asubanae   public fouttain or  tonpApt located sob acr  than                       rua- ecnto   ouaIo   ubnad  ua;o    are holte por.
200 sabrs from a hus  May he  -osderd 5 bein  othin reasoable
aceaa of that house,  In rual atoa reasonble'_ aracould i,ply
that the h-cacif. or aete.ra of toe houehold do cot bar  to spend aEonoic and Ocrial Duat  liciebo
disproportionte port of the doy in fetchIng the family's flir sesd.                                                 _cnoic A.Clycis and P-oj,ctioce lepertanet
Auguct 1979



- 24 -
A'lNEX I
Page 4 of 5 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GNP F.R  2.xprrA IN 1977   T,$il0 /a
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1976                                       ANNUAL RATE OF CROWCH (7>, constant prices)
US$ Mln.      Z                            1965-75
CDP at Market Prices                         1,548     100.0                             2.0
Gross Domestic Investment                      155      10.0
Gross National Saving                           78        5.0
Current Account Balance                    -    3      - 0.2
Exports of Goods, NFS                          124       8.0
Imports of Goods, NFS                          201      13.0
OUTPUT. LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1977                                                   Value Added
Value Added               Labor Force /b           Per Worker
US$ M1n.      %          Mln.        %                 US $
Agriculture                                    996       68.0        5.9        93.0                169
Industry                                       132        9.0        0.1         2.0              1,320
Services                                       337      23.0         0.3         5.0              1,123
Total/Average                     1,465      100.0        6.3       100.0              232.5
GOVERNMENT FIMANCE
C;NTRAL GOVERNMENT
Rd. K1n.                        % of GDP
1975/76       1976/77      1977/78       1978/79      1976/77
Current Receipts                     1,097.Z       1,302.2       1,559.3       1,688.0         7.5
Current Expenditure                    654.1         784.1         815.0         991.5         4.5
Current Surplus                        443.1         518.1         744.3         696.5         3.0
Capital Expenditure                  1,224.6       1,486.4       1,792.9       2,049.7         8.6
External Assistance (net)              489.5         538.1         830.7       1,019.3         3.1
MDNEY. CREDIT AND PRICES
1975     1976      1977     1978    1979
(Million Rs outstanding mid-July)
Money and Quasi Money                               2,064    2,524    3,223    3,772   4,517
Bank Credit to Public Sector                          286       480      750       966   1,154
Bank Credit to Public Enterprises                     569       567      511       869   1,108
Bank Credit to Project Sector                         783       716       864    1,072   1,304
Money and Quasi Money as 7, of GDP                   12.5      14.5     18.6
General Price Index (1973/74 - 100)                 116,8    115.9    119.0    132.3   136.8
Annual Percentage changes in:
General Price Index                                  16.8    - 0.7       2.7      11.2      3.5
Bank Credit to Government                           104.3      67.8     56.3      28.9    19.5
BanK Credit to Public Enterprises                   341.1    - 0.4    - 9.9       70.1    27.5
Bank Credit to Private Sector                        11.5    - 8.5      20.7      24.1    21.6
Note:  All conversions to US dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period
covered.
/a World Development Re7orts 1978 and 1979.
Lb Total labor force; uremployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.
not avaifable



- 25 -
A.rEX I
Page 5 of 5 pages
TRADE PAYEMNTS AND CAPTTAL FLOWS
AItANCE OF PAYMENTS                       1     6                         .CH17DISE ExprowS 1977/78  */
1975176  122ilZZ  1977/78                                                             U$Kn
(Millions USS)
Exports, f.o.b. b/                           98.3     93.9    8b.3       Foodstuff & raw materials                                  71.5      53.0
Imports, c.i.f. b/                         156.3    166.9    209.7    Manufactures                                                  14.7      17.0
Trade Balance                         -58.0    -73.0   -120.9                                                                   -         -
Total                                                 84.2     100.0
bervices, net                                23.2     39.4     47.6
of which:  Tourism                        17.1      23.0     30.2
EmBsNAL DEST. DECEMSER 31,1978
Transfers, net                               27.7     30.8     25.1                                                               us$ Xln.
of which:  Private Remittances             18.7     21.5     18.3
Indian Excise Refund            7.9      9.3       8.1     Public Debt, incl. guaranceed                              87.7
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Current Accounr Balance                -8.2    - 2.8   -48.2       Total outta2nding 6 Disbursed                               87.7
Official Grants                              21.1     18.5     23.9
Official Capital, net                        12.1     16.3     22.7    DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1977 c/
Private Capital, net                         9.6    -10.3    -10.4
Public Debt, inc. guarauteed                                1.4
Change in Reserves (- Increase)       -34.6    -21.7      12.0
Gross Reserves (mid July)                   120.3    145.3    135.1
Net Reserves                                114.9    137.8    126.1
Fuel and Related Materials                                              ISRD/IDA LEND!NO, (Februry 1980) (Million US9)
Imports of which:  Petroleum              14.3      17.6     17.5                                                              IBRD        IDA
Exports of which:  Petroleum                          -        -
Outstanding & Disbursed                                             55.7
Undisbursed                                              ----      145.7
RATE OF EXCHANGE         oFrom October 1975 t.roup                       Outstanding incl. Undisbursed                                      201.4
Through October 1975   march 20, 1978                Since March 20, 1978
US$ 1.00 - %Rs 10.56   US$ 1.00 - NRs 12.5           US$ 1.00 - ,SRs 12.00
NR  1.00 - USS 0.095   NR  1.00 - USS  0.08          NR  1.00 - uz$  0.083
a/ Customs basis.
b/ Payments basis.
c/ Ratio of Debt Service co Exports of Goods and Non-Factor Services.
not applicable                                                                                            South Asia Progrms Department
March 1980



- 26 -
ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NEPAL
A.   STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS (as of April 30, 1980) la
US$ Millions
Amount (less
cancellations)
Credit                                                                     Undis-
No.      Year         Borrower               Purpose               IDA   bursed
Three credits fully disbursed                                        7.1
373        1973      Kingdom of Nepal    Irrigation                  6.0      0.5
397        1973      Kingdom of Nepal    Telecommunications II    5.5         1.7
470        1974      Kingdom of Nepal    Water Supply and
Sewerage                11.8       3.5
505        1974      Kingdom of Nepal    Settlement                  6.0      4.8
600        1976      Kingdom of Nepal    Kulekhani
Hydroelectric           40.8      23.5
617        1976      Kingdom of Nepal    Rural Development           8.0      6.2
654        1976      Kingdom of Nepal    Groundwater                 9.0      3.4
659        1976      Kingdom of Nepal    Technical Assistance        3.0      1.7
704        1977     Kingdom of Nepal    Second Water Supply
and Sewerage             8.0       6.8
705        1977      Kingdom of Nepal    Industrial Development
Corporation              4.0       3.6
730        1977      Kingdom of Nepal    Second Highway             17.0     12.2
772        1978      Kingdom of Nepal    Technical Education         5.7      5.6
799        1978      Kingdom of Nepal    Telecommunications III  14.5        14.5
812        1978      Kingdom of Nepal    Irrigation                 30.0     29.0
856        1978      Kingdom of Nepal    Irrigation                 14.0     13.7
939        1979      Kingdom of Nepal    Second Rural
Development            11.0      11.0
1008       1980     Kingdom of Nepal    Forestry /b                 17.0     17.0
Total Outstanding                         218.4
Total Undisbursed                                   158.7
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT (as of April 30, 1980)
Amount of US$ Millions
Year        Obligor        Type of Business                Loan   Equity   Total
1975     Soaltee Hotel         Hotel                       2.70   0.43      3.13
(Pvt) Ltd.
Total commitments now held by IFC               2.56   0.43      2.99
/a   No Bank loans have been made to Nepal.
/b   Signed May 22, 1980; not yet effective.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
C.   Projects in Execution I/
Credit No. 373 - Birganj Irrigation Project US$6.0 million Credit of
April 18, 1973; Effective Date: July 9, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Implementation of the project is progressing satisfactorily after
initial delays in appointing engineering consultants, in carrying out field
surveys and in procurement. Civil works in the surface irrigation blocks and
construction of tubewells is almost completed. Irrigation operations started
in 1976 from nine tubewells, and in 1977, in the first surface irrigation
block. The project is expected to be completed shortly. Water charges are
now being levied in a limited area, and farmers' acceptance is satisfactory.
Credit No. 397 - Telecommunications Project II US$5.5 million Credit of
June 20, 1973; Effective Date: September 11, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Due to organizational problems, lack of continuity in senior manage-
ment, and delay in obtaining expert assistance, there have been delays in
procurement and the project is about two years behind schedule. Good progress
is now being made with the assistance of experts and consultants provided by
the United Kingdom and a new General Manager has been appointed. The project
is now proceeding satisfactorily and present estimates are for completion by
the end of 1980.
Credit No. 470 - Water Supply and Sewerage Project US$11.8 million Credit of
May 8, 1974; Effective Date: June 26, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1978; Revised Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Design work is complete and all major contracts have been let.
Project implementation is over two years behind the original schedule,
primarily due to delays in letting the contracts. A management team provided
by the United Kingdom is assisting the Water Supply and Sewerage Board. Work
is now progressing satisfactorily. An EEC Special Action Credit was approved
in July 1979, to cover some of the Governments share of the local costs of
the project. During the negotiations for the EEC Special Action Credit, the
implementation schedule and dated covenants were revised, and the closing
date amended to June 30, 1981. All major contracts are expected to be com-
pleted by December 1980.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the projects in execution and, in particular, to report any problems
which are being encountered and the action being taken. They should
be used in this sense on the understanding that they do not purport
to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in
project execution.



- 28 -
ANNEJ II
Page  3
Credit No. 505 - Settlement Project US$6.0 million Credit of August 14, 1974;
Effective Date: February 20, 1975; Closing Date: July 15,
1982
Project implementation, though still about two years behind
schedule, has improved slightly over the last months and 1,550 families
have been settled. Forestry clearing remains a bottleneck and technical
assistance is being provided to speed up the operation. Stress has also been
laid on the need for employment of adequate and experienced staff and better
management and planning of operations. Because of doubts about land use
policy, we are discussing with the Government reduction of project area to be
newly settled from 17,600 ha to 11,100 ha.
Credit No. 600 - Kulekhani Hydroelectric Project US$40.8 million Credit of
January 9, 1976; Effective Date: May 18, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
All civil works contracts have been awarded and construction work
started in December 1977. The revised estimate of project costs, excluding
taxes and duties, is now US$109 million which is some 60% higher than the
estimate of US$68 million at the time of appraisal. The increases in costs
are due to a number of factors, principally design changes as a result of
further geological investigations and the risk factors inherent in a major
project which is remotely located. These are reflected in higher prices and
implementation delays which are adding to costs. In addition, the apprec-
iation of the Japanese yen, in which substantial part of the costs of equipment
and engineering services are being paid, has increased the US dollar cost of
the project. Cofinanciers are providing additional funds to cover the foreign
exchange cost overrun. An IDA supplemental credit of US$14.8 million and an
EEC Special Action Credit of US$3.0 million equivalent were approved by the
Executive Directors on May 10, 1979. Progress is satisfactory.
Credit No. 617 - Rural Development Project US$8.0 million Credit of
April 30, 1976; Effective Date: July 16, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Progress continues to be satisfactory, with almost all planned
project actions being implemented ahead of schedule. Disbursements had been
lagging due to delay of project authority in submitting disbursement applica-
tions. Interministerial cooperation is good, and at the district level, sound
and practical development plans have been produced which are fully supported
and understood by project farmers. Adequate financing to carry out project
proposals has been made available in the budget by the Government and sites
and plans for most district construction projects have been completed and
construction started. Training of weavers and issuance of improved looms
under a credit scheme is proceeding well. Shortage of middle-level staff in
the project area for construction supervision and agricultural extension may
hinder project implementation. However, arrangements have been made for more



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
efficient deployment of existing staff and for special training of farmers
as part-time agricultural assistants. Under the associated Bank-executed
UNDP technical assistance project, the assistant to the Project Coordinator
and the Irrigation Advisor have nearly completed their assignments.
Credit No. 654 - Bhairawa - Lumbini Groundwater Project US$9.0 million
Credit of July 9, 1976; Effective Date: November 9, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Drilling of tubewells is in progress. Thirty-nine production wells
have been constructed. Construction of irrigation units is underway. Recent
supervision missions have discussed ways for expediting civil works contracting
with the Project Authority and the consultants, for ensuring that tubewells
can be energized from local power supplies, and for strengthening the agri-
cultural staff on the project. Construction of village link roads has started.
However, there is delay in implementation due to the weakness of contractors
in the project area and delay in construction of transmission lines.
Credit No. 659 - Technical Assistance Project US$3.0 million Credit of
September 16, 1976; Effective Date: November 16, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Studies for a national agricultural extension project, a silica-
lime brick factory, and the proposed grain storage project have been completed
while studies are in progress for river control for the Sunsari-Morang Irri-
gation Project, an airborne magnetometer survey and cottage industries.
Arrangements for initiating additional studies are being made.
Credit No. 704 - Second Water Supply and Sewerage Project US$8.0 million
Credit of May 27, 1977; Effective Date:
February 28, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Engineering consultants have begun work, and feasibility studies,
master plan updating, and final designs have been completed. A tariff spe-
cialist has been recruited, and the first contract for water meters has
been awarded. Evaluation of the bids for major contracts is underway. An
EEC Special Action Credit was approved in July 1979 to assist in financing
a portion of the Government's share of the local cost of the project.
Credit No. 705 - Nepal Industrial Development Corporation Project US$4.0
million Credit of May 27, 1977; Effective Date:
February 17, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The UNDP-financed policy advisor completed his assignment and the
accounting and information systems advisor took up his post in February 1980.
To date, subprojects for about $1.7 M have been approved by IDA. Progress in
implementation of the credit has deteriorated due to shortages of complementary
local currency resources. Accordingly disbursement have continued to lag.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
Credit No. 730 - Second Highway Project US$17.0 million Credit of
October 19, 1977; Effective Date: December 23, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Project implementation is nearly two year behind schedule due
to delays in the award of contracts and the appointment of consultants.
Consultants (financed by CIDA) arrived in March to provide maintenance
technical assistance. The pre-feasibility study for the Bombasa-Kohalpur
Road was completed in July 1978, and a proposal for the Mechanics' Training
Program is under review by the Government and the Association. Seven of ten
contracts have been awarded for the construction of the Tulsipur Road and
three contracts have been awarded for the earthworks on the Thankot-Naubise
Road. Arrangements for consulting services for supervision of construction
have been finalized.
Credit No. 772 - Technical Education Project US$5.7 million Credit of
April 14, 1978; Effective Date: July 11, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Good progress towards implementation has been made. Contracts have
been signed for all civil works packages, except external works, for which the
bids are being evaluated; however, equipment tendering is behind schedule.
The first batch of fellowship students have completed their programs and a
second batch have started their programs. A team of educational experts,
financed by ODA, have begun work in the field and a program of cooperation
with Paisley College of Technology, Scotland, is progressing satisfactorily.
Credit No. 799 - Third Telecommunications Project US$14.5 million Credit
of August 22, 1978; Effective Date: February 27, 1979
Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
ODA is financing the telex equipmnent and the satellite earth
station. Project consultants have been appointed. Procurement actions have
been initiated.
Credit No. 812 - Sunsari-Morang Irrigation and Drainage Development Project
US$30.0 million Credit of July 7, 1978; Effective Date:
November 30, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The Project Board has been established and the Project Manager,
Senior Agricultural Officer, and consultants have been appointed. Studies
for major canal structural repairs, sediment control and river training are
under way. Contracts for priority works have been awarded and procurement
action for equipment and civil works for Chatra Main Canal is underway. An
EEC Special Action Credit of about US$4.0 million equivalent was approved
in June 1979 to help finance a portion of the Government's share of the
local cost.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Credit No. 856 - Narayani Zone Irrigation Development - Stage II Project
US$14.0 million Credit of November 27, 1978; Effective
Date: January 8) 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The contract for project consultants under Stage I (Nippon Koei)
has been extended to cover Stage II. Contracts for surface irrigation blocks
have been awarded. Procurement of the remaining civil works and for equipment
is being initiated. Satisfactory progress is being made.
Credit No. 939 - Second Rural Development Project - Mahakali Hills
US$11.0 million Credit of August 9, 1979; Effective Date:
January 15, 1980; Closing Date: February 28, 1985
The Project Coordinator has been appointed.
Credit No. 1008 - Community Forestry Development and Training Project
US$17.0 million of May 22, 1980; Effective Date:
August 20, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1986
Credit not yet effective.



- 32 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
NEPAL
MAHAKALI IRRIGATION PROJECT (STAGE I)
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project
3 years
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
Department of Irrigation, Hydrology and Meteorology
with assistance of consultants.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and date
of the first mission to consider the project
December 1976
December 1976
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
January 7, 1980
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations
May 23, 1980
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness
October 31, 1980
Section II:    Special Bank Implementation Actions
None



- 33 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
Section III:   Special Conditions
Conditions of Effectiveness
(a) Establishment of MIDB (para 41);
(b) appointment of PM, EER and ADADO (para 41); and
(c) appointment of engineering consultants (para 45);
Other Conditions
(a) forest clearing, settlement and irrigation develop-
ment would be coordinated through the existing
committee for forest, resettlement and irrigation
development in Kanchanpur District (para 42);
(b) Water Users' Groups would be established to regulate
water distribution to individual holdings (para 43);
(c) fellowships would be provided for about 80 Nepali
students to study civil engineering, mechanical
engineering and agriculture in other Asian countries
(para 44); and
(d) two agricultural consultants would assist with the
operation of a pilot farm for relatively new crops,
and with training in water management and in in-
service training for extension workers and farmers
(para 46).



I



_______________   ___________   ________   __________________ __   _ _ _ _ _ _ _       _______________                                               _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _II      RR D 11489
O0~  St                                                                                                                                                                               MARCH  1980
NEPAL
INDIA.  ii>                                                                tC H I N AMAHAKALI IRRIGATION  PROJECT (STAGE I)
3n- ,P f4s'L  7C!<.~~<!__,i, [, [ -L-t,\.XPROJECT  LOCATION
301
Mountoin Region             f .                       Rivers
Hill Regi,on                                          Development Region Bo-odories
77--I nner Terol                                                                                                          Administrotive   Zonal Boundaries
Tereri                                                District Boond-ries
p/RH/CAT//RN  \  /                            <?   'h'AeA                                                                Kothnoandu Volley                                      rternaorti   Boundaries
' .; .. | | ] T 8 to \ Ll 86 = =   X v ET                                                        G=
I N  ~~~~~~~~uR  1 ANCH        
ben/~~~~~~~~I                                                                                                                                                                                  I
-2B ki                                     VjA P)I0                       2      0     6       0   0       0   10     toINDIAAN                                                                     _//AR   tPRN     //  A    ~  -                 J2N.
9~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~TNl 40 0  0 0                                                                              NAAA I      pN'AiW>   AAPAtA,AR,o/A   AAAP
Mi/ER                                                                               A//I  AA/AAAP/A~AAA~//AO,pA  ,/ AAPAAAAA   PA AAAA/,AAApA,,A,A
C~ ~ ~ ~~ o                                                                                               IRR6                                                    PPAOP AGAAAAT,                                         i   8






IBRD 14899
If                     B0O                                       2"                                                                                                  R N  80-20'                     MARCH 1980
t INDIA                                            0    1                                                                                            MAHAKALI                         NEPAL
t   ,.  ,,_/4   \   ,  1  2  3  4 K,Ion,eters     a            tMAHAKALI  IRRIGATION    PROJECT  (STAGE   I)
< ,gf\ \ \ 0  1           2            3 PA,Ie5 M,'-                                                                            General  Plan
PROJECT AREA BOUNDARY
PROPOSED IRRIGATION CANALS
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROPOSED PUBLIC ROADS
H,gh-,                                                                                                                               DRAINAGE CANALS TO RE IMPROVED
7c'  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~______EXISTING IRRIGATION CANALS
M.ho.dld.d_                                                                                              _ w        EXISTING  HIGH WAYS
.,   EXISTING BARRAGE
TOWNSHIP OP MAHENDRANAGAR
+   AIRPORT
k    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~*                       INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Wodd Sa I.                                                                                      (S R. e
CHINA
7o7m! ne he legJfdsfatu5 f   f   9\\  \ \                                 ,                                                            y/PIAI                                                  BU
orc  PAPeroITAI    f A3NI.A        BURMA
ROY A L    S HUK L APHANTA   WILDLIFE
RESERVEA   ,,
10-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1



