O6FIIA
OFFICA      CREDIT NUMBER 1055 NEP
DOCUMENTS
Development Credit Agreement
(Mahakali Irrigation - Stage I - Project)
between
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                               , 1980


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1055 NEP
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                    a 9       , 1980, between
KINGDOM OF NEPAL (hereinaf er called the Borrower) and INTER-
NATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02.   Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "MIDB" means the Mahakali Irrigation Development Board,
to be established by the Borrower under its Development Board Act
of 1956; and
(b)  "Project Area" means the area of about 8,500 ha of the
Borrower's Kanchanpur District of the Mahakali Zone.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiv-
alent to sixteen million dollars ($16,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be


﻿-2-
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1985
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each June 15
and December 15 commencing December 15, 1990, and ending June 15,
2030T each installment to and including the installment payable
on June 15, 2000, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
engineering, agricultural and administrative practices, and shall
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose.


﻿-3-
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the matters
set forth below, the Borrower shall employ the following con-
sultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and con-
ditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and
the Association:
(a) engineering consultants to assist the Borrower in
carrying out the Project, including inter alia, preparation of
bidding documents and bid evaluation; and
(b) by May 31, 1982, two agricultural consultants to assist
the Borrower and MIDB in carrying out Part E of the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall ensure that MIDB is ade-
quately staffed for the implementation of the Project in accor-
dance with a staffing plan satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Association.
(b) The MIDB staff shall include a Project Manager whose
qualifications and experience shall be satisfactory to the
Association.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall carry out the training
activities under Part I of the Project in accordance with a plan
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:
(a) coordinate through its committee for forest, resettle-
ment and irrigation development in the Kanchanpur District all
matters concerning forest clearing, Project construction and
settlement in the Project Area; and
(b) by May 31, 1982 cause its Forest Products Development
Board to clear forests within the Project Area necessary to carry
out the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.


﻿-4-
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively tor the Project.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) As part of the information referred to in subparagraph
(iii) of paragraph (b) of this Section, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, for its review and comments, two agricultural
and economic evaluation studies of the Project, such studies to be
carried out under the responsibility of the MIDB.     The Borrower
shall furnish the first such study to the Association not later
than June 30, 1982, and the second not later than December 31,
1986.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the
Association of their respective obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.


﻿-5-
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land
and rights in respect of land as shall be required for the
construction and operation of the facilities included in the
Project and shall furnish to the Association, promptly after such
acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Association that such
land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes
related to the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause MIDB to maintain
separate accounts and records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices
the operations, resources and expenditures of MIDB with respect to
the Project including, without limitation to the foregoing,
separate accounts reflecting all expenditures under Categories (1)
(b) and (4) of the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement on account of which withdrawals are requested from the
Credit Account on the basis of. certificates of expenditure.
(b) The Borrower shall cause MIDB to retain, until one year
after the Closing Date, all records (orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing the expenditures on
account of which withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account
on the basis of certificates of expenditure and shall enable the
Association's accredited representatives to examine such records.
(c) The Borrower shall cause MIDB to: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any
case not later than six months after the end of each such year,
(A) certified copies of its financial statements for such year as
so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested including, without limitation to the fore-
going, an opinion by said auditors in respect of the expenditures
and records referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section as to
whether the proc-eeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit
Account on the basis of certificates of expenditure have been used


﻿-6-
for the purpose for which they were provided; and (iii) furnish to
the Association such other information concerning the accounts and
financial statements of MIDB and the audit thereof as the Associ-
ation shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. Except as the Association may otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall:
(a) not later than one year after completion of the irriga-
tion distribution works under Parts A and B and the Canal service
road works under Part C of the Project in each irrigation unit of
the Project Area, establish and collect from beneficiaries of said
works water charges sufficient to enable the Borrower to (i) cover
the operating and maintenance costs of said works as they are
incurred, and (ii) recover, in progressive steps over a reasonable
period of time, the capital expenditures attributable to said
works to the fullest extent possible, having due regard to the
beneficiaries' ability to pay, the necessary incentives for their
participation in the Project and the need for public savings to
finance other development activities; and
(b) at regular intervals not exceeding three years each: (i)
review the above charges and afford the Association a reasonable
opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower on the results of
said review, and (ii) based on the above, adjust the said charges
as shall be necessary to continue to give effect to the provisions
of paragraph (a) of this Section.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause all canals,
structures, equipment and other facilities of the MIDB system to
be adequately maintained and repaired, in accordance with appro-
priate agricultural, engineering and financial policies and
practices and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds and
facilities required for the purpose.   The Borrower and the Asso-
ciation shall exchange views on a yearly basis on the amount of
funds required annually for such purpose.      The Borrower shall
furnish to the Association, not later than July 31 in each year,
its operation and maintenance budget for the MIDB system.
(b) The Borrower shall cause MIDB to prepare a comprehensive
operation and maintenance manual for the MIDB system and shall
furnish to the Association not later than October 1, 1982, a draft
of such manual for the Association's comments, and shall furnish
the manual in its final form to the Association not later than
October 1, 1983.


﻿-7-
Section 4.04. After completion or improvement of works in
irrigation areas under the Project the Borrower shall ensure that
water in the MIDB system is made available on a regular basis to
such areas only after field channels have been constructed, a
water users group has been formed among the users of the water to
be made available through such field channels and satisfactory
water distribution routines have been formulated.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that the Borrower shall have
amended, waived or repealed the Development Board Act of 1956 or
the Order establishing MIDB under the said Act and such amendment,
waiver or repeal shall have materially and adversely affected
carrying out by the Borrower of its obligation under this Agree-
ment.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, that any of the events specified
in Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12,01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) MIDB has been established with responsibilities and
functions satisfactory to the Association;
(b) the Project Manager referred to in Section 3.03 (b) of
this Agreement shall have been appointed in accordance with the
provisions of such Section;
(c) a senior roads engineer and an agricultural development
officer, with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the
Association, have been appointed by the Borrower; and


﻿8-
(d) the Borrower has selected the consultants referred to
in Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date  3Qo9,IL4    30 2/  O is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
4.01 through 4.04 of this Agreement and the provisions of Section
5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on
which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a
date thirty years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary, Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Secretary to His Majesty's Government
Ministry of Finance
Kathmandu
Nepal
Cable address:                       Telex:
ARTHA                               249 NEP
Kathmandu
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-9-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
KINGDOM OF NEPAL
By/S/
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Civil works
(a) by contract             7,000,000         100% of for-
eign expendi-
tures and
80% of local
expenditures
(b) by force account        1,700,000         80%
(2) Equipment, materials,        3,300,000
vehicles and spare
parts
(a) directly imported                         100% of for-
eign expendi-
tures
(b) locally manu-
factured                                 100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory)
(c) locally procured                          75%
(3) Consultants' and             1,800,000
technical services                            100%
(4) Agricultural extension         100,000         75%
and training staff
(5) Fellowships                  1,300,000         100%
(6) Unallocated                    800,000
TOTAL        16,000,000


﻿- 11 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other
expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with


﻿- 12 -
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is designed to: (a) increase the capacity of the
existing irrigation distribution system in the Project Area and
extend it; (b) improve the handling of sediment in the main canal;
(c) improve water control through additional control structures
and extension of the distribution system down to 7.5 ha groups of
farms; (d) improve drainage conditions; (e) provide a network of
all weather public roads and canal service roads; (f) intensify
agricultural extension, research and training; and (g) develop
technical staff by providing fellowships for students to study
engineering and agriculture abroad.   The Project consists of the
following Parts:
Part A:   Improvement of the irrigation and drainage system in
about 3,400 ha;
Part B:   Extension of the irrigation system by about 3,200 ha,
including about 30 km of new distributaries and 115 km
of territory canals, with related structures;
Part C:   Construction of an interconnected network of about 40 km
of all weather public roads, about 65 km of canal
service roads and related structures;
Part D:   Construction of buildings and communication facilities
for engineering and agricultural activities and staff
quarters;
Part E:   Strengthening of agricultural extension and training
activities, including construction of a pilot demonstra-
tion farm-cum-training center;
Part F:   Provision of materials, equipment and vehicles for
construction, survey and laboratory activities and for
Project operation and maintenance;
Part G:   Carrying out of air photography and mapping;
Part H:   Provision of technical assistance for Project implemen-
tation; and
Part I:   Provision of training and fellowships for engineering
and agricultural staff.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1985.


﻿- 14
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March
1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Association shall
reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the publi-
cation of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
remain to be procured on the basis of international compe-
titive bidding.
3.   To the extent practicable, contracts for the procurement of
goods shall be grouped in bid packages estimated to cost the
equivalent of $75,000 or more.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of, entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.


﻿- 15 -
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
the Kingdom of Nepal may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
the Kingdom of Nepal if the bidder shall have
established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and
the Association that the manufacturing cost of such
goods includes a value added in the Kingdom of
Nepal equal to at least 20% of the ex-factory bid
price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would


﻿- 16 -
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Notwithstanding the provision of Part A.1 above, contracts
for goods which the Association agrees cannot be grouped in
accordance with Part A.3 above and which are estimated to cost
less than the equivalent of $75,000 each and not more than the
equivalent of $500,000 in the aggregate, may be procured in
accordance with applicable procurement procedures of the Borrower,
satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Contracts for civil works:
(a) may be carried out by the Borrower through force account
under arrangements satisfactory to the Association; or
(b) may be procured on the basis of locally advertised
competitive bidding in accordance with applicable procurement
procedures of the Borrower, satisfactory to the Association.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated to
cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more and for goods estimated
to cost the equivalent of $75,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, to-
gether with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.


﻿- 17 -
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, by the con-
sultants referred to in Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement, on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendations for award of the said consultants and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the           day of __  -_   ,
1980-.
FOR SECRETARY


