Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14792
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
GOVERNMENT OF BOTSWANA
SELEBI-PHIKWE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
(LOAN 2695-BT)
JUNE 30, 1995
Energy and Infrastructure Operations Division
Southern Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00 = Pula 1.82 (May 1986)
US$1.00 = Pula 2.64 (May 1995)
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AAC           -      Anglo-American Corporation of South Africa Ltd.
AMAX          -      American Metal Climax Inc.
BCL           -      Bamangwvato Concessions Ltd.
CZI           -      Confederation of Zimbabwe Industry
FAP           -      Financial Assistance Programme
GOB           -      Government of Botswana
ISMTU         -      In-Service Mobile Training Unit
MCI           -      Ministry of Commerce and Industry
MFDP          -      Ministry of Finance and Development Planning
MLGLH         -      Ministry of Local Government, Lands and Housing
MOW           -      Ministry of Works and Communications
ORT           -      World Organization for Rehabilitation through Training
SAFTO                South African Foreign Trade Organization
SPRDPU        -      Selebi-Phikwe Regional Development Promotion Unit
TIPA          -      Trade and Industrial Promotion Agency
ULGS          -      Unified Local Government Service



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BOTSWANA
SELEBI-PHIKWE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
LOAN 2695-BT
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CONTENTS
Page Number
PREFACE ............................................                                                            i
EVALUATION SUMMARY ............................................                                                 I
PART I: IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT . . . . . ....................................... I
A.Introduction .. . . ................ . . ... 1
B. Project Background ...................................................                                     1
C. Evaluation of Project Objectives ..................................................               ...1
D. Achievement of Project Objectives ..........................................................2
Implementation Experience and Major Factors Affecting the Project ..................................................3
Regional Development Program ...................................................................................3
Irrigated Agriculture Program .......................................................................................5..............S
Local Government In-Service Training Program ...............................6..............               6
E. Project Sustainability ...................................7
F. Bank Performance ................................... 8
G. Borrower Performance ....................................... 8
X Future Operations ........................................ 9
L Key Lessons Learned ..................................                                   ....9
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PART II                STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1:    Summary of Assessments
Table 2:    Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:    Project Timetable
Table 4:    Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estiniated and
Actual
Table 5:    Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:    Project Related Studies
Table 7:    Project Costs
Table 8:    Project Financing
Table 9:    Status of Legal Covenants
Table 10:   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 11:   Bank Resources: Missions
APPENDICES
A.            Completion Mission Aide-Memoire
B.            Government of Botswana - Evaluation
- Industrial Development Programme
- Irrigated Agricultural Component
- Unified Local Government In-Service Training Unit
C.            Map



BOTSWANA
SELEBI-PHIKWE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
LOAN 2695-BT
PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Selebi-Phikwe Technical Assistance
Project in Botswana, for which Loan 2695-BT in the amount of US$7.6 million was approved on May 15,
1986 and declared effective on July 10, 1987. The Loan was closed on December 31, 1994, extended from
the original date of December 31, 1993. The extension was to: (i) ensure the institutionalization of the
work of the Selebi-Phikwe Regional Development Promotion Unit (SPRDPU); and (ii) integrate the
Industrial and Local Government Units into the overall Government structure. The final disbursement from
the Loan took place on February 1, 1995, at which time the balance of US$698,198.00 was canceled.
2.    Government contribution towards the cost of the project totaled US$3.7 million compared with an
appraisal estimate of US$4.4 million. The period of the loan was 17 years, including four years grace,
with a variable interest rate; the rate at project approval was 8.5 percent. The Loan also carried an annual
commitment charge of 0.75 percent on undisbursed balances.
3.    The ICR was prepared by Asamanetch Fantaye of the Energy and Infrastructure Operations
Division, Southern Africa Region and reviewed by Ms. Naa Dei Nikoi, Operations Officer; Mr. Jeffrey S.
Racki, Division Chief, Mr. John Roome, Acting Division Chief, Energy and Infrastructure Operations
Division; and Mr. Jaime Roman, Acting Operations Adviser.
4.    Preparation of the ICR was started during the Bank's final supervision/implementation completion
mission in May 1995. It is based on material in the project files. The Borrower contributed to preparation
of the ICR by preparing its own evaluation reports.






BOTSWANA
SELEBI-PHIKWE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
LOAN 2695-BT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
A. The Project and its Objectives
1.    The Selebi-Phikwe Technical Assistance Loan was made to the Government of Botswana (GOB)
to finance the staffing and operating cost of the Selebi-Phikwe Regional Development Promotion Unit
(SPRDPU), created under the project. The SPRDPU was to: (i) undertake studies and develop new
investments in manufacturing activities through a regional and international promotion program; (ii)
develop and implement pilot irrigation schemes; and (iii) monitor the feasibility and design work to be
undertaken by Ministry of Works and Communications (MOW) for the Sofophe-Martins Drift, and the
Bobonong-Lekkerpoet Roads, and 24 km of feeder roads. The project also financed 14 staff years of
technical assistance, including five years of incremental operating costs, to develop and implement: (a) an
in-service training program for urban and district councils in a range of local government jurisdictions
including training of trainers; and (b) a housing strategy program for the Ministry of Local Government,
Lands and Housing (MLGLH).
2.    The objective of the project was to support Govermment's efforts to diversify the economnic
activities of the town of Selebi-Phikwe and strengthen its regional role through improved regional transport
links, increased agricultural activity in its rural hinterland, and industrial promotion in the town. The
project also aimed to (a) strengthen the urban and district administration through a national in-service
training program for local authority staff; and (b) strengthen MLGLH's housing policy planning and
implementation capabilities by developing a housing strategy and program.
B. Implementation Experience
3.    Despite the distinct nature of its components, the project's overall objectives were substantially
achieved. There was no delay in project start-up. The studies that were to assist in developing promotional
and training strategies were carried out on schedule and assisted greatly in providing a basis for: (a)
detennining the countries on which industrial promotion activities should be concentrated; (b) selecting
farmers for the pilot program; (c) selecting suitable land and irrigation systems; and (d) assessing the
financial requirement for the pilot farmers.
4.    The regional and international promotion program was successful in meeting its objective of
increasing non-mining economic activity in Selebi-Phikwe. During the implementation period, the
consultant hired to carry out the promotional activities visited 600 companies in South Africa, Hong Kong,
Mauritius, Korea, Malaysia, Singapore, Zimbabwe, Germany and the U.K. Representatives frorn 77
companies visited Botswana, and sixteen investment operations/businesses were established. When the
project closed, there were twelve businesses in operation. Over the 8-year implementation period (1987-
1994), 4,000 jobs were created. At project closing, three operations were in the pipeline which were
expected to create an additional 800 jobs by the end of 1995. As the result of increased economic activities
in the town, a large number of shops, petrol stations, and schools have been built. Responsibility for
overseeing the future activities of the SPRDPU has been transferred from the Ministry of Finance and



- ii -
Development Planning (MFDP) to the Trade and Industrial Promotion Agency (TIPA) of the Ministry of
Commerce and Industry (MOCI). Planning for localization (reducing dependence on long-term foreign
technical assistance) was not carried out during the early stages of project implementation. TIPA has only
recently started the process of supplying counterparts to the SPRDPU who are expected to take over the
responsibility of running the Unit when the consultants leave in December 1995.
5.    Neither the Loan Agreement nor the Staff Appraisal Report stipulated the timeframe for the
recruitment and training of counterparts under the Industrial Promotion Programme. Furthermore, the
supervision missions did not establish, during the early stages of project implementation, a schedule for the
recruitment and training of counterparts. As a result of the above, counterparts started training only
recently and they might not gain adequate experience before the consultants leave at the end of 1995 to
effectively continue with the promotional activities started under the project.
6.     The pilot irrigated agriculture program was successful in meeting its objective of determining
whether and under what circumstances small and medium scale irrigated agricultural undertaking could be
viable. Of the seventeen small-scale farmers originally selected for inclusion in the pilot program, only six
are still farming; and of the twelve medium-scale farmers originally selected for support, seven are still
farming. From July 1991 until the termination of the agricultural component (expiration of the technical
assistance contract financed under the project) in October 1993, resources were concentrated on assisting
medium scale farmers. The responsibility of managing the program was transferred to the Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA) in October 1993 as was the responsibility of managing the activities of the six small-
scale and seven medium-scale farmers mentioned above. The experience gained from implementing the
pilot program indicated that in order to start successful irrigated farming the necessary inputs, such as
adequate and reliable supply of water, labor, working capital, vehicle, advice from experts, etc. need to be
readily available. As it would be difficult for the small and medium-scale farmers to come up with the
necessary inputs, Government's assistance would be required.
7.     Under the In-Service Training Program, 2,969 local government staff were trained compared to
the 2,000 projected at appraisal. The training has helped to upgrade the skills and knowledge of the staff of
local authorities and as a result their productivity and effectiveness (as certified by officials of MLGLH as
well as by the Chief Executives of the councils) have increased. However, since the training plans did not
indicate the type of performance improvements expected at the councils, it is difficult to assess to what
extent the component achieved its objective.
8.     Under the training program, a target was not set for completion of training counterparts. Although
it was stipulated in the Loan Agreement that MLGL would employ suitable counterparts, a specific date by
when this should be done was not stated. Furthermore, the supervision missions, at an early stage of
project implementation, did not established a time-frame by when the training of counterparts ought to be
completed. The above problems were brought up by a study (Evaluation of Local Government Training
Report) completed in September 1989. However, immediate action was not taken to remedy the problems.
Due to the above facts, the expatriate consultants were not replaced at the end of the training program.
Also the training plans did not indicate the type of performance improvement expected at the councils. It
was, therefore, difficult to determine whether the objective of the project was fully achieved.
9.    Improved Road Access to the Region. Feasibility and engineering design work was carried out
for the Sefophe-Martins Drift and Bobonong-Lekkerpoet Roads. These studies led to an investment
project. Under the Tuli Block Road Project (Loan 3248-BT), construction of Sefophe-Martins Drift Road
was financed by the Bank, and construction of Bobonong-Lekkerpoet Road by BADEA. Construction of
both roads has been completed, and they are expected to provide improved access to the Selebi-Phikwe



- iii -
region and connections to the South Africa road system. In addition, a network of about 24 km of feeder
roads was developed.
10.   As a result of the lack of clarity surrounding the implementation responsibilities within MLGLH,
the technical assistance component formulated to strengthen housing policy planning and implementation
capabilities was not implemented.
C. Key Lessons Learned and Future Operations
Key Lessons
11.   The key lessons learnt from the implementation of the project are: (a) to effectively monitor
implementation of any activity, clear performance targets need to be set at appraisal; (b) to assess the
success or failure of any program, the expected output need to be established at project appraisal; (c)
recommendations made by project evaluation study should be evaluated and the relevant reconunendations
taken into consideration in order to correct any impediment to project implementation and sustainability
(paragraph 34); and (d) Government's full commitment is a key element in the successful implementation
and sustainability of any project component.
Future Operations
12.   TIPA is taking over responsibility for managing SPRDPU. GOB is committed to supporting the
continuation of the efforts started under the program. To carry out the program effectively, plans to
restructure TIPA, which would include staffing, job-grading and the proposed separation of TIPA from the
Ministry of Commerce to give it autonomous status, are being finalized for presentation to Cabinet by the
end of August 1995.
13.   To continue with the training programn, ISMTU is planning to improve coordination of training
activities by relocating the ISMTU from Francistown to Gaborone. Also, consideration is being given to
establishing a dedicatedLocal Government Training Institute.
D. Project Sustainability
14.   The regional development program, a program ofjob creation in industrial business, can only be
sustained if the jobs lost as a result of normal attrition and business failure are replaced on a continuing
basis. Therefore, constant promotion by promotional experts would be required. Although the transfer of
skills did not take place during the early stage of project implementation, the short-term plan proposed by
GOB of using expertise existing in the financial institutions and private sector would enable TIPA to carry
out the activities started under the program when the experts depart in December 1995. Furthermore, a
plan to restructure TIPA to give it the autonomy it requires to carry out its responsibilities is being finalized
for presentation to Cabinet.
15.   To sustain the activities started under the irrigated agriculture program, active promotional effort
to encourage new farmers to take up horticulture farming as a business would be required. Moreover, as
small and medium scale farmners do not have the capital to purchase the required inputs (land, water supply,
vehicles, etc.), a coordinated, comprehensive programme of assistance from GOB would be required. As
the GOB has developed a highly skilled cadre of horticultural experts and extension workers under the
project, the promotional activities could be effectively carried out.



- iv -
16.   To continue with the in-service training program, MLGLH is considering the establishment of a
Local Govenmnent Training Institute in the near future. However, in the short run MLGLH needs technical
assistance to carry on the training program.



BOTSWANA
SELEBI-PHIKWE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
LOAN 2695-BT
PART I: IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Introduction
1.    The Bank supported Government in the development of the town of Selebi-Phikwe, a community
almost entirely dependent on a copper/nickel mine managed by Bamangwato Concessions Ltd. (BCL), by
financing most of the town's physical infrastructure and a one year pilot in-service training program
through the Second Urban Project. Furthermore, when BCL, the main employer in the town, was on the
verge of bankruptcy, as a result of technical problems compounded by a weakening market for copper
and nickel, the Bank arranged three financial restructurings (under the Bank loans for the mining town's
infrastructure) to ease BCL's debt-service and cash flow constraints. The restructuring involved deferring
debt repayment and royalty payments to the GOB and conversion of subordinated debt owed to American
Metal Climax, Inc. (AMAX) and Anglo-American Corporation of South Africa Ltd. (AAC) into equity.
Through the Tuli Block Roads Project, Loan 3248-BT (project under implementation), the Bank has
assisted GOB to provide road links necessary for the development and integration of the Selebi-Phikwe area
and its hinterland.
B. Project Background
2.    At the timne of project preparation, in 1986, Selebi-Phikwe had a population of about 30,000
people (3% of total population) and was almost fully dependent on the copper/nickel mine operated by
BCL. BCL was the primary employer in the area and at project appraisal it had about 4,400 employees.
At that time, although ore deposits were estimated to last until the year 2000, severe financial problems of
BCL threatened early closure of the mine. To reduce the dependency of the town on the copper/nickel mine
for its subsistence, the GOB committed itself to diversifying the economic base of the town. To explore the
development options, the GOB decided to carry out a study to assess possibilities of making Selebi-Phikwe
a viable economic center in the event the mine close. In 1982 financial assistance for a consultancy to
carry this out was requested from the Bank. In March 1983, a World Bank appraisal mission visited
Botswana to assess the options available for diversifying the economic activities. After a thorough
review of available reports from previous studies that had been carried out on this issue, the mission
concluded that there was no need for additional studies but that the existing infornation be scrutinized and
plans for the short to medium term established. Therefore, a technical assistance loan to initiate a program
to diversify the economic activity in the town of Selebi-Phikwe and the rural areas, was recommended.
C. Evaluation of Project Objectives
3.    The objective of the project was to support the GOB's efforts to diversify the economic activities
of the town of Selebi-Phikwe and strengthen its regional role through improved regional transport links,
increased agricultural activity in its rural hinterland, and industrial promotion in the town. The project
also aimed to (a) strengthen the urban and district administration through a national in-service training
program for local authority staff; and (b) strengthen MLGLH's housing policy planning and
implementation capabilities. To achieve the above objectives, the project provided for staffing and



-2 -
operating cost for SPRDPU which was responsible for the development and implementation of a regional
development program for industrial development and irrigated agriculture for Selebi-Phikwe. The project
also financed 20 staff years of technical assistance for the national in-service program and funded the
external training of counterparts and the purchase of equipment and vehicles.
4.     The project objectives were consistent with national priorities for increasing employment
opportunities, through economic diversification, of the town outside the capital-intensive mining operations
and human resources development. The GOB's commitment to the project was demonstrated by the
number of policies, programs, and investment incentives it initiated to attract investors in order to expand
and diversify economic activity in Selebi-Phikwe. Some of the most important incentives were: (i)
favorable interest rates; (ii) granting seed capital for investors; and (iii) reduced property rates.
Furthermore, at the request of the Bank, the Government carried out (i) a study program identifying the
various sectoral priorities relevant to diversifying economic activity in the Selebi-Phikwe region; (ii) a
feasibility study of the regional link road to South Africa for which the project prepared detailed
engineering; and (iii) a pilot scheme on which the project's major training component was based.
5.     The objectives of the project were clearly stated, responsive to the anticipated changes in the
economic base of Selebi-Phikwe and consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy which was to
support the GOB's emphasis on diversification of Selebi-Phikwe's economy from capital-intensive mining
to labor-intensive activities. The Bank and the Government were also in agreement on the need to extend
the pilot in-service training program, implemented under the Second Urban Project (Loan 1584-BT), from
2 town and 2 district councils to 14 town and district councils.
D. Achievement of Project Objectives
6.     The regional and international promotion program was highly successful in meeting its
principal objective of increasing non-mining economic activity (economic diversification) in Selebi-Phikwe
in order to create new jobs. As the result of this effort, at the time of project closing, twelve industries were
established and about 4,000 jobs created. It is anticipated that by the end of 1995, about 800 jobs would
be created from the three industries that are in the process of establishing. Some economic diversification
efforts were attained through the establishment of a Regional Promotion Unit which was responsible for
promoting Selebi-Phikwe as a conducive location to manufacturers from abroad seeking to establish new
enterprise activities in Botswana. The impact of the creation of 4,000 jobs is considerable. A large
number of new shops, petrol stations, new schools have been built. Selebi-Phikwe is now considered as a
light industrial center.
7.     The pilot irrigated agriculture program, which aimed to determine the circumstances and
viability of small and medium scale irrigated agricultural projects and create jobs, has achieved its
objective. The experience gained from implementing this component indicates that in order to successfully
start irrigated fanming the following inputs need to be available: (a) a suitable supply of working capital;
(b) a reliable supply of necessary inputs, e. g. seeds, fertilizers, chemicals sprays, etc.; (c) land and suitable
soil conditions; (d) a permanent and reliable source of water and suitable irrigation system; (e) reliable
source of labor; (f) technical knowledge of irrigated farming, or assistance from experts;); (g) reliable
transportation; and (h) a reliable market for produce. As the small and medium-scale farmers do not have
the capital to purchase the resources required, concerted effort on the part of the GOB would to be
required.
8.     The In-Service Training sub-project which aimed to strengthen local government administration
helped to improve some skills through on-the-job training, delivered by trainers based in ISMTU. The



participants interviewed have indicated that the courses they attended helped them understand the nature of
their jobs, i. e. the importance of accuracy of accounting records and timely closing of accounts for audit,
preparation of development project documents, etc. The number of persons actually trained (2,696) was
more than anticipated (2,000) during appraisal. However, as monitorable performance indicators were not
established, it is difficult to measure with certainty the impact of the training programs on the performance
of local authorities.
9.     The training program also included the development of counterpart staff and training of local
trainers. Although 11 nationals worked with the consultants as counterparts, only 7 are still working at
ISMTU. Four of the counterparts joined other organizations. Furthermore, the training given to the
counterparts was not appropriate because they were trained to provide training in fields other than their
specialties and in some cases with out the necessary background. The training of local trainers did not take
place directly through the project. However, a number of local authority staff have participated in Training
of Trainers Workshops organized by the Swedish Institute of Public Administration which is providing
human resources development assistance to local authorities in Botswana.
10.   The detailed design work for the Sefophe-Martins Drift and Bobonong-Lekkerpoet Roads was
completed and a network of 24 km of feeder roads was developed.
11.   The key studies to be undertaken under the project were carried out. Some of the main studies are:
(a) Industrial Estates Study; (b) Comparative Costs Study; (c) Housing and Industrial Plots Study; (d)
Evaluation of water resources, soil suitability land tenure, farmer capability and commitment; (e) Transport
Study (Pat II, Table 6); and (f) Review of Regional Development Project.
Implementation Experience and Major Factors Affecting the Project
12.   The implementation experience of the three main sub-projects, which was prepared by the Selebi-
Phikwe Continuation Committee, representing all the main Government agencies concemed comprised:
(a)    Selebi-Phikwe Regional Development Program (industrial promotion, irrigated agriculture,
and improved road access);
(b)    Local Authority In-Service Training Program; and
(c)    Ministry of Local Government, Lands, and Housing Technical Support Program; are
discussed below.
Regional Development Program
13.    SPRPU was established in January 1988, and was staffed by experts in industrial promotion and
irrigated agricultural. The SPRDU was responsible for the promotion and implementation of the Selebi-
Phikwe Regional Development Program. For the first six months, SPRPU's team concentrated on
carrying out studies which assisted them to evaluate Selebi-Phikwe's irrigated agricultural and industrial
development potential and prepare implementation plans and programs.
14.   The issues addressed by the studies were: (i) the cost and benefits of locating an industrial project
in Selebi-Phikwe, relative to an alternative location in the region, (ii) how many companies in what sectors
are locating in altemative competing locations, (iii) what countries and what industrial sub-sectors offer the



- 4-
best prospects for the attraction of industrial projects to Selebi-Phikwe, and (iv) how many projects could
be attracted to Selebi-Phikwe in the existing investment climate and with the existing incentive package.
An important aspect of the promotion program was the special incentive program offered by the GOB to
prospective investors, the Financial Assistance Program (FAP).
15.   While no formal targets were adopted during project appraisal to measure the success of the
Industrial Development Program, the consultants aimed at creating as many non mine related jobs as
possible in the manufacturing sector by attracting investments to Selebi-Phikwe. In order to achieve this
goal, a review of the prospects for job creation from the following potential sources was carried out:
(a)    new projects and expansions by existing large scale manufacturing enterprises already
established in Selebi-Phikwe;
(b)   small scale indigenous enterprises;
(c)    attraction of investment from the South Africa region, i. e. Zimbabwe and southern Africa;
and
(d)    attraction of investment from the Far East, Europe, the United States.
16.   Experience from working with three local firms indicated that prospects for further investment and
employment from local firms were both limited and uncertain. Furthermore, it became clear that small
scale enterprises depended largely on the availability of "spin-off' opportunities from large scale industry.
Therefore, the promotional program concentrated only on attracting investment from the southem Africa
region, the Far East, Europe, and the United States.
17.   The marketing programs initially focused on efforts to attract regional investors to Selebi-Phikwe.
To facilitate the promotional work, arrangement was made with the South African Foreign Trade
Organization (SAFTO) and the Confederation of Zimbabwe Industry (CZI). A marketing seminar was
held in Zimbabwe in September 1988 and in South Africa in October 1988. While the promotion
program continued in South Africa, promotion in Zimbabwe discontinued in 1989 because prospects in
Zimbabwe were not promising. In January 1990, the regional promotional activity was supplemented by a
marketing program that sought major investments from established intemational clothing companies.
18.   Once the regionally-based program was established, a study was carried out to determine the
feasibility of attracting investors from Hong Kong . In January 1990, a consultant was hired for a period
of six months to carry out a trial marketing program in Hong Kong aimed at persuading Hong Kong
investors to visit Selebi-Phikwe and examine in detail the feasibility of locating there. The first seminar,
Investment Opportunities in Botswana, sponsored by the consultant and the Federation of Hong Kong
Industries, generated considerable interest and attracted an attendance of 55 companies.
19.   In 1990, the promotional work in Hong Kong was curtailed due to events that were not foreseen
during project preparation. Some of the main events were: (a) the Gulf War from August 1990 to
February 1991 caused many investors not to travel to Selebi-Phikwe; and (b) the recession in the United
States and the United Kingdom caused many Hong Kong companies to put off considering any new
investments.



20.   Feasibility studies of the prospects of attracting investors from Germany, the United Kingdom,
and the United States indicated that prospects in the three countries were not good, therefore, no formal
promotional activities were undertaken.
21.   During the life of the project 600 companies in South Africa, Hong Kong, Mauritius, Korea,
Malaysia, Singapore, Zimbabwe, Germany and the U. K. were visited by the consultant. Representatives
from 77 companies visited Selebi-Phikwe and twelve projects were established (4 projects discontinued
operations). Over the 8-year period, to the end of December 1994, 4,000 jobs were created. Further
expansions of these projects during 1995 are expected to create an additional 800 jobs.
22.    Reason for the failure of some of the businesses. Not all projects established stayed. The
approximately 54% survival rate of businesses at Selebi-Phikwe after five years is in line with international
norms. The reasons for failure varied and range from:. (a) alleged breach of customs regulations; (b)
breach of regulations regarding local content under the terms of the Botswana Zimbabwe Trade
Agreement; and (c) inability of industries to secure markets for products.
23.    Costs of creating jobs to Government (FAP) plus the Unit's operating cost. During the early
stage of project implementation, there was concern that the cost of FAP would be more than the benefit of
the jobs created. However a study carried out during the ICR mission showed that the overall cost to
Government as a result of FAP was reasonable. The cost of job creation at large scale enterprises at
Selebi-Phikwe, due to the combined effects of FAP costs and overhead costs of Selebi-Phikwe Regional
Development Program is P 4,520 compared to P 4,600 average cost of job creation in Botswana.
Tlerefore, the incentive program (FAP) was not as expensive as expected.
24.   A review of the regional development program was undertaken in mid-1993. The review analyzed
the strategy and sub-programs adopted by the SPRDPU in implementing the industrial and agricultural
programs. It reviewed the results achieved to date, including the number and type of new jobs created and
their long term viability. Some of the main findings are: (a) the industry promotion activities have been
well conceived and competently managed; (b) support for small scale enterprises had limited prospects; (c)
profit margins were generally low in the clothing industry; there was a general need to develop training to
improve productivity in the industry; and (d) farmers' incomes from irrigated horticulture were quite low.
Irrigated Agriculture Program
25.    The program was divided into two parts. The first part was a pilot project, which was carried out
in two phases (phase one preliminary evaluation and phase two implementation); and the second part which
comprised investigation of the irrigation potential of the region as a whole. During phase one of the pilot
project January to September 1988, the following studies were carried out: (a) water resources; (b) soil
suitability; (c) land tenure, and (d) farmer capability and commitment. The objectives of the studies were
to decide the location of farms and deternine project input costs, project financing, market potential and
marketing arrangements. Also, an economic evaluation of the prospects for successful development of
small and medium scale irrigated agricultural projects, including detailed analyses of project input costs,
financing, market potential and marketing arrangements was undertaken. On the basis of these
evaluations, 17 small-scale and 12 medium-scale farmers were selected for inclusion in the pilot irrigated
agricultural program. For each of the farmers selected, the following studies and programs were
undertaken: (a) an economic evaluation (detailed analyses of project input costs, project financing, market
potential, and marketing arrangements); (b) detailed horticultural cropping and crop management program;
and (c) detailed reticulation plans specifying pumping and piping requirements.



-6-
26.   From July 1991 until the termination of the agricultural component of the project in October 1993,
resources were concentrated on assisting medium scale (up to 50 ha) farmers to prepare and implement
irrigated agricultural projects. In 1993, when the Agricultural Expert left SPRDPU, the program was
transferred to MOA. As of June 1995, of the 17 initial small-scale farmers 6 are still operating and of the
12 medium-scale farmers 7 are still operating..
27.   Improved Road Access. The feasibility studies and design work for Sofophe-Martins Drift and
Bobonong-Lekkerpoet roads were completed. The construction of these roads were carried out under Tuli
Block Road Project. The Sefophe-Martins Drift road has been a great success. It has facilitated access of
the villages along its route to Selebi-Phikwe and has considerably shortened the driving distance from
Selebi-Phikwe to Johannesburg. Traffic volumes are reasonably high, including international truck traffic
between Johannesburg and Zambia and Zaire. The northern most section of the road is currently handling
about 335 vehicles per day. The Bobonong-Lekkerpoet Road would provide improve access to the villages
east of Selebi-Phikwe and would help the local irrigated horticultural farmners to sell their produce in
Selebi-Phikwe. Furthermore, this road would improve access to a game lodge currently accessible only by
road from South Africa. Also a network of 24 km of feeder roads was developed.
Local Government In-Service Training Program
28.    The 1983 World Bank study on the training of staff within the Unified Local Government Services
(ULGS) revealed that most staff members lacked the necessary skills and experience to effectively handle
their jobs. Some of the problems observed were: (a) excessive delays in closing accounting books; (b)
inadequate control of expenditures; (c) poor organization of revenue collection; (d) lack of adequate
administrative systems and procedures; (e) working procedures not fully understood by staff and
inadequate orientation for assigned responsibilities. As a result of the study, a one year pilot in-service
training was approved, under the Second Urban Project, and implemented during 1985/86 in a limited
number of local authorities under the Second Urban Development Project. MLGLH felt that the pilot
phase was successful and a second phase should be implemented to include all the 5 town councils and the
9 districts councils. The training program under this project was an expansion of the pilot phase. councils.
29.   The ISMTU was responsible for overseeing the implementation of the training component. A
consulting firm was selected to carry out the training program. The work plan prepared by the consultants
selected to carry out training program had the following goals:: (a) a total of 2,000 staff members of the
local authorities to receive training in administration, finance, technical services, social welfare, and
community development; (b) 22 local trainers to be trained; (c) development of counterpart staff through
local courses, on the job training and extemal training programs, (d) development of manuals, operating
systems and procedures to help increase efficiency; (e) evaluation reports regarding the effectiveness of the
prograns; and (f) strengthening the ISMTU.
30.    Consultants worked for a total of 22.6 staff years from 1986 to 1993. From 1987 until the end of
1993 about 2969 local govermment staff participated in various training programs organized by the
expatriate consultants and the counterparts. Most of the courses lasted from one to two weeks. All
training programs were preceded by identification of training needs to ensure the designing of practical and
job-related courses. A follow-up was planned and carried out after each course to assist trainees in the
implementation of improved systems or to supervise the progress of projects being carried out by trainees.
31.    Training of the Local Trainers. The training of local trainers was not carried out as planned
through the In-Service Training Prograrn. However, a number of local authority staff participated.
Training of Trainers workshops organized by the Swedish Institute of Public Administration (SIP) is



- 7-
currently providing human resources development assistance to local authorities in Botswana. The persons
who participated in these programs were mainly personnel/training officers of councils.
32.   Development of counterpart staff. A total of 11 nationals were seconded to ISMTU from district
and town councils to work as counterparts to the expatriate consultants. All 11 participated in overseas
"Training of Trainers" courses for a period of 5 months each. An improvement in skills was noted,
however since the counterparts did not have adequate background in the respective fields, their ability to
train was limited. A comparison of the number of counterparts initially assigned to ISMTU and those that
were still working at the end of the project is shown below:
Disciplines       Initial No. I No. Now  I         Comments
Finance                      2            1
Technical                    2            2       studying for a masters degree
Administration               3            1       studying for degree
Social Welfare               2            1
Community Development        1            1
Home Economics               1            1
Total                       11            7 _    7  
33.   In addition to the training program, the consultants developed and introduced an accounting
systems manual. The accounting manual is expected to facilitate the maintenance of accounting records and
the regular preparation of financial reports. Although the consultants developed a workshop operations
manual, it was not introduced, through workshops, to the users to facilitate implementation.
34.   As per the Loan Agreement, an evaluation on the training activities of the Unified Local
Government Services was carried out in September 1989. The key recommendations made by the study
were: (a) ULGS should be restructured and strengthened to deal effectively with the co-ordination,
monitoring and evaluation of training by the creation of two additional posts; (b) the personnel and training
officers of Councils should be relieved of their personnel function and should devote themselves to training
on a full time basis; (c) training of counterpart staff should be speeded; (d) ULGS should undertake a study
of the long and medium national development plan objectives, programs and targets and assess realistic
manpower demands in terms of skills, and numbers; and (e) the minimum duration of the in-house training
courses should be increased from one to two weeks to give them the proper impact.
35.   Technical Assistance to Ministry of Local Government and Lands. The main objective of this
component was to assist Government in improving the efficiency of urban investment programs through
technical assistance to the MLGLH. This component was not implemented, through unclear
implementation responsibility within MLGLH and lack of Bank supervision. This component was not
critical and its lack of completion did not impact severely on achievement of project objectives.
E. Project Sustainability
36.   The regional development program, a program of job creation in industrial business, will only be
sustained if the jobs lost as a result of nornal attrition and business failure are replaced on a continuing
basis. Industrial job creation Selebi-Phikwe can only be sustained if SPRDPU is managed by skilled
personnel, has adequate resources, and is set up as an autonomous institution. Responsibility for managing
SPRDPU was transferred from MOF to TIPA. At present, TIPA does not have staff with the required
expertise to carry out the promotional activities and has only recently started the process of supplying



-8-
citizen counterpart to SPRDPU to work with the remaining two experts. However, the Sustainability of the
program depends on the development and implementation of satisfactory short and long term plans to
carrying out these important activities. Government's commitment to carrying out the activities started
under this program is demonstrated by its plan to restructure TIPA to give it the autonomy it requires to
carry out its responsibilities. The restructuring would include staffing requirements and job-grading. As
implementation of the above plan, once approved, would take more than a year, Government is
considering to a pool of expertise available in existing financial institutions and private sector when the
experts finish their contract in December 1995.
37.   Irrigated Agriculture program. The Government has supported the large effort to get irrigated
horticulture going at Selebi-Phikwe and also developed a highly skilled cadre of horticultural experts and
extension workers in the MOA, who are easily able to give technical horticultural advice to the farmers.
To sustain the activities started under the program an active promotional effort, to encourage new farmers
to take up horticulture farmiing as a business would be required. Furthermore, as small and medium scale
farmers do not have the capital to purchase the required inputs (land, training, water supply, vehicles, etc.),
Government's assistance would be required.
38.   In-Service Training Program. In order to keep up with the training program, ISMTU needs to
be equipped with adequate number of trainers, training facilities, and equipment. Appointment of a
training coordinator is essential to plan and coordinate the training activities. A steering committee should
also be established to advise on the manpower development needs of local authorities and more particularly
to coordinate the activities of ISMTU.
F. Bank Performance
39.   Bank performance in project identification, preparation and appraisal was highly satisfactory.
The Bank took an active role in advising Government that the project should not only deal with iunmediate
emergency issues, but also with the medium to long-term prospects of making the transition from mining to
other activities in Selebi-Phikwe feasible. Project objectives and components addressed the needs of
Selebi-Phikwe, creating more jobs.
40.   The average actual time devoted to project supervision was 4 staff weeks, compared with 10 staff
weeks planned per fiscal year The timely planning for training the local staff should have been more
closely supervised and timely advice given to the implementation agencies by the Bank supervision
missions.
G. Borrower Performance
41.    The Government's performance in project identification, preparation, and appraisal was
satisfactory. The performance of the implementing agencies, expect the MLGLH, was also satisfactory.
Due to unclear implementation responsibility within MLGLH, the Ministry of Local Government, Lands,
and Housing Technical Support component was not implemented.



9-
H. Future Operations
42.   Plans for carrying out the activities initiated under the Regional Development Program are being
developed by TIPA for presentation to Cabinet. These plans include the restructuring of TIPA to give it
more autonomy, the recruiting and posting of the personnel required to carry out the promotional program.
Since TIPA realizes that the localization program would not be completed before the consultants depart
(the contract for the expatriate consultants ends at the end of December 1995), it plans to request foreign
technical assistance or use experts from the financial institutions and private sectors.
43.    The Government intends to continue to support efforts in irrigated agriculture. Presently MOA is
preparing programs of support for irrigated farming under the next National Development Plan (NDP). In
order to carry out this task, a number of MOA employees have undergone training in horticulture and
presently serve as resource persons.
44.    The ISMTU is planning to improve coordination of training activities by relocating the Unit from
Francistown to Gaborone and fill all the trainers' positions. Also, consideration is being given to
establishing a Local Government Training Institute in order to continue with the training program.
Furthermore, there is a plan to establish performance monitoring criteria for the various activities in local
administration. The indicators are expected to assist in assessing the impact of training on the
performance of councils.
I. Key Lessons Learned
45.    The key lessons learnt from the implementation of the project are:
(a)   to effectively monitor implementation of any activity, clear performance targets need to be
set at appraisal;
(b)   to assess the success or failure of any program, the expected output needs to be established
at project appraisal;
(c)    recommendations made by any project evaluation study should be evaluated and the
relevant recommendations be taken into consideration in order to correct any impedimnent
to project implementation and Sustainability (paragraph 34); and
(d)    Government's full commitment is a key to the successful implementation and sustainability
of any project component.






PART H: STATISTICAL TABLES



I



BOTSWANA
Silebi-Phikwe Technical Assistance Project
LOAN 2695 - BT
TABLE 1: Summary of Assessments
Macro Polids                                                                                                      x
Sector POIcies                                                                                                     x
Financial Objectives                                                                                              x
Institutional Deveopmnt                                               x
Physical Objectives                                                                                               x
Poverty Reduction                                                     x
Gender Isues                                                                                                       x
Other Social Objctves                                                                                              x
Environmental Objectives                                                                                          x
Pubic Sector Maagermt                            x
Private Sector D  bevpmt                         x
Identification                                   x
Preparaton Aistance                              x
Appraisal                                                             x
Supervision                                                           x
Preparation                                     x
Implenentatlon                                                        x
Covent Complbnce                                                                    x - audit reports
receive  ts
K



BOTSWANA
Selebi-Phikwe Technical Assistance Project
LOAN 2695 - BT
TABLE 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Preceding Operations
Engineering and Preliminary Works Project  To finance the cost of an engineering and  12/16/69    Completed.
preliminary works for infrastructure project
to support a copper/nickel mining
development.
Shashe Infrastructure Project           To diversity the mining town's economy,  6/29/71          Completed
arrive at budgetary independence, stimulate
economic growth, create new employment.
An important feature of the project was the
creation of a permanent township initially
dependent on the mining activities alone
and subsequently being a self-sustaining
urban center.
Second Urban Project                    To cover full housing demand over a five  5/30/78          Completed
year period for the mining town of Selebi-
Phikwe.
First Development Finance Companies     To channel funds for Botswana's economic    6/25/74        Completed
Project (to Development Corporation)    development.
Second Development Finance Companies    To support the Govemment's priorities for  2/21/84         Completed.
Project                                 creating employment and diversifying the
economy through the establishment of
productive enterprises outside the mining
sector and to rationalize and expand
assistance to small farmers.



BOTSWANA
Selebi-Phikwe Technical Assistance Project
LOAN 2695 - BT
TABLE 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Following Operations
Tuli Block Roads Project (Ln. No. 3248-BT)  To: (a) provide road linics necessary for the        On-goining
development and of the Selebi-Phikwe area
and its hinterland and facilitate its
effectiveness as a regional marketing center,
(b) strengthen the capacity of RD to organize
and carry out road maintenance at the
increased level mandated by the expansion of
the road network; and (c) improve road
plannirng and programmirng capability in
anticipation of the next National Developnment
Plasn in 1991.



BOTSWANA
Selebi-Phikwe Technical Assistance Project
LOAN 2695 - BT
Table 3: Project Timetable
. .*.....*.*...*.*.*.*.*.**...*.*. . .*.*-.......*. ............... ...  ...   ........   ...... ....    ... .    ....  
Identification                                                       12/1/82                  02/16/83
Preparation                                                         03/18/93                  03/18/93
Appraisal                                                           10/01/85                   10/24/85
Negotiations                                                        03/01/86                  04/07/86
Board Presentation                                                  06/20/86                  05/15/86
Signing                                                             04/13/87                  04/13/87
Effectiveness                                                       07/10/87                  07110/87
Project Completion                                                  06/30/93                  06/30/93
Loan Closing                                                        12/31/93                  12/31/94



BOTSWANA
Selebi-Phikwe Technical Assistance Project
LOAN 2695-BT
Table 4: Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$ MILLION)
FY 1987                               0.60                  0.00                    0
FY 1988                                1.50                 0.00                    0
FY 1989                               2.80                  1.39                   50
FY 1990                               4.50                  2.53                   56
FY 1991                               5.90                  3.05                   52
FY 1992                               6.90                  3.98                   58
FY 1993                               7.60                  6.04                   79
FY 1994                               7.60                  6.19                   81
FY 1995                               7.60                  6.59                   87
Date of Final Disbursement



BOTSWANA
Selebi-Phlkwe Technical Assistance Project
LOAN 2695 - BT
Table 5: Indicators for Project Implementation
=~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ......S
.**:.*                         ..:.:*:*:~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~.:.... .....:::**......  ***. .... . *.......
Regional Development Program
1. Establish Regional Development Promotion           Jan-88                      Jan-88
Unit
2. Prepare an industrial/business                     Jun-88                      Sep-88
development program
3. Initiate business skills up-grading                Jun-88                     Not done
program
4. Initial Marketing Program:
Zimbabwe                                           Jan-88                     May-88
South Africa                                      Jun-88                      May-88
Hong-Kong                                         Jun-89                      Nov-88
5. Recruit short-term consultants to review           Jun-91                      Nov-92
and evaluate Unit's progress and make
recommendation for the future of the Unit
Irrigated Agricultural Program
1. Examine water resources for pilot sits             Jun-87                      Sep-88
2. Detailed soil surveys of five pilot sites          Jun-88                      Sep-88
3. Commencement of Irrigation Training for AOs        Apr-88                      Apr-88
Farmers
4. Assess the suitability of Selebi-Phikwe town       Aug-87                      Apr-89
as a location for a wholesale market
5. Assess feasibility of establishing agro-           Ju-88                      Not done
processing in Selebi-Phikwe
6. Prepare detailed development plans for five        Apr-87                      Dec-88
pilot project areas



BOTSWANA
Selebi-Phikwe Technical Assistance Project
LOAN 2695 - BT
Table 6: Project Related Studies
; ; ......*,.....,-,.                                                                ...........,, ,, ..........  . .
Ak  RegIonal Devalopment Program
1. Industrl Esabt  Study                            To recommend poliles and pMcedurea for the allocation                    Completed 9/88                       Fully achWvd.                FaciliMed plt mlloeim
of senrced hnduslal plot hI Selobi-Phikowe.
2. Hong Kong Inmestment PromoiDn                    To promote h_etmnt fom the Far East                                      Completed 91d 81                     Fully achewed.               Di.dd SPPDPU to e ata c iuo
Conaultancy                                                                                                                                                                                 p-a.ial effoft in Hoeg Hoq.
3. Comparathe Coel Sd                                Evaluation at the relaVo   ost and benel\t fo                          Completed hI 88                       Fully acheed.                Pru,i&d u-eo  .ith lb. ooIr
locatig hi Selbltalike.                                                                                                                   ed Lb. befisu fr, to I-g is SP; o
thi. i-alostm ass ted to aeko a
4. Market Reserch Study                             To determhe prospects for hIrestment hi the regbon                    Completed (6/889193)                    Fully achleved.
and outIae  i region.
5. Information Manuel                               To prrwiA the necesry hlformaton abotA Selebl-Phike                      Completed 5/88                       Fully achIved.
to hiduss hiterested to eataliel th re.
6. Houelg and Industrial Pots Study                 To quantsty Om need for end make proposls for th                         Completd 3/90                        Fully acdlevd.
development d hrthir hndusa and houhg plots.
7. Evalustion Of ProspKct hfr hovtMnt               To deWmffne pnspst for hiwesnent hi Grwny.                           Completed 9/93 and 3/94                  Fulty achieved.
promotion hi Gemfany.
* Re    of Regi DeveloPment PrOet                   To amm  bi prolecs performance and make                                  Compltd 6/93                         Fully achievd
recommendations regarding future operatiorn
*  Irrigated Agrlcuturs Prognrn
1. Prllmhry evluation d ester rsourr,               To mist hi te evaluation of fhnnm   to perticeta hI bi                   Compled 9/98                         Fully achewvd.
ea eukabhfy atlnd tenure, thrmmr capabety         plot krtgatad egricultural progrem
end commkment
2 Assessment of UN eutabity Of SP                  To a*es   the subbilty of SP as a locaton for                          Done as part of th
as a iocaon for a whlsale market                 whiolmle market                                                       Economic evluaton
of the propects for
deeloppment od small-scale
rgated agricultural project
3 EconomIc  luaton d the prospec  for               To analyze project hIput comi, proJect fnanrcIng, market                   Completed                          Fully achIwed
succsul development of small Kale                 potential and marketing armngements.
rrpgated agricultural projects
4. C.p  Profitauity *d Mt-kaio Sw-y                 To asse   Vhe prodftabky of Itrated agrlcultural produce                   Compltd                            Fully acheved.
and avalabllty of marIka
C. Rots programs



BOTSWANA
Selebi-Phikwe Technical Assistance Project
LOAN 2695 - BT
Table 6: Project Related Studies
.. *. *.*. *.*.* .* . . . .* . . . . . . *.* **. ~~~............................... ..........................
.         . . . . . .. .......................... ......................          ...     ..*.. .............. ..................... ..........
1. Tnqon t Sotdy                                          To stabliih th couf and logic at goods
tmnsportatfl b_ne  Selab U-Mhkls and Durban and bt
make rscomnnwmdaton  which might lad to more
aefilert and cod a          ptlcU    racFt - oaw mtwll and
dolley of tilnlied produet bot khtanabml maonoo.                                   Compebd                                Fully achievd.



BOTSWANA
Selebi-Phikwe Technical Assistance Project
LOAN 2695 - BT
Table 7: Project Costs
.... Hasi ...... ...... A ""A ...........
....         ..     T .I .....      A m w
Regional Development              2.3      3.4       5.7          0.9      4.1       5.0
Local Govemment Training          1.3      2.1       3.4          2.8      2.6       5.4
Urban Sector Management           0.1      0.6       0.7
Base Cost                         3.7      6.1       9.8
Physical Contingencies            0.2      0.3       0.5
Price Contingencies               0.5      1.2       1.7
Total Project Cost                4.4      7.6      12.0          3.7      6.7      10.4



BOTSWANA
Selebi-Phikwe Tochnical Assistance Project
LOAN 2695 - BT
Table 6: Project Financing
IBRD                        0      7.6      7.8                0       6.7      6.6
Govemment                 4.4        0      4.4               3.7       0       3.7
Total                     4.4      7.6       12               3.7      6.7    10.4



BOTSWANA
Selebi-Phikwe Technical Assistance Project
LOAN 2695 - BT
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants
The Borrower shall
Financial            4.01 (a)         Complied with                            Maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the
operations, resources and expenditures
in respect of the Project of the of:
(a) In-Service Training Unt, and
(b) Regional Development Promotion
Unit.
Financial            4.01 (b)         Complied with                           (i) have the accounts referred above
for each fiscal year audted, in
accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank
Complied with after delay                   (ii) fumish to the Bank as soon as
available, but not later than six months
after the end of each such year, a
certified copy of the report of audit.
Financial         4.01 (c)                                                     For all expenditures with respect
to which withdrawals from the Loan
Accounts were made on the basis
of statements of expenditure:
Complied with after delay                   (i) maintain records and account
reflecting such expenditures,



BOTSWANA
Selebi-Phikwe Technical Assistance Project
LOAN 2695 - BT
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants
~~~  ~ ~ ~ ~ *...*.                    *~~~~~~~..   .    ~....
(ii) retain, until at least one year after
the Bank has received the audit report
for the fiscal year in which the last
withdrawal from the Loan Account was
made, all records (contracts, orders, in-
voices, bills, receipts and other
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
Complied with                          (iii) enable the Bank's representatives to
examine such records; and
Complied with after delay                  (iv) ensure that such records and
accounts are induded in the annual
audit.
Implementation     Schedule 5         Complied with                          Borrower to employ five training
specialists and suitable counter-parts
and submit, no later than August 31,
1987, to the Bank, for its review,
proposals for the organization and
deployment of the training teams.
Implementation     Schedule 5         Complied with                          Design work for the access road to
be completed not later than
December 31, 1988.
Implementation     Schedule 5         Complied with                           Evaluation of training program
in the third year of its implementation
through an independent consulting
Organization
Implementation     Schedule 5         Complied with                          Terms of reference for review of



BOTSWANA
Selebi-Phikwe Technical Assistance Project
LOAN 2695 - BT
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants
..........     .~~~ ~ ~ ...                            ~.                              ... ......
manpower development in the local
govemment sector to be submitted to
the Bank for its review not later than
December31, 1987.



BOTSWANA
Selebi-Phikwe Technical Assistance Project
LOAN 2695-BT
Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned                         Actual
iStage of Project Cycle               Weeks       USS                Weeks        USS
Through Appraisal                           0                            10.3
Appraisal - Board                           0                            45.8
Board - Effectiveness                       0                             2.5
Supervision                               82.6       76.9                33.1       64.4
Completion                                  0        14.5                 6.0       15.2
Total                                     88.6       91.4                91.7       79.6



BOTSWANA
Selebi-Phikwe Technical Assistance Project
Loan 2695-BT
Table 11: Bank Resources: Mission
...... ............... : ................ { . ........................ { ................... ............................... . .   :
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.,  ...  ...................         ........     ........ENE s
Through Appraisal                              2                 33           Urban planner     Completed     Satisfactory     None
Appraisal through        2/83 to 3/83          4                 21           Urban planner        NA            NA            None
Board approval                                                                  Economist
Financial Analyst
Board approval           5/86 to 7/87          2                              Urban planner     Completed     Satisfactory     None
through effectiveness                                                          Economist
Financial Analyst
Supervision              8/88 to 3/95         2 1/             55 2/           Economist                      Satisfactory  Late submission
Urban Planner                               of audit reports
Completion                  5/95               2                 10         Operations Officer   Completed
Financial Analyst
1/ Average 2 persons per mission.
2/ Average 7 days per year.



Annex A
BOTSWANA
SELEBI-PHIKWE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
WORLD BANK IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT MISSION
May 13-19, 1995
AIDE-MEMOIRE
1.     A World Bank Mission comprising Ms. Naa Dei Nikoi (Operations Officer) and Ms. Asamanetch Fantaye
(Operations Analyst) visited Botswana from May 12-20, 1995 to carry out the Implementation Completion Report
(ICR) Mission for the above-mentioned project. The Mission was joined by Mr. Derek Hudson (Consultant) and Mr.
Kebede Ali (Consultant) who assisted with the evaluation of the Selebi-Phikwe Regional Development Program and
the Local Authority In-Service Training Program components respectively. The Mission visited Selebi-Phikwe and
gratefully acknowledges the support and hospitality extended by officials of the various agencies met. This Aide
Memoire summarizes the main findings and conclusions of the Mission. A list of the persons met and with whom
discussions were held is attached as Annex 1.
2.     After an extension of one year, the Loan closed on December 31, 1994. As at May 18, 1995, the Loan was
90.81% disbursed, and abalance of US$698,168.66 remained with no outstanding commitments to be paid. The 4-
month grace period in which disbursements were made for work initiated prior to the Closing Date expired on April
30, 1995. Communication of the loan closing was made to Government via telex (dated December 23, 1994), and
notification of its responsibilities for the preparation of the ICR was forwarded via letter dated January 23, 1995.
3.     The Mission was provided with Government's evaluation of the following project components (copies of
which are attached):
a.     The Regional Development Program; and
b.     The Local Authority In-Service Training Program.
4.     The Mission noted that the component developed to strengthen the urban housing policy implementation
function within the Ministry of Local Government, Lands and Housing (part C of the project as outlined in the Loan
Agreement) was not implemented. Under this component, recruitment of 3 long-term consultants was to have taken
place. Two of the consultants were to have assisted tile housing section of the Ministry, and one serve as an urban
development coordinator in the Francistown/Selebi-Phikwe area.
VIEWS ON-PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION - BORROWER
5.     A summary of the relevant agencies views on implementation of the project components follows.
6.     Establishment of a Regional Development for Selebi-Phikwe. This component comprised the following:
(a)    the establishment and operation of the Regional Development Promotion Unit at Selebi-Phikwe
charged with initiating, coordinating and monitoring the various activities related to industrial
promotion policy formulation, feasibility studies and implementation of the development program
for the region;



Annex A
(b)    the preparation and implementation of an industrial/business development program comprising
studies and activities in support of promotion of new investments, development of existing
enterprises and training and other support for small-scale entrepreneurs;
(c)    the development and execution of an irrigated agricultural program based on the results of case
studies and the implementation of programs for 5 pilot schemes; and
(d)    carrying out feasibility studies and detailed engineering design work for two alternative routes
linking Selebi-Phikwe to the South African road system, as well as a feeder road network.
7.     Job creation efforts under the component are generally viewed as having been successful, even taking into
account the overall cost to Government ofjob creation'. Firms operational in the area employ labor-intensive
techniques, and over the 8-year period that the Unit has been operational, close to 4,000 net new jobs have been
created. The strategy followed for the attraction of new foreign industries to the Selebi-Phikwe area is deemed to
have been sound. However, the development of small-scale enterprises and expansion of existing industries does not
seem to have taken place as originally envisaged/intended.
8.     The Mission noted the importance placed by Government on the initiatives undertaken to date, and of its
commitment to supporting the continuation of the effort. Responsibility for overseeing the future activities of the
Unit, and its industrial promotion endeavors has been transferred from the Ministry of Finance and Development
Planning to the Trade and Industrial Promotion Agency (TIPA) of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry.
9.     Under the Irrigated Agricultural sub-component, feasibility studies were carried out as envisaged and the
pilot program overseen by the Unit's resident Irrigation Agronomist determined the necessary conditions for success
in this area inter alia constant on-the-spot monitoring of activities, the adequacy and reliability of the supply of
water, inputs, labor and working capital.
10.    The view commonly held was that implementation of the sub-component has established the technical
feasibility of irrigated agriculture, however, the commercial viability remains somewhat in question. The pilot
programn was started with 17 small-scale farmers and the focus (which has remained) was on vegetable production.
At present, there are 7 small-scale farmers and 7 medium-scale farmers engaged in irrigated agriculture in the area.
Expansion of the program to include medium-scale farmers did not meet with great success. The supply of produce
has had a modest impact on the local markets.
11.    It was noted that in the initial stages, involvement of Ministry of Agriculture officials in this component
was minimaL In 1992, a Government study recommended that the Ministry of Agriculture take responsibility for
this sub-component. Transfer was effected in April of 1993.
12.    Local Authority In-Service Training Program. This component comprised the expansion of in-service
training (instituted on a pilot basis under the previous Bank Second Urban Project) to enable provision of on-the-job
training to all the staff of the country's Unified Local Government Services, and the coordination of efforts with
ongoing training initiatives. The component, which involved the recruitment of expatriate training consultants to
provide training and assist with the strengthening of the In-Services Mobile Training Unit (ISMTU), was
implemented by the Ministry of Local Government, Lands and Housing. Its main objectives and expected outputs
were as follows: (i) training of 2,000 local authority staff members in the fields of administration, finance, technical
operations and social and community development; (ii) training of 22 local trainers over a period of 4 years; (iii)
development of counterpart staff through local courses, on-the-job training and participation in external training
program; and (iv) the development of curricula and training materials in the afore-mentioned fields.
13.    The original target of 2,000 local authority staff to be trained was exceeded. To date, 2,450 staff members
have participated in training programs organized by the consultants and counterpart staff. Although some
' Costs associated with the Financial Assistance Programme (FAP) plus the Unit's operating costs.



Annex A
improvements in performance have been noted, the precise impact of training has not been fully determined.
Training of local trainers was not carried out as expected, although a number of local authority staff have undertaken
Training of Trainers (TOT) workshops under the auspices of other programs. The original intention was to reduce
and gradually eliminate the need for expatriates by the end of the fourth year. The consultants' contract was
extended a number of times for a period of years, and despite counterpart staff having been seconded from town and
district councils, a full complement of trainers does not presently exist, and training is not currently being provided
in the technical areas.
14.    Five of the eleven counterparts who benefited from on-the-job training by the expatriate staff have since left
the ISMTU, and in some cases, counterparts selected for external training did not overlap upon their return with
expatriate consultants.
15.    Curricula and training materials for the courses provided by the Unit were developed, as were manuals for
accounting, workshop operations and building maintenance. While the accounting manual seems to have been well
received, the latter two have received limited usage.
16.    It was noted that the location of ISMTU staff in Francistown makes coordination of the design and
implementation of training plans by the Ministry difficult.
17.    Improved Road Access to the Region. Discussions were held with officials of the Roads Department of
the Ministry of Works, Transport and Communications charged with overseeing the feasibility and engineering
design work carried out for 2 roads, namely the Sofophe-Martins Drift Road and the Bobonong-Lekkerpoet Road.
Under the Tuli Block Roads Project, construction of the 134 Ian Sofophe-Martins Drift Road has since taken place
with financing provided under a loan from the Bank, and the Bobonong-Lekkerpoet Road (66 km of main road; 4
Ian of access roads) financed by BADEA is expected to be completed by the end of June 1995. It was noted that both
roads provide improved access to the Selebi-Phikwe region and connections to the South African road system. In
addition, a network of some 24 Ian or so of feeder roads was developed.
VIEWS ON PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION - BANK
18.    The Mission concurred with the views that progress with project components (with the exception of the
Ministry of Local Government, Lands and Housing technical assistance component), was for the most part
reasonable. Under the Industrial sub-component, job creation and promotional activities have been carried out well,
and under the Irrigated Agricultural sub-component, valuable lessons have been learned and insight gained into the
potential for the future expansion of activities within the region an across the country.
19.    Of concern to the Mission was the lack of timely planning for the localization of efforts undertaken to date.
Recognizing that the initial preoccupation of consultants under both components was the establishment of systems
and procedures, the Mission noted that the process of planning for the departure of expatriate expertise i.e. reducing
dependence on long-term foreign technical assistance should have begun earlier. The contract for the expatriate
consultants presently employed in the Regional Development Unit expires at the end of December 1995. It is
unlikely that TIPA given its current focus on redefining its structure and mandate, will be able to assume full
responsibility for the Unit at that time. Similarly, with regard to training of local authority staff, the consultants'
contract has ended (after 4 extensions) without adequate preparation of counterparts to assume their roles.
NEXT STEPS
20.    The Mission held discussions with implementing agency officials on the plans (currently being considered)
for sustaining activities initiated under the project. With regard to activities started under the Regional Development
and Industrial Promotion sub-components, a plan for the restructuring of TIPA detailing required inputs, staffing
and job-grading requirements, and proposals on the level of autonomy, is currently being finalized for presentation to
Cabinet. A new 'flat' structure is being proposed and a need for foreign technical assistance in the short-term is
envisaged. Some consideration is also being given to ways in which the pool of expertise existing in the financial



Annex A
institutions, private sector and civil service retirees can be tapped. Government also plans to ensure the elimination
of duplication of efforts in the area of industrial promotion.
21.    It was noted that in the short-term Government has already taken steps to address the constraints placed on
the attraction of investors by the shortage of factory shells in the Selebi-Phikwe area.
22.    Indications are that Government intends to continue to support efforts in irrigated agriculture. A number of
Ministry of Agriculture employees have undergone training in horticulture and presently serve as resource/extension
personnel. Cooperation between the Ministry and the Department of Water Affairs with regard to determination of
water availability has begun and will continue to ensure proper support for efforts undertaken.
23.    The plan for building on the efforts of the ISMTU would, as a first step, seek to improve coordination of
training activities by relocating the Unit from Francistown to Gaborone, i.e. closer to the department in the Ministry
under which it falls. Govermment plans to introduce a continuous evaluation process based on monitorable
indicators to assess impact of training. Ultimately, the goal is to transform the Unit into a separate training Institute.
SYSTEMATIC CLIENT CONSULTATION (SCC)
24.    The Mission missed the possibility of carrying out a follow-up evaluation of the project with a view to
ascertaining inter alia the impact of Government's promotion (through subsidies or other means) of investment in
specific regions of the country, the effectiveness of the Regional Development Program in attracting foreign
investment and institutional modifications required to support industrial promotion efforts.
25.    It was noted that results of such an exercise would not only benefit the Bank in its attempts to elicit client
feedback (with a view to improving effectiveness), but could provide useful input into the formulation of industrial
policy for the preparation of the next National Development Program - NDP8, currently underway.
26.    The Mission stated that funding for the recruitment of consultants to carry out the exercise would be
provided by the Bank from its own resources, and the process could be started relatively quickly. Government
expressed interest in carrying out the exercise, and the Mission undertook to ensure that formal communication was
forwarded by the Bank on the matter upon its return to Washington.



Annex A
Annexl
BOTSWANA
SELEBI-PHIKWE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT (LOAN 2695-BT)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT MISSION
May 13 -19,1995
LIST OF PERSONS MET
Ministry of Finance & Development Planning
Mr. S.S.G. Tumelo, Secretary for Economic Affairs
Mr. G.L. Tlogelang, Director, Stategic and Contingency Planning
Mr. E. Odotei, Population Policy Coordinator
Ms. P. Tlhaodi, Planning Officer,
Ministry of Commerce and Industry
Mr. G.L. Motsemme, Deputy Permanent Secretary
Mr. D. Tsheko, Director, Department of Trade & Investment Promotion
Ministry of Local Government, Lands and Housing
Mr. J. Gaetsaloe, Director, Local Government Service Management
Ministry of Agriculture
Mr. H.K. Sigwele, Director, Agricultural Planning & Statistics
Ministry of Works, Transportation and Communications (Roads Department)
Mr. H. Alemayehou, Chief Roads Engineer Mr. A.N. Kgosi, Senior Roads Engineer (Contracts)
Mr. RJ. Hilton, Senior Roads Engineer (Contracts)
Mr. O.B. Keitheile, Roads Engineer (Traffic)
Mr. S.A. Setshogo, Planning Officer
Selebi-Phikwe Regional Development Project
Mr. J. Beirne, Consultant
Mr. K. Kavanagh, Industrial Consultant
Mr. B. Mosenene, Commercial Officer



Annex B
GOVERNMENT OF BOTSWANA
Selebi-Phikwe Regional Development Project
EVALUATION REPORT
[Loan 2695 - BT]
A. Background
1.    The town of Selebi-Phikwe is heavily dependent upon the exploitation of copper and nickel. This
implies that should copper/nickel reserves be exhausted, the economnic activities of Selebi-Phikwe would
come to a standstill, and the town will suffer from economic stagnation.
2.    Therefore, the Government of Botswana (GOB), with the support of the World Bank, established in
1983) the Selebi-Phikwe Continuation Study Group (now Selebi-Phikwe Regional Promotion Unit) to
promote non-mining economic activities in Selebi-Phikwe and its vicinity so as to ensure a viable future for
the town, if and when BCL mine contracts or closes its operations.
3.    The regional development program started in 1988 with a project team of three (3) full time
consultants; a Project Director, an Industrial Promotion Consultant and an Irrigation Agronomist for a period
of five years. The original contract with International Development Ireland (IDI), a subsidiary of the
Industrial Development Authority of Ireland, ran from January 1, 1988 to December 31, 1992. In June
1992, the Ministry of Finance and Development PI commissioned a group of independent consultants,
Maendeleo, to undertake a review of the program. The extension of the work of the unit from January 1,
1993 to December 31, 1995 was adopted as a recommendation that resulted from this consultancy.
4.    The Unit is based in Selebi-Phikwe and is provided with local support staff, office facilities,
transport and so on. The project funds are provided through a World Bank loan [and Domestic Development
Funds (DDF) for local expenditures]. Policy guidelines for the Unit are provided by the Selebi-Phikwe
Regional Development Committee (SPRDC) which meets quarterly under the chairmanship of the Secretary
for Economic Affairs of the Ministry of Finance and Development Planning.
5.    The Unit was required to design, implement and manage two main programmes: to promote
industrial and irrigated agricultural development. It was to concentrate its activities on industrial
development and irrigated agriculture development programmes in Selebi-Phikwe and the surrounding areas.
In carrying out its activities, the Unit was to liaise adequately with the Selebi-Phikwe Town Council, Central
District Authorities, Government Ministries and other agencies where relevant.
II. BROAD OBJECTIVE
6.     The scale of the task of diversifying the economy of Selebi-Phikwe is deternined by the very high
degree of the town's dependence on the BCL mine. The main economic impact of the mine is through the
direct employment which it provides. BCL is the largest single private employer in Botswana with a
workforce in Selebi-Phikwe in the region of 5 000. Since BCL's staff earn on an average more than twice



Annex B
those in the non-mining industrial and service sectors, the scale of the objective of reducing the town's
economic dependence on BCL is brought into focus.
7.     Job numbers at this level in the manufacturing industry can for the time being be provided in Selebi-
Phikwe only in the labour-intensive industries. However, wage rates in the labour intensive industries are on
average approximately half those paid in BCL. In such industries therefore, the number ofjobs required to
have the equivalent economic effect as the 5 000 jobs in BCL is approximately double, i.e. about 10 000.
The agricultural component had a further objective of evaluating the potential for irrigated agriculture in the
region.
8.     It was not expected that the Unit could or would achieve results of this magnitude within five years,
but for the purposes of performance monitoring a target of 2 000 jobs in newly established or expansions of
existing manufacturing enterprises during the life of the project was adopted.
111. STRATEGIES
A. Industrial Development
9.     The Industrial Development Programme entailed the promotion of Selebi-Phikwe for new
investments, for expansion of existing investments and the organization of training and ex-tension
programmes for local industrialists and businessmen in Selebi-Phikwe through the publication of the
promotional materials, extemal visits by the Unit staff and assistance to visiting potential investors.
10.   The specific tasks are: promotion of Selebi-Phikwe as a location for new investments in the form of
small, medium and large scale industrial projects; promotion or further development of existing industries in
both the medium and small scale categories; production and publication of promotional materials on Selebi-
Phikwe; organizing training programmes of various kinds for the business community in and around Selebi-
Phikwe; assisting potential foreign and local investors with all the relevant information regarding the setting
up of business; identifying obstacles to industrial and commercial development in Selebi-Phikwe and
recommending appropriate solutions to the Selebi-Phikwe Regional Development Committee; compiling data
on Selebi-Phikwe covering such aspects as its resources, facilities, infrastructure, existing businesses etc.;
identifying industrial and agro-industrial projects in Selebi-Phikwe area; preparing terms of reference for
short term consultancies with relevant Govemment departments and parastatals; appraisals of feasibility
studies of projects for the Selebi-Phikwe area; preparation of project profiles; participation in overseas
promotional efforts in collaboration with the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, the Botswana
Development Corporation and other relevant local agencies; reviewing existing incentives with a view to
improving their effectiveness and formulating new incentive packages wherever necessary; preparing regular
progress reports for the Selebi-Phikwe Regional Development Committee.
B. Agricultural Development
11.   The Irrigated Agricultural Development Programme was in two parts. The first involved pilot
irrigation development of five sites already identified around the Selebi-Phikwe Township. Two of these
sites involved the use of waste water from the mine effluent and from the township sewage ponds. The other
three involved the use of the Motloutse river in areas around Mmadinare, Bobonong and Tobane. in parallel
with the development of the pilot sites, the second part of this programme entailed the investigation of
irrigation potential of the wider area of the Selebi-Phikwe region, including the Limpopo River resources,
with the ultimate objective of preparing development plans and establishment of a large-scale irrigation
programme in the region.



Annex B
12.   The specific tasks are: development of a pilot irrigation programme in identified areas in Selebi-
Phikwe and its environs; investigation of the potential for irrigated agricultural development in other areas
surrounding the Selebi-Phikwe region; undertaking technical and economic comparison of different irrigation
systems for the Selebi-Phikwe region; undertaking technical and economic evaluation of irrigated crop
farning in the area; assisting those involved in irrigated agriculture in the region; identifying constraints to
the development of irrigated agriculture in and around Selebi-Phikwe and formulating appropriate strategies
to tackle the constraints; preparing terns of reference for short term consultancies and supervising the
consultants thereof, monitoring the implementation of the agricultural development program; mounting in-
service and farmer training courses in irrigation techniques in collaboration with the Ministry of Agriculture;
formulating plans for effective agricultural extension in the area in consultation with the Ministry of
Agriculture; determining possible market outlets for surplus produce from the region and exploring the
possibility of processing the produce in Selebi-Phikwe; assist in developing a water management policy for
the area in consultation with relevant authorities such as Ministry of Agriculture, Department of Water
Affairs and Botswana Development Corporation; preparing regular progress reports on the implementation
of the programme for the Selebi-Phikwe Regional Development Committee.
IV. PERFORMANCE
A. Industrial Development
13.    The performance of the Industrial Programme has been continuously monitored by reference to the
number of first time site visit by prospective investors, the number and employment potcntial of pipeline
projects' and by the number and employment levels of the projects in production. Following is a summary of
the position at the end of February 1995:
CUMULATIVE SITE VISITS                                           77
PROJECTS IN PRODUCTION                                            9
Employment level                                             3 178
Projected employment at the end of 1995                      3 969
CATEGORY "A" PIPELINE PROJECTS                                    3
Employment potential                                         2 550
CATEGORY "B" PIPELINE PROJECTS                                    0
CATEGORY "C" PIPELINE PROJECTS                                   10
14.    Employment in the nine projects in production is ahead of schedule at 3 178 and further substantial
employment growth is expected during the course of 1995. Three pipeline projects with total employment
potential of 2 550 at fall production are expected to proceed in 1995.
15.    Six (6) companies were assisted in establishing in Selebi-Phikwe in 1989, providing 135 jobs. In
1990 a further two companies were commenced, bringing 903 jobs. In 1991 employment at these companies
1 These are categorized according to probability of the projects proceeding.



AnnexB
rose by 503, but in 1992 some 720 jobs were lost, partly as a result of a number of company closures. In
raid 1992, the total employment of assisted projects was about
1 050, having declined from a peak of 1 700 in 1991. However, in September 1994 employment was
recorded to be 2 347.
16.   The initial activities of industrial development concentrated mainly on conducting research and
promotional programmes in South Africa and Zimbabwe. In view of what was considered to be the limited
potential identified on these two countries, it was decided to extend promotion to the Far East (Mauritius and
Hong Kong) targeted at the clothing/textile sector which was considered to offer good prospects for the
establishment of large scale labour-intensive projects. To be competitive in attracting mobile international
investment, a Special Incentive Package was introduced. This was based on the existing Financial
Assistance Policy (FAP) but offered additional incentives for projects with special characteristics. Results
from promotion in Hong Kong have been disappointing, although one large clothing company has been
incorporated in Botswana to manufacture jeans for the European and U. S. markets. The company has
located in Gaborone and employment is estimated to be 995 at fu1l production.
17.   Promotional activities have mainly focused on the clothing/textile sector as opposed to other sectors
such as watchmaking, jewelry, electronics assembly, etc. However, of the nine (9) projects currently in
production, only three are engaged in garment manufacturing. The rest make other products such as sanitary
ware; plastic tanks for water and oil; mining accessories; rucksacks and sleeping bags; canopies for pick up
trucks and chicken feed. A promotional visit to Japan from November 17 to December 4, 1994 had
concentrated on the automobile and electronics assembly sectors.
18.    In the case of the clothing industry, the analysis indicates that profit margins are generally low.
Botswana producers suffer from high transport costs, which cannot be greatly reduced. Unit labour costs are
also higher than in various competitor countries, especially those in Asia. However, Botswana's preferential
access to the European Community and USA markets may mean that it can still survive profitably as a
relative high cost producer. There remains a strong case for providing suitably targeted incentives. The key
task is to ensure that this leads to the establishment of industries which have good prospects of eventually
being competitive without subsidies.
19.   The strategy pursued by the promotion unit to implement the industrial component was largely that
of promoting new foreign industries. This involved identifying companies and promoters with the potential
to establish industrial projects in Selebi-Phikwe. The promotion of Selebi-Phikwe to these target companies
was by personal contact and well-prepared data highlighting the region's advantages for industry was used.
Well-organized fact-finding site visits to Selebi-Phikwe by potential investors were arranged. There was also
adequate provision of advice and information to target companies and potential investors together with
assistance in the development of feasibility studies and project proposals. However, the development of
small scale enterprises and the expansion of existing industries was to a larger extent ignored.
20.   It must be borne in mind that the development of overall manufacturing capability takes many years.
There are often lengthy time lags between initial promotion work and a company deciding to invest in an
area. It may also take a number of years for an investor to establish the most effective management
strategies for improving productivity and overall competitiveness.
21.   In view of the above (para 20) and also given the limited resources available to the unit, the industry
promotion activities have been well conceived and competently executed, and have been suitably responsive
to emerging findings and opportunities. The focus on large, reputable international clothing companies is
consistent with the aim of creating substantial numbers of new jobs and is realistic to the extent that such



Annea B
companies are more likely to have the know-how which is needed if new kinds of manufacturing activities are
eventually to be successful in Botswana. The work provides a good model for the approach to future
industry promotion.
B. Agricultural Development
22.    The work of the Unit mainly involved initial research into irrigation opportunities, the design and
implementation of a pilot project for small-scale irrigation and limited support for other broader plans for
irrigation in the Selebi-Phikwe area. This work was oriented towards establishing models which might later
achieve wider replication by farmners.
23.    Seventeen (17) small-scale farmers were originally selected for inclusion in the pilot irrigated
agricultural program. By the end of April 1993, only six were still producing, providing twenty (20) low-
paid jobs. The performances of most of the surviving small-scale projects appear to be slowly improving,
although the farmers' incomes from irrigated production are still quite low, and there is a continuing need for
regular extension support. Small-scale FAP provided an effective way of helping most of the assisted small-
scale farmers to meet their initial investment costs.
24.    Although it was decided in mid-1991 to concentrate on assisting medium-scale irrigation farmers, the
greater complexity of larger farms and the limited time and resources available to the Unit have meant that
support has necessarily been of an ad-hoc nature, rather than on a planned basis with systematic monitoring.
Most of the selected medium scale farmers have not yet commenced production, and many of their plans
appear to be exceptionally ambitious in relation to available management capability or unrealistic in relation
to the land area that their water supply can be expected to irrigate.
25.   The more demanding procedures and documentation requirements of medium-scale FAP have
represented an impediment to the larger irrigation projects, but this level of scrutiny is justified in view of the
large sums of money involved and the risk of poorly conceived, speculative or fraudulent projects. The
analysis of farm models has confirmed that individual small and medium-scale irrigated horticulture
operations can be operated on a sustainable basis but that, particularly for the larger operations, farmers
must typically achieve a higher cropping intensity than at present and be able to obtain average or higher
price levels.
26.   Although the water and land resources available for irrigation were found to be limited and
geographically scattered, the decision to initially focus on small-scale vegetable production was soundly
based. Through the pilot project the Unit provided intensive support and extension services to the selected
small-scale farmers. The work benefited from having been able to discuss the original project plans with the
farmers and to monitor actual performance. The pilot project for small-scale irrigated agriculture was
soundly designed and executed, and the work of the pilot project has determined some of the key
requirements for small-scale irrigation to be successful in Selebi-Phikwe and elsewhere in Botswana.
27.   In view of water and other resource constraints and taking account of the limited size of the market
for horticultural products in Botswana, and competition with low cost producers in South Africa, it is evident
that irrigated agriculture can only offer a relatively small potential contribution towards the level of job
creation needed in Selebi-Phikwe. While irrigated agriculture does not offer a solution to the overall
economic problems of Selebi-Phikwe, the infornation obtained by the Unit through monitoring of the small-
scale projects and selected medium-scale projects represents an important resource which is available to the
of Agriculture as it prepares to develop programmes of support for irrigated farnning under National



Annex B
Development Plan(s). The irrigated agricultural component was transferred to the Ministry of Agriculture at
the end of 1993.
28.   In overall terms, the activities of the Unit represented a unique experiment for Botswana. The
industrial programme has been successful at creating a large number of jobs although these are vulnerable to
adverse perfonnance. A working hypothesis has evolved that large, reputable international companies have
the overall management strength and know-how to establish efficient and competitive labour-intensive
operations in Selebi-Phikwe.
29.   The work of the Unit also represented a useful opportunity to explore the scope for effective
approaches to regional interventions by Government and may contribute towards development of regional
policy.



Annex B
GOVERNMENT OF BOTSWANA
Selebi-Phikwe Regional Development Project
Unified Local Government Service: In-Service Training Unit
EVALUATION REPORT
A.    Background
1.     The Department of Unified Local Government Service (ULGS) in the Ministry of Local
Government, Lands and Housing (MLGLH) was established in 1973. It has statutory responsibility for
personnel management of the permanent and pensionable staff of local authorities. The personnel functions
for which it is responsible include recruitment/placement, transfer/promotion, and training.
2.    The objective of the ULGS Training Project is to provide in-service training for staff of local
authorities, to increase their productivity and effectiveness. ULGS training activities essentially fall under
four categories:
(a)    Mobile Training (formerly In-Service Training) Unit
(b)   In-House Training
(c)   Institutional Training
(d)    Advanced Academic Training (Internal and External to Botswana).
3.    This report deals exclusively with the Mobile Training Unit
B.    In-Service Training Unit Operating as the Mobile Training Unit
4.    On-the-job training, as the name implies, is always given at workers place of work. The instructor
or trainer becomes the immediate supervisor of the worker. In the opinion of many observers it is the best
approach in training and is likely, if performed well to bring the best results in terms of in improved work
performance, improved working skills and the number of employees that can be trained at any one time
without disruptions and expenses caused by having officers absent from work for long periods on courses at
formal institutions.
5.     Following, Government's acceptance of some of the recommendations on training needs among
employees of local authorities, in particular the Egner Implementation Report and the Hamilton (World Bank
Study Team) Report, both of which stressed the need for decentralisation of training,, by introducing on-the-
job training, a decision was taken to establish an In-Service Training Unit. The "in-house training" strategy
does not and cannot cover all aspects of "on-the-job training" now or for the foreseeable future. It cannot in
essence surpass neither in quality nor quantity the capacity and capability of local resource persons employed
in Councils, for the reasons that some supervisors lack the necessary training know-how and interest, do not
devote enough time to training, whilst others are simply selfish to impart their knowledge to those working
under them. These factors indicate the need to establish a "mobile Training Unit" equipped with fully
qualified trainers.



Annec B
The Terms of Reference
6.    This was not the first time that a mobile training team had been introduced. Due to lack of proper
planning, the first attempt in 1980/81 failed. Leaming from that experience it was felt that the new mobile
training team would operate under the following terms of reference:
(a)    The ISTU would, in the first instance, operate as a pilot project for a period of one
year in four selected Town and District Councils namely: Francistown and Selebi-
Phikwe Town Councils, North East and Central District Councils. Francistown
was selected as the headquarters of the pilot project.
(b)    To recruit four qualified and experienced training- consultants for each of the
disciplines: Administration, Finance, Technical, Social and Community
Development.
(c)    To appoint four local counterparts to understudy the four consultants for eventual
take over of the training programme.
(d)    To develop suitable training modules after consultations with officials in the
Ministry of Local Government, Lands and Housing-, the Department of Unified
Local Government Service, Training- Institutions and Councils for identification of
training- needs and by holding interviews with potential trainees when necessary.
(e)  To conduct on-the-job training.
(f)    To develop and recommend methods of accreditation and to identify and recommend
course participants considered suitable for admission to relevant local institutions
for advanced training.
(g)    To submit quarterly progress reports on the project.
(h)    After successful evaluation of the project by an independent tearn of experts, to
prepare for continuation of the project into other Town and District Councils.
Organisation for Rehabilitation through Training (ORT)
7.     After award of tender to the Organisation for Rehabilitation through Training (ORT), London, to
carry out the above tasks, the programme took off the ground in April 1985 and was funded through savings
on the Urban II World Bank Loan. The training tearn, headed by training Coordinator (ULGS) consisted of
four Training Consultants (ORT), all being specialists in administration, finance, technical social and
community development and four local training officers (counterparts) all being senior and experienced-
ULGS employees for each of the above disciplines. After a preparatory period of four months occupied in
research into actual training needs plus the writing up of teaching materials and assembly of training
equipment, actual training began in July 1985. By February 1986 some training, both in the classroom and
on the job, had been given to no more than 300 persons out of 586 potential trainees in the four Councils in
the pilot area.



Annex B
The Steering Committee
8.    The pilot project was the subject of independent scrutiny by a Steering- Committee comprising of
representatives from the of Local Govemment Lands and Housing, the Unified Local Govemment Service
and Council Chief Executives from Councils in the pilot area. Evaluation of the project was undertaken by
the Applied Research Unit of the and was assisted by -line specialists. Reports received from them and
the four Councils concemed indicated that the project was well received, successful and that there was
evidence of improvement in job performance.
9.     On the recommendations of the Steering Committee and the ULGS, the Govemment gave approval
for the project to proceed into second stage to make this kind of training available to all Local Authorities in
the country over the next two years following the pilot study. The project is now operating on a larger scale
with two central offices, one in Gaborone serving as the headquarters of the project and catering for the
Southem region of the country and another in Francistown, serving the Northern region. The exercise has led
to expansion of the project staff and equipment The advantages gained through the move to Gaborone
include opportunities for the training team to work closer with other officers involved in skill development
and the effective integration of the various programmes; this includes closer liaison with training institutions
located in Gaborone.
A LIST OF ISMTU STAFF (INCLUDING THOSE WHO HAVE LEFT)
NAME                                                      JOINED         LEFT
Administration
H. Nyirenda (Training Coordinator)                           1985         1990
D.D. Phillime (Ag. Training Coordinator)                     1992         1995
L. Mayisela (Personal Assistant)                             1986      present
G. Modise (Personal Assistant)                               1985        1986
N.M. Thothe(Principal Admin. Officer)                        1988         1991
M. Molefe (Senior Aces. Clerk)                               1991         1992
J. Kamanga (Personnel & Admin. Officer)                      1986        1993
M. Malaakgosi (Typist)                                       1986         1995
G. Mosele (Senior Aces Clerk)                                1994       present
K Tshetlho (Typist)                                          1992            "
G. Thuso (Cleaner)                                           1984        1987
G. Gasefete (Cleaner)                                        1982        1993
M. Moreki (Cleaner)                                          1993      present
G. Kgwakgwe (Cleaner)                                        1986        1990
G. Siska (Messenger)                                         1986      present
G.S. Gaetsewe (Training Coordinator)                         1992      present
M. Jarabane (Driver)                                         1985        1990
0. Ramme (Driver)                                            1985        1990
L. Dambuza (Driver)                                          1987        1989
G. Gagobepe (Driver)                                         1985      present
M. Modongo (Driver)                                          1986
M. Tsheko (Driver)                                           1993



Annex B
Training - Consultants
M. McFdden (Community Dev.)                                     1985         1987
V. Blundel (Technical Civil)                                    1987         1988
Patrick McCarthy (Admin.)                                       1987         1988
B. Poole (Finance)                                              1986       present
E. Procek (Social Welfare)                                      1986         1990
C. Menta (Comm. Dev. & Housing)                                 1988         1990
M. Vincent (Tech/Mechanical)                                    1988         1990
P. A. Bassett (Admin.)                                          1989         1991
D. Saunders (Land Board Committee Clerk)                        1987         1987
J.H. Whitfield (Admin.)                                         1985         1986
Local Training Officers
S.O. Kganela (Tech./Civil)                                      1985       present
M. Segaetsho (Tech./Civil)                                      1987       present
K Balosang (Admin. & Training Coordinator)                      1987         1993
S. Kgosi (Finance)                                              1987         1991
0. Garekwe (Finance)                                            1988       present
N.R. Sebego (Social welfare)                                    1986         1993
P. Disele (Home Economics)                                      1987       present
B. Seitlhaino (Social Welfare)                                  1988       present
L. Ntingana (Comm. Dev.)                                        1988       present
T.B. Gabasiane (Admin.)                                         1986         1997
B.M.B. Kesenye (Finance)                                        1985         1986
Z. Letshoo (Admin.)                                             1994       present



Annex B
IN-SERVICE TRAINING PROGRAMME BY NO. OF TRAINEES AND SUBJECT
AREAS
1987                    88      89     90      91   92      93      94     95           TOTAL
TECHNICAL              130      89     62      61     -     33      23       -       -      398
FINANCE                 57      47     74      45   23      46      27    102      26       447
COMM. DEV.                -    168     70      89     -     90    200    177         -      794
S. WORK                130    352    116       48     -       -      -    48       22       716
H. ECON.                  -    67      20       -    -                      87     12        186
ADMIN.                  94    173    213    214   67        59      82    198      42       1142
TOTAL                  411    896    555    457   90    228    332    612    102           3683






IBRD 18772R
20-                                     22                       \             -2.'-'       ,0                                                       /
A  N G O  L A                         _R                                                         ARZA    M  B I Ak4/
-1e'    ~ ~~                                     R   9  -\    /<                                                          \  ~>\-'                                           B O T S W A N A                                      @
r     Mohtmb    ; .AISTISG MAIN ROADS
. 8 e ,   , _ C H O E\   \                                       - _    _    _  OTIER   ROADS
! x--- H t - r \ ? *o t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ MAJOR AIRELELOS - UNSURfACEC
MINERAL PROJECTS
OK AV ALNJGO
DIST-CT ADMINS-RATIVE CENTERS
DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
{ N GAlILAND        \  _          ,                                                                                                                   .un  \   \  ^  -   -  IITERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
A0   20    *      so    go 0   w
O  D0    .A  SD A0a ID0 AA0 IRA
g  >  R    \                                                          \        Shoshong lhaJDCie  1 SJ<rwyoDd~~~~~~~~I          ROnchTg
-kg..ba,a           -0.ETE.S~ ~~~~a
04'~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
<   _                                                                                                 h__D  aSE-   r\Alt{<aKn 
K~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
j K G A L A G A D I                     G  H A  N  Z
|ZF'eeO /                                                                                                                                                                                          |.            SWAZIJAN
I   (                  r                                                                                                                                                                   A F R - /  A
20          r,,P=  --,j  ~>    Dz-                                          Z4.                                  ZR'                                    D8                                                          PL18









M A(CT' 111 C
Report No:           1479-1 
Type: ICR



