Do_tng.: iO
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-4260-BT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO USt 7.6 MILLION
TO THE REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
FOR A
SELEBI-PHIKWE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
April 22, 1986
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00        -   Pula 1.82-
Pula 1.00      a  US$0.55
ABBREVIATIONS
ALDEP  -  Arable Lands Development Program
EEC    -  European Economic Community
NDB    -  National Development Bank
NDP    -  National Development Plan
TGLP   -  Tribal Grazing Lands Policy
PAP    -  Financial Assistance Policy
ARAP   -  Accelerated Rainfed Arable Program
BDC    -  Botswana Development Corporation
MLGL   - Ministry of Local Government and Lands
PURD   -  Promotion Unit for Regional Development
BHC    -  Botswana l[ousing dCorporation
BEDU   -  Botswana Enterprise Development Unit
TIPA   -  Trade and Investment Promotion Agency
MCI    -  Ministry of Commerce and Industry
SPTC   -  Selebi-Phikwe Town Council
ULGS   -  Unified Local Government Service
ISTU   -  In-Service Training Unit
Government Fiscal Year
April 1 - March 31



FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
SELEBI-PRIKWE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECr SUMMARY
Borrower:                   Republic of Botswana.
Amount:                     US$7.6 million.
Terms:                      Payable in 17 years, including 4 years of grace,
with standard variable interest rate.
Purpose:                    To promote the economic diversification of the
town of Selebi-Phikwe and its environs and
gradually lessen their dependence on the
Copper/Nickel Mine of BCL Ltd., which ultimately
faces closure as ores are exhausted. These
promotional goals are consistent with national
priorities for increasing employment
opportunities outside the capital-intensive
mining enclaves. The project would provide
technical assistance and other support for
promotional activities in agriculture and
industry, including irrigation pilot schemes and
the engineering of a key link-road. The project
would also strengthen administration in the
urban sector in general through a national
training program for local government personnel,
and through technical assistance to the central
government for urban policy development and
implementation.
Benefits and Risks:         As ore bodies at the BCL Mine are depleted early
in the next century, the dynamic community of
Selebi-Phikwe would lose its main source of
livelihood. The proposed project will initiate
a program that is likely to provide greater
economic security to the mining community
(present population 30,000, growing at a rate of
about 6-8 percent a year) and to the 140,000
people of the surrounding region. Commercial
farmers and smallholders would benefit from a
badly-needed road network that would be designed
by the project's technical assistance.
Administration of the urban sector would benefit
from the project-supported program for training
2,000 local government officials, and from
technical assistance for planning and
administration. The risk of the project failing
This document has a rtricted distibution and may be used by rmcipients only in the performance
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwi be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
to achieve administrative and operational
momentum and attract investors is minimized by
the highest priority given to the operation by
the Government, by attractive investment
incentives and by a phased and flexible approach
that avoids a rapid concentration of high-cost
investment. The risks are far outweighed by the
danger of doing nothing for the township and its
satellites, allowing a situation to develop in
which precipitate and large-scale loss of
employment would occur in the region, with a
financial and political crisis overtaking the
local authority and the Government.
Estimated Cost
US$ Million
Local    Foreign    Total
I.  Regional Development                              2.3       3.4        5.7
2.  Local Government Training                         1.3        2.1       3.4
3.  Urban Sector Management                           0.1       0.6        0.7
Base Cost                                       3.7       6.1        9.8
Physical Contingencies                          0.2       0.3        0.5
Price Contingencies                            0.5        1.2        1.7
Total Project Costi/                            4.4       7.6       12.0
US$ Million
Financing Plan                                      Local    Foreign    Total
IBRD                                     7.6        7.6
Government                    4.4         -         4.4
Total                         4.4        7.6       12.0
Estimated Disbursements:
…----- US$ Million ---  ---
IBRD Fiscal Year         1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993
Annual                  0.6   0.9   1.3   1.7   1.4   1.0   0.7
Cumulative              0.6   1.5   2.8   4.5   5.9   6.9   7.6
1/ Taxes and duties negligible.



- iii -
Economic Rate of Return: Not applicable.
Appraisal Report:         None.
Map:                      IBRD 11895R



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA FOR A
SELEBI-PHIKWE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Botswana for the equivalent of US$7.6 million to
help finance a Selebi-Phikwe Technical Assistance Project. The loan would
have a term of 17 years, including 4 years of grace, with a variable
interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The last economic memorandum on Botswana (Report No. 5238-BT) was
distributed to the Executive Directors on October 15, 1985. This
description is based on that memorandum and information obtained on
subsequent missions.
3.        Botswana is a landlocked country in Southern Africa, bordered by
the Republic of South Africa, Namibia, Zambia and Zimbabwe. With an area
of 570,000 sq km and an estimated population of just over one million
(mid-1985), it is for the most part sparsely populated. Over 80 percent of
the population is concentrated along the relatively fertile eastern third
of the country, as two thirds of the country is covered by the Kalahari
Desert. Rainfall is erratic and drought frequent.
4.        The 1970s was a decade of rapid economic growth and budgetary and
balance of payments stability. The mining of diamonds and nickel/copper,
which started in the early 1970s, led to real increases in GDP of over 10
percent a year during the decade. Exports of meat also contributed to
economic growth. Per capita GNPl/ rose from US$110 in 1970 to about
US$910 by 1984. Increased receipts from the Customs Union2/, direct taxes
and mineral royalties caused recurrent revenue to rise nearly 33 percent a
year, which was substantially in excess of the growth in recurrent
expenditure. Recurrent budgetary surpluses, together with grants, covered
nearly half of the steadily growing capital expenditures, and since
external borrowing exceeded requirements, the Government became a net
1/ Calculated by the Bank Atlas method.
2/ The Soitthern Africa Customs Union, comprising Botswana, Lesotho,
Swaziland and South Africa, is administered by South Africa. Import
duties and excise taxes are levied and collected by South Africa,
deposited into a common pool and then distributed to the members based
on each country's share in production and trade.



- 2 -
creditor of the banking system. The economy also showed overall surpluses
in the balance of payments due primarily to the rapid rise in exports and
to large private capital inflows associated with mining investments.
5.        During 1981, the slump in world demand for diamonds and falling
metal prices had major repercussions on Botswana's mineral-led,
export-dependent economy. Real growth in GDP declined in 1981/82, and
exports and foreign exchange reserves fell sharply as the diamond mines
began stockpiling part of their production. An outbreak of foot-and-mouth
disease in 1981 led to a drop in meat exports to the European Economic
Community, which exacerbated the situation. As a result of sharply lower
export receipts, Botswana recorded an overall balance of payments deficit
for the first time in over a decade. Foreign reserves fell to 3.4 months
of imports by the end of 1981 from 4.7 months two years previous.
6.        The Botswana Government introduced a number of measures designed
to cope with the economic strains of reduced mineral exports and revenues.
The Government sought to control the growth of aggregate demand by raising
interest rates, restraining domestic credit expansion, imposing a general
wage freeze, devaluing the pula, and cutting the Government's development
budget.  By mid-1982 the prospects for Botswana's economy started to
improve again following the opening of a third diamond mine. Although
Botswana still stockpiles part of its total diamond production, the opening
of the new mine at Jwaneng led to higher export quotas and earnings. By
the end of 1982, a surplus in the overall balance of payments was restored
and foreign reserves covered almost 4+ months of imports.
7.        The increased revenue from diamonds led to improvements in the
Government's budget picture and substantial overall surpluses in 1983/84
and 1984/85. While the Government originally projected a small overall
budget deficit for 1985/86, recently revised estimates show that actual
mineral revenues will once again exceed earlier estimates, and the budget
will show a substantial surplus. Balance of payments data show a
continuous improvement in the current account since 1981, the peak year
of the deficit. In 1983 and 1984 Botswana recorded small current account
surpluses for the first time since 1979. With these surpluses
Botswana had, by the end of 1984, accumulated foreign reserves to cover
over seven months of imports. Both the strengthened international diamond
market and the weakness of the pula against the US dollar (resulting from
the recent fall of the South African rand, to which the pula is closely
tied) have contributed to the recent budgetary and current account
surpluses. Since diamonds are priced in US dollars, pula revenues increase
when the value of the pula declines against the dollar. The impact of the
falling pula and the recent upturn in the diamond market is illustrated in
the preliminary balance of payments data for 1985 which show a current
account surplus equal to over ten percent of GDP. At the end of 1985,
reserves covered seventeen months of imports. Persistent strengthening of
the pula vis-a-vis the rand made the Botswana economy more vulnerable to
South African competition. As a result, the Government in January 1985
officially devalued the pula by 15 percent against the currency basket to



- 3 -
which it is pegged. During the remainder of 1985 the pula continued to
fall with the South African rand against the US dollar and other
currencies, only showing some strength when the dollar began to weaken
against major currencies. In January 1986 the pula's currency basket was
changed to reduce the importance of the rand and to moderate any further
fall against other currencies.
8.        Over the past four years long-term development issues have been
considerably overshadowed by the prolonged drought. The Government has
alleviated the adverse effects of the drought through a relief program
which includes the provision of supplementary food supplies to
some 62 percent of the population. The drought relief programs include
labor projects which offer short-term jobs for 15,000, provision of fodder
for cattle and 20 kg of free seed to all farming households. Farmers also
receive grants for de-stumping and draft power for ploughing.
9.        Botswana's economy is still at an early stage of development.
The mineral-led development has not encouraged the building up of linkages
within the economy and only modestly increased the number of employment
opportunities for Botswana's labor force. Historically, Botswana's economy
has been centered on livestock and, until today, traditional agriculture
and cattle raising have remained the main economic activity for about 80
percent of the population. However, an increasing concentration of cattle
ownership, partly resulting from the drought which affected mainly owners
of small herds, has reduced the options for about 50 percent of the
population to make a reasonable living from agriculture alone.
10.       The major challenge for the Government in the present decade is
to provide the infrastructure and services required by the more labor-
intensive productive sectors, to foster linkages and to create lasting
employment opportunities for Botswana's labor force, which is growing at
over 3 percent a year and is vulnerable to reductions in employment oppor-
tunities in South Africa.
11.       One of the most serious constraints on growth of the productive
sectors is the severe shortage of skilled technical, managerial and profes-
sional manpower, which greatly impairs the country's absorptive capacity,
encourages the use of capital intensive technology, raises production
costs, and stifles investment. A high proportion of skilled and
professional positions are filled by expatriates, and many posts in
Government (particularly in local government) and the private sector are
inadequately staffed. The manufacturing sector is further constrained by
the small domestic market, the country's limited raw materials base and
landlocked position, and competition from South Africa and Zimbabwe.
12.       The agricultural sector, particularly arable farming, is looked
upon as an important source of future employment. Crop farming, however,
is circumscribed by the limited availability of surface water, sparse and
erratic rainfall, and frequent drought. The sector's ability to support
additional labor may therefore always remain limited. Ecological



- 4 -
conditions render most parts of the country more favorable to livestock
than crop production. However, the system of communal grazing and
associated traditional values have contributed to overstocking and
progressive land degradation.
13.       The Government is moving ahead with programs to deal with these
constraints. Botswana's Sixth National Development Plan (1985-1991)
accords high priority to education as a means of alleviating the country's
manpower constraint. During the previous plan heavy emphasis was placed on
the development of primary eduLatiou. The Sixth Plan maintains the support
to basic education by placing greater emphasis on upgrading junior
secondary schooliag and increases attention to manpower development through
provision of technical and vocational training. Industry is being
supported through promotional activities by the Botswana Development
Corporation and the National Development Bank, through preferences given to
local industry in bidding for Government contracts, and by the Financial
Assistance Policy (FAP) which includes the provision of tax holidays,
favorable interest rates, seed-capital for investors, and payroll and
training grants. The Tribal Grazing Lands Policy (TGLP) was introduced in
1975 as a step to control overstocking and range degradation while
increasing incomes from cattle-raising by improving land quality, enhancing
range management and boosting operation efficiency. Range management
remains an area where the Government must continue to focus its attention.
The Arable Lands Development Program (ALDEP), a multi-faceted operation
designed to raise productivity in crop farming, was introduced in 1979.
This program's full effect is yet to be felt since the drought has kept
agricultural production at such low levels. A new program, Accelerated
Rainfed Arable Program (ARAP), was announced in September 1985 and is
designed to provide incentives for Liedium-sized farmers for plowing, row
planting, weeding and applying fertilizer. Agricultural production on a
larger scale is dependent upon the availability and utilization of water
for irrigation purposes. Under the auspices of the Bank, irrigation
potential studies are being carried out to identify the best areas for
irrigation development, while a proposed water use master plan will
identify investment priorities in the sector.
Population Status
14.       Botswana's population has been growing at an estimated 3.4
percent a year. This growth rate may increase toward 3.8 percent as the
crude death rate declines from a level that is already among the lowest in
Sub-Saharan Africa. Total fertility3/, which is close to a rate of 6.2,
has resulted in almost half of the population being under the age of 15.
Even if fertility declines, natural increase will remain high as these
children reach reproductive age. Projections show that Botswana's 1985
population of just over one million could in the next 30 years reach levels
ranging from 3.5 milli3n (if fertility remains constant) to 2.5 million (if
3/ The total fertility rate represents the number of children that would
be horn per woman if she were to live to the end of her childbearing
years and bear children at each age according to prevailing
age-specific fertility rates.



there is a significant decline in fertility). Even this low projection
implies a stationary population of 4.4 million. To this end, an ongoing
Bank-financed Family Health Project is helping to establish a comprehensive
family planning program. Botswana's urban population more than tripled
during the 1970s and now represents over 20 percent of the total
population. over the current Plan period, the urban population will grow
to at least 32 percent of the total population. In the years thereafter
Botswana can expect to experience even greater movement of population into
the urban areas.
Development Assistance
15.       Multilateral and bilateral agencies have extended substantial
assistance to Botswana on highly concessional terms. The Bank Group has
been the main multilateral source, but the EEC, the CDC, the African
Development Bank and OPEC sources have also been active. Bilateral
assistance has come from numerous sources. In 1978 almost two-thirds of
Botswana's outstanding bilateral debt was converted into grants. At the
end of 1984, total external debt outstanding (disbursed only) was estimated
at US$333 million, debt service payments were US$48 million and the debt
service ratio 5.6 percent. Botswana's future external capital requirements
will depend on the state of the world mineral market and the outlook for
diamonds in particular. While Botswana is expected to continue to receive
substantial aseistance from bilateral and multilateral sources on grant or
concessional terms, these may have to be supplemented by loans from
commercial sources should current account deficits rise. However, diamond
exports should remain strong and Botswana should remain creditworthy for
the required borrowing.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BOTSWANA
16.       The Bank Group began operations in what was then Bechuanaland ln
1964, and has approved 20 loans (US$258.20 million) and six credits
(US$15.9 million) for a total of US$274.10 million. These loans and
credits have financed five roads projects, four education and vocational
training projects, three livestock (including land tenure) projects, two
urban projects, three water supply projects, two development finance
projects, one thermal power project, a health and population project and
three operations to help provide infrastructure for mining development.
IFC has had one investment in Botswana: an equity participation of
US$370,000 in the Botswana Development Corporation, approved in March 1979,
was increased by US$481,000 in 1983. Summary statements of Bank Group
Operations in Botswana are provided in Annex II.
17.       The Bank Group's share of Botswana's external debt (disbursed and
outstanding) at the end of calendar year 1984 was about 39.2 percent (IBRD
- 34.7 percent, IDA - 4.5 percent), and its share in debt service was about
38.4 percent. The Bank's exposure in Botswana increased sharply following
the conversion of external debt into grants in 1979. Since then, it has



- 6 -
fallen and is likely to continue to decline, as the Government's borrowings
from both official and commercial sources have been increasing sharply
during the past three years.
18.       Botswana's project planning and execution have been good, and
Bank-assisted projects have encountered relatively few complications.
However, the drought has slowed disbursements of agricultural and other
credit under an ongoing DFC project. Botswana's overall disbursement
performance has been quite good, its annual rate of disbursement averaging
24.5 percent during 1981-84.
19.       A problematical operation with which the Bank has been associated
is the copper/nickel mining complex based at Selebi-Phikwe, the
infrastructure for which was financed with the help of Bank assistance
totaling US$40.3 million (loans 776-BT and 776-2-BT and credit 172-BT).
Although the infrastructure works were completed on schedule in 1976, the
mining operation itself has experienced a prolonged financial crisis,
caused mainly by depressed metal prices. This has resulted in four
financial restructurings of the mining company, BCL Limited, which is owned
by the Anglo-American Corporation of South Africa Limited and AMAX
Incorporated of the United States, with a 15 percent equity holding by the
Botswana Government (paras. 23-25). The latest restructuring was approved
by the Bank's Executive Directors in July 1985 (Memorandum R85-238).
20.       Bank Country Assistance Strategy.  The Bank's assistance strategy
for Botswana aims to support the Government's increased emphasis on
generating greater and more equitable economic opportunity outside the
capital-intensive mining enclaves. This will require project assistance
for greater diversification of the economy, especially into industrial
enterprises linked to livestock and arable agriculture, and for enabling
arable agriculture to overcome considerable climatic and marketing
constraints. A Bank-generated study on Botswana's potential for irrigated
agriculture is being carried out. In the livestock subsector, ongoing Bank
assistance is seeking to increase productivity and extend ranching
opportunities to a wider range of farmer, while supporting Government
reforms to reverse degradation of the country's grazing lands and
strengthen the whole apparatus for land-use planning and land management.
Because population pressures on the fragile land resources and small
modern-sector industrial base threaten in the long run to overwhelm
economic progress, the Bank proposes to continue to support the family
planning program introduced recently by the Government with the help of a
Bank-financed project.
21.       The Bank and the Government are also in agreement on the need to
accelerate manpower development and improve the range and quality of
employment-oriented training so that Botswana's high dependence on
expatriates can be reduced. The Bank expects lending for infrastructure to
be reduced considerably from previous high levels, which were justified in
view of the scant provision of infrastructure in Botswana before
Independence. Future infrastructure lending and sector studies will
emphasize least-cost solutions (as in energy and road transportation),



- 7 -
defining long-term strategies (as in water supply) and institution-building
and helping to develop key regions (e.g. the Selebi-Phikwe and Tuli Block
areas). The Bank is currently discussing with the Government a study of
Botswana's public sector investment program.
PART III - THE SETTING
Introduction
22.      The town of Se]ebi-Phikwe in Northeastern Botswana is a community
of about 30,000 people almost entirely dependent on the nearby
copper/nickel mine. The Government has given priority to finding ways of
reducing this dependence and diversifying economic activity in the area in
antic'pation of the mine's eventual closure. The town has developed
rapidly from the twin villages of Selebi and Phikwe, with a combined
population of 5,000 some 15 years ago, to become the third largest urban
settlement in Botswana. It is located 65 km from the main north-south line
of rail, connected to it by a branch line. It is similarly linked to the
main nortb south-road; and is served by Air Botswana. It is close to the
borders of both South Africa and Zimbabwe, but lacking direct road links
with these countries; and distant (by more than 400 km) from the capita] of
Gaborone in the south. Selebi-Phikwe is administered by an elected,
multi-party Town Council, whose responsibilities include the administration
and operation of primary schools, clinics, health posts, social service
centers and roads. The town enjoys high standards of power and water
supply due to the location there of one of the country's three power
stations and because of the water resources of the Shashe Dam some 100 km
away.
BCL Mine
23.       The copper/nickel mine on which Selebi-Phikwe is dependent is
operated by BCL Ltd., a company indirectly controlled by AMAX and the
Anglo-American Corporation of South Africa, Ltd, the Government of Botswana
holding 15 percent of the equity. From the start of operations in 1974,
the  nine suffered serious technical problems mainly ari-4ng from its
design, later compounded by a weakening market for copper and nickel. The
two leading shareholders, AMAX and Anglo, suffered substantial losses
during this period. As the metal market became chronically depressed, the
servicing of earlier debt was added to continuing operational losses. This
vicious circle has forced the mine's shareholders to negotiate four
financial restructurings of BCL. Under the contractual terms of Bank loans
for the mining town's infrastructure, restructurings were approved by the
Bank's Executive Directors in 1978, 1980, 1982 and 1985 (report numbers
R78-39, R79-306, R82-191 and R85-238 respectively), and were intended to
avoid insolvency of the company in the expectation of an improved economic
climate and higher metal prices. They were carried out against a
background of gradually improving technical performance.



- 8 -
24.       The restructurings aimed to ease BCL's untenable debt-service
burden and cash flow constraint by deferring or subordinating debt4/; and
providing emergency funding by the shareholders. Over the past 10 years,
senior debt of about US$80 million and subordinate debt of about US$190
million have accrued to the shareholders and creditors. The fourth
restructuring was notable for including a new and much more favorable
contract for the purchase of the major share of the mine's copper-nickel
matte, Falconbridge International replacing AMAX. The increased cash flow
to BCI. resulting from the change of contract is expected to be about
US$25.0 million a year, which, with other measures, will enable operations
to continue uninterrupted until 1988, when a further restructuring will
need to be negotiated by the mine's shareholders and creditors before the
deferred maturities fall due.
25.       Despite this chronic financial crisis, the mine today is
efficiently run, with annual production of 48,000 tons of copper/nickel
matte per year. The recent discovery of new ore bodies indicates that the
physical life of the mine is assured for some 20 to 25 years. Nickel
prices generally have been more favorable than copper and have helped
strengthen BCL's weakening revenue base. Whether market conditions can
support a viable operation throughout this period is a matter of serious
concern to the mine's shareholders, including the Government.
Population Growth and Employment
26.       Selebi-Phikwe's population is growing at an average rate of 6-8
percent a year, and is expected to reach over 70,000 by the end of the
century. Some 4,500 (or two-thirds) of the 7,000 work force are employed
by the mine while much of the remainder work in the manufacturing sector,
which is dominated by the needs of the mine. It is estimated that some
1,000 workers will join the labor force in the area each year. Without any
intervention, employment opportunities are likely to remain more or less
static, contributing to already high unemployment and underemployment.
Regional Focus
27.       Although Selebi-Phikwe's development has been entirely determined
by the presence of minerals, the town enjoys a number of locational
advantages compared with many other settlements in Botswana. Foremost, it
has enjoyed adequate water supply theoughout the recent prolonged drought.
Recharge of the nearby Shashe Dam has proved ample, while the town is close
to the Limpopo River and its major tributary', the Motloutse. Immediately
to the East is the Tuli Block, an important and relatively fertile
agricultural area. To the west is a triangle of large semi-urban villages
-- Serowe, Palapye and Mahalapye -- that lack much of the modern sector
activity that Selebi-Phikwe is capable of generating. These villages and
other settlements bring the total population of the region to about
140,000. Selebi-Phikwe's only potential rival for prospective markets in
the north-eastern quarter of Botswana is the larger commercial and
4/ Besides KfW, IDC and Metallgesellschaft, the mining company's creditors
include Chase Manhattan, Standard and Barclays banks.



- 9 -
manufacturing center of Francistown, about 160 km disotant. However tlhere
are differences In orientation, with Francistown looking more to trade wtth
Zimbabwe and serving Botawana's cattle industry through Its rail. facllitIcal
and through the construction of a major new abattoir.
Agricultural Potential
28.       The main source of livelihood for the region's rural popiilation
is traditional agriculture, consisting of subsistence dryland cropping and
extensive cattle grazing. About 120,000 (or 80 percent) of total rurnl.
households work farms.  A significant number of households, possibly up to
a third, will have a member worklng intermittently in Selebi-Phikwe mine or
town. Hain physical constraints to irrigation develolpment in the reglon
are water availability and climate, with extremely high daytime
temperatures in summer and the possibility of frost in winter. Commercial
farming is practised in the region on about 200 freehold farms in the north
and central Tuli Block, dominated by livestock production, while a 8ma.11
amount of irrigated crop production is carried on. Because of the l1mited
prospects for development in the region from rainfed agriculture,
exploitation of the region's water resources for irrigated agriculture Is
now being explored. Soils surveys indicate about 12,000 ha of potentially
irrigable land along the region's sand rivers (the Shashe and Motloutse)
and a further 10,000 ha in the Tuli Block. About 360 ha of potentially
irrigable land is located either in the town of Selebi-Phikwe (e.g. using
mine waste water and town effluent) or in nearby settlements. High pumping
costs of ground water probably rule out other areas in the region where
soils might be suitable.
29.       While there are substantial local markets for the lower value
crops, such as grains, higher-value irrigated crops would eventually need
export markets, as Botswana producers already meet three-quarters of the
domestic demand for such produce. Marketing has generally been constrained
by poor road links (both within the region and linking the region to
external marlzts), absence of adequate wholesale markets and processing
capabilities, inadequate input supplies (particularly implements,
machinery, pumps and engines) and very restricted facilities for
maintenance and repair of plant and equipment. Together with the high cost
of pumping water, these constraints have resultee in a poor record of
profitability from irrigated agriculture despite good technical management.
Industrial Activity
30.       The manufacturing sector in Botswana is still relatively small,
contributing only 9 percent of GDP in 1982/83, despite its rapid growth
since Independence. Manufacturing activities in Botswana face several
constraints: smallness of the domestic market, competition from South
African goods, inadequate transportation and other basic services, and lack
of skilled manpower. The Government has mitigated the effects of these
constraints by providing a stable, secure investment environment through
tax incentives, liberal foreign exchange regulations and by supplying
credit and seed capital through the Botswana Development Corporation (BDC),



- 10 -
the National Developmunt Bank (NDB) and a number of small agencies formed
to assist smali-seal.e enterprises.  The Government has recently taken steps
to strongthen the Ministry of Commerce and Industry to provide better
guidance nnd terviesH to manufacturers, including the establishment of the
Trade nnd Investment Promotion Agency (TIPA) as a one-stop-service agency
for locnl and foretgn investors.  In addition, It haR lauuiched the
Ftnnnctnl Astisttince P'olicy (FAiP) scheme, which helps new and expanding
firms outsild  the livestock industry and large-scale mining. The
development of manufacturing for export to neighboring countries, with the
hell) of bilateral trade agreements, offers limited prospects, with some
ftirtlier expansion of activity in the north-east possible to serve the
Zimbabwe market. Domestic markets can be expected to grow fairly rapidly,
and nn industrial growth rate of about 7 percent a year should be
attainaible. The Government should give additional attention to
handicrafts, assembly type manufacturing in cottage industries and
resource-based import substituting production, particularly food
processing, leather tanning, textiles and construction materials.
31.       Apart from the mine, Selebi-Phikwe has not developed to any
extent as a manufacturing center, nor has it acquired a role as a regional
servicing or marketing center. Changes in the employment structure over
time illustrate the role of the mine in creating the bulk of direct jobs as
well as those induced in commerce, services and manafacturing by the
incomes from the mine employees (jobs in Selebi-Phikwe actually declined in
construction and commerce between 1978 and 1983). Although the third
largest town in Botswana, Selebi-Phikwe enjoyed only a small share of the
growth of large and medium manafacturing projects (8.8 percent of the urban
total).  It did better with small firms, attracting 16.9 percent of urban
projects (accounting for 24.8 percent of employment). This represented a
level of employment increase greater than population share, with
Selebi-Phikwe's small projects comprising a higher average size than other
towns.
32-.      The narrowly based economic structure of Selebi-Phikwe is also
reflected in the very small services sector and the emphasis on
mine-related manafacturing. Of about 18 firms (at the beginning of 1985)
with 10 or more employees in the town, eight were related to mining
activity. There were no dairy and other agro-based products or meat and
meat product industrial activities. Other than construction (building
materials), in which 4 enterprises were active, there was a scattering of
manufacturing activities in such areas as textiles, bakery products,
chemicals, and woodworks. Estimates of informal manufacturing indicate a
little over 100 enterprises including clothing, joinery, knitting and
welding operations. Fully serviced industrial land has been available in
adequate supply and has been taken up relatively slowly in recent years.
However, the industrial estate now has a limited number of plots left and a
new estate is being planned. There has been a shortage of industrial
premises available for rent, and the Botswana Development Corporation is
initiating a program for constructing such facilities in Selebi-Phikwe.



The Urban Sector
33.       Selebi-Phikwe is one of several urban centers to benefit from
Government's well-focussed approach to urban development in the
1970's (para. 37), the basis for which has been a policy of introducing
affordable standards of urban services and housing, designed to be
self-financing. Urban housing, provided through Government programs based
on the locally well-accepted concept of sites and services, is implemented
by self-help housing departments within the local authorities. Although
Government has sought to maintain a regular supply of new housing, the 11
percent annual growth rate of the urban population requires 5-6000 new
units a year just to match growth. Coupled with a substantial supply
backlog, this has put severe pressure on the authorities, as evidenced in
substantial squatter settlements. In recent years the institutional
arrangements for financing and supplying housing have come under greater
scrutiny as evidence has mounted that a rationalization of responsibilities
and policies was necessary. Although the local authorities generate and
collect local revenues, these do not cover operating costs, and the towns
depend on annual grants from Government, provision of which is an ad hoc
process limiting the local authorities' capability for forward planning.
In addition, poor performance by the towns in maintaining current property
valuations, revising rates to meet fiscal needs, collecting local taxes
due, and managing their financial affairs (including maintenance of proper
records and accounts) have exacerbated the difficulties of achieving
financial self-sufficiency and maintaining reasonable standards of urban
services. Manpower constraints in all departments of the local authorities
stand out as the single most important factor affecting their performance.
Concurrently, Government's policy of full cost-recovery for urban housing
and services has met local political resistance. Collection of rents and
service levies has also been hampered by manpower constraints, inadequate
record keeping and billing systems, and limited capacity of the courts to
handle the case load of defaults (para. 36).
Government Policy and Initiatives for Selebi-Phikwe
34.       The Government, with the other shareholders, has given unfailing
financial support to maintaining the mining operation at Selebi-Phikwe.
It has also given priority to preparing for the mine's eventual closure,
and proposes during the 20-25 remaining years of the mine's physical life
gradually to develop other productive options and back-up services such as
training. The Goverment intends to give a regional focus to the operation,
exploiting Selebi-Phikwe's favorable location as a potential marketing and
service center for the agricultural hinterland. The Government has already
initiated a number of policies, programs and investments to help expand and
diversify economic activity. These initial steps have been coordinated by
the inter-ministerial Selebi-Phikwe Continuation Committee, chaired by the
Director of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance and Development
Planning. Notably, the Government has designated industrial investment in
Selebi-Phikwe as a favored category under the national Financial Assistance



- 12 -
Policy, which includes the provision of tax holidays, favorable interest
rates, seed capital for investors and payroll and training grants (a
large-scale project to provide abrasives has recently been approved for
such asststance). The Ministry of Local Government and Lands has been
allocated funds to design more industrial plots and the Botswana
Development Corporation is implementing a program of constructing factories
for lease (para. 32) in the town. Property rates have been reduced for new
investors, and corrections to the distortions in the rail tariff structure
that penalized Selebt-Phikwe are proposed. An AfDB-fir.anced vocational
training center, with a planned annual output of 425 students, is being
constructed in the town.
35.       In agriculture, the Government has sought the Bank's help in
identifying irrigation investments in the country, including the Tuli
Block, and is studying means of reducing costs of groundwater recovery by
replacing diesel with electricity to power the pumps in the Tuli Block.
Meanwhile, the Department of Water Affairs has begun discussions with the
other Limpopo riparians--Republic of South Africa, Zimbabwe and
Mozambique--on the use of the river, and plans to carry out a study of the
river and its tributaries. A specific irrigation scheme is proposed by the
Botswana Development Corporation at Seleka Farms, a commercial-scale
irrigation enterprise on the Limpopo that would involve a nucleus
commercial estate and settlement by 40 participants. In response to
complaints from the Tuli Block/Limpopo farmers that marketing of their
produce is handicapped by a serious lack of roads, the Government has
proposed building a surfaced road from the Selebi-Phikwe area to the South
African border--a distance of about 80 km--thus making the markets of the
Transvaal and the Witwatersrand quickly accessible, as well as linking
isolated areas in the Tuli Block with other centers in Botswana. A
preliminary feasibility study for the road shows an economic rate of return
of 11 percent, based mainly on reduced vehicle operating costs compared
with the existing 400-km route to the South African border via Gaborone
and, for lighter vehicles, a gravel road from Palapye (about 140 km to the
south of Selebi-Phikwe) to the border. The Government has secured the
cooperation of the South African Government in controlling the dumping of
horticultural produce in Botswana by South African fly-by-night traders;
such trade is now limited to licensed operators.
36.       In the urban sector in general, the Government is introducing new
regulations to give local authorities more muscle in dealing with arrears,
and proposes to reassess the whole system of housing finance with a view to
expanding the role of the private sector in housing finance (see Bank study
para. 38). The institutional arrangements for setting housing policy and
implementing housing programs (including the role of the Ministry of Local
Government and Lands, the self-help housing agencies, the Botswana Housing
Corporation, and the private sector) will be examined, and cost recovery
measures improved. The severe manpower constraints (particularly at the
non-professional/technical level) in the local authorities was addressed
through a pilot program, introduced with the Bank's help, for the training
of local government officials. This has been particularly successful, and
will be extended under the proposed project (paras. 49 and 55).



- 13 -
Bank Role in Relevant Sectors
37.      Bank Assistance.  The Bank Group helped finance most of the
Infrastructure in Selebi-Phikwe    ough a credit and two loans in 1969,
1971 and 1974 totating US$40.3 million (credit 172-BT and loans 776-BT and
776-2BT). The operations were successfully completed (Project Performance
Audit No. 5294, October 1984), although the actual mining operations
sponsored by other sources encountered financial difficulties (para. 23).
Urban development in general in Botswana has benefited from two successful
comprehensive urban projects financed by the Bank (Loans 471-BT and
1584-BT) and three water supply operations (Credit No. 233-BT and Loan
Nos. 1783-BT and 2333-BT). Small and medium-sized manufacturing and
commercial enterprizes have been promoted through two development finance
operations (Loan Nos. 1019-BT and 2384-BT). The second of these, which
became effective in January 1985, is encountering problems of arrears on
loan payments and depressed credit demand due mainly to the drought, and is
currently the subject of special review by the Government and Bank. In
agriculture, the Bank has been the main external source of assistance for
livestock development, and the Bank's third operation in the subsector
(Loan 2566-BT) is currently addressing fundamental problems of allocation
and management of the country's vast Tribal Grazing Lands.
38.       Bank Strategy.  The Bank endorses the exceptionally high priority
given by the Government in preparing for the eventual closure of the BCL
mine at Selebi-Phikwe, because of the serious economic and social
consequences of inaction (para. 42). Concern for the community has been
heightened by the protracted financial crisis of the mining company. The
Bank sees merit in the Government's intention to make an early start on the
diversification of Selebi-Phikwe's economy, given the complex regional
nature of the required development and the need to proceed in stages. The
Bank's country assistance strategy in Botswana (para. 20) generally
supports diversification out of the capital-intensive mining enclaves,
especially through labor-intensive and resource-based activities linked to
livestock and crop production. If future Bank lending for arable
agriculture (including research and extension) and agro-industry is
identified in the next few years, the Selebi-Phikwe region could be
included in the project design. Likewise, the International Finance
Corporation (IFC) could in due course act as an investment catalyst if
suitable processing or manufacturing enterprises are identified. In the
urban sector in general, the Bank has proposed a FY87 study to enhance the
system of housing finance, strengthen cost-recovery in the sector (para.
36) and improve urban management. The Bank is considering a project to
implement agreed recommendations of the study.
39.       The Bank particularly favors the location of the proposed
development, as the first phase of an ongoing water resource study financed
by Sweden has indicated that future urban and industrial expansion in
Botswana may need to make a geographical shift towards the settlements in
the north-eastern quarter served by the Shashe River and its tributaries,
while the Gaborone-Lobatse region in the south will need to reappraise its



- 14 -
growth capacity after completion of a water supply augmentation project now
being prepared by the Bank. The Government Is in the early stages of
focussing on locational questions, but needs to provide a framework in
which the various Government agencies responsible for agriculture, industry
and urban and rural water supply can coordinate their priorities in
relation to the availability of affordable water. For this reason, the
Bank has urged the Government to proceed expeditiously, in the context of
the proposed Bank project for Gaborone/Lobatse, with a master plan for
future water investments in Botswana. This study, which the Government
expects to complete in FY87, should, among other things, draw on the
findings of an ongoing Bank-managed study (financed by the Netherlands)
on irrigation potential.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
40.       The project hds evolved from the Bank's long-standing involvement
with the development of Selebi-Phikwe and the urban sector in general in
Botswana and the diversification goals of the country's development finance
institutions. The project was prepared by the Selebi-Phikwe Continuation
Committee (para. 34), which represents all the main Government agencies
concerned and will continue to guide development of the town and its
environs during and beyond implementation of the proposed project. The
Committee successfully carried out a work program, suggested by the Bank,
of preliminary studies into such aspects as marketing, investment
incentives and transportation charges. These studies led to a series of
initiatives by the Government (paras. 34 and 35) that were critical to
promotion of the area. In response to these initiatives, and as a result
of the Bank's close collaboration with the Government, the original concept
of a development effort limited to the Selebi-Phikwe urban area was
expanded to that of a regionally-oriented operation, thus exploiting the
town's natural advantage as a regional center and the mineworkers' links
with the rural areas. The project-assisted training program was prepared
during successful implementation of a pilot scheme under the
recently-completed Bank-financed Second Urban project. The preliminary
feasibility study that was carried out showed an acceptable rate of return
for the road to be designed through the project (para. 35). Negotiations
were held in Washington, D.C. between April 7 and 10, 1986. The Botswana
delegation was led by Mr. Kenneth Natambo, Director of Economic Affairs,
Ministry of Finance and Development Planning.
Rationale for Bank Assistance
41.       The Bank is justified in assisting the project because of the
importance of the township's survival to the Botswana economy. Under the
Selebi-Phikwe Regional Promotion component the Bank would continue its
leading role in Botswana in the urban sector (which has involved the Bank
in past support for the development of Selebi-Phikwe itself), would further



- 15 -
its current Involvement in determining irrigation priorities, and would
maintain its long-standing experience in Botswana of technical assistance
for the promotion of manufacturing and processing enterprises of the kind
suitable for Selebi-Phikwe. In addressing urban management and local
authority training requirements, the Bank would continue its long-standing
program of support for institutional development in the urban sector, and
would facilitate continuation and expansion of an in-service training
program successfully implemented on a pilot basis under the Second Urban
Project.
Project Objectives
42.       The project would be a critical element of the long-term
Government program to diversify economic activity in the Selebi-Phikwe
region and reduce economic dependence on the BCL Mine. The consequences of
not preparing for the eventual closure of the mine could be catastrophic.
It would result in an almost total loss of livelihood of a community whose
population will have reached some 70-80,000 people early next century.
Apart from precipitate loss of employment, outlying communities dependent
on miners' remittances would experience hardship; there would be a drift of
jobless miners and workers in mine services to urban centers such as
Francistown and Gaborone, where pressures on housing and services are
already acute; and the town authority at Selebi-Phikwe would experience a
financial crisis. Although some reduction in population will be inevitable
at the time of mine closure, the proposed project aims to create the
framework for maximizing a number of advantages enjoyed by the town and its
region to develop alternative sources of livelihood. These goals are being
pursued through a series of coordinated policy measures, such as road
Improvements and vocational training and in particular through the
establishment in Selebi-Phikwe of a development unit which would
concentrate on the promotion of increased agricultural and industrial
output and employment in the region. The agricultural components would
complement national objectives of increasing rural incomes through
intensifying agricultural activity, especially irrigation. The project
would also strengthen urban and district administration through its support
of a national in-service program for the training of local government
cadres, in order to improve efficiencies in the provision, operation and
maintenance of services in all local authorities (town and district
councils) in Botswana; and through technical assistance for housing policy
development and program management in the central government.
Project Description
43.       The project would provide technical assistance and operational
support for:
(a) a regional development program for Selebi-Phikwe;
(b) a national in-service program for training local government
staff; and



- 16 -
(c) strengthening of Government policy formulation and
implementation in the urban sector.
Detailed Features
Selebi-Phjkwe Regional Development Programs
44.       This component of the project comprises four elements as follows:
the establishment of a Promotion Unit for Regional Development to be based
in Selebi-Phikwe; implementation of an industrial/business development
program for Selebi-Phikwe; development and execution of an irrigated
agriculture program for the Selebi-Phikwe region; and a road network system
to improve accessibility to the Selebi-Phikwe hinterland as well as to
establish direct linkages to markets in South Africa.
45.       Establishment of the Regional Development Promotion Unit
in Selebi-Phikwe.   The project would finance the staffing and operating
costs of the Unit (RDPU), covering 14 staff years of technical assistance
(US$2.2 million) and five years of incremental operating costs (US$0.6
million) which include costs of local support staff. Vehicles and
equipment (US$0.1 million) would also be provided. The Unit would consist
initially of an industrial development executive, (five staff years) who
will serve as Unit Director, and an irrigation agronomist (also five staff
years). Job descriptions acceptable to the Bank have been prepared.
The Unit will have an initial five year time horizon. At the end of the
first year a second industrial promotion executive will be appointed (four
staff years) to expand and intensify the industrial promotion activities,
subject to a review by Government and the Bank at that time. In the
project's fourth year, a review would be held by the Government, the
Continuation Committee, town council and the Bank on the future of the RDPU
(e.g., whether it should be enlarged into a regional development authority
or absorbed into the central or local government machinery). The Unit
would need to establish good liaison and co-operation with those
institutions represented on the Selebi-Phikwe Continuation Committee
(para. 34) both at the centre in Gaborone and at the regional, district and
township levels, and would be represented on relevant planning committees
in the Central District in which the town is located. The Unit would
initiate, co-ordinate and monitor the various actions relating to policy
formulation, feasibility studies, promotion and implementation of the
Selebi-Phikwe Regional Development Program, including the following:
(a) promote implementation of the recommendations and
program of actions adopted by the Continuation
Committee;
(b) initiate studies, other proposals and actions required
for the approval of the Continuation Committee;
(c)  promote investment in the township and surrounding
areas, irncluding production of promotional materials
and publicity, and provide assistance to potential
investors;



- 17 -
(d) prepare and implement pilot schemes and other field
activities;
(e) liaise with and support relevant Government, parastatal
and private sector agencies.
46.       Industrial/Business Development Promotion.  The project would
finance studies and promotion activities under the industrial/business
promotion component (US$0.4 million), which would be organized according to
three main programs: promotion of new investments; development of existing
enterprises; and training and other support for small-scale entrepreneurs.
The main activities of the New Investment Program would be: (i) the
identification of target companies and promoters to be approached through
personal contact and to receive specially prepared informational material
on investment opportunities in the area and on particular advantages for
industry offered by the town; and (ii) the arranging of well-organized
fact-finding itineraries for prospective clients visiting Selebi-Phikwe, as
well as providing follow-up advice and assistance. Activities under this
program would concentrate initially on servicing the current flow of
inquiries from potential new investors coming through the Ministry of
Commerce and Industry (there are likely to be 20 to 30 such enquiries
referred to Selebi-Phikwe in the first year of the project) before
expanding in the second year to include direct marketing activity abroad in
collaboration with the Trade and Investment Promotion Agency and the
Botswana Development Corporation. The Domestic Industry Program to assist
existing medium sized companies in Selebi-Phikwe to expand and develop
would include: (i) an information program to keep industrial companies in
Selebi-Phikwe informed of the financial and technical assistance available
to them from state, parastatal and private organizations; (ii) the
initiation of and assistance with communications with such agencies;
and (iii) extension-type assistance to help them plan the growth of their
business. The Small Scale Industry Program would initiate, through
appropriate agencies such as the Botswana Enterprise Development Unit
(BEDU), training courses in Selebi-Phikwe to upgrade the business skills of
the local small-scale sector. It would also design and implement, in
collaboration with appropriate Government agencies, an Entrepreneur
Development Program to promote the emergence of prospective local
entrepeneurs. In each of the above programs, obstacles to development of
local industries would be identified and remedial action proposed to the
Selebi-Phikwe Continuation Committee. The main industrial promotion
programs would be supported by a number of sub-programs: (i) market
research to facilitate foreign investment through identifying target
sectors and companies abroad (in conjunction with the Government's Trade
and Investment Promotion Agency and the Botswana Development Corporation);
(ii) project identification to gererate a list of projects suitable for
Selebi-Phikwe and production of up-to-date promotional material; and
(iii) press and public relations activities. Detailed work programs for
all these activities have been prepared and were reviewed during appraisal.
47.       Development of Irrigated Agriculture.  The project provides
funding (US$1.5 million) to undertake case studies of existing irrigation
operations in order to thoroughly review experience to date with irrigation



- 18 -
in Botswana, as well as to undertake detailed feasibility analyses and
prepare implementation programs necessary for the establishment of five
pilot irrigation schemes (for which several areas have already been
identified). Also included would be technical feasibility studies covering
the larger Selebi-Phikwe region to determine its potential for more
extensive irrigated farming. The findings of the large-scale feasibility
work, combined with the experience of the pilot schemes, would serve as the
basis for expanding agricultural activity in the Selebi-Phikwe region as
well as integrating it with national irrigation objectives. Or the basis
of existing information regarding soils, water resources and access, the
five prime areas identified for pilot project development draw on
Selebi-Phikwe mine waste water, effluent from the town's sewage ponds, and
the Motloutse River in areas around Mmadinare, Bobonong and Tobane. The
project would provide a framework for detailed soil surveys for the five
areas as well as water resource analyses for alternative crops, technical
and economic analyses of alternative irrigation systems, an evaluation of
irrigation production models currently in use in Botswana, extension and
training, and intensive analysis of marketing constraints and
possibilities. The implementation plans and schedules for the pilot sites
would emerge from the preparation of a specific development plan for each
area. Detailed terms of reference for the evaluation work and studies,
feasibility analyses, implementation scheduling and preparation of specific
development plans for the pilLt areas were reviewed durlng appraisal and
are acceptable to the Bank. An amount of US$1.33 million (adequate for
about 100 ha) is included in the project to provide for those area
development capital costs of the pilot areas that are not covered by
existing programs (such as the Government's Financial Assistance
Policy--FAP). The project's assistance for large-scale irrigation
development in the region would include soil surveys, water resource
management (including monitoring of management of the Limpopo River
resource), marketing, monitoring of supply of inputs, credit and finance,
extension and training, and, depending on the findings of the feasibility
and pilot project activities, assistance with the preparation of
development plans and the establishment of a program for large scale
irrigation in the Region. Terms of reference for these activities were
finalized during appraisal.
48.         Improved Road Access.  A feasibility study has been completed
and two alternative routes evaluated linking Sefophe, near Selebi-Phikwe,
to the South African road system about 80 km to the east. As one of the
alternatives is expected to have a significant impact on improved
agricultural performance in the area, further feasibility analysis was
necessary in order for a final decision to be made on the preferred
routing. An important part of the analysis would be an evaluation of the
comparative benefits of sealed versus gravel road surfacing. Terms of
reference for a supplementary feasibility study, which would also include
an evaluation of alternative feeder road networks for the Selebi-Phikwe
region were theref ore prepared, and the supplementary study, which is
currently underway, is to be completed by June 30, 1986. A joint review by
the Government and the Bank of the recommendations of the feasiblity report
would be undertaken. The commencement of detailed engineering design



- 19 -
would be subject to prior Bank approval of the recommendations of the
feasibility study and of the terms of reference for the detailed
design. Design work for the access road would commence in early 1987, and
would be completed by December 31, 1987. The completion date for detailed
engineering design of the feeder road network would be established after
the proposals of the feasibility study have been reviewed by Government and
the Bank, and a decision taken (with Bank approval) on the extent and
routing of the feeder network. An amount of US$1.1 million has been
included in the project to finance the above studies and design work.
Local Authority In-Service Training Program.
49.       The training component is an expansion of the pilot in-service
training program implemented under the Second Urban Development Project,
and will be carefully co-ordinated with complementary in-house training
initiatives being executed with SIDA assistance. Included in the
in-service training program under the project would be funding for 20 staff
years of technical assistance (US$2.1 million), as well as incremental
operating costs (US$1.5 million) covering 4 staff years each for a training
co-ordinator and an assistant training co-ordinator, 32 staff years for
local trainers/counterparts, support staff, and general office operating
expenses for 4 years. Initially limited to Francistown, Selebi-Phikwe and
the Central and North-East District Councils under the pilot program,
in-service training under the technical assistance project will be extended
to cover all 14 town and district councils in Botswana. Trainees would be
drawn from local authority staff cadres in administration, technical
operations, financial services and community development. The design and
delivery of training programs would follow the successful approach adopted
in the pilot project. To this end, program content would be highly
job-related and be linked to staff development requirements specified in
local government schemes of service. To minimize interruption of normal
routines, training would be delivered in short, on-the-job modules by
expatriate specialists with proven experience in both training and a
relevant discipline. Each expatriate trainer would develop his own
counterpart. The program will be designed to reduce and gradually
eliminate the need for expatriates by the end of the fourth year as the
counterparts are rotated into positions of primarv responsibility for
training, and as the local authorities take over administration of their
in-service programs. The project would strengthen the existing counterpart
training team, providing overseas training where required (approximately 40
man-months of such training is included--US$0.2 million), and utilizing the
counterpart trainers to establish a cadre of 12-14 full-time training
officers within the Unified Local Government Service (ULGS), which is a
central government agency responsible for staff administration and
development in local government. The cadre would be capable of providing a
range of training support and advisory services to all local authorities.
A total of aJout 2,000 staff would receive training under the program.
Responsibility for the selection of trainees would be explicitly assigned
by each council to appropriate supervisors who would be assisted by the
council personnel and training officer. The broad breakdown of those staff



- 20 -
to receive training, within separate Unified Local Government Service
schemes of service, is given in Annex 4. Suitable qualifications of
consultants and local counterparts, as well as job descriptions were
reviewed and approved during appraisal. Vehicles and equipment (US$0.08
million) are Included in the project.
Technical Assistance to Ministry of Local Government and Lands
50.       The project would fund three long-term consultants (9 staff
years--US$0.8 million) in the Ministry of Local Government and Lands.
Two of the positions would be in the newly es,tablished housing section of
the Ministry, and one would be for an Urban Development Coordinator in the
Francistown/Selebi-Phikwe area to assist with implementation of the housing
program. Job descriptions for all three positions were reviewed during
appraisal. The consultants would be responsible for assisting with the
development of strategies for integrating planning of current housing
supply programs, ensuring delivery programs that meet a broader range of
demand, introduciag economic charges for all public housing investments,
increasing the role of the private sector in providing housing, identifying
domestic private sector resources that can be mobilized more effectively
for housing finance, and continuing to improve collections of housing
repayment obligations through legal and administrative reforms.
Costs and Financing
51.       The project's total cost, including contingencies, is estimated
at US$12.0 million, of which US$7.6 million is the foreign exchange
element. Taxes and duties are negligible. Costs of vehicles and
equipment (US$0.2million) and civil works (US$1.0 million) account for
about 13 percent of base costs, with consultancy work and studies
(US$7.1 million) and incremental operating costs (US$1.7 million)
accounting for 87 percent. Base costs are calculated in July 1986 prices.
Physical contingencies represent 5 percent of costs of consultancies and
studies, and 10 percent of civil works and comprise approximately 5 percent
of total project costs (US$0.5 million) Price contingencies average about
7 percent per annum, and represent approximately 15 percent of total
project costs (US$1.7 million). Detailed cost estimates are provided in
Annex 5. The US$7.6 million foreign exchange required by the project would
be provided by the Bank loan (which would finance all foreign costs, or 63
percent of total project costs). The Government would finance all local
costs, totaling US$4.4 million.
Project Implementation
Selebi-Phikwe Regional Development
52.       The Regional Development Promotion Unit (RDPU) will be headed by
the industrial development executive. This official will be responsible to
the Ministry of Finance and Development Planning which will chair the
Selebi-Phikwe Continuation Committee which provides an advisory and



- 21 -
co-ordinating function. Establishment of the Unit and employment of lts
head is a condition of disbursement for the regional development component.
The Unit head's responsibility will be discharged within the framework of:
specified outputs of the main programs within defined time scales;
quarterly work programs and annual budgets; and quarterly and annual
Progress Reports. The internal management of the Unit will be on the basis
of regular staff meetings, brief monthly reports in writing on the work
program; and monthly expense claims (the financial arranagements are
described in para. 61).During the first six months following the
establishment of the Unit, the Continuation Committee would meet monthly to
ensure maximum opportunity for assistance to the Unit. Thereafter, the
incidence of meetings would be every two or three months depending on
circumstances and experience. In order to ensure adequate integration of
the Unit's work program with the Ministry of Agriculture, the Irrigation
Agronomist would attend regular meetings comprising heads of sections and
other personnel with responsibility for actions related to the Project.
The meetings would be organized and chaired by the Ministry's
representative on the Continuation Committee or his delegate. The Unit
would co-ordinate management and implementation of the industrial,
agricultural and road access development programs.
53.       In order to manage the Industrial Promotion Program and monitor
progress, a system of targeting procedures will be developed by the Unit
for regular review by the Continuation Committee based on an Annual Plan,
which would detail activities under the program as well as specify the
outputs in terms of increased production indicators and/or new employment
anticipated. These targets should be in quantifiable terms, for example
new enterprises started, existing enterprises expanded, new jobs created.
In addition, the Annual Plan would include subsidiary targets such as
number of companies visited, number of external companies contacted, etc.
Draft Annual Plans/Work Programs for the first year of operations were
prepared and agreed on during appraisal, and are summarized in the
implementation schedule in Annex 6. All Annual Plans/Work Programs would
be submitted to the Bank for review. Reporting on progress would include a
narrative component covering all aspects of the industrial component of the
project, as well as specific analyses of original targets and progress on
meeting the targets. In implementing the New Investment Program, the unit
would co-ordinate closely with the Ministry of Commerce and Industry and
Botswana Development Corporation in order to ensure early contact with
recent enquiries from potential investors. Support for existing
Medium-Sized Industry would require collaboration with regulatory agencies
as well as those providing financial or technical assistance, and those
setting policy, including the Ministry of Commerce and Industry (through
the Financial Assistance Policy and the Trade and Investment Promotion
Agency), the Selebi-Phikwe Town Council, the Botswana Development
Corporation and commercial banks. While the Unit would be the primary
promoter of Small-Scale Industry in Selebi-Phikwe, actual support would be
executed through several existing agencies covering technical, financial
and extension requirements. These would include the Financial Assistance
Policy, The Botswana Enterprise Development Unit, Tswelelo, the Botswana



- 22 -                                              I
Development Corporation,,the Nattonal Development Bank, the Selebi-Phikwe
Town Council, the Industrial Extension Co-ordination Committee and the
Botswana Technology Center.  Although the Unit would be fully responsible
for Promoting New Investment From Abroad in Selebi-Phikwe, this would be
carefully integrated with the program of the Trade and Investment
Promotion Agency and the Botswana Development Corporation.
54.       An Annual Plan for the Promotion of Irrigated Agriculture
Development will be prepared and will serve as the basis for setting
targets and monitoring progress. Tle Bank would review all Annual Plans.
A detailed work program was reviewed and agreed on during appraisal and is
summarized in a five year implementation schedule (see Annex 6).  Product
outputs would be set out in the Annual Plan and would be expressed in
quantifiable targets as far as possible (initially in terms of the
data/information to be generated by the various studies and the related
conclusions and recommendations, but subsequently in terms such as numbers
of hectares developed and/or new farm enterprises started). The
responsibility of the Unit for initiating, monitoring, co-ordinating,
supporting and/or executing activities under this component would depend on
the role assumed by the relevant agencies as follows: Soil Surveys would
primarily be the responsibility of the Soils Survey Sectlon of the Division
of Land Use, which is already incorporating the semi-detailed work into its
program. Water Resource studies would be undertaken by the Department of
Water Affairs in liaison with the IJnit which would provide consultant
input as required. Technical and Economic Evaluation of Irrigation would
be executed primarily by the Unit. The Ministry of Agriculture is
currently establishing a national Extension and Training Program for
irrigated agriculture. The Unit would operate through this program in
collaboration with the Ministry and would provide consultant inputs and
pilot programs related to the Selebi-Phikwe area. Responsibility for
Marketing studies would rest with Ministry of Agriculture, supported by
the Unit th'rough consultant studies. Development plans and Pilot Project
Implementation would be undertaken through consultant and capital
investment funds provided under the project. As such it would be
co-ordinated by the Unit, but would be integrated with the Ministry of
Agriculture and the various programs and agencies currently supporting such
farming undertakings (National Development Bank, Financial Assistance
Policy, etc). While the Unit would monitor progress of the Regional Road
Access Program, the Ministry of Works and Communications, Roads Department,
would be responsible for preparing terms of reference for the feasibility
studies and detailed engineering design work, as well as for supervising
the work of consultants (funding for the consultants being provided under
the project). All terms of reference for the Road Access component would
be subject to prior Bank review and approval.
Local Authority in-service Training Program.
55.       Implementation arrangements are based on a proposal prepared by
the In-Service Training Unit Steering Commit'ce in the Ministry of Local
Government and Lands, and reviewed during appraisal. The training will be



- 23 -
delivered by a training team (the In-Service Training Unit--ISTU)
comprising 5 consultants working with counterparts. The In-Service
Training Unit, which will be responsible to the Steering Committee, is
currently based in Francistown for the pilot program. However, with the
expansion of the staffing of the ISTU under the project, and the extension
of its coverage to all local authorities, it will be necessary to develop a
detailed implementation program. Government would therefore submit to the
Bank, for its review, not later than August 31, 1986, proposals for the
organization and deployment of the training teams. Training would be
provided to the 5 town councils of Gaborone, Lobatse, Jwaneng, Francistown
and Selebi-Phikwe and the district councils of Kgatleng, South-East,
Southern, Kweneng,North-East, Central, North-West and Ghanzi District
Councils. The staffing of the i-TU would be as follows:
Year 1  Year 2 Year 3 Year 4
Staff Levels
Coordinator               I        1      1        1
Assistant Coordinator    1         1      1        1
Consultants               5       5       5        5
Local Trainers            2       4       8        8
Counterparts              4       4       2        -
14      15     17        15
Fifteen support staff (including Administrative/Personnel Officers) would
also be included. The training program would be evaluated in the third
year of its implementation under the project. The Ministry of Local
Government and Lands would arrange for the evaluation to be undertaken by
an independent consulting organization (using funds provided under the
project). In addition a review would be undertaken (using technical
assistance provided under the Project) to address the institutional and
organizational requirements of the Unified Local Government Service in
order to meet the long-term manpower development needs of the sector. An
outline proposal for doing this, which was agreed on during appraisal,
would serve as the basis for detailed terms of reference to be prepared by
the In-Service Training Unit Steering Committee by December 31, 1986 for
discussion with the Bank.
Technical Assistance to the Ministry of Local Government and Lands.
56.       The Ministry of Local Government and lands would recruit and
supervise the work of the three consultants. Detailed job descriptions
agreed on during appraisal will serve as a basis for annual work programs
that each consultant would prepare, and in which specific outputs would be
identified. The work programs would be reviewed and approved by Ministry
of Local Government and Lands in consultation wit4h the Bank and progress
would be measured by quarterly reports to be prepared by the consultants.



- 24 -
Procurement
57.       Procurement and hiring of consultants for all components would be
according to Bank guidellnes. Draft terms of reference for the technical
assistance requirements to staff the Promotional Unit under the
Selebi-Phlkwe regional development component have been agreed on with
Government. The Continuation Committee will issue invitations to tender to
two or three agencies specializing in industrial promotion of lagging
regions, with the agricultural element of this component to be
sub-contracted by the agencies submitting tenders.   Technical assistance
to undertake the local government in-service training component will be
provided by a suitably qualified international firm already selected. A
firm was chosen through competitive bidding to undertake a pilot training
program under the Bank assisted Second Urban Project. Implementation has
been particularly successful and, based on the good performance of the
firm, Government proposed to retain them for the expanded training program
under this project. A detailed proposal has been prepared by Government,
in discussion with the consultants, for implementing the expanded training
program. The proposal, which the Bank finds satisfactory, together with
the contract for the pilot program, will serve as the basis for a contract
for the execution of the expanded program. Technical assistance to the
Ministry of Local Government and Lands for managing its housing program and
assisting with the development of a housing finance system will be
recruited either through invitation to tender internationally or direct
negotiations according to Bank procurement guidelines. However,
appointment of consultants would be subject to prior Bank review.
Consultancies for short and medium term studies under both the
Selebi-Phikwe regional development and local authority in-service training
components would be similarly procured.
58.       Vehicles and equipment will be grouped, where possible, into lots
of at least US$100,000 and procured through International Competitive
Bidding (ICB). However, given the three distinct and seperate components
under the project, it is likely that most lots will be less than
US$100,000, and such supplies may be procured in accordance with
Government's standard procedures which were reviewed at appraisal and are
satisfactory to the Bank. Civil works totalling US$1.3 million are likely
to be broken into relatively small contracts given the pilot nature of the
irrigation program and as such are unlikely to attract foreign firms.
Consequently contracts for civil works of less than US$250,000 value would
be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding procedures (which are
acceptable to the Bank). Foreign bidders may participate. Contracts
exceeding US$250,000 would be procured through ICB. Incremental operating
expenses (including staff salaries) would be paid directly under Government
budgets. Contracts for works exceeding US$100,000 and for services and
goods exceeding US$150,000 would require prior Bank review of bidding
document,;ton and contract awards. For all other contracts, documentation
would be submitted to the Bank for post award review.



- 25 -
Procurement Arrangements 8/
(USS million)
Not       Total
Project Element    ICB    LBC       Other b/      Applicable   Cost
Civil Works         1.3 c/                                      1.3
(0.7)                                       (0.7)
Consultants'                         8.2                        8.2
Services                            (6.3)                     (6.3)
Overseas                             0.2                       0.2
Training                            (0.2)                      (0.2)
Vehicles and               0.2                                  0.2
Equipment                 (0.2)                                (0.2)
Incremental                          2.1                        2.1
Operating Costs            -        (0.2)                      (0.2)
Total Cost       1.3    0.2      10.5                      12.0
(0.7)  (0.2)     (6.7)                      (7.6)
-   _e   -                         -    m
a/ Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts financed by IBRD.
b/ Force account, direct purchase, hiring of consultants and overseas
training.
c/ While civil works contracts are to be grouped where possible, any
contracts estimated to cost less than US$250,000 will be procured
through LCB.
Disbursements
59.       Disbursement of the Bank loan of US$7.6 million equivalent would
be made as follows:
(a) civil works: (US$0.6 million): 60%;
(b) vehicles and equipment (US$0.2 million): 100% foreign and
60% local expenditures;
(c) consultant services, technical assistance and related
studies and overseas training of local counterparts (US$5.7
million): 100% foreign expenditures of regional development
and 100l for other technical assistance and training;



- 26 -
(d) promotional activities for regional development, including
such expenditures as overseas promotion (US$0.1 million):
100X foreign expenditures.
(e) unallocated (US$1.0 million)
60.       Disbursement would be made against full documentatlon under the
above categories for all expenditures except for operating costs and
reimbursements for goods and services under contracts valued at less than
US$20,000, which would be made solely on the basis of statements of
expenditures (SOE's). Supporting documents for these withdrawal
applications would be retained by the Promotion Unit for Regional
Development and the Ministry of Local Government and Lands respectively in
o..2 central location each and would be available for inspection by the
Bank. There is no disbursement profile for this type of project in
Botswana, and the advanced stage of preparation, and limited number of
components justify a shorter than standard disbursement profile for the
region. The project completion date will be December 31, 1992 with the
loan closing on June 30, 1993. Retroactive financing, not to exceed US$0.7
million, would be made available under the project for expenditures
incurred after March 31, 1986. This would apply to the Local Government
In-Service Training component and Technical Assistance to the Ministry of
Local Government and Lands, and is essential in order to ensure that during
the transition from pilot to full-scale operation, there be no interruption
of the training program and that the recruitment of technical assistance
for the Ministry of Local Government and Lands not be delayed because of
lack of resources.
Audit and Accounts
61.       Project funds for the Selebi-Phikwe regional development
component would be admininistered by the Regional Development Promotional
Unit (RDPU). The project's financial records would be maintained by the
administration/finance officer under the supervision of the Director of the
Promotion Unit and a separate bank account under the control of the
Director would be maintained from which all operating costs, including all
promotional activities, as well as consultant fees and expenses, and
studies would be paid. The Unit would submit an annual budget to the
Continuation Committee for approval. An appropriate level of imprest would
be established by the Ministry of Finance each year for the bank account,
sufficient to assure a three month coverage of projected expenditures,
which would be topped up as appropriate, and a receipts/expenditure report
would be prepared monthly by the Unit. All expenditures would be covered
by the imprest other than fees for the contract covering the technical
assistance for staffing the Regional Development Promotion Unit (RDPU).
These procedures would be spelt out in detail and reviewed by the Bank.
62.       Project funds for the local authority in-service training and the
Ministry of Local Government and Lands technical assistance components
would be administered by the Finance Unit of the Ministry. The project's
financial records would be maintained as a detailed separate account by the
existing accounting staff under the Principal Finance Officer, and a
project accounting system satisfactory to the Bank would be introduced.



- 27 -
Accounts for all three major components of the project together with
separate accounts covering statements of expeditures would be audited
annually by independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank. The
qualifications and experience of the auditors would be submitted to the
Bank for review and the audited accounts, together with the auditor's
report,would be forwarded to the Bank not later than six months following
the end of each fiscal year.
Monitoring and Evaluation
63.       Monitoring of progress for all components will be facilitated by
the preparation of Annual Plans, in the context of the implementation
schedule (Annex 6), which will detail activities as well as specify outputs
(in quantifiable terms where appropriate). Quarterly progress reports will
be prepared by the implementing units (RDPU for the Regional Development
Component, ISTU for the In-Service Training Component, and MLGL for the
Technical Assistance for Urban Management Component) which will describe
progress as measured against the indicators in the Annual Plans, as well as
identify problems and specify actions being implemented to address such
problems. The project also provides consultancy funding to evaluate the
Selebi-Phikwe Regional Promotion Program and the Local Government
In-Service Training Program in the last year of implementation. A project
completion report, on the basis of an outline to be agreed on with the
Bank, would be prepared by the Government within 18 months of project
completion.
Project Benefits
64.       The project will begin a process of preparing Botswana for the
potentially damaging loss of a major mining operation. Although ore bodies
of the BCL Mine are not likely to be exhausted for another 20 or 25 years,
the mining company's protracted financial crisis has focussed concern on
the future of the town, whose population will reach 70,000-80,000 early
next century, and which helps to sustain a much larger hinterland. The
consequences of lack of timely action would be catastrophic, with a
precipitate loss of employment, accelerating poverty, a municipal financial
crisis and a drift to other towns already experiencing population
pressures. The project supports a long-term regional promotional program
that will provide greater economic security to the Selebi-Phikwe mining
community, while providing benefits to the 140,000 people in the
surrounding region as project-linked and complementary national programs
explore the potential for expanding irrigation development. Marketing of
agricultural produce in the important Tuli Block area will be enhanced by a
road network to be designed by the proposed project. The project-supported
national training program, with an output of about 2000 trainees and 22
local trainers over 4 years, and technical assistance for urban planning
are likely to benefit administration of the urban sector in general.



- 28 -
Risks
65.       The risks of failing to achieve administrative and operational
momentum and attract investment are those that can be expected in a
complex, multl-sectoral, long-term program for the development of a
region. They are minimized by the very highest priority given to the
operation by the Cabinet, by an attractive package of incentives, and by
the phased approach, which allows for adjustment and avoids a concentration
of hlgh-cost investment. These risks are far outweighed by the danger of
doing nothing.
PART V - RECOMMENDATION
66.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank and recommend that the Executive
Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
Pres ident
Washington, D.C.
April 22, 1986



-29-
T A A L 9   M                      M~ANEX I
wra              - 8>!<<pzC^s|A|.                            T   |e _ro P  of 6
IONT               tl~~(D"T UCWNT |  S) 
IISClST          td"L  INOP 1io    4
Ioa         1971   w7matL   t"" FRLCA A. DIP NAAL           . Anuc  & we  T
mu( Slu  s. "1)
TOTAL                               6tlD4        00O.6      600 4.
AORtCULTUHZ AL47                               43.7         M5lLE    C
S 3 CAPr           )                     ..          .. 911.11                   l3.1                      1134.9
sNunn cmacfle muS cmitsa
(RILCOAIB Of OIL IQUIVALENT)        117.0       251.41      137.0            5351.3                      23.9
IOPUTUAION.NID-ISAR tTHOIISANb)    4*3.0        377.0       99O.0
U RBAN PPULATIUN (t7   TOTAL)         1.7         9.3        22.4               12.0                     4v.o
POPULATION PItCI IONE
PPULATION IN IRA  20U0 (ILL)                               I.l
STATIONARY PPULATION (lULL)                                 5.6
POPULATION WHWII                                            .9
POPUJIAT ION DUIN ITY
PER SQ. *.                          0.7         1.0         1.7               hS.1                      37.H
PER sq. MM. sARI. LAND             1.0         1.3         2.1              124.                     4*70.1
POPULATION AG  STIUCTURE IR)
0-14 IRS                          45.3        48.7        47.3               45.4                     43.5
1344 TIS                          31.4        4.4         47.9               51.5                      33.0
65 AND ADWE                         2.6         2.1        4.4                 2.7                       3.3
POPULATION SROWf RATE (7)
TOTAL                               2.1         2.4         4.2                2.9                       2.o
UR""A                              35.1        39.1        13.3                3.1                       4.4
CRUDC BIRTN 1AT1   (PER TO0)         31.7        52.2        U.2               47.0                      40.0
CRUE DEATH RATE (PER SNTOUS)         12.7        10.4         9.4              15.0                       31.3
GROSS RSPRODUCTION RATE               3.1         3.3        3.2                3.2                       2.6
FAMILI PIHNIS
ACCEPTORS. ANUL (TOUS)              ..         ..          11.3 IC
USERS (R OF   LD    N               ..         ..          ..                 6.4                      21.4
ICOL OF FOOD PROU. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                       91.0         M.0         70.0              82.9                      05.1
PER CAP ITA SU"LY OP
CALOIUI C (  OF amjUzwmuis)        9.o        100.0       94.0               93.3                     115.2
PRMiNg (CoaS. is  DAY)            60.0        60.0        69.0               5S.a                      77.
oF wIECH ANIUL. AND PULSE        40.0         37.0        34.0 Ic           16.3                      17.D
CHILD (SA  1-4) DRSAI RATE          22.6        Is.?         13.3              16.6                      12R
STE
LIF  EIXPECT. AT  lItTK (tEuIS)     34.3         57.9        61.0              32.0                      17.5
INFAN  NORT. RATE (PER T  rI)       114.6      100.1        74.2              106.8                      WE.
ACCUSS TO SAVE WATES (31o0)
OTAL                                ..         29.0         ..               42.4                      67.2
UkBAN                               ..        71.0       1U0.O jj            67.5                      93.4
IURAL                              ..         26.0         ..                33.8                      45.3
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(C oF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..          ..          ..                21.9                      43.9
URBAN                               ..         ..          ..                57.7                      63.0
RuRAL                               ..         ..          ..                20.7                      28.6
POPUIATION FPR MSICI             2220.0    14070.0           ..             11791.7                    4331.0
POP. nR INSING PEMRO              4790.C      1 1340.0                       2459.3                    1843.0
FOP. PER HOSPITAL MM
TOTAL                            40.0         330.0       340.0ff           981.1                     421.6
URBAl                              ..          ..         60.0              368.3                     343.0
RuRL                                ..         ..       4230.0 ff           371.9                    2311.3
ADNISSLOBS PER ROSPITa Y              ..         13.3        ..                27.2                      23.7
ROUSIN
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOL
TOTAL                              ..          ..           3.0
URB                                ..          ..          4.8                .
RURAL                              ..          ..          S.0 I.
AV'ZAUE NO. OF PERSONS/ROM
TOTL                                ..         ..
URUAW                              ..          ..
RURAL                              ..          ..          ..                 ..
P9WCUTAGE OF WELINGS 1T1 E.LECT.
TOTAL                              ..          ..
MEAN                               ..          ..          .                   ..
maL^                               ..          ......



-30-                                      ANNEX I
T     A n L F  3A                            PaRe  2  of  6
PrtTSWANA               - SOCIAl, INDICATORS DATA INHR.T
b1TIMANA                              RSFIKMNCE L:RUUPS (WItSGHTCD AVEitAC;SI) fri
InST                     (MOST RECrENT ESTIMATE) /b
_  rKCENT         dIWUDL  INCIZir         IIIDDIA INCOim
la'.8O/!   197U' ERTLNATK.A         AFRICA S. Or SAtlAtA    N. AFRICA * MID eAST
IOUATEOI
ADJUSTED ENROLL4INT RATIltS
PRIMARYs   TOTAL                   42.41       b9.0        Nl2.0               95.7                      e9.b
HALE                    35.0        e5.u        Q4.o              10(1.0                     103.7
FEIALE                  4t.0        7J. 1       I 18.0             N3.2                       75.2
RSCONDARYi TOTAL                    1.0         7.0        23.u)               17.J                      4Z.9
MALtt                    l.U         It.11      21.0                25.0                      50.9
FEMALE                   1.U         7.o        25.U                14.1                      34.b
VOCATIONAL (Z oF SCONtlAtNY)          4.2        19.4          7.21               5.9                      18U.0
PUPIL-TRACKER RATIO
PRIMARY                            31.0        lb.O         32.0               41.1                      29.7
SECONDARY                          12.0        15.0         28.U               25.5                      18.8
tmuIPT 1011
VASSINUER CARS/THAUbANO POP           2.9         3.1         8.7 Ld             211.8                     17.e
IRADIO RCCEIVgRS/THOUSAND POP         4.7        14.7       103.5               107.tl                    175.9
TV RltCEIVRS/THOUSAND POP             ..          ..           ..                20.H                      51.2
NEUSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
IN'IERST") CIRCUILATION
PER THOUSAND POPULATION              ..         22.5         19.7               18.4                      37.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCZ/CAPITA       ..          0.2         ..                 0.4                        2.4
LAMI FDRC
TOTAL LAeOR FORCE (THOUS)           227.0       270.0       435.0
ENULE %PERCENT)                    49.5        52.6        50.1               3t.2                       11.0
ACRICULTURE (PERCEN7)              92.0        87.0        70.3 Id             54.5                      42.4
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  3.0         4.0         7.7 7;r            18.3                      27.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              50.9        4b.7        43.b                3e.b                     2z.2
MALE                               53.2        47.7        46.6                47.1                      46.2
FEIALE                             48.9        45.9        41.B                27.2                       5.e
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCf RATID             1.0         1.1         1.2                 1.3                       1.8
IX   DASTRIUITIOt
reRCENT or PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HICHEST 5S OF lOUSEHOLDS            ..         28.1 /h
Ubfnhbb;i ;.- OF HOUSGHOLUS         ..         60.3         .
LwEST 20Z OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..          1.6 67      ..
LOGiEST 402 OF HOUSEHOLDS           ..          7.6         ..
PllIM1 TARUT GROOM
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URtAN                               ..          ..        284.0 /d            590.7                     226.3
RURAL                               ..          ..        154.0 7i1           275.3                     134.0
ESTRIATED RELATIVE POVERTY  tCUhe1
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..        303.0 /d            545.6                     431.5
RURAL                               ..          ..        303.0 7ij          201.1                      326.0
ESTIMATED POP. BELOU ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOMN LEVEL (Z)
URBAN                               ..          ..         40.0 /d
RURAL                               ..          ..         55.0 /d             ..                        29.0
NOr AVAILABLe
NOT APPLICAJLE
NO T E S
/a  The group averaes for each indicator are population -ROted arithmetic mane.  Coverage of countries
mongt the indicator. deprnds on availability of data and is not uniform.
lb   Unless othervise noted. 'Date for 1960" refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Data for 1970" between
1969 and 1971; and dota for "loet Recent E.tiuete" between 1981 and 1983.
/c   1977;  /d 1980; /e 1962; If 1976;  111 1978;  h Economcally active population.
-TUNS. 19e5



-31-                                                   ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
DD'INmONS OF SOCIAL INDICATOS
Not. Although the data art dwfn from soufee gnerflly judgod the moI authortiLve and rlia ble, Io sld also be notid that they may nol be imtionally
comparabk bomue of the lak of standard dielniokm  no canoepa used by diffrnt countri in collating the data. The dt are nonethees. ueful to
decnbe orden of magitude. indicate trends, and csaraceriz  rain major diffcl    betwen countri.
The feetensie groups arm (1l the mextn wuntry goup of the subjt country and (2)  ountry group with somwhat higr ave    icome thn tbe country
group of the subjet country (exept for "High Income Oil Exportert group when "Middle Income North Afrca nd Middle en., is chosen because of stronger
w,cumculturl aMnitiesl In the rerence group data the avea  sie population weihted arithmetic mesns for ech indiator ad shown only when majonty
ofthe counires In a group hae data for that indicator Since the coveage of countries among the indicatom depends on the availabiity of data and is not uniform.
csutsuun m usi he cxcremed in relattag averatgo orone indicator to another These averages an only useful in companng the value of one indcAtor i atme i niong
ihe country and referenc groupa
ARFA (thousand sqkkm.)                                             Crudr Bt Raet (per t_uhand)-Number of live births in the year
Total Total surface area compnsing land area and inland wate;     per thousntd of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960, 1Q970 and 1983 data.                                        Crudr Death Rate (per thaumJd)-Number of deaths in the year
Agricarlural Eltimate of agricultural area used temporarily or     per thousand or mid-year population; 1960. 1970, and 1983 data.
pernmanently for crops. pastures, market arid kitchen gardens or to  Crezs Repdshe Ratre-Average number or daughters a woman
lie fallow. 1960, 1970 and 19112 data.                            will bear in her nornal reproductive period if she experiences
present age-specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending
GNI' PER CAPITA (USS) -GNP per capita estimates at current        in 1960. 1970, and 1933.
market prices. calculated by same conversion method as Woirld      Findfy Plausiq-Aceeptor. Aural (aheuznds) Annual num-
Raink .4tflat I 1 981 -81 basis); 1983 data-                      ber of acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA---Annual apparent                  family planning program.
consumption of commercial primary energy (coal and lignite,        Faily Plmnui,- Usr (perce  of mms/           us mxws)- The percen-
petr leum. natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal elec-   tage of married women of child-bearing age who are practicing or
trcaty) in kilograms ol oil equivalent per capita; 1960. 1970, and  whose husbands are praticing any form orcontraception. Women
1982 data.                                                        of child-bearing age are generally women aged 15-49. although for
some countries contraceptive usage is measured for other age
POPLIIATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                  groups.
Total Popudation. Mid-Veer (sheu ds)  AsofJuly 1; 1960. 1970.     FOOD AND NUTRITION
and 1983 data.
Uindx eofFood lheutMiPer Cpet. (1Y69-71= IOOJ  Index of per
Irban Poehulariou (giereent of total)  Ratio of urban to total    capita annual production of ali food commodities. Production
population; different definitions of urban areas may affect compar-  excludes animal feed and seed for agriculture. Food commodities
abilitv of data among countrics; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.-xldsamlSeansedfrgcute.Focmoiis
ability of data among countries; 1960. 1970. and 19113 data.  include primary commodities (e.g. sugarcane instead of sugar)
Population Prjetirons                                             which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Populauumn in Year 2(1(M  The projection of population for 2000.  excluded); they comprise cereals, root crops, pulses, oil seeds.
made for each economy separately. Starting with information on    vegetables. fruits, nuts, suprcane and sugar beets. livestock. and
total population by age and sex. fertility rates, mortality rates. and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
iniernatsa-nal migration in the base year 1980, these parameters  on national average producer priee weights; 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.                Per Capita Supply of Calories (perees of reqrdremaets) ---Comput-
Siarunmarv population  Is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period, while age-specific  per capita per day. Available suprlies comprise domestic produc-
fertility rates havc simultaneously remained at replacement klvel  tion, imports less exports, and changes in stock. Net supplies
t(net reproduction rate = II. In such a population. the birth rate is  exclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and !qual to the d.ath rate, the age structure is also    food processing. and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant, and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population   estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature. body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distribution of population. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement level                                         waste at household level; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Pnpulaouzn Momentum  Is the tendency for population growth to     Per Capita Supply of Proein (grumes per day)- Protein content of
continuc beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net suppiv of food is defined
achieved. that is. cven after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity The momentum of a population in the year t is measured as   provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a rati) of the ultimate stationary population to the population in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams
the year t. given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  should be animal protein. These standards.are lower than those of
menl level from year r onwird. 1985 data.                          75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
Population Desity                                                 average for the world, proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per .q.kmr   Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-   Supply; 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
tares) of total area; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                 Phr Capita Proein Su pply Fm. Auniland Pse--Protein supply
Per sq km agricultural land--Computed as above for agricultural   of Food derived from animals and pulses in grams per day; 1961-65.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                              1970 and 1977 data.
Populaion Age Strutrr (percetj-Children (0-14 years). work-      Chl (ages 1-4J Deth Rate (per ht osamd)- -Number of deaths of
ing age (15-64 years). and retired (65 years and over) as percentage  children aged 1-4 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population. 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                group in a given year. For most developing countries data dcrived
Popsdauion Growth Rate (percenr)-t4or&t--Annual growth rates of   from life tables; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 197083.       HEALTH
Popultion Growth Rate (percent)-aban-Annual growth rates          Lift Erpectawy at Birth (yet s)-Numnber of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-g3 data.       infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all peopic



-32-                                            ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
at the me of of its birth were to sy the same throughout its life;  Pp#-fwochr Ratio - prlmary. and sreondary-Total students en.
1960, 1970 and 193 data.                                      rolled in primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of
I*.t M nt7 Re (per tbh.dI-Number of infants who die    teachers in the corresponding levels.
before racing on year of ale per thousand live births in a given
year; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                CONSUMPTION
Am  'o Soft  Ub  (p of V          J_ku)-wd,         a,d        Pbaee Cur (Per thmowd pepuliaeD--Passenger cars com-
nrmu-Number of people (total, urban, and runal) with reaonable  prise motor cars seating less than eight persons; excludes ambul-
aines to afe water supply (includes treated surface waters or  ances. hearses and military vehicles.
untreated but uncontmited water such as that from protected    Radi Rectivers (per thousuudpopulutioej-All types of receivers
borbole springs and  tauy wells) a paentags of their respec-   for radio broadcasts lo general public per thousand or population;
tive populations. In an urban ar  a public fountain or standpost  excludes un-licensed receivers in countries and in ycars when
locted not more dn 200 metm from a bourn may be considered     registration of radio sets was in effect. data for rcent years may
as being within reasonable accm of that hour. In rural are     r n   ot be compafrble sine mos t countries abolished licensingm
reaonable accs would imply that the housewift or members of tht
household do not have to spend a disproportionate part of the day  TVRecivers (per hus     le--f recevers for broadcast
in fetching the family's water nreds.                         to general public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV
receivers in countries and in years when registration of TV sets was
Ace   to Ert DbIvn (pvrgx of papllhlntijat arJz                in *fket.
aid ral-Number of people (total urban, and rural) served by
ecreta disposal    percentgs of their respective populations.  Aesr CIraon (per thOmaadpepuatiej --Shows the aver-
Excrets disposal may include the collection and disposal. with or  ae circulation of "daily general interest newspaper," defined as a
without treatment, of human excreta and waste-water by water-  periodical publication devoted primarily to recording general news.
borne system or the us of pit privies and similar instlations.  It is considered to be "daily" if It app"ars at least four I imes a week.
Japblad.a per ?hapddm-Ppulation divided by number of prac-     Cinema Annud Anedaue per Cpta per Year -Based on the
tising phyicians qualified frowna medical school at university vel,  number or tickets sold during the year. induding admissions to
Ptp.l.di. per NurN   Praa-lbpulation divided by number of      drive-in cinemas and mobile units.
practicing male and female graduate nurae  assistant nurses
practical nurses and nuning auxilaries.                        LABOR FORCE
P__m pm Reslid Bod-- _d,   _m   Po pWation                    Total Labor Frce Cahosaarndv-Economically active persons, in-
(total, urba  and rural) divided by their respective number of  sluding armed forces and unemployed but excluding housewives.
hospital beds availble in public and private, general and specialized  students, etc.. covering population or all ages. Definitions in
hospita  and rehabilitation centers. Hospitls are establishments  various countries are not comparable; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
pemanently staffed by at least one physician Eablishments prov-  Jemk   (perc?t)-el'unle labor force as percentage of total labor
iding prinipally custodial care are not indluded. Rural hospitals,    force.
however, include bealth and meoical centers not pennanentdy staffed  Apkeuwe (percenf-Labor fome in farming. forestry. hunting
Fy a physicn (but by .- medical assistant, nurse, midwife. etc.)  and fishing as percentage of total labor force; 1960. 1970 and 1980
wbicb offer in-patient accommodation and provide a limited range  data.
of medical facilitieL                                         lndassry (percentj-Labor force in mining. construction. manu-
A     _aMaua per Ilaphal hi-Total number of admissions to or   facturing and electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor
discharges frowm hospitals divided by the number of beds.      force; 1960, 1970 and 1980 data.
Pthiipwarlon Rae (percen)-roead, m_l, &andrfemae-Participation
HOUSING                                                        or activity rates are computed as total, male, and femnale labor force
Avre She o ilombAld (persons per he)_eholdj-eoral, wban,       as percentages of total, male and female population of all ages
Avdrwu-Ahouweoldconsists of agoupofindividualswhoshare        respectively; 1960, 1970, and 1983 data. These are based on ILO's
living quarters and their main meals. A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates reflecting age-sx structure oflthe population, and
may not be included in the household for statistical purposes,  long time trend. A few estimates are from national sources.
Averag Nurehr Vf Person per Room--rai, urba, ad runal-         Econeeu  Dependency Rari--Ratio or population under 15. and
Average number of persons per room in all urban, and rural     65 and over, to the working age population (those aged 15-64)
occupied conventional dwelings respectively. Dwellings exclude
non-pemanent structures and unoccupied parts.                 INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PerctWe Of Dueq  WM Eh iidp-otal, mrban, and rur-              PArcetage of Tot Dispoabe lmern  (both   cash and kid- -
Conventional dwellings with ectricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households ranked by total house-
tage of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively,       hold income.
EDUCATION                                                      POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Adute Er aUnt   Raoks                                         The following estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
Primary school - total, mak arJJfetmalr-Gross total, male and  levels, and should be interpreted with considerable caution
female enrolbment of all ages at the primary level as percentages of  Etimwed Absote Porevy lnome Led  ( USSIer caitaJ -rban
respective prinury school-age populations While many countries  and rural-Absolute poverty income level is that income level
consider primary school age to be 6-11 years others do not The  below which a minimal nutritionally adequate diet plus essential
differen  in country practices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For some countries with universal    E&saed Relmire Poertny lacew Level CUSS per capta)-urban
education, gross enrollment may ecceed 100 pent since some     ad rwal-Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are below or above the country's standard prnmary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban level is
age.                                                          derived from the rural level with adjustment for higher cost of
Secondrvy school - total, male andfemaue-Computed as above;    living in urban areas.
secondary education requires at kast four years of approved pri-  Eiw      tpue4  "Beow Absolute Poverty luce    Level (per-
mary instruction; provides general, vocational, or teacher training  et)-urban and rural- Percent of population (urban and rural
instruction for pupib usaly of 12 to 17 years of ag  correspond-  who are "absolute poor."
ence courts are gerlly exduded.
Vocaindal Enrolthnen (percent of secondary)-Vocational institu-          Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tios include technicaL indusriaL or other programs which operate      Economic Analysis and Projections Department
indepedently or as dqeprtmnts of scondary institutions.                                June 1985



-33-
AN=  I
ii 5 aF 6
Cfl.f IDICAnD
GWSS NATIONAL P1DX  IN 1983/84                               AINJAL RAZ (' QMD  (Z amotsit prlcm)
1S$ Mln.                                      1983/84
QGP at market Pricem               978.0                                          24.5
Gross Ibetic Invesitunt            220.5                                         -18.2
CrO)s Natio-al Saving              228.6                                         150.8
xrrs.t Accout Balance -s6.4                                                         ..
Exports of Qoods, NFS              774.9                                          26.4
IqIports of Gxods, NFS             787.3                                           3.3
awnrr, LABI RF   AND             Value Added             Labor Forces            VA. Per Worker
PRDturIVi   iN 1983/84        US$ Mn.    X                Min.    Z               US$    Z of Ave.
Agriculture                      67.7     6.3            0.407    79.5             166      7.9
Industry                        485.9   45.3             0.031     6.1          15,674    747.8
Services                        519.4   48.4             0.074    14.5           7,018   334.8
Total/Average              1,073.0   100.0            0.512   100.0           2,096    100.0
WiYVERNMENT FINAIiE                                       Central Gouerrunent
(P. Mln.)              Z of CDP
1984/85     1984/85     1981/82 - 1983/84
Owrrent Receipts                              763.3        48.6             37.2
Current Expenditures                          344.6        21.9             22.8
Qarrent Surplus                               418.7        26.6             14.5
Capital Expenditures                          270.0        17.2             13.1
External Assistance (net)                      58.6         3.7              3.6
M{NEY, CREDrT and PRICES                         1981      1982      1983     1984    1985
(Million P Cutstanding End Period)     -
Mbney and Quasi Money                           226.7    244.5    320.1    365.1   546.0
Bank Credit to Public Sector (ruet)b/           -58.1     -95.3   -171.4  -353.5  -613.7
Bark Credit to Private Sector c/                144.6     148.6     177.2    238.7   223.9
(Percentage or Ixnex Numbers)
Money and Qiasi Moiey as X of GDP                29.1      23.9      25.2     23.4    28.4
General Price Index (August 1980 - 100)         115.9     131.2    142.9   155.6   168.2
AnnLal percentage chages in:
Bank Credit to Riblic Sector                    -33.4    -64.0    -79.9  -106.2   -73.6
Bank Credit to Private Sector                    47.4       2.8      19.2     34.7    -6.2
a Labor force is defined as person  of 15 years and over engaged either in family agriculture or in
cash employment. Migrant workers in South Africa are exchxldd. Labor in industry and services relate
to formal sector employment. Residual is reported as agriculture.
b Government is net creditor to banking system.
c  Includes parastatals.
Not available.                                                                           EAM1S
Not applicable.                                                                        April 1986



-34-
AN= I
P*e 6 of 6
TA  PAIIS AND) CAPr    FM
UIAN(Z O PA1T1S                                                                    (AVEPW"  1942-R4) -
1982    1983   1984   1985                                   tm$ Mil.  2
(?fUl.lio,ui'                                                  -
ExiportP of Goods a/             464.2   640.7  685.4  725.9           Not ad meat productR    64.9   11.1
,qeorts of Goodis /              584.3   615.6  590.0  505.2           Dla ds                   396.6   64.4
Balm= of TradeTdefio-li -)       120.1    25.1   95.3  2207            Opper/rdcl                58.7   10.0
All other domudtlie      84.7   14.5
Non-factor Serwices (net)        -56.7   -79.3  -71.9c/ -55.1            Thtal                  585.0  1o0.0
Factor Service  (net)             11.5   -69.1  -116.0 -109.0
Net Transfers                    117.4   125.2  102.8   84.2
BelA   on Oarzrnt Acourt         -47.9    +1.9 -  0.2  140.8                EX1RIAL MT, IEC. 31, 1985
US$ Mtn.
Capttal (Net)
Private long-erm                  52.7    53.4  100.7   95.8           Public Debt, incl. guaranteed   333.0
Private sl8brrteM                 12.8    21.4   10.4   ..             Nbi-Grarte   Private Debt
Goverment                         40.7      1.7   17.8   13.2          ¶btal Outatsdixig & Disbursed    333.0
Banking SectDr                   -16.7      3.4  -16.7    2.0
Other 8/                         -11.8    44.2    5.8   12.8               DEBr SERVICE RATIO FR 19B5 e/
Increase In Pesrves (-)          -53.4  -126.0 -128.2  -264.6                                            2
Public Debt, frcl. guaranteed    5.6
Gross Reserves (end year)        304.2   417.0  573.8  826.1c/         ftn-Quranteed Private Debt
Total Outstardirg & Disbursed    5.6
Fuel ad Related Meterials
imports d/                     101.2    89.8   75.8
of  td: PEtrolIn              88.3    80.8   61.1   ..               IBD/IDA IDDIJE (February 2R, 1986)
ExpOrts d/                        -        -      -
of utdi2h: Petro1emn            -        -      -       -                                  (Mllion USS)
DM M
RA;  F   EWV   f/                                                     Outstanditg 6 Disbursad   149.2   15.9
1979  1980  1981  1982  1983   1984  1985   UTdisbursed                    51.2
Outstarndig inr 1.
US$1.0 - P          0.815 o.m  0.833  1.022  1.096   1.284  1.888       tindisbursed            200.4   15.9
P 1.00 - US$        1.228  1.287  1.W  0.979  0.912  0.779  0.530
8 Recorded cutam  statisticS adjusted for tiatrg and Coierge.
b Reorded utom  statistics adjusted for valuation (exclusive of duties, insrance and freight) and cmerage.
c As of end I eber
d Unajusted trade figures.
e Ratio of debt mrvice to exports of gpods and serVifs.
f Aiual averegc.
8 Includes errors and ceissorm
Not availble                                                                                  FAI SA
.bt pplicable.                                                                           April 1986



-35-
ANNMI II
Pae I of 2
SfAS OF BNK G1"  OPATIONS IN BOTSWI
A. SrAfEHWE OF BANK IDANS ANDl IDALCREIfSa
(as at March 31, 1986)
AMDunt
(Less Cu ellations)
-     US$ Million-
Bank   MEA Undisbursed
Number   Year    Bormwer          Purpose
TWalve loans and six credits fully disbursed              103.86  15.91
1828     1980    Botsiena    Secord E4urcation Project   10.00             6.53
2057     1982    B,tswna    Third Flltation                11.50           3.68
2209     1983    Botswana    Pber Project                 32.50           16.76
2333     1983    BDtsvana    Third Whter Sipply           22.00            0.79
2384     1984    Botsiena    Secord IFC                    12.30           11.97
2413     1984    Botswna    Family Heath                   11.00           lQ94
2566     1985    Botswna    Nat'l land lnt.               10.70            10.70
2644     19B5    Botswa        Fotrth Ediuration          26.00            26.00
Total                                                239.86  15.91    87.37
of wkich bas been repaid                            23.11   1.12
lbtal row outstardirg                              216.75  14.79
AMDnts sold                               8.82
of vich b6 been repaid                  8.82       -      -
Total now beld by  dnkt/IEa                        216.75  14.79
of *idch is undisbursed                                           87.37
a/ Prior tD exchae adjustnents.
(10n  of IE$10.7 million for ltimia Land mnmaget arnd Livestock Projer-t approved
but not yet effective).



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT
(as at September 30, 1985)
US$ Million Equivalent
Yea-     Borrower             Type of Business        Loan   Equity    Total
1979)    Botswana             Development Finance       -       0.61      0.61
1984)    Development            Company                 -        -         -
Corporation
Total Gross Investments                        -      0.61       0.61
Less Cancellations, terminations,
repayment and sales                          -       -          -
Total now held by IFC                          -      0.61       0.61
September 1985



-37-
ANNEX III
Page 1 of I
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
SELEBI-PHIKWE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.     T_metnble of Key Events
(n) Time taken to prepare project (incl.
initial study program by Government):            2 years
(h)  First Presentation to Bank                      October 1982
(c)  Appraisal Mission                               November 1985
(d)  Negotiations                                    April 7, 1986
(e)  Planned Date of Effectiveness                   August 31, 1986
II.    Special Bank Implementation Action
None.
tI1ll.   Special Conditions
(a)  Special Conditions of Effectiveness
None.
(b) Other Special Conditions
(1)  timely completion of roads studies (para. 48);
(ii) terms of reference prepared for long-term manpower
development in local government (para. 55);
(iii)  annual work plans prepared for industrial and irrigation
development (paras. 53 and 54); and
(iv) additional specialist appointed to Promotion Unit at end
of first year (para. 45).
(v)  director of the Promotional Unit for Regional Development
to be employed and unit established as condition of
disbursment of the regional promotion component (para.
52).



-38-
Annex IV
Page 1 of 1
LOCAL GOVERNMENT IN SERVICE TRAINING PROGRAMME
Projected number of staff to be trained
SCHEMES OF SERVICE                                    NOS. TO BE TRAINED
Administration
General Administration               t
Planning                             t
Personnel                            +
Secretarial                           +                     550
Bye-Law Enforcement                  +
Commercial Affairs                   t
Financial Services
Treasury Staff                        t                     500
Revenue                               t
Suppliec                             +
Technical Operations
Building                              +
Mechanical                            +
fransport                            t                      600
Roads                                 -
Water Supply                          +
Community Development
SHHA Staff                           t
Community Affairs                    +                      350
TOTAL                 2000



SELEIBI-!H IIZICAL JSSISWC L aW
S I-EME  1IMNL  ¢NaDuir OOH2UI1
ma.V CP aMGs (W1B$000)
Eatabldut of PrautIcn  Wlt wd Intotrflal   D ew1o t Prm a t m
'ar I          ar2         -kmr3         Vear4         VW 5          TOMI       Ibtal1oz-
lITh              Ibrelgn tocal Rweregn Loal brelgn tDcFl Frelgn tocl  re1gn L1l R_e*  Loc_l _Rei_ local
Is *ECAL ASSISWTM_
Idastrlal  elop`t Clfficer (1)               120   -      120   -       120   -       12D   -        12)  -        60D
WItstrial Dvelopamt Officer (2)              -      -     12D   -       12D   -       12D   -        12D  -        4D   -
HbusiW                                       -       8    -      12    -       12      -     12       -    12       -     56
USb-total     120    P    240    12    240   12    240   12          240  12       10056         279  2a
2. CIEtUl:;sNIES/STJUDE___                                                                                 .
(a) Mun lfteparation                          26 -         -    -       -      -       -    -        -    -         26   -
(b) Hni.t kindich - RSA                       13-   - _               _      _      _        _                           13- 
(c) liet lb hrdi - Z1                         13      _        _       _    _      _   _           _  _             13    _
(d) 0ratLvets                                  13- _            _     _      _       _            _                 13- 
(e)  Ither                                   -      -      40   20       40    2       40   2)        40           1     _0
3u O-total    65  -        40   20       40    20      40   2D        40  -        225   60       50  20
3. oPETDIC oIlST                              _
(a)LocalStff                                 -       7    -       7    -        7      -      7      -      7       -     35
(b) Ofice Rndi  onsto                        -      14    -      14    -       14      -     14      -     14       -     70
(c)  twel, etc.                               5      5     15   15    15    15         15   15       15   15        65   65
(d) Protlomx                                 -      -      10    5      10      5      10    5       10     5       40   20
9ub-total      5    26    25   41    25    41          25   41       25   41       105   150    29  66
4. VfOI1:M  NIJIWi
Sb-totDal  30   2   -   -   -   -    -   -    -   -                                 30   2   2 -
5.  mmTAL oor (I6   ICES)                       220    36   305    73   305        73    305   73    305   53          140 308    360  lOS
6. MtScAL  lrnhiIgcTs                            -      -      25     5     1       6      1             15    3         2) 16cia,0
7. FRICz  CKNllrD  C3ENCES                       15      4     19   10    55    20         8429         11529          29092        _
B. MMTL OOSS (IncludhiM   axtiinucum)            235    40    349   86    375    97       406   106    435   85    1_3) 416



nl-It0  I ^AL  ASlSTMUZ M1Y
SELBI-ERmOE IONQmLD L               w   Wr
SIRY or aus  (is om)
Dew lopent nf Irripted Agriculture a   IMoved Rod Aing
Yew I          .2           Yal 3         'karw 4                      Tea S  . I   td Cn
rM                              Foren local hreign Local  _rein Loa                __re cal Rrebign   lbc *   local _  _ _Loc_l
1, 1 NICAL A&SISTu
(a) lrrigation .gomfiuY Sib-tDtAl             120   -      12)   -       12D     _      12D    -       12D   -      60           144
2. (IEUJTANCIES/S9DIES
(a)  J%rikdutural tixrmkst                    110   -       70 -          30   -         30   -         30  -       20- 
(b)  Irrigadon  frim                           60    -      20   -        20            20   -          20  -       140- 
(c)  IrrigaLlon Ialnig 4*cialist               40   -       30   -        20    -       21)   -         20  -       13)  _
(d) Itydrwlq, ldre,lg1s                        40   -       20   -        20    _       20   -          20  -       IIZ   -
te) hbcd Rocelr                                40-  -  - _  _ _  _ _                                                 40 _
(f) Soil sttdies                               -    1()    -      50      -     50      -     -        -_-          -  2W
(g)  Fba as studies af    aIegfmiz   desdgn    -    2(2    -    40        -    100      -     -        -   -        - _    02
(h) Ottr                                       -     87     30   61       30   36       30  36         30  36       12D  256
Sb-total      290  389    170501         120   386     120   386      12D  36             1358   63       307
3.  OTEAL  61S_o
(a)  PrWoet fuling for lOl)ha
are develqpet infrasruture
.S itotal      -     _-     150    10    150100 O      I   100         150 100     600   4m   169         161
4, AtD06S6 _-- --                                                                                        ___  -
(a) Vehdcles 3,OOt  eEh at
20/Im                                    -      12    -      12    -       12      -      12      -    12       -      60
(b) Drivers erh at $2,50                              5    -       5    -        5      -      5       -      5      -      25
(c) TrdwelHckn                                -      10    -       8     -      10      -      &       -      8      -      42
Sp-ttal       -      27           25    -       25      -     25       -25          -       127           43
5.  HICLS AN 
(a)2 vieWcre 4i                               22   -           -   -   -    -   -    -   -_                          24
(b) Traknir  aids                             20    -       10   -        5    -         5   -           5  -        45
.Sb-tntal  44    10-    5   -                            5  -           5-    69                   9   -
6.  I7AL CtT (1986f PRCES)                       454    416    450   626    395    511      395   161     395  161    2089    1575    5    511                 e  X
7.  RM ICAL COW(IEiCa YS                          16    20      20    37      27     30      32    13      27    13     122    113 
8,  RIucE CL NrRC ES                              16    46      45   100      64   1YA       97    61     141   85      363    356   -
9.   ML OCEST (inrltuirg ontirexnces)           4WE    482    515  763    486   645    524  235    563   259    257    23WI



SELFBIflGE IEtICAL ASSIS I  FW=Ju
NkTaiAL IDAU. GNER Wr I1--SVICE TRA]nM   OJPNEr
SLUY   OF Qx (lSS'cxl)
Year I        Yar 2         ear 3           ear 4     .TO        Total   t
lllM                            Fomign local Foreign Load Fomign local Foreilocal For              aor Lo ad
1.    CNICAL ASSIS A_ 
(a)     tant Services                          39n          39-     -      39D    -      35     -    1E  -        2D7  -
(b) Internationl  tavel                         50            50   -        50    -        50   -      200 -       27   -
(c)  Inspection, Consult., etc.                 22    -       22    -       22    -        22    -      8- _       12 -
(d)  4mellnvs                                   10             10   -      10   -         10    -      4C -        6  -
Sub-total     472    -     472    -       472    -      472    -    1888-    25Z    -
2. 1RMAIi__
(a) Over~sm &.tnles
Sib-total      36    -       36    -       72    -        36   -    180          23   -
3. MWMODU/.SHW-TW aELTANY
(a) Evalwtion Study                                                                                                                               4
Sub-total   _   _   _   _   _   50   -                                      50 -16
4. CERATC  COS_
(a) 9irt-tenre  accont                          -      3      -      3     -       3      -        3  -      12         3
(b) Ainistration                                -      9     -       9     -       9      -        9   -     36         7
(c) Pecrrent csts                               -    300     -    30D      -     30D      -      300      1200       256
Sub-total     -     312     -    312    -       312             312   -12   8-266
5. ViC.  AMD  EXM
Sub-total      70    -      -                   ____                  70    -     5   _
6. 1UIAL GET (1986 RUCM)                           578   312    508   312      544   362    5%8    312 2138 11S 280 2D
7   WFIYSICAL  TWDhN:CWDS                          15      15     25    15      25    15       25     18   90   63
8.gEo   I ElO DMCIES                                15     15     45    40      55    70       75     94   190 219                                      0 
9.  MM  CG T (ziIuUis cmtilrn        ies)         60R    342    578   367      624   447      608    424  2418  _                                        La80



ANNEX V
-42-                                   Page 4 of 4
SIDI-FlGIE  LUC         ASS ISa I IER  r
SWDInuWM OF W     OULC  FORMULA1ON AM  a1WN1DATON aCMt8N
Tedudcal Acistance to lanistry of local buemnnt and Lads
S*WRT OF CO tJS (US$' 000)
)bar I       Year 2       Year 3       TL Total Qbnt
-    - -   -  ~~~---tu              - sidaai
tml                           Fbrelgn local -trelg load Ibrelgn locdl For Local For Local
1. 02EXlTANFrSEnICE                            230   -    230   -         240   -   700-    140 
2.  lBYSIM LCONMECIE                            12   -       15   -         15   -    42
3. PIC E/I                                       12   -      32   -         54   -    98
ThL COST (1986 PRICES)               254   -    277   -         309   -   840



SELEBI-PHIKWE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SELEBI-PHIKWE REGIONAL DEVELOPHENT COMPONENT
ACTION PROGRAM/IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
INDUSTRIAL SUB-COMPONENT
ACniNs                .316IBEI11Y.  PRE-4.Wr  .    YAR1                      YER 2    .    YER 3         .    YEA 4       .    YVR 5
1.  Rrcruit Unit head and                Study gro 
Irrigation Agrononist
2. Acquire offices and equiprent.         U     h
Recruit local staff
3.  Present Annual Plan to Study          Unit head                                     X
Grop
4. Agree Site Visit Programs              Uni  head                       l
to Selebi-Phikwe with MCI
5.  Mediun Sized Industry Caopany                                            _
Development Programm
6.  Initiate business skills
u?-grading programs 
7.  CAnmision short-term                  Unit head
consultants
(i) Kanualt_
(ii)  Couparative costs                                                         -|
(iii)  Market research - ZhiTbabwL                                               -l
(iv)  Marker, research - South
Africa
8.  Recruit Industrial Officer            Unit head                                    -|
9.  Quarterly Progress Reports            Unit head                            X  X  X  X
10. Annual Report                         Unit head                                     X                X                X                X                 X
11. Initial Marketing Programme -         Unit head                                       -
Zinbabwe                              MCITPA
12. Initial Marketing Programsr -         Unit head                                           __
South Africa                          MLC/TIPA
13. New initiatives to pramte             Unit head                                                                                                          see_
nediun industries - e.g.,            Study Group                                             l--
joinit ventures, licencing, etc.    S
oWr



ACnlINS               .USCIBILIY. Fm R] r  .    YEA1    .    YEWR 2    ,                          YEAR3       WM  4    .    YM 
14. Extend scqpe of overseas             Unit head
nurketirg programn                   MCI/TIPA
15.  Investigate possibilities           Unit head
to direct Adnin./Service           Study grn o
Institutions
16. Short-term consultarny to
review and evaluate Unit's
progress an-d nmke                  Unit head
reccmmxndations for the            Scudy gra
future of the Unit including             gruw
possible Phase 2 and
replication in other centres
o z
'.



SELEBI-PHIKWE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
SELEBI-PHIKWE REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT
ACTION PROGROI/IMPLEHENTATION SCHEDULE
AGRICULTURAL SUB-COMPONENT
A.  PUIT R1ECT DEVDELrff
.   .  PR&4vawI   .    YEAR I     YEA1R 2    .    WM R3    Y.        A 4           W MR 5
ACTINIM                  RsnwisrTYnT -rter T                     &T   Qter-T                                    T    T                   T
I Istl2ndI3rdl4thIlstI2ndI3rdl4thIlstl2rdl3rdl4thI
1.  IAThR RESJR(ES
(a)  Examine water resources for         Depl. of      XXXX
pilot sites                      Water Affairs
2.   SOILS
(a)  Semi-detailed soil burveys        Soil Survey         X
of five pilot sites               Section, IIM
(b)  Detailed topographic site
sutvey after site selection                                          XXXX=
(c)  Detailed soil survey at           Soil Survey
pilot site                        Section, MOa
3.  TRAMINIM AND EXfIMS1GS
(a)  Review extension and trainirg    Project Unit
requiremrnts                     Dept. of Field                      X- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Services
(b) Visits by Irrigation Traiirg       Project Unit                           X)OXX      XXXXX              XXXX             XXX
Specialist (Project Unit)
(c)  Establishmunt of Irrigation       Project Unit
Deinostration Unit               Depc. of Field                              XX
Services
td) Commenceent of Irrigation          Project Unit
trainirg for ADs and famers    Dept. of Field                                                 X-----------------------
Services                                  
4.  _MCAWF?
(a)  Assess the suitability of                                                                                                                       ii
Selebi-Phikwe tom  as a        Chief Agricultural    X
location for a wholesale         Economist/=OC
nurket
(b) Assess feasibility of              Project Unit/
establishing agro-processirg        MCI/BDC                         XXXXKKX
in Selebi-Phikwe



A.   PILOr PROJECT DEVaItYlDR   (cont'd)
PFIHMEir  .    YEVA           .    YEWR 2    .    YER 3    .    YEWR 4               WM  5
ACTICIM B1Th                                     re lBILI -YT  - --ter- -     - -  -     1- -  - - arter- -T
Ilsti2ndI3rdi4thIlstl2ndl3rdl4thilstl2ndl3rdl4thI
5.  1F.UNICAL AND ECCNMIC
LVALiLIATION
(a) Evaluation of Irrigated crop
fanming in Botswana               Project Unit                    XXXXXX
(b) Agronm-nic and Profitability
Analysis of Alternative            Project Unit                   XXXXXX
Irrigated Crops
(c) Technical and Ecoimuic
Cbrparison of different            Project Unit                       XXX
irrigation systemx
6.   DEbVELiORT PLANS
(a)  Preparation of detailed                                                                                                                                 X
development plan for five         Project Unit                          XXXuuu00CuC3Ch KXM
pilot project areas
7.  LAND ALLOCATICN
(a)  RPiservation/allocation of        District Officer
land for irrigation at              (Lands)/         )OOXOGOXOOX
pilot areas                        Land Board
8.   PILOT PFDJELT7 Ih¶EMErATION
(a)  Support for implementation        DWt of Field
of irrigation at pilot areas        Services/                                      X- - (SMha)- - - - (OCha)- - -- -(1IO  ha)- - - -IOha)
(Dept. of Field Services/         ProjeCL UniL
Project)
OQ C



.FFPRF3T.    YEAR IARZ                        .    YEWR 3    .    YEAR 4    .         W 5
AcITNa  Ii               RESPCNSIBLT Y T - -         - - T - I c arterW  - T -  QcFarter-  T - - - - - - - - - - - --- ------ ----
I Istj 2nd|3rd|4thI Ist12ndm3rdj4thI 1stjI2dI3rdI4thI
I.   WAThX RESaUCX                       Dept  of
(a)  Linpopo Water Utilization Study  Water Affairs        XXXXX
(b)  Botswana Water Adninistrative       Dept. of
and Managumrnt Study              Water Affairs       XPOEUDEUD30CCK
(c) Regional wuter resource and          Dept. of          XXXXXXXXX
utilization model                 Water Affairs
(d) Discussion with other users
of the Llrpopo on joint             Dept. of    -                                                                                               _
agreement on allocation and       Water Affairs
nmnagement policies
(e) Reappraisal of Tobane D[n            Dept. of
after soil survey                 Water Affairs                       XXXXX 
(f) Grruicdwter review of                Dept. of                              XXXX
region                            Water Affairs
2.   SOILS
(a)  Semi-detailed soil survey of       Soil Survey
remaniing MDtloutse River           Section,            XXXXX(X
areas and of the Linpopo               MCA
(b) jSani-detailed survey of            Soil Survey
possible Tobane Dun area            Section,            OU
(c) Semi-detailed surveys arisirg       Soil Survey
frcn groizxk.ter investigation      Section,                                           -
(d) Topographical and detaiiled         Soil Survey
soil surveys after site             Section,                                  X---------------------------- -
selection and on request               MH                                                                                                        w
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -  -                            o



B.   LOG-'ERM DEVE1X*T (conrld)
PRE-FFUECr   .YEAR          .    YEAR 2    .    YEAR 3            MYER4    .    YW    5
ACrKIN 11Th             lESE IB1L"IT    -  jQuarter    |   Quarter   F   (Q;ter    r
-  lst|2nd|3rdl4thIlst|2ndl3rdl4thllst l2ndl3idl4thI
3.  EXNSICENS   AND IRAINWS
(a) Review extension support         Project Unit/
requirerents of irrigation     [ept. of Field                                     X----------------
in the region                     Services
(b) Continue training conTenced     [ept. of Field
for pilot projects                Services/                                                 X-…-…-------------________
Project Unit
4.  INPlJIS, CREDIT AND FINANE
(a) Liaison with input supplies        Division
and nnitoring of input            of Cop          ----------------------------------- --  -------
availability and type             Produxtion
5. IN CTM
(a) Consolidate produxction and        D
mrket infonetion systan           ocoCop
to support horticultural          of  tion
input controls                   Pouto
(b) Support for inplemntation of   Project Unit/                                 X
agro-processing at Selebi-Phikwe     MC
(c) Review of imrkets               bikrticulcural
Marketing             -     -   -   -   -   -   -   -  -   -  -  -   -  -   -  -  -  -   -   -  -   -  -   -   -   -  -   -  -  -   -   -  -   -   -   -   -  -   -    --
Econmnist ,t1Y
6.  DEVE1LRfW  PLANS
(a) Preparation of detailed
deveilopTent plans for areas    Project Unit                                         x---------------_---_________
selected after soils, iter
and nmrket reviews                                (Note: - - - - - - - - ongoing ictivity)
7.  IRRIGATICN 1IENLfT?ATINx
(a)  Support inplenentation of new   Dept. of Field                                                                                               o
schenws in the region             Services/51     - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - ------------- - - - - - -  -~- - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Project (Init



ANNEX VII
-49-                              Page 10  2
SELEBI-PHIKWE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Implementation File
Working Documenrs
1. Regional Development Promotion Unit: Selebi-Phikwe Job Descriptions
for the Industrial Development Executive/Unit Read, and Irrigation
Agronomist
2. Selebi-Phikwe Regional Development: Industrial Development Promotion
Program. Action Plan - Year 1.
Attachment 1: Draft Terms of Reference; Short-Term Market
Research Consultancy in the Region.
Attachment 2: Draft Terms of Reference; Preparation of Investor
Information Manual.
Attachment 3: Draft Terms of Reference; Comparative Costs Study.
3. Selebi-Phikwe Regional Development:  Industrial Development Promotion
Work Program.  Indicative Program, Years 2-5.
4. Selebi-Phikwe Regional Development: Agricultural Component Work
Program: Water Resource Management.
Attachment 1: Examination of the Water Resources for the Pilot
Project Sites.
Attachment 2: Assessment of Regional Groundwater Resource.
5. Selebi-Phikwe Regional Development: Agricultural Component Work
Program; Soils Assessment.
Attachment 1: Soil Surveys of Pilot Irrigation Sites.
Attachment 2: Soils Investigations in Areas to be Served by
Proposed Tobane Dam.
6. Selebi-Phikwe Regional Development: Agricultural Component Work
Program; Extension and Training.
Attachment 1: Evaluation of Extension and Training Support to
Irrigated Agriculture, and Requirements for Pilot
Irrigation Projects.
7. Selebi-Phikwe Regional Development: Agricultural Component Work
Program; Marketing.



ANNEX VII
Page 2 o1 .
8.  Selebi-Phikwe Regional Development:  AEricultural Component Work
Program; Inputs, Credit and Finance.
9. Selebi-Phikcve Regional Development; Agricultural Component Work
Program; Technical and Economic Evaluations of Irrigated Agriculture In
Botswana.
Attachment 1:  Technical and Economic Evaluation of Irrigated
Crop Farming in Botswana.
Attachment 2: Agronomic and Profitability Analysis of
Alternative Irrigated Crop. for the Selebi-Phikwe
Region.
Attachment 3: Technical and Economic Comparison of Irrigation
Systems.
Attachment 4: Existlng Models for Irrigated Agriculture in
Botswana.
10. Selebi-Phikwe Regional Development: Agricultural Component Work
Program; Development Plans for Pilot Irrigation Sites.
Attachment 1: Feasibility Study Procedure for Preparing and
Approving Pilot Irrigation Development Plans.
11. Selebi-Phikwe Regional Development: Agricultural Component Work
Program; Implementation Arrangements.
Attachment 1: Linkages Between Executing Agenc'.es.
12. Selebi-Phikwe Regional Development: Road Development.
13. Local Authority In-Service Training Program: Qualification of Trainers
and Implementation Arrangements.
Attachment 1: Sanctioned Posts of Town and District Councils by
Cadre.
14. Local Authority In-Service Training Program:  Proposal for
Strengthening the Management and Organization of Manpower Development
in the Local Government Sector.
15. Local Authority In-Service Training Program:  Action Plan for
Transition from Pilot to Full-Scale Program.



____________________________________________________/______________                          _ -                                                          _~  _    IBR D   1 0772R
_ _ _ >_ _    _  __   \ M  ;   > g ;. aZ A  M  BI A .)                  ; th" R 5 Z  A  M  B  I A >                                         
ANGOLA                                                                 N~~~~~~~~~~~~~OTWN
j ID:.A                                                                     RIIOA                         'Nll\.l.\.->9~1^.,
/41,~~~~~~~~~~~1
Io-         _> _  V NG1.
N                                           N~~~~~~~~~    
'5IS                                                      M*0OADIOGADI                                        PAAOGADhAGAIAGDIKGAOIi u
r P; I N I r A I                                                                                            PAN
K     A     L    A       h    A       R      I                                <            R
_  \  <K  _9  /   ; r   ;^   N F N C   /   g ; r
N c~~~~~~~~~~ 
OF  S  F  R                                              F  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ llFG
hw \~~~~~ G  I  A         __~__<1 hAa C   { ;LzAF h) I                                                                   ......                                    V,
0001 IN0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  
000  0000                                                     - *<-  a t   k   .un.              \   IT
y  X oe,&
_Z-   t   ;   rnaaon  inccurlb   7'     q                                           @;                                             ,,            [8r    5.ItANal/.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-f
ij~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ N .#.                                                                               XU-
ar  ~~~ 9  ar   aj           r                                                   ,'                       ..                                   ArRlL lillAA~~~~~~~~~~  \-



