cA AS5s t-A/+-)/A<
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12416-BUR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BURKINA FASO
HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
(PDSN)
MARCH 11, 1994
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No:        12416 BUR
Type: SAR
Population and Human Resources
Operations Division
Sabelian Department
Africa Region
This document has a restldted diskibu_on and may be used by rdpients only in the perormanoe of
their official duties. Its contents may no otherwise be disclosed wtout World Bank autiorizlion.



CURNCY OUIVLENT
Curncy Unit = CFA Franc (CPAF) I US$1 = 270 CFAF
(Rate prior to Janyary 12, 1994)
Curmnt Rate = CFA FranclUSSI = 580 CFAF
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
I m. = 1.O9yd.
1 sq.m. = 10.76 sq. ft.
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
01                                                                        . ceescee.  m e...  .  *    e m ......    me  mm.  egg,,  mu  *  a   em  m m d, . e  e . ..    H.m.
.     'tf1 S tI  tlirlliEI . Wt E' r IE   1,1' a   I .r '['I  i W    Wr ' W t " r 11 1 "'  



MCH                        Mtderal and Child Haelth
ME                -        MM6ad wn endeka I Entia Drg
MmFF                       Mnre d& l'EConoea Ja nFMa at dil   I Minisr of FAMe  NW Planng
MO                -        Min y of ealth
MPR                        MA- uwi"proa4&qAue
MSPSF             -        Mbslsalra hit swutM  .Vle  aciode ll,c sdc akde lakmd& I
Mitry of Health, SoCW Developmet and th Famy
MST               -        M      ainduas  zuuae  awran     I Sexaly Tauaitd Dsee
NGO               -        Non-Pgove ntal Orgniatio
OCCGB             -        Orgw ar d ceoniltnaon aetds coeprusn pour la bc  c          L gmanduw and&a /
Or1anizatod of Coordinato and Cooan for the Fight apgnt Mjr Endeic Di_a
OCP                        Onchoceciaads Contl Pogam
OCS               -        Organtrclion  ommunauatr d saw  I community Healt Orgaiaons
OMS               -        Oryosak   nondlal dc. toa a   I World Health Oaiza
OR                -        Opeationa Reseah
OSr               -         Ofca de sang ha  auvai&ers I Bureau of Worker' Health
PASE              -        Pogramme dppa a la su4WeillanCa ipUdhmlgi q   I
Epidemiological Surveillaem Support ProjeAt
PCU               -        Proect Coordinang Unit
PDDS              -        Pk ide  &wlppain    & dibct WaE I Dit  Healh Development Plan
PDSN              -        Proj.:  devloppamaude saWn ade nurton I Hea  and Nuti  Development Poject
PDSS              -        Proj es 4 dioppamaemes * ansfa de sam  / Health Serviea Deveowmen Project
PEG               -        Prevuuona Lc conrak dha and es goelsr a I Training Comm. on c e Prvenon of Endmc Gown
PEV               -        PrOgruMnsaEgi di ~-acccaon I Expanded Pognrame on Imn_iao
PHC               -        Prmry Health Care
PMA                        Paqua ibm  d actdvts I MInimum Actvie Pacage
PM                -        Proeion maaerne at bWfana I Mate:aal and Child Health
PNUD              -        Pgrm  des Nadtons Unapowrkd.Aoppmam I
Unied Nat;ons Development Progrmme
PitA                       Pha-acs  rgonala d'approvs omnem   / Regiowal Supply P bamAci
PSP               -        Pos. de sad pdmr I Primaq Health Care Post
SA                -        Specal Accou
SAFER             -        Soc#W ajHcbw d'icda a de Maksanom I Afica Firm for Stue sa  Achievemnt
SeP               -        Save the Childr  Fund
SPE               -        Sagqe mm d'di  I GovernmentCertified  MiA
SIDA              -        Syndv me d'lmw    Jfic      cqids I AIDS
SMI               -        Sawt mamelk aet infundk / Mote and Chld Heath
SOEs              -        State  of Expends_
SONAPHARM         -        Soc-M  nanalk d'aPPAvonMantph              Iadque
National Pharmaceul Supply Company
SOSUCO            -        SociEt acsQ,v de Ia ComoE I Como6 Company of Sugar Manufetus
3SP               -        Soins de sanapfar /  Primary Health Care
mSu               -        Seually Trnmited Disea
TDCI              -         Troubes Du ear Carncas an  de  Iodine Deficiency Diseses
TRO               -         IhErapk de rfda"en par voe oral
UCP               -         Unit d  oorfinaton du projet 1 Project Coordini  Unit
UNDP              -        United Nations Development Programme
UNFPA             -        Unitd Nations Fund for Populatn Acvies
UNICEF            -        United Nations lntemaonad Children's Fund
USAID             -        United Se Agecy for Inrnatinal Developm
USC               -        UnW de souin des  comosa
VHW               -        Vllage Health Worker
VITAL             -        Viamin A Fidd Support Project (JSAID)
WHO               -        Wodtd Health O:anizaton
WID               -        Women in Dealoment



BURKINA EAS
',ALTH AND NUTRITON PROJECT
fPDSN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ClrET AND PROJCT SUMMARY ...........................,.i
I.       RODUCTION . ....................                                                                       .  t
I1. SECTORALd CON EXT  ....................                                                                             1
A. Health Status ..................                                                                           I
B. Sector Organization and In stitu tio n s .................................................                 3
C. Health Sector Financing and Staffing . .................................................5
D. Sector Development Issues ..........................                 ...     ... ........."....I...6
1. Issues with regard to Health Services ..................................................6
2. Issues with regard to Nutrition and Endemic Disease Control ....................  8
E. Government's Strategy ................................................9
F. The Bank Group's Role .................................................                                   11
G. Lessons Learned ................................................. 13
m.IT BPOECT ......................................................                                                    13
A. Project Rationale ...................................................... 13
B. Project Objectives ......................................................                               14
C. Project Summary ...................................................... 14
D. Project Scope ...................................................... 15
E. Project Description..............16
B.   Project Description ~~~:.........I............................................. 1
1. Improve Quality of Health Services .................................................... 16
2. Reduce Micronutrient Deficiencies .............................................                 20
3. Achieve and Maintain Control of Parasitic Diseases .................               .............. 22
4. Strengthen MSASF .............................................                                 23
F. Project Costs and Financing                            ............................... 25
IV. PROJECT                                     ...............M...IEMENTAT.ON................................. 26
A. Status of Project Preparation and Readiness ................................................... 26
B. Project Coordination and Management ...................................................                   26
C. Monitoring and Evaluation ...................................................                            27
D. Procurement and Disbursement .......................                     ............................ 27
E. Disbursements ................................................... 30
F. Acco mting, Auditing and Reporting ...................................                 ................ 31
V. PROJECT BENEFMTS AND RISKS                                   ........................................ 31
A. Benefits ................................................... 31
B. Risk  ...................................................R                                                33
VI. AfREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND                                                            ........................... 33
Ts M R  s p   d bo     ft fidingo pa Bank appranisa  sim h w sed B u Fina In un  19. cAbg mesma  bm                  ,gmB
Cras Mnage d =wi io      dr). Saedd   Be-Hahm (Opar   Officer). Yva Gns    (ulic Haft Spe,a . TOO Mar*l (Nute
SpecW4. D1ai  Bm           m (I_  Specas, ad JenFhPire Uer (Publc Heat SPeia. 1Ma  Badd 1. a _                   B_Ute
w    eer p  iw. Pncips ppartoly docm-nt fr te             t were pmpard by Caa M         EMm Golde  (&4ka Far. P*We
EV wV R : bh W             Sw        W e S   , a  M. P    Cli (a Waiw S            o U        E     S.       u_ 1
Heat NedIn &u9ia Pam's Rra C.uuada) folowing mrio  to Ruh  PIwo in 192 Ms Katede Mara ad Mr. Ptw Pr&mm we
te Dqm Diror nd mgi  Divion Chbe, rtlve*.



TABLE OF CONrENIS (Cont'd)
ANM-=EPaee No.
1.1 Socio - Economic Indicators                                               36
2.1 Annual Bank Staff Report to -the Executive Directors on the OCP           37
2.2 Organigramme du Ministere de la Sante, de l 'Action Sociale et de la Famille  42
Organization Chart of the Ministry of Health, Social Development and the Family
2.3 Background on the Micronutrient Component                                 43
2.4 Projet de Politique Ginmrale pour le secteur de la santd                  48
Draft Letter of Health Sector Policy
3.1  Organisation du systeme des districts sanitaires                         62
Organization of the Health District System
3.2 Les Plans de DUveloppement du district sanitaire                          73
Development Plans for the Health District
3.3 Le systOme d'organisations commautaires partclpa  a 1e'ffort de sante     76
Community Organizations participating in the Health Movement
3.4 Formation du personnel des districts sanitaires                           80
Health District Personnel Training
3.5 Programme de reddplolement et de recrutement du personnel de SanW Publque  92
Redeployment and Ree.ruitment Programme of Public Health Personnel
3.6 Approvisionnement du pays en m&Iicaments essentiels : La CAMEG            94
Supplying the country with Essential Drugs: the CAMEG
3.7 Micronutrient Component: Detailed Implementation Plan and Objectives      99
3.8 Programme de lutte contre les dfflences en micron*rlents                  101
Micronutrient Deficiency Control Program
3.9 Projet de note technique sur la reorganisation de la direction de la
mddecine preventlve                                                      104
Draft Technical Note on the Reorganization of Preventive Medicine Directorate
3.10 Projet dorganisation du service de maInenance                            106
Draft Organization of the Maintenance Service
3.11 Financement des services de sante dans les districts sanitaires          108
Health Services Financing in the Health Districts
4.1  Plan de supervision                                                      120
Supervision Plan
4.2  Termes de RNfUrences de l'UCP                                            122
Terms of Reference for the PCU
4.3  Procurement Plan and Timetable                                           130
4.4  Disbursement Profile                                                     131
4.5  Project Cost Tables                                                      131
MAPS: IBRD 25394, 25476, and 25477



BURKINA FASO
BALTH AND NUIRB N PROJECr
(PDSN)
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Govemment 'f Buddna Faso
Beneficians:.  Ministy of Public llealth and Social/Family Action
Credit Amount: US$29.2 million (SDR 21.2 million)
Terms:        Standard, with 40 years maturity
Description:    The project would assist the Govemment in its efforts to: (a) improve significantly the quality,
coverage and utilization of basic health services for the Burkwnbe popuation, (b) enbance the
nutritional status of the population, and (c) develop a national capacity for achieving sustainable
control of endemic parasitic diseases. To achieve these bjectives, the projcct would support policy
reforms and investments designed to:
(1) improve galitX. coverage. and utilization of health semices by: (a) strengtheninh the health
system  nymd through: (i) fimutional upgading/cotuction of health facilities and increased
uopervon of staff operations and refefls at the pnmary and secondary levels (CSPS and CMAs)
which comprise the 'health district; (ii) establishing an effective mainenance system for "district
facilities, and (iii) improving operafions of regional and national hospitals (CHRs and CHNs); (b)
ationalizing a_ff use and nromotinu staff development by: (i) establishing re  and efficient
staffing norms and formulating and implementing a staff redeployment action plan; (ii) supporting
n-semrice training for district medical officers in supervision pmcedures; and (iu) upgading    s of
district level physicians in emergency surgical procedures; (c) dcnlm iming. Ihe .bkhmealthjam
bv: (i) defining a county-wide system of health districts; (ii) providing for increased autonomy in
planning and budgeting at the district and sub-district levels; and (iii) providing for community co-
management of primary health services; and (d) inCreasin availability of essentil drugs by: (i)
supporting poliey reforms and implementing actions to promote importsaion and diribution
throughout the health system of low cost quality generc drugs as a substut for high cost specialty
drugs; (ii) establishing an effective cost recovery policy which vould ense a sustned supply of
essential drugs at the primary and secondary levels; and (iii) supporting the Expanded Program of
Immumizaon (EPI) for imnts and young children.
(2) Reduce micronutrient deficiencies by: (a) supporting supplemention of vitamin A, iodine, and
iron in severely deficient areas; and (b) developing a longer-term, durable national strategy for
reducing micronutnient deficiencies, which would include inter alia food fortification and dieta"y
modification.
(3) Achieve and maintain control of endemic gaMsitic diseases bm : (a) ste ing the cpacities of
the health system to carry out epidemiological surveillance and treat detected cases of onchocerciasis
(riverblindness), trypanosomiasis (sleeping sickness), and dtacunculiasis (Guinea worm) trough
training and supervision of mobile teams and local health workers; and (b) sensitizing tagot
populations regardig prevention of trnsmission of these three diseases through tanumg and IEC
campaigns, and
(4) Strenethen the Ministra of Public Health and Social/Family Action (MSASF) by: (a) enhancing
and rationalizing its capacity to more effectively control endemic parasitic diseases,  (b)
strengthening its capacity to implement the reform of the pharmaceutcl sector, (c) estabishing a
management information system to track physical asset and health personnel throughout the public
health system; (d) improving capacity to coordinate and monitr donor-suorted health prqjects;
and (e) enhacing cavactv to coordinate implementation of PDSN.



ii
Bnfits
and Riaks:     By revermng prest tends of low utiliztion of prmary healt care centers, the project will help
provide affordable basic health services of adequate quality to some of the poorest segments of the
Buinabe population. The health comn_ nent would dirjct  benefit about three million people
(30% of Bukidna Faso's population) who will gain access to quality health care. Second, policy
teforms in the ars of low-cost essential drugs, decentlizaon and cost recovery will-together
Witb tning of health and supervisory staff-improve the quality of health car delivqy nationwide.
The project's emphasis on substituting expensive brand-name drugs with low coast generic drugs will
both benefit patients by reducing their financial burden during sckness episodes, and make possible
ths implementation of a cost ecovery system, which is required for more sutnable and efficiently
funetioning health services at all levels of the system. Third, provision of additional swugical
facilities at the district level and trmg of general pmrtitioners in swrgey should contibute to
more immediate medical/surgical interventions in emergecy cases, and at the same time, reduce
clogging at Hospitals. Fourth, the nutrition comRonent would help reduce the high rates of anemia
among expectant mothers which are a major cause of low birthweights. Furthermore, dispensing of
iodine and vitamin A should greatly reduce the incidence of goiter and mental retardation, and
blindness resudting from vitamin A deficiency. Fifth, by sustining the achievements of the
Onchocerciasis Control Programme (OCP), the endemic disease control comnponent would ensure
that about 17% of Buddna's agricultural lands-with fertile soils-would remain available for the
production of foodstuffs and other important agncultural commodities.  It would also prevent
recurrence of onchocerciasis and major outbreaks of human trypanosomiasis as well as eradicate
draunculiasis which affects about 34% of the villages in Burlina-the highest prevalence of any
Sahelian country.
The ptoject faces thee major risks. The first risk is that the expected procurement of essential
generic dgs and their distribution may be slow to matialize. To address the procuement risk,
the Government bas aprroved the required legislation and, with Bank assistance, establisbed
CAMEO, an orgnizaon designed to undertake the importation and distribution of essential geric
dregs. The Govemment has provided assurances that %he CAMEG will meet performace criteria
agreed upon by IDA and the Governent. Furthermo, supervision during the first half of the
poject (through 1997) will focus heavily upon satisfactory implementation of training and drug
stock/financial management arrangements in the health facilities so as to ensure adequate cost-
recovery and hence the continuous availability of essential drugs. The second risk is that tesistance
to redeployment of doctors and other medical staff into ural areas will prevent adequa  staffing of
district health centers. To address this risk, the Goverment has, prior to negotiations, developed
a-d begun to implement an action plan, acceptable to IDA, to eosute the required redeployment and
that the peonnel concerned reman where posted and carry out their assigned responsibilities. 3bh
third risk is the time required for regaining confidence of the population in the health car centers,
especially in light of the proposed cost recovery scheme coupled with the recent devaluation of the
CFA franc. To mitigate this risk, a moderate level of cost recovery would be gradually implemented
so as not to result in a disincentive for people to utilize the primary level of the health care system.
Initially, essential, generic drugs will be provided free of charge in a large number of mral areas
pending the establishment of workable cost-recovery mechanisms. Success in ensurng the wide
availability of low cost generic drugs via the CAMEG wil be critical in addressing this risk.



iii
BUR1A ESO
HIEALT AND NUTRMON PRO13a
SYl Z AND PRORECT cos
(US$ million)'
ESTIMATED BASE PROJECr COSTS2
LOCAL        FOREIGN       TT
Jmprove Quality of HeaMth Servies                 2.1          21.7          23.8
Reduce  icrnutrient Defidiencds                   0.5           3.4           3.9
Achieve Control of Endemic Parasitic Diseases     0.6           ItS           1.1
Stengthen the Mnistry of Health (MSASF)           0.6           3.5           4.1
TOTAL BASE COSTS                                  3.8          29.1          32.9
Physical Contingencies                  0.2           1.7           1.9
Price Contingencies                      1.6          2.6           4.2
TOTAL IPROJECT COSTS                              S.6          33.3          38
FS4g I!lan
IDA                                                                29.2
GOV                                                                 2.0
KfW                                                                 4.1
UNICEF                                                              3
TOTAL                                                              38.9
Estimated IDA Disbursements:
US$ million._      _      _
IDA PY                                     95        96        97        98         99       2000
Anmual                                     1.5       5.5       7.6       8.1       4.8         1.7
Cumulative                                 1.5       7.0      14.6      22.7      27.5        29.2
1. Total, may nt add up due to audhg.
2. Net of tn    d_uh.



plJRKINA FASO
HE2.THAND NtJTRlllON IFR03ECT
1. IQN
1.1   The Government of Burkina Faso has requested IDA's assistance in fiancing a project
designed to (a) Improve dramatically the coverage and quaity of basic health services for the
Burkine population; (O) enhance the nutritional status of the population; and (c) develop a
national capacity fr achieving and maintaing control of certain endemic, parasitic diseases.
1.2 Total proJect costs are estil-ted at US$38.9 million equivalent (net of taxes and duties),
with a foreign exchnge compown.. f US$33.3 miliion. lhe Government and local communies
would contribute US$2.0 million.  The Federal Republic of Germany will contribute
approximately US$4.1 million (up to the equivalent of 9 million DM) and UNICEF will
contibute US$3.6 million in parallel cofinancing during the period FY95-FY99. The project
would be lIDA's tird contribution to the development of the health and nutrition sectors in
Burkina Faso. The investments under the proposed project would be complemented by support to
be provided by IDA under the Population and AlIDS Cotrol project which is being prepared in
pa 4lel to this proposed project.
1.3    e al. Burkina Faso is a landlocked country with a pop ilation of about
9.5 million. With a per capita GNP of about US$290 in 1991, Burkina Faso is among the poorest
counries in the world. In particular, the level of human resources development is extremely low
(see Ann  1.1 for basic social indicators). In a 1993 UNDP rankdig of 173 countries according
to their level of human resources development, Burkina ranked 170th. Basic social services are
relatively undeveloped. The economy is dominated by the agricutural sector, which accounts for
about 30% of GDP, generaes over 60% of export earnings and employs almost 90% of the
economically active population. With the other 12 countries of the CFA franc zone, Burkina Faso
devalued its curency by 50% relative to the French franc in January 1994.
. SECRAL CONM
A. Healt Status
2.1   The health status of the Burkinabe population is poor with a life expectancy at birth of
only 48 years (1991), compared with the average for Sub-Saharan Africa (SSA) of 51 years
(1991). A major contributing factor to this low life expectancy is high infant and child mortality
caused by widespread cotious diseases, unfavorable hygienic conditions, malnutrition, and the
limited capacity of the health system to prevent these conditions and to treat them effectively once
contracted.
2.2   Infant mortality of 133 per 1,000 (1991) remains high even by SSA standards, where the
average is 104 (1991). About 18% of babies suffer from insufficient birthweight which limits
their canaces of survival. Malaria is the primay cause of death for children under age one, while
measles and diarrhea are the leading causes of death for children aged one to five.  Less ta



2
25% of one-year olds are vaccinated against DPT(Diphtheria, Pertussis, Tetanus), meases, and
polio.
2.3 Maternal mortality is also high with 810 per 100,000 births (1988). High infant and
materWal mortality levels are associated with inadequate pre-natal services, a low proportion of
isttutionalized deliveries, and low detection and referral of high risk cases from the villages,
where most deliveries are overseen by untrained traditional birth attendants under unsafe
conditions.
2.4    Among adults, malaria is the leading cause of death, followed by respiratory diseases,
mainly tuberculosis. AIIDS is rapidly becoming a major threat to the population's health status.
Recent data indicate that HIV sero-prevalence is approaching 7.5% among pregnant women in
Burkina-a reasonably accurate indicator of prevalence levels among the adult pordation
throughout the country. Data from neighboring countries with high levels of Burkinabe in-
migrion and out-migration suggest that, in the absence of vigorous, preventive actions within
this dew-de, AIDS could reverse much of the progress made during the past 25 years and prevent
fiture advances in reducing infant, child, and adult mortality rates in Burkina.
2.5    Malnutrition, especially among children and pregnant women, is a serious problem in
spite of the theoretical availability of sufficient food in normal rainfall years. Approximately 46%
of children under five (1990) suffer from chronic malnutrition, with severe malnutrition affecting
as many as 5% of pre-schoolers. In nine provinces surveyed in the Central Plateau in 1987, the
rates of moderate to severe malnutrition for children 0-4 years old were below 30% in one
province, between 30 and 50% in four provinces, and between 50 and 65% in the four remaining
provinces. Malnutrition varies among age groups, the most affected being the 6 month to 2 year
olds. Primary school atendees had rates of malnutrition of 50% in 1987, after two years of a
severe drought. Malnutrition rates among pregnant women are also very high, reselting in the
high rate (18%) of children born with weights below 2.5 kg (1984, delayed child development,
and high child morbidity. In addition, 40% of pregnant women suffer from moderate to severe
anemia.
2.6 Prior to the start of the regional, multi-donor Onchocerciasis (Riverblindness) Conwtrol
Program (OCP) in 1975, (background provided in Annex 2.1) riverblindness consttuted a serious
health hazard in Burkina Faso, particularly in areas having excellent agricultural soils, with
available water from adjacent rivers. About 10% of villagers had become blind and ihabins
above 40 years of age were afflicted with blindness at rates of up to 60% in riverine "front-line
villages. Many of Burkina Faso's river valleys contained the most serious foci of endemic
onchocerciasis in the world. Eighty-five percent of Burkina Faso's land mass was afflicted with
this disease, and the average infection rate nation-wide was approximately 15%. in addition to its
debilitating effects, the disease was a major obstacle to socioeconomic development. About 17%
of Burkina Faso's best agriculural land had been abandoned by the mid-1970s due to the severity
of the disease.
2.7   Following years of aerial spraying of the breeding sites of the disease vector (blackfly),
onchocerciasis is now under control. Seven million people once at risk are now protected from
contracting onchocerciasis. Also, a new drug which kills only the infant worms in the body,
ivermectin (brand name-Mectizan) has been recently developed and was made avaiable to the
Program, free of charge by the producer, in 1987. One annual dose of is microfilaricide over
the life cycle of the adult worm (14 years), reduces the individual's infant worm load to levels



3
which will not lead to ocular complications. Ivermectin is considered to be an invaluable tool in
preventing widespread recurrence of the disease.
2.8    Although the incidence of trypanosomiasis (sleeping sickness) has been reduced to
relatively low levels-200 cases have been reported in the last five years-its epidemiological
characteristics can result in explosive outbreaks if the disease goes undetected for long periods.
The danger of trypanosomiasis "imports" is serious, especially through immigrants setfling on
lands cleared from onchocerciasis. Dracunculiasis (Guinea worm disease) is also considered a
significant health problem in Burkina Faso. Although not life-threatening, the worms cause
wounds which, if not cared for properly, will become infected. A nationwide survey in 1990
found more than 42,000 cases, spread throughout the country. Tbis temporarily disabling illness
causes substantial economic losses-estimated by the Organisadon de coordinaion et de
coopOratlon pour la lutte contre les grandes enddmles (OCCGE) to include US$3 million per
annum in lost agriculural production-due to the afflicted being unable to work the fields or atend
school.
B. Sector Organization and Institutions
2.9   The Ministry of Public Health and Social/Family Action (MSASF) is responsible for
formulating health policies and providing most national health services. The public health care
system in Burkina Faso is pyramidal in shape, with about 600 health centers (Centres de santr et
promotion socdale - CSPS), as well as 130 dispenseries and 21 maternities, at the base, extending
upwards through about 67 medical centers (Centres ntdicaux - CM) spread throughout all of the
country's 30 provinces, nine regional hospitals, and two national hospitals. In addition, primary
health posts were established between 1985 and 1987, in all of the country's 7,000 villages,
staffed by village health workers and traditional birth attendants. Local communities select and
support these staff while the MSASF provides training and supervision. The program, however,
does not work well since less than 2,000 of these health posts are estimated to be currently
operational.
2.10   At the provincial level, health services are coordinated by the Provincial Directorate of
Health (DPS), headed by a medical officer. Responsibility for the national health budget,
procurement, personnel mnagement, and training is at the central MSASF level. The Ministry's
headquarters recently underwent a reorganization, the major feature being the establishment of a
Public Health General Directorate responsible for a Directorate of Family Health (DSF) and a
Directorate of Preventive Medicine (D)MP). ITe DSF coordinates all nutrition programs, family
planning, and the Expanded Program of Immunization. The DMP coordinates transmissible
disease programs, mental health, dental health, and sanitation programs. It has also assumed
responsibility for maintaining the achievements of OCP in conjunction with control of other
diseases (devolution). The new Ministry structure is more appropriate than the previous
organization in supporting decentralized and integrated health services. An organigram of the
current MSASF is provided in AM  2.2.
2.11 The District Health System. The MSASF is reorganizing basic health services through
the establishment of health districts, the new basic operational unit for health care delivery. The
districts will consist of a medical center (CM) upgraded to provide emergency operations (Centre
m&dical avec antenne chirurgicale - CMA), serving a population of about 180,000, and all health
centers (CSPS), usually 15-20, within its zone of responsibility. The health district does not
always correspond to an existing political-administrative structure (province). There are 30
provinces throughout the country, and some larger provinces will have two or even three districts.



4
Fifty-three districts have been identified to cover the entire country. Five CMs have so far been
upgraded (Bogande, Diapaga, Nouna, Tougan and Zabrd) with the construction of a surgical unit,
three of them under the IDA-supported first health project (FHP) which is scheduled to conclude
in June 1994. An additional nine CMs are being upgraded (Boulsa, Boromo, Kongoussi, Hounde,
Diebougou, Kossodo, Orodara, Paul VI, and Pissy) under the FHP and are expected to be
completed by mid-1994.
2.12 'Me ptivate health sector is expanding. A recent survey indicated that there were 140
private doctors' offices or clinics in the country, mainly in Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso.
Traditional practitioners exist in virtually every village and town in Burkina Faso. The
Government occasionally sponsors training activities to upgrade the knowledge and practices of
these practitioners. In addition, the Directorate of Pharmaceutical Services (DSPH) has an office
dealing with the identificaton and promotion of effective traditional pharmacopoeia. Based upon
data from only one province, it is estimated that about 60% of out-of-pocket expenses on health
care are spent on traditional medicine (para. 2.14).
2.13  The pharmaceutical secto is divided into a growing private sector and a stagnant and
inefficient public sector. These two sectors are responsible for all phases of drug distribution.
Pharmaceutical production is characterized by: (i) production of perfusion solutions by the
M6dicamenes du Faso (MEDIFA) laboratories which were established with the cooperation of
Italy; (ii) production of 100mg chloroquine tablets, 500 mg paracetamol tablets, and 500 mg units
of acetyl salicylic acid at the Research Institute of Natural Substances (U. Parma/IRSN) which was
established through the cooperation of the Belgian government and with assistance from the
United Nations Office of Industrial Development; and (iii) production of pharmaceutical alcohol
by the mixed capital company Socdte de Production d'Alcool (SOPAL) located in Banfora. Bulk
distribution is guaranteed by: (i) SONAPHARM  (Soc&te Nadonale dApprovislonnement
Phanwaceutqe) a mixed capital company wbich has undergone privatization during which the
Government's holding was reduced from 51 % to 5%; (ii) COPHADIS (Cooperatve
Phia maceutque de Dltrlbutlon), an entirely private wholesaler which began operations in early
February 1994; (1ii) ABOREX Burkina a private wholesaler which has recently obtained its
operations permit; and (iv) la CAMEG (Centrale dApprovisionnement en Medicaments essentias
Mndrlques) which was created in 1992 to ensure the supply of essential, generic drugs to public
health centers and private non-profit health centers according to the recommendations of the
Bamako Initiave. Retail distribution of pharmaceutical products takes place through two main
channels: (i) free distribution at the public health centers constituting a minimum supply level of
emergency medicines in order to assure emergency health care; and (ii) distributton to 60 paying
pharmaceutical officies most of which are located in the urban zones (36 in Ouagadougou and 13
in Bobo-Dioulasso). 'Me remaining gap is more or less filed by 460 pharmaceutical outlets
which are not managed by pharmacists, and which have received legislative exemption in order to
improve drug availability in the rural zones. There is a total of 176 private outlets and 284
communitylvillage-owned outlets in Burkina Paso. The majority of these outlets operate under a
cost-recovery system and the funds received from the sale of drugs are used for the resupply of
drugs and to cover other village priority needs. Drugs from donors and NGOs represent a non-
negligible, but unquantifiable, share of the total supply.



s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
C. Health Sector Flnandug and StaMng
2.14  No comprehensive analysis of private health expenditures has so far been undertaken in
Burkina Faso. Studies carried out as part of the cost recovery pilot operation undertaken under
the FHP in the province of Boulgou show that, on average, individuals in the study area spent
about CFAF 2,800 (US$10 at the pre-devaluation rate of US$1 =270 CFAF) per year on health
care. Of this, about CFAF 1,000 (about US$3.70) was for modern treatment and drugs, the rest
for traditional medicine. Extrapolation from these studies to the national level suggests that total
private expenditures for health might be as high as CFAF 25 billion (US$93 million). That is
more than twice the total national health budget (CFAF 9.9 billion or US$37 million in 1992).
Public sector expenditure sources include the central budget (60%) and foreign aid (40%). NGOs
provided about CFAF 1.3 billion (US$4.8 million) to the health sector in 1991.
2.15  Imports of drugs bave increased considerably in the past few years, growing from about
CFAF 3 billion in 1986 to CFAF 9 billion in 1991, equivalent to 1.6% of the GDP. The private
sector accounts for the bulk of drug purchases as government purchases have stagnated around
CFAF 200 million oust over 2% of total drug imports) in the past few years due to budgetary
constaints. To the general public, this situation has meant significant increases in the cost of
health care, growing inaccessibility of drugs, as most drugs handled by the private sector are
brand names which on average are about six times the cost of their generic equivalents (para.
2.25), and a concomitant declining confidence in public health facilities. As a result of the recent
devaluation of the CFA franc, Burkina Faso cannot continue to spend the same US dollar amount
to import drugs. Furthermore, the private sector cannot remain viable by maintaining a policy of
importing expensive, specialty drugs which are becoming increasingly inaccessible to a large
portion of the population. In order to ensure its survival, the private sector must move into the
generic drug market, and the Government needs to take measures to ease the introduction of an
active generic drug market by adopting a national pharmaceutical policy conducive to such a
market in cooperation with the representatives of the private sector.
2.16  Public spending within the MSASF (not including aid-financed projects) rose modestly as
a share of total Government budgetary expenditures from less than 7% in the mid-1980s to around
8% in the early 1990s. However, spending on critical commodities, such as drugs, medical
supplies, and in-patient feeding, has stagnated in the last three years. Lack of growth in nominal
public expenditures for drugs is a particular cause for concern given inflation rates of 7-11% per
annum in international drug prices-a situation which will be exacerbated by the recent devaluation
of the CFA franc.
2.17 Investment spending by the MSASF has varied considerably from year to year,
approaching nearly CFAF 200 million per annum in budgetary expenditures and CFAF 4 billion
per annum in aid-financed spending since 1987. These amounts represent 1-4% of total public
investment spending and 3-10% of foreign aid disbursements, respectively. Recent survey results
indicate that 68% of 1991 aid disbursements in the health sector was investment, of which 29%
financed technical assistance, and the remainder was split evenly between facilities
construction/rehabilitation and equipment purchases.  Seventeen percent covered operating
expenditures-mostly goods and services-including 3% for drugs and 5% for medical supplies.
Nine percent of aid disbursements supported training activities, and another 3% funded locally
hired personnel.
2.18  Burkina Faso has past experience in cost-recovery in some of its health facilities. In the
1970s, fees were introduced in hospitals, urban maternities and medical centers for consultations,



6
laboratory tests, and hospitalization. However, CSPS and other primary health facilities were not
allowed to charge for services.  And, although drugs have been recently distributed free
throughout the entire health system, they have represented only a small portion of total drug
consumption throughout the country (para 2.15). Starting in 1984 all locally-generated funds
were sent to the Treasury, which takes 25% to be used as general government revenue, and sends
75% to a specW  account, the Caisse Maladie, which is managed by the. MSASF. Current
legislation provides that the provinces' share be held by the Caisse until the end of the year, at
which time each provincial Directorate is notified that the province has a credit in its name at the
Catsse Maladie. In practice, the MSASF distributes this year-end credit as it wishes, frequently
returing these revemnes to the Ministry's general budget.
2.19  In 1991, in connection with the provision of foreign assistance to national hospitals, the
Government adopted a policy calling for self-financing (excepting salaries) of regional and
nationl hospitals. This has reduced the health revenues flowing to the Treasury and hence the
portion flowing to the Caisse Maladle. This loss of revenue for the MSASF has reduced the
Ministry's ability to redistribute resources from the tertiary level to the primary and secondary
levels. Thus, it has become imperative that primary and secondary health facilities also be
allowed to retain revenues from fees and sales of drugs for the purchase of drugs and medical
supplies. In January 1993, legislation was approved allowing the peripheral health facilities
(CMAs and CSPS), in principle, to retain the funds they collect.
2.20 In 1991, MSASF employed 5,861 staff members, representing approximately 17% of the
towal civil service. Population per physician is about 38,900, while population per nurse and
tained midwifelbirth attendant is 4,528 and 22,700, respectively. These numbers indicate an
adequate number of nurses, but a considerable shortage of doctors relative to WHO recommended
minirmum rates for the Sahelian countries of 1 per 10,000, and, for midwives, 1 per 5,000. The
vast majority of health personnel is employed by the public sector. There is a great disparity in
staffing availability between urban and rural areas, with nearly half of Ministry personnel being
based in the two main cities of Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso. There is also a considerable
disparity in staff availability among provinces, with the greatest shortages occurring in the
northern provinces which are generally poorer and have the highest rates of malnutrition and
infectious diseases.
D. Sector DeeopmletIsu
1. lasues with regard to Health Services
2.21   A study entitled Quolaive Survey of Utilwation of Health Servces, undertaken in May-
June I992 as part of the preparation of the proposed project, provides a rather dismal picture of
the population's perception of public health facilities. Ihere were six main weaknesses identified
under this Survey: (a) underutilization of functioning health services; (b) health workers' negative
attitudes; (c) closure of a significant number of health services due to staff shortages; (d) lack of
affbrdable drugs; (e) a poorly functioning referral system; and (f) deficient equipment and non-
existent maintenance. Solutions are complex given the interdependence of these weaknesses.
2.22 Underutilization of Functioning Health Services. The utilization rate of public health
facilities is very low and generally decreasing, particularly in rural areas. Today, utilization of
health facilities is estimated to be below 30% of full capacity. Particularly worrisome are the low
levels of prenaa examinations and the unsatisfactory vaccination coverage of infants-39% and
23% respectively in 1991. IThis underutilization results from a perception of poor quality of



services. The 1992 Survey showvs that perceived quality of services is one of the most important
determins of level of utilization and willingness to pay. Perception of poor quality stems
largely from the unavailability of affordable drugs and health workers' attitudes which are often
perceived as arrogant. In addition, important and expensive vertical programs, established in the
early 1980s (vaccination, famfly planning, MCH care, diarrhea management, etc.), which depend
on donor support have declined in quality due to donor budgetary cutbacks.
2.23   Health Workers Attitudes. According to the Survey, health workers' attitdes depend on:
Qt) the population's understanding of health problems and solutions; (ii) community participation
in health center management; (iii) health workers' knowledge of the areas under their
responsibility; and pQv) supervision and monitoring of health workers. Thera is little sense of
"ownership" vis-l-vis the health facility among the communities of the health zone. Health
workers seldom visit the surrounding village communities to sensitize the population as to health
problems and the benefits of modern medicine. The lack of supervision of CSPS personnel by
provincial/district authorities induces feelings of isolation and demotivation among health
providers.
2.24 Staff Shorta. As the need for a larger, more effective health care delivery system
increases, Burkina is also experiencing serious staff shortages. About 30 rural CSPS were
recently estimated to be closed, largely due to lack of personnel. One important factor has been
the overconcentration of staff in the two provinces containing Burkina Faso's two major urban
centers. Although they account for only 15% of the total population, these two provinces have
almost half of the MSASF's personnel. This includes 67% of the midwives, 33% of the trained
birth adants, 40% of the nurses, and 60% of the doctors, pharmacists and medical technicians.
Two underlying factors for the shortage in many rural areas have been imflated staff norms and the
strong attraction of the two cities.
2.25   Lack of Affordable Dng. The absence of an effective drug policy has affected the entire
health system. Essential generic drugs have been almost nonexistent, and hospitals and other
public health facilities have relied upon specialty drugs which, based upon a sampling study in
February 1993, have been shown to be approximately six times more expensive than their generic
equivalent and unaffordable to the majority of the population. The Government's parastatal
SONAPHARM was catering to the interests of local pharmacists and to its own profit margins by
focusing on imports of high cost brand-name drugs while showing little interest in generic drugs.
Progress has been made since 1992 towards the establishment of an essential drug policy. The
Government legally established, in May 1992, the Centrale d'Approvisionnement des M!i canerns
Essentels        wiques (CAMEG), and this new organization is currently being set up.
Legislation allowing peripheral health facilities to retain the funds they collect from the sale of
drugs and provision of medical services, which was a condition for appraisal of the proposed
project, was approved and signed in January 1993. Nevertheless, it must still be implemented.
Successful cost recovery in the health sector under the proposed project, will depend largely on
the Govemment's ability to keep the cost of drugs down through reliance on generic drugs. Full
cost recovery on drugs alone would be a major step forward for the public health system as it
would altiost certainly increase utilization of health services by enhancing drug availability.
2.26  Weakefeal System. There is an insufficient distinction between first line and referal
levels, in terms of finctions and resources. In particular, the CMs without surgical activities and
laboratories do not play their role of first referral. Refrral where surgical activities are first
offered is at the level of the regional hospitals (CHR) and the national hospitals (CHN). Ihere are
nine regional hospitals and two national hospitals-too few for first level referral. Moreover,



there is a related issue in the functioning of the two national hospitals in Ouagadougou and Bobo-
Diouasso. The establishment of self-financing (excepting salaries) for the hospitals in 1991 (para.
2.19) has had the untoward effect of weakening the health pyramid, in particular its tertiary level.
National hospital data indicate that, probably for financial reasons, there has been a shift within
hospitals toward less costly primary and secondary care (for malaria, infectious respiratory
diseases, diarrhea, hernias, etc.) and away from complicated, expensive procedures which few
people can afford. As a result, the occupation rates for the national hospitals have declined from
96% and 90% in 1986 to 45% and 53% in 1991, for Bobo-Dioulasso and Ouagadougou,
respectively. Furthermore, 20% of income from the national hospitals has been used to increase
hospital personnel salaries.
2.27   Poor Equipment and Lack of Maintenance. Budgetary constraints have caused many of
the nation's health facilities to become non-functional because of a lack of equipment, and a long
list of equipment and vehicles awaiting repair. Regarding maintenance, there is also a serious lack
of instittional capacity. There is only one team for hospital equipment maintenance, located in
the Ouagadougou hospital; this team is poorly equipped, overloaded with work, and cannot
maintain other health facilities.
2. Ik;ues with reard to Nutrition and Control of Certain Endeic Diseases
2.28   Nutrition. An assessment of the extent and severity of micronutrient deficiency in the
country is incomplete, although studies which have been undertaken suggest that deficiencies are
severe particularly in the outlying northern and eastern provinces (Anne 2.3). With regard to
iodine and vitamin A deficiencies, however, a number of provinces have never been surveyed.
Hence, there is the need for rapid surveys to better define areas suspected of suffering from severe
deficiencies. Existing donor programs to provide supplementation in iodine and vitamin A
(identified in the World Bank's World Development Report, 1993, as one of the most cost-
effective health intervendons to reduce child mortality) remain patchy at best. Food fortification,
likely to be more sustainable and cost-effective than supplementation, has not yet been introduced
in Burkina Faso. Nutrition activities, including nutrition education, child growth monitoring and
promotion, and micronutrient supplementation are given low priority by health workers.
2.29   Sustaining Endemic Disease Control. It is imperative that the gains achieved through the
successful elimination of onchocerciasis be maintained (paras. 2.6-2.7). The prevention of
recurrence of onchocerciasis as a public health problem requires: (i) both active and passive
epidemiological surveillance to detect any instances of recrudescence; and (ii) immediate treatment
of any new cases, especially within the migrant population. Given the technical constraints of
active epidemiological surveillance of the disease, it is infeasible for the peripheral health centers
to assume responsibility for it. Nevertheless, their role is important in the detection of new cases
(passive surveillance), in case containment, and in sensitization of the population, since many
people remain unnecessarily worried about the return of non-infective flies following the cessation
of larvicide spraying.
2.30 The control of trypanosomiasis depends on: (i) both active and passive epidemiological
suveillance to detect and treat new cases in high risk areas, and (ii) informing populations on
ways to control the vector. While increasing awareness among populations can be undertaken by
trained CSPS health workers, diagnosis of the disease requires skilled technicians, specific
medical equipment, and active campaigns of detection followed by treatment of cases once a year
in high risk areas.



9
2.31  In the absence of an effective meam for treating dracunculiasis, eradication must be based
upon: (i) public awareness campaigns about the dise3se; (ii) education on ways to avoid its
transmission, particularly with cloth drinking water filters; (iii) case containment and case
reporting by village health workers (VHW). The plan relies on strong and sustainable supervision
of the VHW by CSPS health workers who, in turn, should be trained and supervised by the
District health team.
2.32   Epidemiological services within Burkina, particularly at the central level, are extremely
weak. Such services are essential to maintining control of endemic diseases. The Department of
Preventive Medicine (DMP), which includes the Service of Epidemiology, is scattered around
Ouagadougou over seven facilities which are institutionally weak and without proper computer
equipment. The resurgence of various diseases such as malaria, schistosomiasis, trypanosomiasis,
and, foremost, the emergence of AIDS, have highlighted the need for strong epidemiological
surveillance and control services. Moreover, the organizational structure of the DMP has been
based on a range of national "vertical" disease programs with little coordination or integration of
activities.
E. Government's Strawe
2.33   Health Seices. The key objectives of the Government's current health services strategy
as set out in the Govermnent's "Letter of Sector Policy' (Annex 2.4), which was finalized during
negotiations and submitted to IDA as a condition for Board presentation, are: (a) strengthening the
health care pyramid by promoting decentralization, integrating vertical programs, and improving
capacity at the central and regional levels to enhance management of human, material and financial
resources; (b) improving the supply and minimizing the cost of essential drugs; and (c)
encouraging increased accountability and cost recovery mechanisms throughout the health system
in line with the UNICEF/WHO-sponsored Bamako Initative which has been endorsed by the
Government.
2.34 A key element of the Government's health services strategy is the strengthening of health
services at the peripheral level through creating "Health Districts" centered around CMAs (Details
are in An=e 3.1). District health authorities will supervise and control primary health care
activities-through the CSPS-at the community level and through surgical referral facilities
(CMA) at the district level.
2.35 The CSPS are supposed to follow a "Minimum Package" approach, i.e. curative
consultations, immunizations, recommendations about appropriate food intake, pre-natal
consultation, dealing with chronic sicknesses, family planning, etc. The CMAs are expected to
deal with cases requiring hospitalization, referral consultations, and urgent medical/surgical cases.
In addition to the basic surgical cases, the CMAs are also expected to handle complicated births
and simpler laboratory tests.
2.36 Under the second Five Year Plan (1991-95), the Government set out the following
objectives: (J) establishing health districts throughout the country with an average population
density of approximately 200,000; (ii) providing all districts without a regional hospital (CHR)
with an upgraded CMA; (iii) involving locally elected community members in decision making
and management of the CSPS and CMAs; Civ) establishing primary care facilities in urban centers
to draw primary care out of the hospitals; and (v) improving the supply of essential drugs and
establishing local cost-recovery.



10
2.37 In line with its objective of improving the supply and minimizing the cost of essential
drugs, the MSASF has taken a number of initiatives during 1992-1993. It has: (i) revised the
pharmaceutical legislation to facilitate the importation of essential generic drugs; (ii) established
an initial list of about 60 essential drugs (ED) to be imported exclusively in generic form, which
is presently in the process of being expanded to a list of 120 EDs; (iii) created an essential drug
purchasing agency, the Centrale d'approvisionnement des mddicaments essentiels gendrlques
(CAMEG), modeled on the one established under a BankIUNICEF-supported project in Benin;
(iv) given the authorization to donors and donor-supported projects to import directly the drugs
included on the Essential Drug List, in generic form; and (v) approved legislation that would
allow peripheral health facilities (CMAs and CSPS) to retain the funds they collect from the sale
of drugs and provision of medical services in order to establish revolving funds for essential
generic drugs.
2.38   To lessen the impact of the recent CFA devaluation on the population, the Government of
Burkina Faso has planned the following steps: (i) accelerating the implementation of a community
management system for the primary and secondary level (CSPS and CMAs) health centers; (ii)
establishing fixed prices for a national list of essential drugs for all public service health centers;
(ii) accelerating training relating to generic drugs for drug prescribers; and (iv) informing the
population about generic drugs. Under a special action program, the Government has agreed as a
condition to the IDA Economic Recovery Credit to finance a one-time initial stock of essential
drugs (US$3 million) for the CSPS and CMAs of the districts that do not yet have in place a
functioning cost recovery system. Tis stock will provide the initial capital for commencing cost-
recovery under a revolving fund scheme. Training for key staff within primary and secondary
level health centers would focus on health services management with special attention to drug
management, establishment of an accounting system, and organization of essential generic drug
distribution. The Government has agreed as a condition to the IIDA Economic Recovery Credit to
finance this training component (US$1.8 million) and UNICEF will act as the implementing
agency.
2.39   Within the framework of this national pharmaceutical policy which inter alia promotes the
availability of inexpensive essential drugs in cooperation with the private sector, the Government
intends to take the following actions: (i) abolish the ad valorem margins on drugs; (ii) authorize
pharmacists to substitute generic drugs for name-brand, specialty drugs; and (iii) authorize
pharmacists who already own a pharmacy to open one or more additional pharmacies.
2.40   Nutrition. Malnutrition is a serious problem (para 2.5) and lack of integration of mntrition
activities into the PHC system has been identified as a weakness under a study of the sector
undertaken in 1991 (Ouddraogo Andrd, Analyse de la siuation: Secteur de la Nutition)  The
Govenment's commitment to controlling the problem has increased substantially in the past few
years. Ihe "Naftonal Action Plan for Child Survival, Protection, and Development in Burkina
Faso," adopted in 1992, specifies the following targets for the year 2000: (i) reduce by 50%
moderate and severe malnutrition in children under five; (ii) virtally eliminate iodine deficiency
disorders; (iii) virtually eliminate vitamin A deficiency and its consequences, including blindness.
The MSASF participated in the Montreal global policy conference "Ending Hidden Hunger' in
1991, which specifically addressed micronutrient deficiencies. The Government prepared a
national program on nutrition which was presented at the International Conference on Nutrition in
Rome, in December 1992; a large proportion of this document was devoted to micronutrients.
2.41 Endemic Parasitic Diseases. The Government's strategy to secure sustained control of
onchocerciasis and trypanosomiasis is based on its Devolution Plan, which was first prepared in



11
1988. It consists of (i) active epidemiological surveillance of both diseases by four trained mobile
teams, and (ii) passive surveillance, treatment of cases, and increasing awareness of the
characteristics of these diseases among populations by CSPS health workers who will be trained
and supervised by District Health Workers.
2.42 Regarding dracunculiasis, the Government has stated its intention to eradicate this disease
before 1996. The eradication program entaUils: (i) establishment of epidemiological surveillance
through case reports by village health workers; (ii) information and education campaigns; (iii)
provision of water-filters to all households in endemic villages; (hv) treatment of detected cases;
and (v) supply of endemic villages with safe water.
F. The Bank Group's Role
2.43   The Bank's first involvement in the health sector in Burkina Faso was through the
successful region4 Onchocerciasis Control Program (OCP), launched in 1974, of which Burkina
is one of the principal beneficiaries (Annex 2.1). The Bank's Country Economic Memorandum
and Health and Nutrition Sector Review set the stage in 1982 for a strategy of Bank assistance in
health to Burkina beyond the OCP interventions. Based upon the findings and recommendations of
these reports, and further preparatory work, IDA approved Credit 1607-BUR with an amount of
US$26.6 million in 1985 for the First Health Project.
2.44   The FHP was designed to assist the Government in: (i) strengthening basic health and
family planning services, with initdal emphasis on the control of communicable diseases; (ii)
fwther formulating national health and population policies and promoting their application; and
(iii) strengthening the MSASF's institutional capability in planning, evaluation, project
implementation and monitoring.
2.45   During the mid-term review of the project in October 1988, it was recognized that the
investment components of the project had made progress, but that the required changes in the
national health policy had not been forthcoming. As a result, many health facilities were non-
functioning or underutilized. ITe mid-term review led to a refocusing of the project towards
policy reforms in three main areas. First, it was concluded that the vertical nature of the health
system required reform. It was found that the different health services-meant to tackle only
specific health/disease problems-led to duplication of efforts, a waste of scarce personnel
resources, and high cost, resulting in the need for reorganization and integration of services.
Second, Bank efforts were directed at helping make the peripheral health facilities more
autonomous, both administratively and financially, to enhance community wownership" and
commitment. It was concluded that financial autonomy would ultimately depend, to a large
extent, on the availability of essential generic drugs. Third, the short supply of drugs at CSPS
level and the high cost of the few available drugs were seen to be an important factor in the
extremely low utilization rates. To address this issue, the CAMEG (para. 2.25) was established
as a legal entity in 1992 through legislation approved by the Government.
2.46 With regard to the physical accomplishments of the FHP, it has established 142 CSPS in
the rural and urban areas and three surgical CMAs. In the area of population/family planning, it
extended family planning services to six provinces of the country which had not been covered by
other donors. To prepare doctors at the district level for their new managerial and tecnicWa
responsibilities, two training programs are underway. One is to train generalist doctors to
perform emergency operations. The other program provides supplementary training to district
medical officers in management, planning, technical supervision, statstics and epidemiology. A



12
training team formed by a nucleus of national doctors and an expatriate public health specialist has
been established under the responsibility of the MSASF's Centre de formation pour le
dveIloppement sankaire (CFDS), under the aegis of the National School of Public Health (ENSP).
2.47 The 1992 Food Security and Nutrition Project (Credit 2414-BUR) aims, among other
things, at improving food security programs to target low income groups in drought-prone
provinces and also at improving efficient use of available household food to achieve better
nutritional status for children below the age of three and nursing mothers. Emphasis is being
placed on basic nutrients such as energy rich staples, improved weaning practices and nutrition
education. That project, however, does not specifically address problems of micronutrient
deficiencies.
2.48  The FHP has also provided initial support for Burkina's effort to strengthen national
capacity to control three endemic parasitic diseases ("devolution").  Activities under the
Devolution Plan (totaling US$900,000) have been supported through the ongoing FHP since early
1992. The FHP has supported the creation of four mobile teams, to conduct epidemiological
surveillance-one central team in Ouagadougou, and three local teams in Bobo-Dioulasso, Banfora,
Koudougou. The operations are being overseen bv the National Devolution Coordinator with the
technical advice of OCP.
2.49  Parallel to preparation of the proposed project, the Government of Burkina Faso and the
Bank have prepared a 'Population and AIDS Prevention Project" whose objectives are: (a) to
support the implementation of the Government's Population Policy; and (b) to strengthen the
national capacity to contain the spread of HIV/AlDS/STDs. The support of the implementation of
the Government's population policy will be achieved by: (i) improving the quality of, and access
to, family planning (FP) and matemal and child health (MCH) services; (ii) increasing public
knowledge of, and demand for, modem contraception methods; (iii) strengthening the institutions
in charge of implementing the national population policy and of planning, managing and
evaluating PP programs; and (iv) establishing a fund to provide grant financing for projects in the
area of population, FP, women in development (WID) and HIV/AIDS/STDs prevention.
Strengthening the national capacity to contain the spread of HIV/AIDSISTDs will be achieved by:
(1) raising public awareness of HIV/AIDS and STDs to promote safer health practices and
behavioral changes; (ii) promoting social marketing of condoms; (iii) strengthening capabilities for
HIVIAIDS and STID prevention and control; and (iv) strengthening clinical manement and
community care. These two projects are mutually reinforcing because the Population and AIDS
project will be implemented through the new health service structures established by the PDSN.
Moreover, the success of the implementation of the Population and AIDS prevention project is
essential to the sustainability of PDSN because: (i) without AIDS prevention, the health services
will be overburdened and health expenses will be shifted to AIDS patients at the expense of other
public heath interventions; and (ii) a continuing rapid population growth will seriously undermine
efforts to bring about improvements in maternal and child health.



13
G. LessM LaMl
2.50   The design of the proposed project corrects two weaknesses identified in Operations
Evaluation Department audits of World Bank health projects. These weaknesses have also
hampered implementation of the First Health Project (FHP) in Burkina Faso. They are: (1) lack
of decentralization, and (2) lack of improvement in the quality of care. PDSN emphasizes
decentralization coupled with training and supervision through district management teams
designed to improve the quality of care, and priority is given to improving the quality of services
of existing structures. There are three other lessons to be learned from the implementation of the
FHP. First, emphasis on providing buildings and other infrastructure will accomplish little if
complementary changes in health care policy are not forthcoming. It became clear by 1988 that
decentralization of health care services would be essential to project success but virtually all
project activities were concentrated on the implementation of the investment component. Dialogue
on the need to give the peripheral health facilities more autonomy and discussions on the drug
supply/distribution/importation did not start until after the 1988 mid-term review of the FHP-too
late to achieve timely adoption of the necessary complementary policy reforms. Under the
proposed project these policy issues have been addressed during preparations and most necessary
actions have been taken prior to negotiations. Second, despite a sizable project/Governmert input
for training under the FHP, the impact of the training on improved health care is unknown. To
avoid such a recurrence in the proposed project, IDA will review and approve the content of
trainig programs prior to their implemeniation, and the Government will introduce a monitoring
system    under   which   supervisors   will-at  regular  intervals-report   on   the
accomplishments/shortcomings of former trainees. Third, introduction of the necessary policy
reforms took too long under the FHP because agreement on these reforms was sought through
policy dialogue during project implementation rather than earlier during the processing of the
project. Under the proposed project virtually all policy reforms have been addressed up front,
prior to negotiations.
M. TH  PROJECT
A. Projct Rationale
3.1    Low life expectancy and high infant and maternal mortality rates partly reflect the low
quality, unavailability, and underutilization of Burkina's health services. The second Five Year
Development Plan calls for an ambitious program of construction and upgrading of health
facilities during the 1991-95 period. To reach the rural and urban poor, improvements in, and
expansion of, basic health facilities receive highest priority. Budgetary constraints preclude
financing the basic health program without donor assistance. System-wide reforms such as those
proposed by this project involving the organizational structure of the health delivery system,
redeployment of staff, basic financing mechanisms, and the reform of the pharmaceutical system
go beyond most donors' scope of intervention because of the extensive analytical work and policy
dialogue required to get these reforms accepted and ensure that they are implemented. Health
problems caused by micronutrient deficiencies such as blindness, cretinism, anemia, etc., could be
corrected through relatively low-cost remedial action. The country's tight financial situation
would make it difficult to continue the activities necessary for surveillance of the areas cleared
from onchocerciasis and to prevent recrudescence of the disease. Integrating trypanosomiasis
control and dracunculiasis eradication activities with control maintenance of onchocerciasis
(aDevolution Plan") would be a cost-effective approach to eliminating these endemic diseases and



14
would make a significant contribution to rendering oncho-freed areas safer for resettlement.
Burkina has sought bilateral sources of financing for its Devolution Plan since 1989 without
result. Supporting Burkina's Devolution Plan would safeguard a major donor investment of
US$500 million in the eleven countries covered by the Onchocerciasis Control Program-including
US$50 million in grant financing from the Bank-to successfully rid the region of this endemic
disease which has been a major constraint to development. Finally, successful implementation of
the proposed Population and AIDS Prevention project (para. 2.49) will depend importantly upon
actions taken to strengthen the health system and improve the quality of health services under this
project.
B. Proiec Objectives
3.2    The project would assist the Govermment in its efforts to: (a) improve significandy the
quality, coverage, and utilization of basic health services for the Burkinabe population, (b)
enhance the nutritional status of the population by decreasing micronutrient deficiencies, and (c)
develop a national capacity for achieving sustainable control of endemic parasitic diseases.
Progress in achieving these objectives will be assessed against monitoring indicators, developed
and agreed upon with the Government, and reflected in the Letter of Health Sector Policy (para.
2.33, AM  2.) which was finalized during negotiations and submitted to IDA as a condition for
Board presentation.
C. Pro ect mm ;
3.3    To achieve these objectives, the project would support the four components summarized
below, through policy reforms and investments.
Table 1: Proiect Comoonents
1. Improve quality, coverage, and utilization of basic healt services by:
(a) strengthening the health system pyramnd,
(b) rationalizing staff use, and promoting staff developrment,
(c) dnralizing the public health system, and
(d) increasing availability of essential drugs.
2. Reduce micrnutuient defckncies by:
(a) supporing niucronutrient supplementation, and
(b) developing a longer-term, durable natonal strategy for retucing micronutrient deficiencies.
3. Achieve and maint   control of endemic parasitic deass by:
(a) strengthening the capacities of the health system to cay out epidmiological sureillance and treat
detected cases of onchooeriasis, trypanosomiasis, and draunculiasis, and
(b) increasing awareness among target popultons regarding prevention of transmission of these three
diseases.
4. S    5rngtheIng the MSASF by:
(a) enhancing and rationalizing its capacity to more effectively control endemic parasitic diseases,
(b) strengthening its capacity to implement refonn of the pharmaceutical sector,
(c) enhancing capacity to manage physical assets and personnel throughout the public health system,
(d) improving capacity for monitoring and coordinating donor-financed healh projects, and
(e) strengthening capacity to coordinate project implementation.



15
D.  rsjIc Scope
3.4   The principal component of the proposed project would be nationwide and would aim to
improve the quality, coverage, and utilization of health services through four sub-components
totaling US$28.0 million (72% of the project's total costs). These sub-components consist of: (1)
strengthening the health system pyramid through: functional upgrading/construction of health
facilities at the primary and secondary levels which comprise the health districts (CSPS and
CMAs), organizing and establishing an effective maintenance system for the district facilities, and
improving operations regarding referral care of the regional and national hospitals (CHRs and
CHNs); (2) promoting staff development and rationalizing staff use by: supporting in-service
training for district medical officers and nurses in supervision procedures, upgrading skills of
district level physicians in emergency surgical procedures, establishing realistic and efficient
staffing norms, and implementing a staff redeployment action plan involving both intra-provincial
and rural to urban transfers nationwide, (3) decentralizing the public health system by: definig a
country-wide system of health districts, providing for increased autonomy in planning and
budgeting at the "health district" levels, and providing for community co-managemen; of primary
health services; and (4) increasing the availability of essential drugs by: supporting importation
and distribution throughout the health system of low cost generic drugs as a substitut* for high
cost specialty drugs, establishing an effective cost recovery policy which would ensure z sustained
supply of essential dregs at the district levels, developing a logistics system for the procurement,
distribution, and management of essential, generic drugs, and supporting the expanded program of
immnunization (EPI) for infants and young children.
3.5  ITe proposed project would also enhance the nutritional status of the Burkinabe
population living in malnourished areas through a component designed to reduce micronutrient
deficiencies (US$4.7 million-12%  of total project costs).  It would consist of two sub-
components. The first would support immediate supplementation of vitamin A, iodine, and Iron
in severely deficient areas. The second would complement supplementation through the
preparation and implementation of a longer-term strategy to reduce micronutrient defiaencies
through dietary modification and to the extent feasible food fortification.
3.6 In addition, the proposed project would aim at maintaining control over widespread
endemic parasitic diseases, which have either been largely brought under control or have been
demonstrated to be eradicable. This component would total US$1.4 million (4% of total project
costs) and consist of (1) strengthening the capacities of the health system to carry out
epidemiological surveillance and treat detected cases of onchocerciasis, trypanosomiasis, and
dracunculiasis through training and supervision of mobile teams and local health workers, and (2)
increasing awareness among target populations regarding prevention of transmission of
onchocerciasis, trypanosomiasis, and dracunculiasis, through training and EEC campaigns.
3.7   Finally the project would strengthen various units within the MSASF so as to help ensure
successful implementation of the above three components. This institutional strengthening
component totals US$4.7 million (12% of total project costs). It includes five sub-omponents:
(1) strengthen the Directorate of Preventive Medicine (DMP) to implement epidemiological
surveillance and control of onchocerciasis, trypanosomiasis, and dracunculiasis, (2) strengthen the
Directrate of Pharmacutical Services (DSPH) to achieve its responsibility in promoting
eential, generic drugs and controlling their quality, (3) improve Jiministration of the public
health system through the establishment of a management information system within the
Ministry's Directorate of Admnistration and Finance (DAAF) for tracking personnel and physical
mets at all levels of the health pyramid, (4) strengthen the capacity of the Ministry's Directorate



16
of Studies and Planning (DEP) to plan, coordinate, and monitor health development projects, and
(5) provide management support for the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) of PDSN.
E. IrjcDsdto
1. Improve quality. coverage, and utilization of health services (US$28.0 million)
(a)   Strgthen tbe health System pyramid (US$19.3 million)
3.8   Qbjectives _ nd Description. The proposed project would assist the Government in its
efforts to complete decentralization of the health system, by supporting the establishment and
effective functioning of Health Districts and basic health facilities (Anmn 3.1). The project
would give highest priority to optimizing the use of existing facilities, but would also support the
construction of a limited number of new facilities. This will involve (see para. 2.9-2.11 for a
description of the present system):  (i) the upgrading of CMs into CMAs and (ii) the
construction/upgrading of CSPS. Both are important steps in differentiating service provision at
primary, secondary and tertiary facilities. Hospitals could then concentrate on tertiary care. As a
condiion for appraisal of PDSN, the Government, through an official decree in January 1993,
increased the financial and managerial awonomy of District Health facilities (CSPS and CMAs) by
allowing them to retain receipts through the sale of drugs and services and to be co-managed by
local communities.
3.9   In the rural areas, the focus would be on rendering operational 30 CSPS which have been
non-functioning mainly due to lack of staff (para. 2.24). Once the Government has demonstrated
that these 30 CSPS are operating, the project would finance the construction of an additional 30
CSPS in the rural areas (US$82.000 er CSPS). The project would also finance the construction
of 15 new CSPS in the urban areas. As a condition of negotiations, the Government has provided
to IDA the list of sites for these 15 CSPS along with proof of transfer and consigmnent for
construction purposes.
3.10  The project would support upgrading of CMs into CMAs (US$419.000 per upgraded CM)
so as to strengthen the first level of referral by enabling each district to perform emergency
surgery. Upgrading would consist of adding an operating room, surgical equipment and other
equipment required for each CM as determined by a detailed survey. The Directorate of Studies
and Planning (DEP) has prioritized the CMs to be upgraded, based upon selection criteria
prepared by the DEP. Upgrading of CMs into CMAs will take place gradually over the project
period (1994-1999) at a target rate of 3 per year. Hence, 15 CMs would be upgraded over the life
of the project, bringing the total number of CMAs in Burkina to 29, which, including the nine
regional hospitals, would cover 72% of the health districts throughout the country. Germany's
KfW would upgrade three CMAs through parallel cofinancing, leaving 12 of the 15 to be covered
umder the project to be flnanced by IDA.
3.11  The project will finance (US$200,000) a one year initial stock of essential drugs for 45
CSPS built over the life of the project. This stock will provide the initial capital for a revolving
fund for drug cost-recovery. Stocks will be distributed to a CSPS when the nurse in charge has
been trained by the district management team and when the security of the drugs and receipts
therefrom have been assured, in part through the establishment of a workable financial accounting
system, as determined by the district management team.



17
3.12 The project will also finance intermittent specialist services and training through GTL to
organize an equipment maintenance system in the CMAs, using regional hospital maintenance
technicians as supervisors and CMA laboratory assistants to perform maintenance functions. Six
regional hospital (CHR) technicians would be trained under a six month course at the GTZ
sponsored maintenance training center in Senegal. Laboratory assistants from each CMA would
serve one month internships in the regional hospital centers to learn selected techniques.
3.13   The project will finance specialist services to carry out a thorough study of the hospital
sector, and to propose actions to be taken to strengthen the tertiary level of the health system as
well as to redeploy, recruit, and/or train CHN, CHR, and OST staff as part of the national
redeployment plan (para. 3.18). As noted above (para. 2.26), operations of the national hospitals
are having an adverse impact on the effectiveness of the health system pyramid and the general
population is being deprived of complex, referral health care. As a condition for negotiations,
terms of reference acceptable to IDA for this study have been prepared by MSASF and submitted
to IDA. During negotiations, the Government gave asrances that the study would be completed
by June 30, 1995 and that a resulting action program acceptable to IDA would be fully
implemented by March 31, 1997.
3.14  Implementation  Contract management of civil works construction under this sub-
component would be implemented through Faso Baara (a Contract Management Agency with
NGO status, established in 1991 under the Burkina Faso Public Works and Employment Project,
Credit Number 2282 -BUR) for the CMAs and for the CSPS. Receipt of a draft contac between
the Government and Paso-Baara for the delegation of civil works contract management was a
condition of negotiations. Signing of a contract acceptable to IDA, delegating the management of
the civil works related contracts, will be a condition of credit effectiveness. The establishment of
a maintenance system will be the responsibility of the DAAF and the provision of technical
assistance to carry out a study of the hospital sector would be overseen by the DEP.
(b) Rationalize staff use and promote staff develonent (US$1.2 million)
3.15 Objectives and Description. To strengthen the operations at the district level (CSPS and
CMAs), the project would, in continuity with efforts under the FHP, finance the training of
District Medical Officers (DMOs). The MSASF's Centre de formation pour le d6veloppement
sanitaire (CFDS) attached to the Ecole nationaoe de sante publique (ENSP) will contiue the
training function assigned to it under the FHP. Focus of the training activities woud be on (i)
general aspects of public health; (ii) anticipated activities of the first and second tiers of the health
services, in particular the development of instuction and reference manuals and the
implementation of health care strategies; (iii) health services management with special atention to
drug management, establishment of a financial accounting system, organization of essential,
generic drug distribution; (iv) preparation, evaluation, and, if necessary, modification of District
Health Plans (Plan de developpement de district sant - PDDS), the content of which is descrbed
in Annex 3.2. A description of the training program is in Aznnex 3.4. Participants in the training
program would include all general practitioners from the medical centers and regional hospital
centers with preference being given to medical staff of the CMs/CMAs. The Govermment gave
assuranges during negotiations that each district, once a fully upgraded CMA has been established,
would have in place th-oughout the duration of the project: (a) a trained district health eam{, (b) a
District Health Plan (PDDS), and (c) a financial accounting system for the CMA and each of its
constituent CSPS responsible for stocking and selling essential generic drugs.



18
3.16   DMOs would be trained at a rate of 20 per year. The objective is to train 80 doctors over
the life of the project, in order to staff each of 38 districts (29 CMAs and the 9 CHRs) with two
DMOs. This would enable the staff operations and referrals to be adequately supervised
throughout the primary and secondary levels of the district system.
3.17   To improve medical standards at the CMA surgical units, the project would provide for
the training of six to seven district pbysicians in emergency surgery every year for 5 years (total
of 32 physicians).  Surgery will cover cesareans, hernias, extra-uterine pregnancies, and
appendectomies. In addition, 32 nurses will be trained in anesthesia practices over the life of the
project. Training will take place at the surgical deparments of the two national hospitals and will
last for a six month period for each doctor. Follow-up supervision will be carried out by
surgeons from the regional hospitals.
3.18 The MSASF has staffing norms for district level health facilities. The CSPS norm
includes a four person health staff, as well as one laborer. The CMA norm calls for a 31 person
staff, of which 19 are health personnel. The project supports a policy reform to achieve a more
equitable facility distribution of staff through the modification of staffing norms to take into
account existing workloads and ensure a minimum of qualified health personnel at all faciities. In
particular each CSPS would initially be staffed with three health personnel: a nurse, a health
worker and an assistant mid-wife. CMA personnel would be trimmed from a total of 31 staff
members to 23. It appears probable, based upon a public expenditure review for the health sector
completed in 1992, that these revised norms could be largely met for existing facilities through
redeployment of existing staff. Staff could then be added as utilization rates improve. As a
condition for appraisal, the Government issued a decision (D&cision No. 93-304/SASF/SG)
formalizing minimum staffing norms for each CSPS, CM, CMA, and DPS. The Governmcidt
provided assurances during negotiations that the minimal staffing norms would apply to all newly
upgraded CMAs and their constituent CSPS. Prior to negotiations, the first phase (a staffing
census) of the preparation of the redeployment plan and implementation of the first stage (mini-
redeployment") of the plan involving intra-provincial transfers, were completed.  During
negotiations the Government also gave assurances that a national redeployment plan acceptable to
IDA would be prepared by June 30, 1995, in conjunction with the hospital sector study, and that
implementation of the plan, involving redeployment from urban to rural areas and/or new
recruitment, would be completed by March 31, 1997.
3.19 Implementation. UNICEF will oversee training of the DMOs under this sub-component
based upon an agreement between the Government and UNICEF to be signed as a condition of
credit effectiveness. Training of district physicians in emergency surgery would be undertaken by
the University of Medicine in Ouagadougou. Preparation of the redeployment plan would be
carried out by consultants hired by the Govermnent under the FHP and its implementation would
be undertaken by the DAAF.
(c)    Decentralize the public health system (US$3.9 million)
3.20  OQbectives and Description  To support decentralization, the Government seeks the
creation of 53 "Health Districts" centered around CMAs, with an average population density of
180,000 each. District health authorities would support, plan, supervise and monitor primary
health care activities through the CSPS at the community level. The Govermment has given each
district and its constituent CSPS (approximately 15) autonomy in planning, financial management,
and budgeting through a decree issued in January 1993 (para. 2.37). The decree provides for cost
recovery from the sale of essential generic drugs, retention and utilization of revenues generated



19
through service delivery at the primary and secondary levels, and community co-management of
primary health services. Management committees (ComitO de gestion-CG) will be established
comprised of elected community representatives and a district-level medical officer. Each CO will
have the authority to determine charges for its services and to approve the budget and manage the
funances for its respective CMA and CSPS. During negotiations, the Govemment gave assurances
that for each district with a fully upgraded CSA, CGs would be established and legally registered
for the CMA concerned and for each of its constituent CSPS.
3.21 The project would support decentralization by financing one all-purpose supervision
vehicle per CMA for DMOs to continuously supervise primary health care activities at all CSPS
within that respective district and to provide technical assistance to the Comitts de gestion. Hence
29 supervision vehicles would be purchased over the life of the project. Such vehicles would
permit frequent visits to the CSPS. DMOs at the CMA would set aside 1.5 days per week for
supervision of CSPS activities, which would correspond to about 1 visit per month to each of the
District CSPS. In addition the project would finance the recurrent costs of these supervisory
activities, on a decreasing basis. To encourage adequate staffing at the CMAs and CSPS, the
project would finance the construction of nurses' living quarters at 35 CSPS and doctors' living
quarters at 2 CMAs. Quarters would be provided for selected rural CSPS without such facilities
and for new CSPS to be constructed in the rural areas.
3.22  Implementation.    UNICEF  will oversee  decentralization  activities under this
subcomponent with the exception of construction of living quarters, based upon an agreement
between the Government and UNICEF to be signed as a condition of credit effectiveness.
Implementation of the construction of living quarters would fall under the responsibility of Faso
Baara which is tasked with contract management of civil works entailing the upgrading of CMs
into CMAs and construction of the CSPS (para. 3.14).
(d)    Creating capadty to ensure sustained availability of essential. generc drugs
(US$3.5 million)
3.23 Objectives and Description. Bearing in mind the population's low incomes, cost
recovery, if it is to succeed, must proceed carefully. Costs cannot exceed the threshold of
tolerability of the local population without driving down utilization of health services even futher
and excluding many of those at greatest risk within the population. Hence, successful cost
recovery at the CSPS and CMA levels depends critically upon low-cost gfeneric drugs becoming
widely available.
3.24 A new non-profit institution-the CAMEG-has been established to purchase and supply
essential, generic drugs to the country's public health facilities (para 2.37). The project would
contribute to developing the drug distrbution chain to make CAMEG's operations more efficient.
Transport for distribution of essential, generic drugs from Ouagadougou to regional warehouses
would be financed by the project through the Directorate of Pharmaceutical Services (DSPH).
District level pharmacies would acquire supplies from the regional warehouses or from other
sources if a lower price is available. In turn, these pharmacies would supply the district CMA or
CHR and all outlying CSPS within that district with essential generic drugs, to be stored in 400
storage sheds to be constructed within the premises of the CSPS. District doctors would be
responsible for supervising the rationalization of prescription methods and the application of
standardized therapeutic schemes at the CSPS level, for overseeing control over CSPS financial
management and accounting for drug supplies, and for closely cooperating with local health
committees. During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that the CAMEG will be



20
operated in accordance with 'satisfactory performance' criteria which were defined and agreed
upon between the Bank and the Government during negotiations and are annexed to the Letter of
Sector Policy (Ann"  2.4).
3.25  The project would finance the constuction of 400 storage sheds within the premises of
existing and newly constructed CSPS. The project would also finance rehabilitation of a
warehouse for CAMEG at Fada-N'Gourma. It would provide CAMEG's three warehouses
(Ouagadougou, Bobo-Dioulaso, Fada-N'Gourma) with storage and handling equipment, office
furniture, photocopiers, calculators, and facsimile machines. In addition the project would finance
one all-purpose vehicle for DSPH central headquarters in Ouagadougou. The project would
fmance about US$400,000 of the operating costs of the CAMEG on a declining basis over the
period 1994-1996, by which time it is expected to be entirely self-financing.
3.26 The project would also contribute to the Expanded Program of Immunization (EPI). EPI
would be largely implemented through the CSPS. The project would finance yellow fever
vaccines, the cold chain network, and recurrent costs for providing vaccinations through the
CSPS. To obtain the widest possible coverage, mobile teams would visit isolated villages at least
four times a year to vaccinate local populations. The project would finance recurrent costs (fuel
and per diem) on a declining basis for transportation for these mobile teams.
3.27 Implementation. DSPH would have responsibility for implementing project support for
the CAMEG. UNICEF will oversee training and supervision of DMOs with regard to essential,
generic drug distribution. The Directorate of Family Health (DSF) will be tasked with executing
all aspects of the EPI Program.
2. Reduce Micronutrient Deficiencies (US$4.7 million)
(a)   Suuhmenhtahion (US$4.1 million)
3.28  Objectives and Description. The project would improve the nutritional status of the
Burkinabe population by integrating delivery of micronutrient supplements into ongoing
programs, consistent with a national program for micronutrient deficiency control prepared by an
MSASF working group.  Submission to IDA of a final draft of this program, with an
implementation plan over the period, 1994-1999, was a condition for negotiations. Target groups
will be reached through prenatal and curative care, under five clinics, and the EPI delivery
system. The project would also support the DSF, where the MSASF's nutrition responsibilities
are housed, in improving the coverage of micronutrient delivery, and in the planning and
execution of base-line surveys aimed at evaluating the micronutrient component. In addition,
rapid surveys would be undertaken to identify districts not yet surveyed but suspected of being
severely affected by micronutrient deficiencies. Some of these surveys might be contracted out to
more specialized institutions. Micronutrient delivery into the minimum package of health services
to be provided at the CMA and CSPS levels. The objectives, content and implementation plan for
this sub-component are described in a separate background paper referred to in Annex 3.7. They
are summarized below.
3.29  Preventive supplementation with oral vitamin A would be undertaken in those provinces
determined to have prevalence of xerophthalmia (nightblindness) greater than 1%. In those
provinces, vitamin A will be delivered to target groups through the health system, via Village
Health Workers, as well as through Village Agriculture Workers and School Teachers. In



21
addition, in order to protect children at higb risk of vitamin A deficiency associated blindness and
death, the project would provide, on a national level, medical supplementation of infants and
young children suffering. from persistent diarrhea, acute upper respiratory infection and measles.
Iron and folic acid supplementation will be carried out through the prenatal clinics; iron and folic
acid have just been included in the list of essential drugs. Iodized oil capsule campaigns will be
carried out in the provinces with goiter prevalence greater than 20% during the first three years.
During the project mid-term review, an assessment will be made as to the satisfactory attainment
of objectives and coverage will then be extended to provinces with 10%-20% prevalence.
However, distribution of iodine capsules will be halted if, and when, iodized salt becomes
available to target groups. Iodized oil capsules will also be made available, along with other
essential drugs in district health facilities, for treatment of mild goiter prevalence (below 10%)
starting in year 4 of the project.
3.30   Health workers are often unaware of the severity and consequences of micronutrient
malnutrition, and of practical e'ntrol measures available. Hence, training and monitoring will be
crucial activities within the nutrition component. The project (CFDS in collaboration with DSP)
will train health workers to utilize integrated supervision guidelines and algorims for
supplementation. During negotiations, the Government gave asm== that it would integrate
micronutrients in the algorithms, supervision manuals, training curricula of CFDS, patient cards,
and ongoing training sessions of MCI and EPI services by October 31, 1994. Assurances were
also given that the detailed implementation plan of the micronutrient component for the first year
of the project would be provided by Project Launch Workshop.
3.31 The project will finance drugs (micronutrient supplementation) to be delivered to the
target populations, information and education campaigns (sensitization of decision makers on the
distribution of micronutrients), services (baseline data collection and evaluation), training and
operating costs (mainly for supervision of health workers). The DSP will also be strengthened in
its management and planning capacities. However, this institutonal strengthening activity will be
financed under IDA's Population and AIDS Control Project which is currently under preparation
(para. 2.49).
(b)    Development of long-term strategies (US$631,000)
3.32   Objectives and Description. In addition to the short-term actions to rapidly reduce severe
deficiencies, the project would help in the development and implementation of a longer term,
more cost-efficient national strategy based on food fortification and modification of dietary habits
as opposed to medicinal doses. Improvement in the ability of the MOH to plan, monitor, and
evaluate the component will help in providing for sustainability. The long-term strategy will
include IEC messages aimed at changing food habits. Training of District Teams in nutrition
would take place and monitoring and evaluation capabilities of DSF and the District Teams will
be strengthened.
3.33   A feasibility study on the possibility of speeding up the importation of iodized salt will be
undertaken by the Government and financed by UNICEF. Ihe terms of reference of this study
will include the designing of monitoring and evaluation activities for iodized salt distribution.
The terms of reference will be approved by IDA. The results of the study will be reviewed jointly
by the Government, UNICEF, and IDA. During negotiations, the Government gave assurances
that based upon the results of this feasibility study, appropriate actions would be taken to promote
importation of iodized salt, according to WHO standards, by March 31, 1996, and that
appropriate legal regulations would be implemented thereto.



22
3.34  This component will finance post-intervention studies, epidemiological surveys to
complete the epidemiological mapping, sensitization seminars to promote salt iodization, EC
campaigns to change dietary babits, training material, and the actions required to develop
legislation on the importation cf iodized salt as well as the implementation of a monitoring system
to determine whether imported salt has been iodized. Some strengthening of planning and
supervision capacities at the central level will also be included.
3.35 Implementation. Execution of the micronutrient deficiency component of PDSN will be
delegated to UNICEF under an agreement between the Government and UNICEF (Annex 3.8).
This agreement will provide for annual action plans to be prepared jointly on a yearly basis
throughout the duration of the project. Prior to negotiations, the Goverrment submitted to IDA a
draft agreement delegating the execution of this component to UNICEF. The ageement was
reviewed during negotiations and signature of the agreement will be a condition of credit
effectiveness.
3. Achieve and Maintain Contro! of Endemic Parasitic Diseases (US$1.4 million)
(a)   Epidemiologial surveillance (US$1.1 million)
3.36   Objectives and Description.  The objectives of the Government's epidemiological
surveillance activities are (i) to detect any instances of recrudescence of onchocerciasis and to
treat, if necessary, the populations at risk; (ii) to diagnose and treat all trypanosomiasis cases; and
(iii) to report all dracunculiasis cases and prevent any spread of this epidemic. Epidemiological
surveillance is both active and passive. Passive surveillance is carried out by the health workers
at each level of the pyramid with communication to central headquarters by telegram; active
surveillance is executed by trained mobile teams taking samples in 'sentinel villages' for
onchocerciasis-an approach which has been successfully developed and tested by OCP over the
years- or in areas at high risk for transmission of trypanosomiasis.
3.37  To support the Government's policy regarding onchocerciasis and trypanosomiasis, the
project would support the activities of the local mobile teams based in Banfora, Bobo Dioulasso,
Koudougou, and the activities of the central mobile team in Ouagadougou. Each local team,
headed by a nurse, will consist of six persons including three pamedical staff; the central team
will be the National Coordination team. These teams will be in charge of active epidemiological
surveillance of both onchocerciasis and trypanosomiasis. These activities will be undertaken with
technical support from the OCP's Devolution Unit.
3.38  In addition, the project would support a plan to eradicate dracunculiasis. The plan
includes (i) training/supervision en cascade from the District Health Worker to CSPS health
workers, and, then, down to the Village Health Workers; (ii) reporting of cases by the Village
Health Workers; (iii) the production and distribution of water filters to each household in endemic
villages; and (iv) conducting a national prevalence survey in 1994-95. During negotiations, the
Government gave assurances that the national prevalence survey would be completed by July 31,
1995, and that the plan of eradication would be adjusted according to the conclusions of the
survey.
3.39  To support the activities of the four mobile teams, the project would finance the medical
equipment for each team, the equipment necessary to carry out field missions, and associated



23
operating costs. To support Guinea worm eradication activities, the project would finance the
recurrent costs for training and to carry out case reporting and case containment activities.
3.40  Implementation.  Overall responsibility for execution and supervision of this sub-
component would lie within the Department of Preventive Medicine (DMP) under the National
Devolution Coordinator and the DMP's Epidemiological Service.
(b)   Sensitizing target populations (US$384,000)
3.41   Objectives and Description. To support the Government's policy and efforts to promote
sustainable resettlement in the onchocerciasis-freed areas, the project would support IEC
campaigns to enlighten target populations on the disappearance of the risk of onchocerciasis
transmission despite the return of the flies (vector), so that farmers will not be tempted to abandon
their fields once more. With respect to trypanosomiasis, the project would support IEC
campaigns for target populations on techniques of insecticide impregnation and fly trap use. For
the eradication of dracunculiasis, the project would support EEC campaigns to explain the role of
the cyclops (vector) in transmitting the disease and water-filtering techniques.
3.42 To support IEC, the project would continue to finance (i) radio programs in French and in
five local languages, pamphlets and posters, etc.; and (ii) the recurrent costs for supervision and
taining in the country's 53 districts.
3.43  ImpIementatiQn.  Overall responsibility for execution and supervision of this sub-
component would lie with the DMP through the National Devolution Coordinator.
4. Shgengthen MS   (US$4.7 million)
(a)    Enldemiological Services (US$683,000)
3.44   Obiectives and Description.  To support the Government's efforts to rationalize the
activities of the DMP, and to strengthen its ability to combat the resurgence of tropical diseases
such as malaria, schistosomiasis, trypanosomiasis, and the dramatic increase of AIDS incidence,
the project would support the construction and the equipment of a small building to consolidate
various offices under one roof. OTe DEP has undertaken an institutional analysis of the newly
created DMP and recommended a reorganization to integrate the various services, as opposed to
having them operate independently and vertically for each disease as they have done until the
present (Annex 3.9). The appraisal mission reviewed the proposed reorganization and agreed with
the Government's plan for integrating the various services. The project would also support
training and specialist services to upgrade the technical competence of the DMP. This will
include (J) training in computer use; (ii) training for four physicians in epidemiology; and (iii)
training in each CHR for a team of two nurses in epidemiological surveillance.
3.45   The project would finance (i) civil works to construct a central DMP headquarters
(approximately 500 n2 building), (ii) operating equipment, and (iii) two vehicles.
3.46   Iplementation.  Contract management of the civil works subcomponent will be
implemented through Faso Baara, which is also responsible for contract management of the
construction and upgrading of the health facilities (paras. 3.14). The DEP will be responsible for
preparing terms of reference to train the staff of DMP in management and train physicians from
the epidemiological service in epidemiology. The training will be implemented by the DMP.



24
)   Pharmaceut!cal Servics (US$291,000)
3.47 Qbjectives and Description. The purpose of this sub-component is to strengthen quality
control of essential generic drugs and improve public health knowledge and skills within the
Directorate of Pharmaceutical Services (DPSH). To ensure quality control of imported drugs,
PDSN would finance equipment for a type I laboratory for the DSPH in Ouagadougou according
to WHO recommendations regarding quality control of drugs in West Africa. The project would
also finance one semester of training in public bealth in 1995 for one pharmacist within the
DSPH.
3.48 LMlementation. This sub-component would be implemented by the DSPH.
(c)   Information Management System (US$547,000)
3.49 Objectives and Description. This sub-component would improve the management of
resources of the MSASF, which is under the responsibility of the Directorate of Administrative
and Financial Services (DAAF). Following a recent survey of the MSASF's human resources, a
complementary study on physical resources will be undertaken. All data collected would be
computerized, to allow the Ministry to better track and rationalize the use of human and material
resources. Moreover, to ensure the quality, continuity, and maintenance of the system, specialists
services would be sought to train DAAF staff and to help establish the necessary procedures to
allow for follow-up modifications, should they be required, and to ensure that new information is
entered into the system, so that the data reflect the current situation. The project would finance:
(i) an inventory of all the buildings, goods, vehicles, and equipment of the different services of the
MSASF; (ii) training of high level managers within the DAAF; and (iii) equipment including
computers and other information management tools.
3.50 Implementation This sub-component will be implemented by the DAAF.
(d)   hnrove Capadty for Project Coordination, Monitoring and Evaluation
(US$1.7 million)
3.51 Objectives and Description. PDSN would provide support for the Directorate of Studies
and Planning (DEP) to enhance its capacity to coordinate, monitor and evaluate donor-supported
projects in the health sector. The DEP is responsible for: (1) periodic monitoring of the financial
and physical aspects of the health sector witiin the public investment program; and (2)
coordination of all external assistance for the health sector. In addition, a unit of the DEP is
responsible for evaluating social and health projects during execution, in order to develop a locus
of expertise for improving project implementation. The project would finance: (i) equipment and
vehicles; (ii) operating costs for project supervision; (iii) specialist services to carry out a survey
of external financing in the health sector in Burkina; and (iv) implementation of a system to
monitor and coordinate such financing. During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that
it will (a) complete the survey of external financing of the health sector in Burkina by July 31,
1995, and (b) implement a monitoring and coordinating system for such financing by July 31,
1996.
3.52  Implementation. This sub-component would be implemented by the DEP.



25
(e)    Support for Coordinaton of project implementation (PCUb (US$1.5 million)
3.53   ObQ ig   and Despgion.  The Project Management Unit for the FHP, accountable to
the Secretary General of Health (MSASF), wIll become the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU)
responsible for coordinating implementation of the proposed project. The Government wilt be
requested to retain the premises made available to the PMU/FHP, to house the PCU. Equipment,
mainly vehicles and computers, procured under the FHP, wIll also be handed over to the PCU and
kept functioning until the second year of the proposed project when they will be replaced, under
the credit financing, after amortization. With responsibility for managing all construction
contracts delegated to Faso Baara, the new PCU would focus on coordination, facilitating
implementation and monitoring and evaluating project outcomes. During negotiations a draft
contract delegating the management of civil works related contracts to Faso Baara will be
reviewed by IDA. Signature of a contract between MSASF and Faso Baara would be a condition
of credit effectiveness. The PCU would be staffed with a Director, assisted by a deputy director
in charge of coordinating the preparation and the follow-up of procurement, annual programs and
budgets for all components, an accountant and necessary support staff (assistant accuntant, two
secretaries, a driver and watchmen). The accountant and deputy director would be recruited
locally. Weaknesses experienced under the FHP will be addressed, notably by strengthening the
accounting system with the assistance of a qualified accounting company experienced in working
according to international standards, and by ensuring that all key staff would be recruited on a
competitive basis under terms of reference satisfactory to IDA and appointed subject to IDA's
approval. The recruitment of a qualified accounting company to assist in strengthening the
accounting system would be a condition of credit effectiveness. Draft terms of reference for the
PCU and key positions are in Anne 4.2. As a condition of credit effectiveness, the PCU would
be fully operational, with the Director and the two professional staff in their posts, rcruited in the
manner described above. At negotiations, the Government provided assre that it would
operate the PCU according to terms of reference acceptable to IDA and would not recruit any key
staff of the PCU without the prior consent of IDA.
3.54  lmlementation and proiect supnort. The implementing agency for this sub-component
would be the Office of the Secretary General of the MSASF. Tne Credit woud finance the
investment costs including office equipment, vehicles, supplies and operating expenditures,
contractual services for the accountant from the private sector as well as for the support staff, and
assistance in other technical areas under service contracts subject to IDA review and approval,
notably for the audit of the PCU and project components (US$0.2 million), and for civil works
contract management (US$0.6 million). In addition, the Credit would finance consultant services
and operating costs associated with pre-investment studies, conducted according to terms of
reference satisfactory to IDA. Civil servants seconded to the PCU and rental costs of the
premises would be borne by the Government.
F. Project Costs and Ftnandug
3.55   Total project cost, net of taxes, is estimated at US$38.9 million equivalent, with a foreign
exchange component of US$33.3 million. Base cost estimates are US$32.9 million at February
1994 prices. Physical and price contingencies are estimated at US$6.1 million (18% of total
project cost) with physical contingencies representing 7% of civil works and 5% of other project
components. Price contingencies assume: (a) a domestic inflation rate of 14%, 12%, 8.5%,
6.5%, 5.3% and 5% over the years 1994-1999, respectively; and (b) foreign inflation rates of
3.7% (average for the period 1992 - 1997). Detailed project cost estimates are given in Amex
4.5. The project would be financed through an IDA Credit (US$29.2 million or 75% of total



26
cost); parallel cofinancing from KfW (US$4.1 million or 11% of total cost) and UNICEF (US$3.6
million or 9% of total cost); and through Government counterpart financing (US$2.0 million or
5% of total cost). During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that it would deposit in
an account in a commercial bank in Ouagadougou by January 1, 1996, an initial amount of
US$100,000 to meet expenditures under the project. The remaining amount of the Government's
counterpart contribution would be deposited, quarterly in advance, according to a schedule of
payments agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association.
3.56 Recurrent cost implications. Construction and equipment costs under the project would
total US$19.5 million and would be entirely covered under the credit and through cofinancing.
Under the revised staffing norms established under the project, existing MSASF personnel would
be available to staff most new or upgraded facilities with the implementation of a successful
redeployment plan (para. 3.18). Implementation of this plan wIll generate considerable cost
savings. For example, in the case where the facilities constructed and rehabilitated were to be
entirely filled through recruitment of new staff, the required increase in staff by 1999 would total
approximately 500 at an increased cost per annum in the wage bill by the last year of the project
of CFAF 0.7 billion. This would amount to an increase in personnel costs over the 1992 health
sector budget of 13% and an increase over the total MSASF budget of 10%. Assuming successful
redeployment, the largest single increase in recurrent costs will be to finance operating costs
(residual incremental personnel, operation and maintenance of equipment and vehicles) of
upgraded CMM and newly constructed CSPS. This will amount to US$5.7 million over the life
of the project and would be financed by IDA on a declining basis (Annex 3.11). By 1999, the
Goverunent's share will reach CFAF 661 million (US$1.1 million) per annum or an increase over
the 1992 MSASF budget of nearly 4%. Finally, purchases of essential, generic drugs will total
approximately CFAF 1,740 million (US$3 million) per annum, beginning in the second year of
the project, but it is expected that this cost will be largely recovered through user charges.
IV. PROJECT IMPwLEMENTATION
A. Status of Project Preparation and Readiness
4.1    Detailed project preparation was carried out by the technical staff of the Directorates
concerned, assisted by external agencies where necessary and supported by pre-investment studies
financed under the FHP. The PCU provided overall coordination and logistic support. Throughout
preparation, discussions were held with other donors, particularly with KfW, UNICEF and the
OPEC Fund, to agree on sector strategies and program support. Working papers for ail project
components have been prepared. Standard designs for the CMAs and the CSPS are available. A
procurement schedule, as well as an outline of an implementation manual, was reviewed during
negotiations. Other documentation, including draft bidding documents for the procurement of
goods and services, based on Bank standard bidding documents, was also reviewed during
negotiations.
B. Project Coordination and Management
4.2    Day-to-day management and implementation of each project component would be the
responsibility of the concerned Directorates of the Ministry of Health as indicated above.
Coordination of project activities, administrative and financial matters, monitoring of project
implementation and outcomes, and inter-directorate coordination would be the responsibility of the



27
PCU. The PCU would: (a) coordinate the preparation of annual programs and budgets for all
components; (b) procure goods and services and recruit consultants, with the exception of
procurement directly related to civil works managed by Faso Baara; (c) maintain and consolidate
all project accounts including the special account and accounts kept by Faso Baara; (d) prepare the
necessary documentation for withdrawal of proceeds from the Credit account; (e) make
arrangements for the audit of project accounts and SOEs; (f) prepare and submit progress reports
to IDA and cofinanciers as required; (g) organize annual and mid-term reviews of project
implementation; (h) attend meetings convened to deal with technical matters pertaing to the
project; and (i) liaise with cofinanciers and maintain an effective dialogue with donors and
agencies in the sector.
C. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.3    Monitoring and evaluation of project performance and outcomes would be carried out by
the implementing units over the life of the project, with the PCU playing a coordinating role.
Agreed upon indicators with annual targets are shown in A 2.4. In its role as project
coordinator, the PCU would (a) organize in November of each year, starting In 1995, a Joint DA-
Government review of project implementation based on the progress reports and on an annual
work program and budget for the next year; and (b) carry out a mid-term review of project
implementation, jointly with IDA, KfW and UNICEF in March 1997. A schedule of the Bank's
supervision plan, and the annual and mid-term reviews, is provided in Ahme  4.1. During
negotiations the Government gave asurances that (a) based on the results of the mid-term review,
the Government would prepare and implement an action plan, acceptable to IDA, for further
implementation of the project; and (b) within six months of the Credit closing date, the PCU
would transmit to IDA a completion report, prepared in accordance with terms of reference
acceptable to IDA.
D. Procuremnt and Disbursement
4.4   Table 2 summarizes the project costs by disbursement category, and proposed
procurement arrangements. A detailed procurement plan and timetables are given in Annex 4.3.
Burkina's procurement laws and regulations conform to IDA procurement guidelines. No special
exemptions, permits or licenses need to be specified in Credit documents for International
Competitive Bidding ([CB) as Burkina's procurement regulations allow IDA procedures to take
precedence over any contrary provisions in local regulations.
4.5 Civil works. The civil works program financed by IDA (US$10.8 million) concerns the
upgrading of CMs into CMAs through addition of surgery blocks and related facilities, the
construction/rehabilitation of CSPS in the rural and urban areas including staff houses and
boreholes, and the construction of the building where all DMP services are to be regrouped, as
well as some rehabilitation works in CAMEG's warehouse. Standard designs are available and
have already been used for the construction of CMAs and the CSPS. For the DMP building, a
consultant will be recruited to carry out the design and issue the bidding documentation as well as
to supervise the works. Contracts for execution of the boreholes program estimated to cost
US$0.4 million, net of taxes and including contingencies, would be awarded through ICB. The
contracts for the extension/rehabilitation of CMAs estimated to cost an average of US$2Q0,Q00
ali, for the DMP building to cost US$0.20 million, net of taxes and duties and including
contingencies, for the construction/rehabilitation of CSPS estimated to cost US$67.000 each and
CAMEG's warehouse estimated to cost US$37,000, would be awarded through LCB in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD loans and IDA credits (May



28
1992). Due to their small size, geographic spread, and high transportation costs, these civil
works are unlikely to attract foreign or large firms that use modern construction equipment.
However, foreign bidders would not be precluded from submitting bids. Contracts would be
grouped, to the extent practical into packages estimated to cost less than US$0.2 million each. In
the event any contract exceeds this amount ICB procedures would apply. No preferential margin
would be given to domestic contractors when LCB is used.
4.6 Civil Works Contract Management. Civil works management would be delegated to Faso
Baara (paras. 3.14, 3.22, 3.46) Contracts would be awarded based on procedures approved for
the Second Public Works and Employment Project and in accordance with procedures agreed upon
with the Government during negotiations. Faso Baara would maintain a roster of pre-qualified
contractors eligible for Local Competitive Bidding (LCB), would permit additional applications at
any time, and would not preclude large or foreign firms from participating. Contracts would be
awarded to the lowest evaluated bid based on criteria specified in bidding documents. The
contract award committee of Faso Baara would open bids in public and have full authority to
contract. It would justify, however, in writing and prior to signing the contract and with
reference to the bidding documents' criteria, any decision not to select the lowest evaluated bid.
For contracts with fewer than five bidders, or in the event the recommended award is not in favor
of the lowest bid, or contracts greater than or equal to US$200,000 equivalent, the award
committee would request IDA's non-objection prior to signing the contract.
4.7 GoQQd. Goods financed under the credit include medical equipment, office equipment and
supplies, vehicles, drugs in the form of EGD (Essential and Generic Drugs), vaccines and
micronutrients. Goods would be grouped into packages of at least US$200,000 each and procured
through ICB in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits (May 1992). A preferential margin of 15%, or the applicable custom duties
whichever is less, over the CIF prices of competing goods for all ICB procurement would be
given to domestic firms, in accordance with the Bank's guidelines. Goods that cannot be grouped
into packages of at least US$200,000 each would be procured through local competitive bidding
or from UN specialized agencies, provided that the aggregate amount of such procurement does
not exceed US$300,000 equivalent.
4.8   Du. EGDs would be procured by the CAMEG through International Competitive
Bidding on the basis of the Bank's Standard Bidding Documents for the Procurement of
Pharmaceuticals (September 1993), while vaccines and micronutrients would be procured from
UNICEF. Office supplies, spare parts and consumable materials needed for training, EEC, and
supervision activities and for operating the PCU, which are available off-the-shelf and cannot be
grouped into bid packages of at least US$50,000 may be procured through prudent local shopping,
based on price quotations obtained from at least three reliable suppliers, provided that the
aggregate amount of such procurement does not exceed US$1,600,000 equivalent. All bids will be
submitted on a c.i.f. basis for imported goods and on an ex-factory basis for locally manufactured
goods.



Tabe 2: Swmmary of propsed Pteuemmnt Asmrngunt
CategorV of Expenditure                                   Mehiod for IDA Flnewing      wt DeA       Toti
iCe       LCS       Oth
*. cm Waft
1.1 Health inrastruetre                                  0.4       10.0                  1J         11.0
(0.41     (10.0)                          110.4)
1.2 Others                                                          0.4                             0A
(0.4)                           (0.4)
,2. Goods
2.1 Medlel Equipment                                     3.1        0.3                 00         4.3
(3.1)     (0.31                           (3.4)
2.2 ONiee1oMainternce Equipment                          1.0                   0.4                   1.4
(1.0)                (0.4)                 (1.4)
2.3 VohicleeMotorycles                                   1.9                                        1.9
(1.9)                                      (.91
3. Dugs
3.1 Essentia / Glenerh Drugs                             0.4                             3.ob       3.4
(0.4)                                      (0.4)
3.2 Vaceines                                                                   0.1                  0.1
(0.1)                (0.1)
3.3 Mloronutrients                                                             3.2                   3.2
(3.)                 (3 2i
4. Specialist Servioe
4.1 Specialistsflnternationel                                                  1.4       1.60       3.0
:1.4)                11.4)
4.2 Audits                                                                     0.4                  0.4
(0.4)                (0.4)
4.3 Speciallets/Local                                                          0.8                   0.8
(0.8)                (0.8)
4.4 ArohitecutEngineot/Supensilon                                              0.6       0.94       1.5
10.6)                (0.6)
S. TrainW
5.1 Local Seninaresiralning                                                   0.4                   0.4
(0.4)                (0.4)
5.2 Ttaring Abroad                                                            0.5                   0.6
(0.5)                (0.5)
S. I.E.C.                                                                     0.3                   0.3
(0.3)                (0.3)
7. iremment Operating Cst
7.1 Supples, spare perts, materIs                                              1.2                   1.2
(1M                  (1.2)
7.2 Other Operaingcosts                                                        2.5      2L0"        4.5
(2.5)                (2.5)
Total Costs                                              6.8       10.7       11.8        9.6       38.9
IDA Credit                                              (6.8)      (10.7)    (11.6)       0        (29.2)
Note:   Figures may not add up due to rounding.
Ftgures in pantes arm amounu financed by the IDA oda&
Sec paragraphs 4.- 4.8 for cxpqanations r ding p_nourmat of itemnot v nanc fd by IDA.
a5Fanced by KfW.
bFnuanoed by KfW (US$1 million) and UNICEF (US$2 million).
"Fnncd by UNICEP.
dhaced by the Goew      t



30
4.9    Review by IDA. IDA-financed contracts for works and goods above a threshold of
US$200,000 equivalent would be subject to IDA's prior review procedures. The review process
would cover 86% of the total value of the amount contracted for goods and 45% of the amount
contracted for eivil works. Selective post-review of awarded contracts below the theshold level
would apply to about one of four contracts. Faso Baara's contract awards will be reviewed by its
auditors. The GoverDment agreed, during negotiations, to use the Bank's standard bidding
documents.
4.10 Consultant and other services. Specialist consultant services financed by IDA (US$ 3.5
million equivalent) would be contracted in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants (August 1981). Services to be contracted include local and international consultancy
services, training services, IEC specialist services, architectural services and construction
supervision, and procurement and financial auditing services. Faso Barra's construction
management services (no. to exceed US$0.4 million equivalent) would be procured through a sole
source contract, because contracts with foreign firms would be more expensive and there are no
other local firms with similar contract management expertise. Prior IDA review would not apply
to contracts with firms estimated to cost less than US$75,000 equivalent and contracts with
individuals estimated to cost less than US$30,000 aquivalent. However, this exception would not
apply to the terms of reference for such contracts, single source hiring of fims, assignments of
critical nature as determined by IDA, and to amendments of contracts raising the contract value to
US$75,000 equivalent or more for firms and US$30,000 or more for individuals, respectively.
4.11   Proumen status of ongoin poects and _oosed arrangm      . Disbursements under
the ongoing FHP (PDSS) were on schedule. Construction works by local contractors are delayed
by cumbersome administrative procedures and weak management capacity, particularly for
medium and small works. Under the proposed project, Faso Baara would be responsible for
contract management of all construction and/or rehabilitation works. The PCU would be
responsible for all other procurement with support from consults when necessary (para. 4.2).
The PCU would promptly report bid evaluation and contract award information and review
procurement progress in biannual reports, including an updated procurement plan and timetable,
to IDA (para. 4.3).
E. Disbemenis
4.12   The project is expected to be completed over a four and a half-year period, with the IDA
Credit disbursed over five fiscal years, according to the categories shown in Table 3. The
estimated disbursement profile is shown in Amnn 4.4. Disbursement of the credit would be fully
documented except for expenditures valued less than US$20,000 equivalent which would be made
against Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). Documentation for withdrawals under SOEs would be
retained at the PCU for review by IDA supervision missions and for semianmnal audits. To
facilitate disbursement, the Government would open a Special Account (SA) in a commercial bank
to cover IDA's share of eligible expenditures managed by the PCU. The authorized allocation for
the Special Account would be US$250,000. IDA would make an inital deposit of that amount
from the propc   Credit upon credit effectiveness and would replenish the SA upon receipt of
satisfactory prouf of incurred eligible expenditures. Replenishment requests would be
accompanied by up-to-date bank statements and reconciliations of the SA. Applications for direct
payments and reimbursements or requests for special commitments would apply for contracts
above US$20,000 equivalent.



31
F. AccountIng. Auditine and Reporting
4.13 The PCU would be responsible for the project's financial management and would maintain
consolidated project accounts. Project accounts including the SA, would be audited annually by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA; all disbursements under SOB would be audited
semiannually. The audit reports would be submitted to IDA within six months of the end of each
project fiscal year. During negotiations the Government gave assurances that it will submit to IlDA
aiwual audit reports, of reasonable scope and detail, within six months of the end of the
Government's fiscal year and, in the case of the SOEs, that it will submit semiannual reports
within three months after the end of each audit period. The appointment of an independent auditor
under a multi-year contract and with terms of reference acceptable to IDA will be ggndPin
rit tefiveness.
Table 3
Allocation and Disbursement of the IDA Credit
Caffgory of Expenditure   proposed IDA Allocation     % of Expenditures
(US$ million)      Financed by IDA
1. Civil Works                        9.7                  100
2. Equipment, furniture,
and vehicles                        3.0                 100
3. Supplies and spare parts            3.0                 100
4. Drugs                              0.4                  100
5. Vaccines and micronutrients         3.0                 100
6. Consultant services                2.9                  100
7. Training                           0.8                  100
8. EC                                 0.3                 100
9. Incremental Operating Costs         3.3           Declining basis'
10. Unallocated                       2.8                 N/A
TOTAL                    29.2
lDeclining basis:   100% through December 31, 1995
65% through December 31, 1997
35% thereafter
V. PROIECT BENEFiTS AND RISKS
A. Benefit
5.1    By reversing present trends of low CSPS utilization, the project will address the basic
needs of some of the poorest segments of the Burkinabe population, improve the productivity of
sectoral investments including those financed under the FHP, and support the Government's
efforts in establishing a more responsive decentralized health care system. Thealth services
component has been designed to directly benefit about 3 million people (30% of Burkina Faso's
population) who will gain access to quality health care. With special attenton to be paid to



32
maternal and infant care, the project should have a major impact on reducing maternal and infant
mortality rates. The project's emphasis on substituting expensive brand-name drugs with low cost
generic drugs will both benefit patients by reducing their financial burden during sickness
episodes, and also make possible the introduction of cost recovery, which would provide the
Government with additional revenue required for more efficient functioning of health services at
all levels of the system. Short supplies of drugs have been one of the major problems of the
present CSPS system, which has led to the underutiization of basic health facilities. Stocking the
CSPS with essential generic drugs coupled with instituting cost-recovery would help overcome
this major problem. It is also expected that community participation in the management of the
CSPS would greatly enhance the population's trust in the reorganized health care system.
5.2   Provision of additional surgical facilities at the district level should contribute to more
immediate medical/surgical interventions in emergency cases, and at the same time, reduce the
clogging at the Regional and National Hospitals. Training of general practitioners in abdominal
surgery would break an existing bottleneck by increasing the supply of doctors capable of
performing acute abaominal surgeries such as appendectomies. Additional training to doctors at
the district level would improve their skills in coping with increased supervision of the CSPS,
thus assuring improved performance of the basic level health facilities in the new decentralized
health care systera.
5.3   The nutrition component would be a major complement to the IDA-financed Food
Security and Nutrition Project (Credit 2414-BUR) by providing supplies of necessary
micronutrients to the diet. In particular high rates of anemia among expectant mothers leading to
low birthweights will be reduced due to supplementary iron to be administered during pre-natal
care. Dispensing of iodine and vitamin A should gready reduce incidences of iodine deficiency
and vitamin A deficiency causing blindness. A feasibility study to be financed by UNICEF under
the project should lead to actions to promote the importation of iodized salt and thereby resolve a
severe problem of iodine deficiency throughout the country.
5.4   The endemic parasitic disease control component would contribute to sustaining the
success of the OCP. Possible reintroduction of onchoceciacis through immigrants setting in the
oncho-freed areas would be prevented through the devolution component's control system.
Simultaneously, similar controls should make it impossible for outbreaks of trypanosomiasis.
Through these measures, seven million Burkinabe would remain protected from any recurrence of
onchocerciasis. And about 17% (43,000 km) of Burkina's agricultural lands-with relatively
fertile soils-would remain safe for the production of foodstuffs and other agricultural
commodities.
5.5   Through improved suneillance and education of the popuation substantial reductions in
the incidence of dracunculiasis would be achieved. Although dracunculiasis is not a mortal
disease, it leads v" economic losses due to absence from work and/or school. Official estimates,
based on village surveys, indic;te that about 34% of the villages in Burkina are afflicted by
dracunculiasis. Preventive action taken under the project would reduce the incidence of
dracunculiasis considerably and make a substantial contribution to worker productivity in the rural
areas. The estimated economic loss avoided through eradication would be a minimum of US$3
mfllion per annum.



33
)B. sk
5.6          The project faces three major risks. The first risk is that the expected procurement
of essential generic drugs and their distribution may be slow to materialize. The Government has
approved the required legislation and, with Bank assistance, established CAMEG, an organization
likely to undertake imports and distribution more efficiently than its predecessor, SONAPHARM,
since CAMEG would be freer from the influence of the Burkinabe pharmacist lobby. lhe
Government has provided assurances that it will operate CAMEO in compliance with "satisfactory
performance" criteria as defined jointly by the Government and the Bank during negotiations.
Supervision during the first half of the project will focus heavily on ensuring satisfactory cost-
recovery and a continuous supply of essential drugs at the district level. The second risk is the
resistance to redeploying doctors and other health staff to rural areas and ensuring that they
remain there in order to fulfill their assigned responsibilities.  To address this risk, the
Government has begun to develop and implement a redeployment action plan, which would be
acceptable to IDA. The ibird risk is the time required for regaining the confidence of the
population in the CSPS especially in light of the proposed cost recovery scheme and the recent
devaluation of the CFA franc. Special attention needs to be paid to the level and pace of
implementing cost assessment so as not to prevent people from seeking help at the primary level
of the health care system. In this respect the third risk is closely linked to the first, i.e.
widespread availability of low cost generic drugs.
VI. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMEDATIONS
6.1   The Government met the conditions of negotiations by providing the following documentation
and by taking the following actions:
(a) The final draft of a letter of sector development policy, with quantifiable and monitorable
sectoral objectives beyond the life of the project. (para. 2.33, 3.2);
(b) A list of sites for the 15 CSPS to be constructed in the urban areas and proof of their
transfer and consignment for construction purposes (para. 3.9);
(c) Terms of Reference, acceptable to ID:A, for a study of the bospital sector (para. 3.13);
(d) A formal draft of contract for delegation of civil works contract management to Faso
Baara between Faso Baara and the Government (para. 3.14);
(e) Staffing norms approved by the Government to allow medical facilities to operate with the
minimal staff required to function (para. 3.18);
(t) Outlines of a plan, acceptable to IDA, which would provide for adequate staffing of the
health facilitie through redeployment of existing staff, pre-service and in-service training and
new recruitment, including implementation of the first stage of this plan (para. 3.18);
(g) Issuance of a Decree providing for increased autonomy of the CMAs and CSPS by
allowing these facilities to retain receipts through the sale of drugs and services and to be co-
managed by the local communities (para. 3.20);



34
(O) Revised Decree establishing the CAMEG and criteria for the satisfactory performance of
the CAMEG during the period 1994-1999, which have been agreed upon with IDA (para.
3.24);
(t) A final draft of the national micronutrient program with an implementation plan for the
period, 1994-1999 (para. 3.28);
0) A final draft of the agreement for execution of the micronutrient deficiency component
between the Government and UNICEF (para. 3.38);
6.2   During negodations, the Government gave assurances that it would:
(a) Complete the hospital sector study by June 30, 1995 and implement a resulting action
program, acceptable to IDA, by March 31, 1997 (para. 3.13);
(b) Complete preparations of a national redeployment plan by June 30, 1995, and implement
said plan by March 31, 1997 (para. 3.18);
(c) Ensure that each Health District, as soon as its CMA has been fiuly upgraded, have in
place throughout the duration of the project (1) minimal personnel based upon norms defined
in cd&sLon No. 93-304ISASEiSG. to staff the CMA and each of its constituent CSPS; (2) a
District Health Plan (PDDS) for the district concerned; (3) a trained district health team; (4) a
financial accounting system for the CMA and each of its constituent CSPS responsible for
stocking and selling essential generic drugs; and (5) legal registration of a community
management committee (CG) for the CMA concerned and for each of its constituent CSPS
(paras. 3.15, 3.18, and 3.20);
(d) Ensure that the CAMEG meets the performance criteria which have been agreed upon
between IDA and the Government and which are set out in Annex 2.4 (para. 5.6), in an
attachment to the letter of sector policy (para. 3.24);
(e) lntegrate micronutrients in the algorithms, supervision manuals, training curricula for the
health district teams, patient cards, and ongoing training sessions of MCH and EPI services by
October 31, 1994 (para. 3.30);
(t) Provide a detailed implementation plan of the micronutrient component for the first year
of the Project by Project Launch Workshop (para. 3.30);
(g) Take actions to promote importation of iodized salt according to WHO standards and
implement appropriate legal regulations thereto by March 31, 1996, based upon a feasibility
study to be completed prior to the Project Launch Workshop (para. 3.33);
(h) Complete a national prevalence survey on dracunculiasis by July 31, 1995 and that the
plan of eradication would be adjusted according to the conclusions of the survey (para. 3.38);
(i) Complete a survey of ongoing external financing in the health sector in Burkina Faso by
July 1995 and implement a monitoring and coordinating system for such financing by July 31,
1996 (para. 3.51);



35
() Ensure that the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) functions according to terms of reference
acceptable to IDA and not recruit any key staff of the PCU without the prior consent of IDA
(para. 3.53);
(k) Budget and deposit in an account in a commercial bank in Ouagadougou by January 1,
1996 an initial amount of US$100,000 to meet expenditures under the project. The remaining
amount of the Government's counterpart contribution would be deposited, quarterly in
advance, according to a schedule of payments agreed upon between the Borrower and the
Association (para. 3.55);
() Based on the results of the mid-term review (March 1997), prepare and implement an
action plan, acceptable to IDA, for further implementation of the project; and within six
months of the Credit closing date, transmit a completion report, prepared in accordance with
terms of reference acceptable to IDA (para. 4.3);
(m) Submit to MlA annual audit reports, of reasonable scope and detail, within six months of
the end of each fiscal year, and, in the case of SOEs, submit semi-annual reports within three
months after the end of each audit period (para. 4.13).
6.3    As a condition of Board presentation, the Government has adopted the approved letter of
sector development policy and an accompanying action plan, including annual quantitative targets for
the 1995-2000 period (para. 2.33).
6.4    As a condition of credit effectiveness the Government would: (i) sign the Covernment-
UNICEF Agreement regarding components to promote staff development, decentralize the health
system, and reduce micronutrient deficiencies (paras. 3.19, 3.22, and 3.35); (ii) sign the contract with
Faso Baara for the management of civil works financed under the project (para. 3.53); (iii) ensure that
the PCU is fuMly operational, with the Director and two professional staff in their posts (para. 3.53);
(iv) recruit a qualified accounting company, acceptable to IDA, experienced in working according to
international accounting standards (para. 3.53); and (v) appoint an independent auditor under a multi-
year contract, with terms of reference, acceptable to IDA (para. 4.13).
6.5    Recommendation. Subject to the above terms and conditions, the proposed project would be
suitable for an IDA credit of US$29.2 million equivalent on standard IDA terms.



36
Annex 1.1
Page 1 of 1
BURKINA FASO:
SOCIO - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i -                                                                     -_Next
8mb-                      bigh-
IMd         2U-30~am      11-g a                      EAfs               mu, Sgrou
GNPptqp;(emtS99C)                              1              so0        ISO          290              340             350       1.530
(1993
CGiuner pdos Min
SOCJAL INIATORS
Pubi e         "eanb.,.mmimn                % of GD?           ..         ..          10               .                ..
pbCcqmd__ amiaa               I           s _
aram arw     wUan  Iq.u
P:    Tel                                      *              12          16         315               49              109        101
FP_                                           '              *          12         2n                9o 99                      9
Secdu. Told                                    *               1          2            7               13               40        53
II*                                                         I           X           S               15               33        57
Iafauaat.                              pv OmUwbU            190        t16          t33              104              70        50
Unw 5 m    i                                                 ..         .. c00                      t167             167        SO
a    _a
Iimnkaar (.d.ndw ..mUh
Mues                                     S                   ..         ..          40               49               44        65
DPT                                           *              ..         ..                           s 3              43        67
Ufaeemw                                       Sat 38                      42          4                51               62        65
O.aU                                                        40          44          49               52               63        63
Fond
T40i1row1  f                             bbZpw                6.4         6.5         6.5              6               3.7        3.7
mama tm         aft        .             100       bk          ..         ..          no
Soume: Seddb&E.u q'DdtWhWM 1991-92, T  Weadk Bak, 1992  d WOWd D lvqWd_ Ip1993: Iaw g In Red", Th
Wrd Dak 1993.
Populatidon growth                               Infautmortalty                            Primary school enrollment
3                                                                                              6
*0                                        0                                                5* 76  _   b    t*7



37                              Annex 2.1
Page 1 of 5
Annual Bank Staff Report to the Executive Directors on the
Riverblindness (Onchoceriasis) Control Program
Iaroduction
1.           Each year Bank staff report to the Board on the progress oi C  West African
Riverblindness Control Program following the annual meeting of the ProtI   l Govertung
Council-the Joint Programme Committee (JPC). This report follows the 13th session of the JPC
which convened in Geneva, December 8-1l, 1992. The Riverblindness Program has been in
operation 18 years and has about another decade to go to complete its mission. The Geneva JPC
marked the beginning of the concluding phases of the Program. Hence, it provided an excellent
perspective for assessing what has been achieved thus far and what is required in the future to
bring the Program to a successful completion and to capitalize on its accomplishments. The
purpose of this report is to bring the Board up to date on the progress in controlling riverblindness
and to preview the future directions of the Program.
Proess in Controlling Riverblindness
2.           The Program's objective is to eliminate riverblindness as a disease of public health
and socioeconomic importance in an 11 country area in West Africa and to ensure that the
beneficiary countries are in a position to safeguard this achievement. The Bank was instrumental
in creating the Program in 1974 and continues to play a major role in its operations as a leading
sponsor and its second largest donor. The Bank co-sponsors the Program with UNDP, FAO, and
WHO. WHO is the executing agency. Ihe Bank has statutory responsibility for donor
coordination, mobilizing all donor financing, and managing the Program's Trust Fund. The Bank
regularly chairs the Donors' Conference and the Committee of Sponsoring Agencies, which
coordinate broad Program policies, consider financing requirements, review budgets, and oversee
Program operations. In addition, the Bank plays a lead role in organizing support both for
socioeconomic development of riverblindness-controlled areas and for capacity building in the
beneficiary countries to prevent any long-term recurrence of the disease.
3.           Riverblindness is caused by a parasitic worm which lives for up to 14 years in the
human body. This adult worm produces millions of microscopic infant worms which migrate
throughout the body causing intense itching, debilitation, disfiguration, and eventally bindness.
The vector for the disease is a savanna blackfly which transmits the infant worm from an infected
person to others where it may develop into adulthood and reproduce. The Program's principal
means of controlling riverblindness is to break the transmission cycle by killing the larvae of the
blackfly. Blackfly larvae are destroyed through aerial spraying of breeding sites in fast-flowing
rivers. This 'vector control" method employs only environmentally safe insecticides which have
been screened by an independent committee of internationally recognized ecologists. Once the
cycle of riverblindness transmission has been interrupted for at least 14 years, the reservoir of
adult worms dies out in the human population, thus eliminating the source of the disease.



38                               Annex 2.1
Page 2 of 5
4.           The Program has now virtually eliminated riverblindness in the original seven-
country areae where operations were launched in 1974 and it has ceased operations in 80% of this
area. bis is an impressive achievement considering that the area was once the most heavily
infected area in the world, with a disease prevalence rate of 15%. This original area now contains
more than 20 million people.
5.           Considerable progress has also been made in securing control over the disease in
neighboring areas-known as the extension areas.  It was determined necessary to extend
operations into these areas in the mid-1980s to control up to the limits of the breeding sites of the
blackfly if the Program was ultimately to be brought to a successful conclusion. The extension
areas include four additional countries2 and 10 million more people. Program operations now
cover the entire extension areas and have succeeded in halting reinvasion of infected blackflies
back into the original area. As a result, the original area is fully protected from any renewed
tansmission of the disease.
6.           'Te Program is employing a relatively new drug, ivermectin (Mectizan), to
complement vector control. Unlike vector control, Mectizan will not halt transmission and it has
no proven impact on the adult worms in humans. However, it kills the infant worms in the body
preventing them from causing debilitation and blindness. Last year, the Program planned and
oversaw the treatment of nearly one million people with Mectizan. The Program's current
strategy is to combine Mectizan treatment, to prevent impending blindness, with vector control to
stop transmission and eliminate the adult worm reservoir throughout the human population over
the long term. There is now some evidence to suggest that the combination of vector control and
Mectia treatment may be accelerating the pace with which the Program is achieving elimination
of the disease. Considerable progress has been made recently in research supported by the
Program to find a safe and effective drug which would kill the adult worm. Such a discovery,
while not essential to the Program's ultimate success, would shorten its duration and virtually
guarantee its sustainability.
7.           The Program's impact to date can be summarized by the following data: Thirty
million people are currendy protected from riverblindness transmission. Nine million children,
born since the Program began, face no risk of contracting the disease. One and a half million
people who were once seriously infected have completely recovered and carry no trace of the
parasite. The Program has prevented 150,000 cases of blindness. And successful control is
freeing up approximately 25 million hectares of arable land which could not previously be
inhabited or cultivated due to the severity of the disease.
llwlding major portions of Bmin, Burkina Paso, CMte d'lvoire, Ghana, Mali, Niger and Togo.
20uines, Guinea-issau, Senegal, and Sierra Leone



39                               Annex 2.1
Page 3 of 5
8.           The Program's accomplishments received considerable international recognition in
late 1992 when its director, Dr. Ebrahim Samba, received the Hunger Project Prize for African
Leadership and the Italian and Swiss Balzan Prize for preventive medicine-the first African to
receive this prize in its 35 year history. These awards explicitly recognize Dr. Samba's
excellence in leadership and management. But they also reflect the commitment and dedication to
this Program by the international community-the West African beneficiary countries, the donors,
and the sponsoring agencies-as well as the staff of the Program, 97% of whom are West African.
Ile Future
9.           In February of last year, representatives of the Program's 22 donors and 11
beneficiary countries gathered at Bank headquarters for the signing of the Phase Four Fund
Agreement which will take the Program through 1997. This agreement embodies the pledges of
22 donors enabling Phase Four to be launched with secure financing of US$165 million-94% of
the required financing of US$175 million over the next six years. The World Bank has pledged
US$2.63 million per year for Phase Four, subject to annual approval by the Executive Directors.
This represents 9% of the financing required over the 1992-1997 phase. In this period of
increasing demands on aid budgets, this major multi-donor commitment to continued funding is a
tribute to the effectiveness of the Program, the quality of its management and the overall
importance of the Program's objective in the context of other development priorities. During this
last major operational phase, it is expected that the Program will largely eliminate riverblindness
throughout the 11-country area. Following Phase Four, the Program will wind down to a
definitive conclusion by about the year 2000. At that point total Program expenditures will have
reached nearly US$580 millionI in nominal terms-a cost which averages out to less than. US$1 per
person protected per annum c ver the Program's 27 year history.
10.          A discernable shift in priorities was apparent at the Geneva JPC as the Program
enters its concluding phases. With the achievement of fiul control over the disease in sight and
the winding down of Program operations, the donors and beneficiary countries are turning their
attention to sustaining the Program's achievements and building upon new development
oppormuities arising out of successful onchocerciasis control.
11.          A major challenge of Phase Four will be to put into place at the national level the
institutional infrastructure and knowledge base for ensuring the sustainability of the Program's
achievements. This process, which has been labeled "devolution," primarily involves transferring
the Program's extensive skills in disease surveillance and treatment to the beneficiary countries.
The Program is committed to assisting the beneficiary countries in establishing surveillance and
response systems capable of preventing any major recurrence of the disease.
12.          This past year, the Program created a Devolution Unit to coordinate work in this
area. The Unit has already assisted in the preparation and revision of national devolution plans
for eight of the beneficiary countries, most of which call for establishing multi-disease
surveillance and control systems that will extend the epidemiological expertise developed for
controlling riverblindness to other diseases such as guinea worm, schistosomiasis and sleeping
sickness. It is also coordinating information campaigns to notify local populations of the
consequences of the blackfly's return and the importance of Mectizan in the prevention of
blindness.



40                             Annex 2.1
Page 4 of S
13.         In Burkina Faso, the Devolution Unit has worked closely with the Government
and the Bank in finalizing the devolution plan which has become an important component of a
major Bank-supported national health project. This component is being implemented with fu1l
financing by the Bank, and the prospects appear good that its conception and implementation will
serve as a model for supporting devolution in the other ten beneficiary ccuntries. At the Geneva
JPC the Bank stated its willingness to consider financing other devolution plans thrugh on-going
or new Bank-supported health projects.
14.          Along with the health benefits of controlling riverblindness, one of the important
justifications of the Program has been the substantial economic benefits of opening up new areas
for settlement and productive agriculture.  There is increasingly clear evidence that the
socioeconomic benefits of riverblindness control are being realized. Recetly available data show
that cereal crop production in the Sahelian countries has increased more quickly in the past decede
than in either of the two preceding decades. Much of this increase in production appears to be
due to expansion of the areas under crop production and most of this expansion has occurred in
the riverblindness-controlled zones. These increases in settlement and production have led to
concerns about the environmental impact on the riverblindness freed areas. Fortunately, the
Program, with its independent ecological committee and its hydrobiological monitoring network,
has been a model of combining development objectives with safeguards for the environment. And
the Program's environmental monitoring capacities are being utilized to address settlement-related
activities.
15.         The Program's Committee of Sponsoring Agencies (CSA), which is chaired by the
Bank, has also responded to the concerns of the beneficiary countries and donors by developing a
program to support socioeconomic development activities in the Program area. To date the CSA
has financed and executed, among other activities, two regional studies-one a natural resource
inventory and the other a study of settlement experience of the riverblindness-controlled areas.
Both of these studies highlighted the interconnection between development and the environment.
Building on these studies, the CSA presented a foUlow-up program to the Geneva JPC, consisting
of an environmental impact assessment of newly settled areas and the organization of a ministerial
conference on sustainable settlement of the riverblindness areas to take place in 1994. Both were
strongly endorsed at the Geneva meeting. The Geneva JPC concluded that addressing the issues
surrounding the promotion of sustainable settlement through concrete actions at a policy level is a
very high priority if the socioeconomic development potential of the riverblindness-freed areas is
to be fully realized.
Conclusion
16.         The success of the Program in eliminaing riverblindness as a major public health
problem in much of West Africa is now in sight. The basic elements, including an effective
control strategy, steadfast donor support, close regional cooperation, and efficient management,
are in place to bring the Program to a successful and lasting conclusion within this decade. The
only major risk at this stage appears to be the possibility of becoming overly complacent given the
Program's success. It is crucial that the donor community, sponsoring agencies, and beneficiary
countries actively pursue this Program through to the end. Otherwise, there is a possibility of
evenualy experiencing a resurgence of the disease and a retrn to the once tragic conditions of
the pro-program era-an unfortunate development which has occurred with some other major
disease control programs due to a premature relaxation of control efforts. We see it as an
important responsibility of the Bank, as leading sponsor of this endeavor, to continue its efforts to



41                             Annex 2.1
Page 5 of S
ensure the necessary commitment from the donor community, other sponsoring agencies, and the
beneficiary countries, to attain the goals of eliminating riverblindness, sustaning this
achievement, and building upon the new development opportunities arising out of successfiu
control of the disease.



ORGANIGRAMME DU MINISTERE DE LA SANTE,
DE L' ACTION SOCIALE ET DE LA FAMILLE
IMINISTRE DEEU
CT s                      CEPIDES
SG                                                                   SERVICES
RATTACHES
JF
COWINE  C.ui dElwdeS, d ?rmoo St dlobfonullo Mt to P    aWma.U So0i                           DPASP   Dmim  tioePrvol&l do l'Acd   Soci&ete ad Is FamiMo
cr       Comuge4a)Tecbuiaa(s)                                                                 DPSAF   Dirotios bwAmi&iW  do la SanE do rAction Sociee et o Is FamiNe
DAA'  Dkwcdom do. MSoAuMbWmhStai. Fmwwmole                                                    DPSP    Datectos provinciai de Ia SantE Publqu
US       UkOelM de l'Edaoc                                                                    DSF      Dl  toja do a  eigE de Na Pamile
DSP      DImde dui ElUdes  de la |a|fictIo                                                    DSPH    D|ctio do Sovice  basmacaaiue
POAMP  Divectio GAmidal do MIAoN Social. a do ka F..UM                                       TM5       Ispectio Tecdiuedo. Ses ftww  Sociauz et saitabios
DOSP    Diroedo GEEafte do Le Sman tEfuiRme                                                  MDAP  UfinisDz. DEidgu caagd do I-ACti  Social et do e Famie                ot.
Dig C_ otlo d om    IebanbD Societe                                                          MSASF   Aeige do . SWA, do (Actioe Socia a de  Fami
PV        Dieean    e mdala  Roqalsa                                                          so       Secidai  OEgl dote iSaO, do IJActio  SociFi. d d la Fam& b
DPP      Diecon do b PXo n dolk FaMiNe



43                              Annex 2.3
Page I of 5
HEALTH AND NUTRMTION PROJECT
BACKGROUND ON THE MCRQNIlWNT CQ1NENT
A. EXISTING PROGRA2MS AND DONOR COORDINATION
1.           The Government has demonstrated its concerns over micronutrient deficiencies by
taking several actions. Iodine deficiency control was part of the past and present Five Year Plans.
Strategies formulated by the Plans provide for a pilot project for iodized oil and supplementation.
Another pilot program for vitamin A deficiency has entered its second phase and covers eight
provinces. Operational strategies include mass distribution of vitamin A capsules, health center
based medical treatment of children at risk, and increasing vitamin A intake through food
produced through home and school gardening. Iron deficiency receives attention through
systematic detection and treatment of anenia by health workers, and free distribution of ferrous
folate to pregnant women during prenatal consultations. However, access to supplements is limited
to outside urban areas, latgely due to supply problems.
2.           Ihe two main donors already involved in the fight against micronutrient
deficiencies are UNICEF and USAID. For Iodine Deficiency Diseases (IDD), UNICEF will start
iodaton of water wells on a pilot basis next year in some enclaved areas. Also for IDD, an
international NGO Medicus Mundt helped the MOH in 1990-93 undertake operational research
comparing two methods of iodine delivery: injectable iodine through using the EPI delivery
system, and oral doses using health centers and PHC workers. Ihe coverage achieved was about
68% using the injectable, and 58% using the oral doses. For Vitamin A, UNICEF and USAID
cover 8 provinces with the help of the international NGO Helen Keller International; however,
coverage is expected to be only 30% for children under five, children 6-10, and breast feeding
mothers. This project also aims at increasing by 20% the number of children under five eating
vitamin A-rich food at least four times a week; and 90% of children at risk who visit health
centers will also receive vitamin A. USAID has been financing the development of a nutrition
communication strategy which includes messages on vitamin A, with the help of the consulting
firm Academy for Educational Development (AED). FAO has also been involved in developing
media products and a radio strategy for vitamin A. The Canadian government proposed to finance
a pilot test on an "integrated micronutrient deficiency control project" from 1993-96 to address all
three micronutients, but the proposal has not yet been approved.
3.           For the design of a national food and nutrition strategy, the Government has set
up a working group composed of representatives from the various minities (Plan, Agriculture,
MSASF), NGOs, bilateral donors, UNICEF, and WHO. A strategy document was produced and
presented at the International Conference on Nutrition in Rome in December 1992. Major
elements of the stregy will aim at increased household food security, reduction of morbidity,
nutrition surveillance, and the control of micronutrient deficiencies. The MOH has prepared a first
draft of the nadonal program for the control of micronutrient deficiencies, parts of which will be
financed by the proposed PDSN project.



44                                Annex 2.3
Page 2 of 5
EPIDEMIOLpICAL DATA
4.            Yitnin A: As can be seen by the tables below, several provlnces in the North of
Burkina have rates of nightblindness much above the thres}..Id considered acceptable by WHO for
preschool age children, and the table on the following page shows that many other provinces have
not yet been surveyed.
Vitamin A Deficiency: Northern Burkina Faso
Vitamiin A deficiency    Rates in   Maximum rates considered
symptoms         Burkina*       acceptable by WHO
Night blindness      2.82%              1.00%
Corneal ulceration    0.18%              0.01%
Bitot spots        2.15%              2.00%
*Source Ouddrango  dr, Analyse do Ia situation. Seewur do la nutridon. JulIet 1991 (Wis information is based on an
MOH publication (dad 198) whib telies on data collected IX the Noath of Budina).
Prevalence of Night Blindness
(children 2-5 years old)
Province   Rate of night
l______  blindness*
Soum         2.57%
Tapoa        1.65%
Passore      1.80%
Bam          1.16%
Gourma       0.79%
YIen         0.32%
* Sowce: Men r Katernatin, Ndvalenoe do la gs    en vtMm.C A chen lenf  do 0-- 10 am MOH-UNICBP,
Ouygadougou, juin-julfet 1989 (Note h th rates for niSht blindnem in the table ap  to childn 2-5 yea od).
5.            The following table shows the distribution of inputs by different donors. The
second phase of a pilot program financed by USAID-UNICEF-HBI covers 8 provinces from 1992-
95 (the first phase covered 4 provinces: Bam, Sanmantengam Yatenga and Namentnpa). The
strategy includes mass distibution of vitamin A capsules, health center-based medical treatment of
children at risk, and increasing availability of vitamin A-rich food dirough home and school
gardening. The DSF, assisted by AED through USAID fmancing, has a project focusing on IEC
campaigns by health workers for increased vitamin A consumption in these same 8 provinces.
Other projects promote home gardening and preservation of fruit and vegetables (FAO with
VITAL), and education combined with supplementation through villages aninarics (SCF-USA).
Vitamin A (retinol) is part of the essential drug list and is intended to be used for curative
purposes.



45                                 Annex 2.3
Page 3 of 5
Vilam     A Deficiency:  preaence of night blndness mong 2-5 yea   old, and existing
Interventions, by province
PROVINCE                 ACTIVE ORGANIZATION              Prevalence of
_________-________                                              Night Blindness
1 SAM               USAID/UNICEF/HKI + PNUDIFAO                     1.16%0
2 8AZENGA           USAID/Nutricom + STC       __
3 BOUGOURIBA
4 BOULGOU                            -                         4%: 8.89%e
5 BOULKIEMDE __._                         .       _.           1%e; 0.91%- *
6 COMOE                                                          .-
7 GANZOURGOU                                                       7.92%00
8 GNAGNA            USAID/Nutricom                            _
9 GOURMA            USAID/Nutricom                                 0.79%
10 HOUEr
11 KADIOGO                                .
12 KENEDOUGOU __                                       _
13 KOSSI             USAID/Nutricom
14 KOURITENGA        ___   _
15 MOUHOUN           USAID/Nutricom
16 NAHOURI                                                     2%; 7.86%w-
17 NAMENTENGA        USAID/UNICEF/HKI + PNUD/FAO                Survey planned
18 OUBRITENGA        USAID/UNICEF/HKI + Nutricom                Survey planned
3.38%"*
19 OUDALAN
20 PASSORE           USAID/UNICEF/HKI                               1.80%*
21 PONI
22 SANGUIE                                                     4%-; 3.37%**
23 SANMANTENGA    USAID/UNICEF/HKI + PNUD/FAO                    Survey Planned
24 SENO              STC
25 SISSIU            PNUD/FAO                                       7.08%00
26 SOUM              USAIDANNICEF/HKI                               2.57%0
27 SOUROU
28 TAPOA             USAID/UNICEF/HKI                               1.65%
29 YATENGA           USAID/UNICEF/HKI + Nutricom + PNUD/FAO        0.32%'
30 ZOUNDWEOGO   __,_._._,_ _
* Bad on ahildren 2S years of at who wew sumvyed In 1989 (Source: HKI. July 1989).
Soure: Rappoet swr la Situaton Nubitronnele at Afimenafre au Budidna Faso, DSFIOMS. Octobre 1987.
for chWrdn 3-9 yem of age sourc: Nawnal Mionut,ient Programme, MOH. June 1993.



46                               Annex 2.3
Page 4 of 5
6.           Iodine: The table below shows that 15 provinces or half of Burkina Faso have
more than 10% prevalence of goiters; however, no data is yet available for 9 other provinces.
Table : Prevalence of Total Goiters by Province
MRhPrew le(>20%)       Mokrate PrevaoeneflO020% i   hrwPreVdlence(< 1O
Province  |   Goiter       Province  |   Goiter   I  Province        Goiter
I prevalence I               prevalence I             I prevalence
Bazega       41.3%                                    Bougouriba   8.9%
Yatenga      37.1%         Kadiogo       18.1%        Sanguie       8.9%
Passore      64.8%         Bam           17.9%        Poni          8.9%
Namentenga   57.6%         Oubritenga    17.7%        Gourma       8.4%
Houet        22.7%         Sanmantenga  16.3%         Tapoa         6.9%
Kenedougou   22.7%         Mouhoun      15%           Zoundweogo  2.9%
.________ -___..___  Kossi             15%          Ganzourgou   2.4%
Sourou       15%           Boulgou       1.6%
Boulkiemde   13.9%         Sissii        1%
.-_____ _______  Comoe    11.3%         Nahouri      0.5%
Source: MSASPIDSF, Ramoost du moict de hlt ootles la TDCI au Passor6 et Nameanena, janvier 1992.
7.           The following table shows the distribution of inputs by different NGOs which are
conducting pilot operations. The pilot project by Medicus Mundt lasted from 1990-93. UNICEF
sarted to fiance iodine-polymer canisters to iodize water wells with the help of the NGO EAST.
8.            kQn: Iron and folic acid are part of the essential drugs list It is expected that all
pregnant women will receive these supplements during their prenatal visits at health facilities. The
present government strategy calls for detection of anemia among pregnant women. Under PDSN
there would not be any detection required since blanket coverage is proposed for women who
come to seek prenatal care.



47                                         Annex 2.3
Page 5 of 5
Iodine Defidency: Prevaelnce and   isting Interventions, by Province
PROVINCE           ACTIVE                                    PREVALENCE
ORGANIZATION'                           TOT. GOITERS*
I SAM                                                                  17.9%
2 BAZEGA                 East(localized, in '94)                       41.3%
3 BOUGOURIBA                                                           8.9%
4 BOULGOU                                                               1.6%
5 BOULKIEMDE             Eastilocalized, in '94)                       13.9%
6 COMOE                        .1._                         _          11.3%
7 GANZOURGOU                                                 _         2.4%
8 GNAGNA                                                                        _
9 GOURMA                 _                                             8.4%
10 HOUET                 __                                            22.7%
1 1 KADIOGO                                                            18.1%
12 KENEDOUGOU            __                                            22.7%
13 KOSSI                                                                 15%
14 KOURITENGA            _
15 MOUHOUN              _                                             15.0%
1 NAHOURI                                                               0.5%
17 NAMENTENGA                5__ _ _                __       _          57.6%
18 OUBRITENGA            _                                             17.7%
19 OUDALAN
20 PASSORE               Medcus Mundi (iniect.in'91) + East   64.8%;46.0%* 
21 PONI                                                                 8.9%
22 SANGUIE                                                              8.9%
23 SANMANTENGA                                                         16.3%
24 SENO
25 SISSILI                                                              1.0%
26 SOUM
27 SOUROU                                                                15%
28 TAPOA                  __                                            6.9%
29 YATENGA                _                                            37.1%
30 ZOUNDWEOGO                 ._      ._ ..._2.9%
1 Active orgnIatons: East Is a' NGO Involved In iodiziln water wails. Medbous Mundi Is a NGO Involved In an O.R. competn
dff_alvese of oral vs. injetable Iodated oil
* MOHIDSF, Fapport am la situation nutritionnelie at alimnalre au Burina Faso. octobre 1987; MOHIWHO, Enqutdt nutrltlonnele
den to d6partmont, 1982 & 1985; MOHIORANA 'Etude epidemiobogique de l'otat nubttonnei on milieu rural. 1983.
*I lbi rate was determnd In 1990 by Dr. Jonathn Uliou OQuhir, for his Doctoral Thesis Etude EpideminbolWop  du goite
ondomiqu dane to province du Pasire,- Ecole Suporeuro des Sciences de Ib Sant6, Univorslt de Ouagadougou. The sample reied
on it based on cooulation whereas t  other rates molikevly wer calculated from a school-children oopulatfon.
Rates for Passor and Namnenteng are those provided by the baseline tudy by DSF and MedAus Mund (n - 419 by provic).



48                              Annex 2.4
Page 1 of 6
MINISTRY OF HEALTH,
SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT
AND THE FAMILY (MSASF)
Ouagadougou, (date)
TO
President, World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
USA
Subject:     Letter of Hslth Sector Policy,
Burkina Faso
Dear Mr. President,
1.    During the 1980s, Burkina Faso, with the support of all its partners in social and health
development, made major efforts to improve the health situion of the country's populadon
gmups. However, in spite of the investments already made and the reforms undertaken, their
sitaion remains acutely worrying. It is characterized by very high morbidity and mortality rates,
persistent protein-calorie malnutrition and poor health coverage.
2.    Although declining steadily, the crude mortality rate is one of Africa's highest: 17.5 in
1985, compared with an average of 15 for Africa as a whole. The maternal mortality rate is
about 610 per 100,000 live births. Mortality rates among infants and young children in 1990
stood at 133 and 228 , respectively.
3.    Endemic/epidemic diseases are the principal causes of morbidity and mortality in Burkina
Faso. Over the last few years, more people have been afflicted by malaria than by any other
disease. It is followed by diarrheal diseases. This overall situation is being compounded by the
emergence and rapid spread of AIDS.
4.    As regards Burkina Faso's nutritional and food situation, it has by and large remained a
cause for concern since the severe droughts of the 1970s. Ibis situation has been reflected in a
growing prevalence of protein-energy malnutrition (PEM) and other deficiency disorders



49                               Annex 2.4
Page 2 of 6
(nutritional anemias, Vitamin A deficiency, endemic goiter, etc.). PEM strlkes 50% of infants
from 6 months to 3 years, 35.5% of women of child-bearing age and 40% of pregnant women.
5.    With respect to the health coverage provided by the country's infrastructure facilides, the
situation remains precarious owing to the qualitative and quantitative inadequacy of basic health
services, notwithstanding the slight improvement recorded In the last six years. In 1993, Burkina
Faso had 840 health stations (all categories combined), compared with 569 in 1985, equivalent to
an average increase of 7% a year. These health stations are organized in the form of a pyramid
comprising: (i) the Health and Social Development Centers (CSPSs), which form the bottom tier,
each CSPS serving a population of about 10,000 inhabitants within an average radius of 10 kn;
(ii) the Medical Centers, with or without surgical units (CMs and CMAs), which represent the
first line of referral for the CSPSs and which each serve an average population of 180,000
inhabitants; CMii) the Regional Hospital Centers (CHRs), of which there are ten (10), represent the
second line of referral; and (iv) the two National Hospital Centers (CHNs), located at
Ouagadougou and Bobo-Dioulasso, which form the apex of the pyramid.
6.    The number of medical and paramedical staff rose from 3,281 in 1985 to 4,338 in 1993,
an increase of 9.4% a year. Ratios of health personnel to population remain well below WHO
guidelines. Access to basic health care thus remains very limited, especially in rural areas: only
51% of city dwellers and 48% of the rural population have access to health facilities. A study
carried out in March 1993 (SAFER) revealed that there are 612 full-scale and equipped CSPSs,
but that 30 of them are completely shut down for lack of personnel. By the same token, certain
professional categories appear to be more heavily concentrated in urban areas: 60% of all doctors
and midwives are located in the two provinces of Kadiogo and Houet, together with 38% of
government-certified nurses and 28% of birth attendants. In response to this situation, the
Ministry of Health has established minimum staffing norms and initiated a redeployment process
to shift more staff into the outlying health facilities (CSPSs, CMAs).
7.    It must be stressed, however, that even existing, adequately staffed facilities are sti
underutilized, particularly in rural areas. For example, recent studies carried out in certain rural
areas of the country reveal that, in cases of slight and serious Ulnesses, only 10% and 14%
(respectively) of sufferers consult the health services. Most are treated without resort to modern
health facilities. Ihis situation is related to the distance to health facilities, deficiencies in the
organization of health activities in the health centers, the inadequacy of efforts to inform and
educate the population groups, the high cost of health care, and the lack of drugs within the health
facilities themselves.
8.    The resulting picture is one of substandard health service performance. Coverage as
regards prenatal consultations, for instance, remains very poor, although some modest
improvements have been recorded (39.5% in 1991 against 20% in 1985). The proportion of
assisted childbirths, although rising (33% in 1990 against 21% in 1985), is still at levels that call
for major efforts to be made. As regards consultations for infants, fewer than 20% of babies
benefit from them, while only about 40% of all children from birth to 12 months had been fully
vaccinated under the Expanded Programme of Immunization (EPI) in 1991. In the family
planning area, activities have expanded somewhat in just a few years (for example, the prevalence
of contraceptive use rose from 0.3% in 1985 to 8.2% in 1990), but the large number of unwanted
pregnancies, clandestine abortions and abandoned infants is becoming an increasingly worrisome



S0                               Annex 2.4
Page 3 of 6
social problem in Burkina Faso. Moreover, these activities face many obstacles in the field due to
the inadequacy of information, education and communication on population issues.
9.    Although it has increased significandy over the last six years (growing by an average of
9.74% a year), the share of government budget resources allocated to the health sector still falls
short of WHO's 10% guideline. It represented 6.11% of the central government budget between
1990 and 1993. A major role is therefore played by foreign aid in financing investments in this
sector.
10.   As for the private sector, it is underdeveloped, except for private practitioners in the
pharmaceutical sector. In the latter area, the private sector controls 95% of the country's supply
of medical drugs. The population at large cannot afford these medications, almost all of which are
very expensive specialty drugs.
11.   In summary, the health situation of Burkina Paso is characterized by: (i) the persistence of
endemic/epidemic diseases, compounded by the rapid spread of AIDS; (ii) the persistence of
protein-energy malnutrition and other nutritional deficiencies; (iii) the inadequacy of infrastructure
facilities in the sector; (iv) a shortage of qualified medical and paramedical personnel and their
uneven distribution between urban and rural areas; (v) the underutilization of health facilities by
the population; (vi) the lack of targeted informational, educational and communication programs;
(vii) the low level of financial and physical resources; (viii) the unhealthiness of the environment,
the lack of basic sewerage facilities and of potable water supply; and (ix) the high cost of care and
lack of access to medication, for both geographical and financial reasons.
12.   To address this unsatisfactory health situation, the Government of Burkina Faso has
adopted a more coherent health policy which is based on the expansion of basic health services
through the "Bamako Initiative" approach and which dovetails with the country's overall
development strategy. The Government's aim is to respond to the population's growing demand
for health services while assuring optimum coverage of expressed needs and mobilizing all
available resources for this purpose. To address the country's many health problems, the Burkina
Government has adopted the Primary Health Care strategy, whose aim is to meet the people's
health needs in a spirit of equity, self-responsibility and intersectoral collaboration.
13.   The Government has accordingly set as objectives: (i) to improve health coverage (by
decentralizing the sector's infrastructure); (ii) to improve the quality of health service delivery;
(iii) to ensure that medical drugs are available throughout the national territory and to all social
strata at affordable prices; (iv) to strengthen the coverage of the EPI, MCH, PP and anti-diarrheal
programs by combining them according to Primary Health Care principles; (v) to ensure that
basic, continuing and specialized training is provided for health personnel; (vi) to make greater
use of traditional medical practices and remedies; (vii) to encourage private sector involvement in
meeting health needs; (viii) to strengthen the participation of individuals and conununities in
managing health problems, in keeping with the principle of accountability; and (ix) to promote the
search for a better way to organize health services.
14. The thrust of these objectives is to achieve the following goals: (i) to lower the crude
infant mortality rate from 134 to 70 and the crude mortality rate from 17.5 to 14 by the year
2005; (ii) to halve the rate of severe and moderate malnutrition in children under 5 by the year



51                              Annex 2.4
Page 4 of 6
2000; and (iii) to increase the prevalence of contraceptive use from 4.4% to 60% by the year
2005.
15.   To achieve the objectives defined above, the Government of B3urkina Faso has the honor to
request the support of your institution in implementing a Health and Nutrition Development Project
(PDSN) aimed at: (V) improving the coverage, quality and utilization of the basic health services
offered to the Burkinabe population; (ii) enhancing the nutritional status of such vulnerle groups
as children, pregnant women, breastfeeding mothers, and women of childbearing age;
(Wii) developing the national capacity needed to achieve sustainable control of endemic parasitic
diseases; and Civ) strengthening the institutional management capacity of the central departmens of
the Ministry of Health.
16.   Improvements in the coverage, quality and utilization of basic health services offered to
the Burkinabe population wil result from the following actons: (i) strengthening the health
system pyramid; (ii) rationalizing staff use and promoting staff development; (iii) decentralizing
the public health system; and (iv) strengthening the procurement system for supplies of generic
essential drugs.
17.   Enhancing the nutritional status of at-risk groups (children, pregnant or breastfeeding
women, and women of childbearing age) will require micronutrient supplementation and
development of a sustainable, long-term nutritional policy.
18.   The control and continuous surveillance of parasitic and endemic diseases will require a
strengthening of the technical services responsible for epidemiological surveillance, detection and
treatment of cases of trypanosomiasis, onchocerciasis and dracunculiasis. Great importance will
be attached to the mobilization of the target groups through IEC.
19.   Strengthening the institutional management capacity of the Ministry of Health will entail
technical and financial support for the following departments: the Directorate of Administve
and Financial Affairs, the Directorate of Studies and Planning, the Directorate of Preventive
Medicine, and the Directorate of Pharmaceutical Services.
20.   Implementation of this Project will serve to strengthen the Primary Health Care rehabilita-
tion strategy adopted by the Burkinabe Government in July 1993. The principal recommendation
of this strategy, which is based on the "Bamako Initiative' approach, is to restructure the
peripheral health facilities so as to revitalize them and ensure they can provide permanent, good-
quality care. The cornerstone of this restructuring is the establishment of functioning health
districts.
21.   Reorganization of the health system will require the upgrading and construction of new
facilities, the assignment of medical and paramedical staff to the peripheral health stations, and
implementation of an appropriate policy for the supply and distribution of generic essential drugs.
22.   Over the next 10 years the Government has planned the construction of fifty4hree (53)
health districts centered around the Regional Hospital Centers (CHRs) and the Medical Centers
with Surgical Units (CMAs). Fifteen (15) of these districts are already in place, ten (10) are
under construction, and sixteen (16) about to begin operations. Moreover, the program for the



52                               Annex 2.4
Page 5 of 'S
construction, upgrading and equipping of health services will be carried out with the aim of
bringing them closer to the populations and minimking the number of cases moved to the
hospitals for treatment. To this end, the Ministry of Health will first endeavor to open the
nonfunctioning CSPSs.
23.   To enable these districts to become operational, the Ministry has begun to train district
supervisory teams with the help of a team of trainers based in the Training Center for Health
Development (CFDS). This center will also be given responsibility for overseeing the supervisory
teams that are trained. These supervisory teams will train and supervise the staffs of the outlying
health centers. The training of CMA doctors in emergency surgical procedures is being organized
with the assistance of the School of Health Sciences at the University of Ouagadougou. The
Ministry will continue to recruit personnel during the coming years. It will also start redeploying
and training existing staff to comply with the minimum staffing norms adopted. Moreover, in its
continuing effort to rationalize the health sector, the Ministry of Health will carry out a study of
the hospital sector, the results of which will be used as inputs in the preparation of the country-
wide plan for the redeployment, training and recruitment of health staff.
24.   To ensure broad community participation in the management of health facilities, steps
have been taken to give the peripheral health facilities financial autonomy (cf. Decree No. 93-
00l/PRESIMFPLISASFlMAT conferring management autonomy on the State's peripheral health
facilities, and its implementing regulations No. 93.015/SASF/MFP/MAT of February 4, 1993).
The management committees will be installed according to a phased schedule.
25.   Development of the hospital centers and peripheral health facilities will call for the
establishment of a maintenance structure to manage the medical equipment and plant. It will
comprise a central maintenance service backed up by regional units, all provided with adequate
equipment and appropriate capabilities.
26.   The pharmaceutical policy developed to support the Primary Health Care rehabilitation
strategy advocates the promotion of generic essential drugs, which must be made geographically
accessible, as well as affordable, if the quality of health care is to be improved. With this in
mind, the Procurement Center for Generic Essential Drugs (CAMEG) was created in May 1992,
with the task of bringing good-quJity, affordable drugs within reach of the population.
Accordingly, the CAMEG's goal is to supply all health facilities with essential drugs at an
affordable price. This measure will be accompanied by action to promote a more circumspect
approach to prescription writing and by the quality control of imported generic drugs.
27.   With respect to the fight against transmissible diseases, the implementation of a variety of
programs has enabled the spread of certain endemic diseases in the county to be completely or
partially controlled. The task for the coming years will be to consolidate the efforts made in this
field and to optimize the results through improved coordination of activities. As malaria is the
chief cause of morbidity and mortality in Burkina Paso, chemotherapy for patients with fever will
be continued, together with research on anti-vector control and the resistance of Plasmodium to
chloroquine.  Financing of the expanded devolution program  comprising the control of
onchocerciasis, dracunculiasis and trypanosomiasis will be continued in an effort to find effective
controls for these endemic diseases.



53                             Annex 2.4
Page 6 of 6
28.   As regards efforts to control sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) and AIDS, the second
medium-term program (PMT II) 1993-95 identified the follow!ng strategies, on which our efforts
will focus: () senizing the public at large, with specific campaigns targeting young people;
(-d) psychological counselling for those testing HIV positive and patients with full-blown AIDS;
(iii) development of control strategies suited to ural conditions; (iv) social marketing of condoms;
and (v) strengthening of ways to control transmission through the blood. ITe tuberculosis control
program wIll be strengthened in light of the recrudescence of this disease with the spread of HIV
infection. This program vIlI be implemented in combination with the other PHC activities.
29.   Maternal and child health care programs will be a govermment priority. For example,
under the Expanded Programme of Immunization (EPI), the goal is to increase the coverage rate
to 90% by 1995, by combining vaccinations with well-baby and prenatal consultations. The
strategy being pursued at the CSPS level and the mobile strategy involving mobile district teams
will be maintained. The FP program will be extended and strengthened. In the case of the
programs for controlling diarrheal diseases and micronutrient deficiencies, four main kinds of
campaigns wi1l be waged: (i) sensitizing the population to the need to diversify their food intake,
through the production, distribution and consumption of foods rich in mineral salts and vitamins
(iron, iodine, Vitamin A) and the prevention of dehydration during episodes of diarrhea;
{ii) micronutrient supplementation for target groups whenever they visit the social and health
services; (iii) frtification of food with micronutrients, especially iodization of salt; and Civ) the
provision of combined health and nutritional care to prevent infections and enhance the health
status of the population, in addition to popularizing the use of oral rehydration therapy (OR7).
30.   As part of the implementation of this health policy, the Ministry of Health, Social
Development and the Family (MSASF) will condnue its reorganization process and strengthen the
management capacity of the central and provincial departments. Out of concern to ensure that
quality care is available to the entire population at an affordable cost, the Government will
continue to bear part of the recrrent costs of the health facilities established, so as to assure their
optimum operation. Cost recovery mechanisms will be phased in as part of the "Bamako
Initiative' approach.
31.   This, Mr. President, is the broad thrust of our health policy. To implement it, we request
the assistance of your institution in the form of the Health and Nutrition Development Project
(PDSN).
Yours truly,
Christophe DABIRE



54                                         Annex 2.4
Attachment
OUANfFIED MONITORING INDICA TORY
A. OUANI7FIE1 INDICATORS PER YEAR
IIICATORS                      7Aninual Ratof Ihplkmenwon               Soure of w4ficadon
1. CQeaton of IS ad&, 15 rban CSPS and  1995:   6 CMs. 6 urban CSPSs
30 mural CSPs                             1996:   3 CSS. 3 urban CSPSs        Fle  of &w Project caooilnang uni
1997:   3 WAs, 3 urban CSPS nd  and die Faso Baare Agsey
15i trat CSPSs
1998:   3 CMs. 3 uban CSPSs and
IS nouw CSPSs
2. Menagem  bauning for taics medical  1995:   2 grupe of 10 doesors            id-of-raining reponrfrm t ed
offices in dhe CDS,ll mutles              1996.    2 gsmps of 10 doctors      7)8Wng Center for Healh Deeopent
1997:   2 groups of 10 docto        (CFDS). ENSP
1998:   2 &Rus of 10 dors
3. Training of docors In emency sgic   Indicwv pJan (subject to change de-
predw                                     peding on actal conscdon of s    E nd          8 or tttl    reptsjihm dhe Sdcwholf
nw QIAs and on  ie needs of &he  Healh Scence  of he Directorate 
CAl)-:                              Pub  Heal ofde MSASF
199S:   6 doctors
1995:   6 doctors
1997:   6 doctors
1998:   8 doctors
1999:   8 doctors
4. Coniudnu  trelnn at CSPS by team from   4.  CSPS per year and per disct   Spr#s oad trng rdposjm  h
the dista estbshed                        rwci   tvainng  for  die  BamaAo  Dstfc  Medcad  Offce    and  die
S. Suaveslon of the CSPS by h aervlsory  Once a montfor dissic wih up to 10  Superion     trvaWnig repo,UsJhm the
reane of each aisng dlsct                 CSPS                                Dls*fc  Medicd  Officers  ad   the
Onc ewy 2 months for disifu c *h  provIcW  DPS
more han 10 CSPS
6.  TraInin  of mmbers of de CSPS mn-  Each CSPS Implemnng the Bmako  Activy repom by DOir cMedIca
agem mims resposiblfor noning he  Initatve to have Its managament codice   andte proWnial DPS
CSPS                                      mdits established and  im__
7.  Inulladon, equipping and taing of  1995:   Team at Ouaga and Bobe         Reporsu adft of DMAF
m     ance techns for die cenwta unit  1996:   2 regional  ms
and the regiona maintenc tdsu             1997:   2 reional teams
1998:   2 KROn2al teams_                        _



55                             Anmexc 2.4
Attachment
B. M-7ERM    MONIORINGINDICATORS (March 1997)
1. Prdopoo ef distct medica flm o.es rhd and inpst
-      sto medikal officers traind in 50% of the districts with up to 18 CSPS
-     two medical officers trained in 50% of the districts with more than 18 CSPS
2.    Proportion of doctors trained In emergency surpLcal procedures and in post:
-     16 doctors wil have received traintng In emergency surgical procedures by the midde
of the project period
3.    Freguenc' of superision visits bv the CFDS Team:
Three supervision visits carried out per district per year by the CFDS Team
4.    Proporhon of CSPS in which the health teams have attended the pdl continuing traininp cvde:
-     4 CSPS per disrict per year receive refresher training in stalned health care
activies
-      o4 CSPS per district per yearfor each Minimnum Activities Package
S.    &ropQtAmo of managemen commiOttees formned and given manapemen traini8
each CSPS participtng in the Bl wll have a management committee forned and wil have
received traidng as part of the effort to give management autonomy to outlyg health facilies
6.    Indicators of utlization of curate consultations in the CSPS that have received trainlnU under
- 0.6 new casesAnlitantlyear in urban areas
0.4 new cases/unbitant/year in rural areas
7.    Proportion of justified referrals to the M  established:
-     5% of CSPSpatients are referred to the referral CMA/CHR
-     50% of referrals actualy reach the referral center
8. Indicators of ufilization of prenatal consudtations in the health facilities invlved in the BI:
-     coverage rate: 50%
-     rate of detection of at-risk pregnancies: 50%



56                              Annex 2.4
Attachment
9.    Idcators of ution gf ,-Pultatos for b,a  and EPi
-     coverage ratefor well-baby consultations under the MCIi program: 50%
-     coverage rate of EPI (children 0-11 months, women of cildbearing age): 75%
-     vaccnaton effectiveness: above 90%
10.   fIndia rs ufanufo chronk dlsas:
-     continuity rate for chronic diseases for which programs have been established: over
50%
11.   EOtffecies of CMAs
-     quality of clinical decisions (review of case files of patients admitted to hospital):
weekly medical review in 100% of the CMAs established
12.   Efdf aLfp  oft:
-     occupancy rate at the CMAs and CHRs: over 50%
-      zaverage length of stay: more than 2 days and under 14 days in pedirics and general
medicine
-     rate ofjustfied admissions to hospital: over 50%
13.   Establishment of ifiastructure facilities in the health sector:
- {ac tual construction of 9 urban CMAs and 9 urban CSPS
14.  ffopigaI 4iean
-     instaluation, training and equipping of the tw maintenance teams at Ouagadougou and
Bobo-Dioulasso and of two regional teams
C. QUA7FI INDICATORS THROUGH END OF PROJE  (period 1994-99)
1.    Proprdo of district medical aCflc  trained and in M.
-     2 medical officers trained in districts with up to 18 CSPS
-     3 medical officers trained In districts with more than 18 CSPS
2.     rooI  of doctors trained In emereency surical procedures and In post:
-     34 doctors trained In emergency surgical procedures over the 5-year project perod
3.    Fren  of superision visits by the CFDS Team:
The supervision visits carried out per district per year by the CFDS Team



57                              Anmex 2.4
Attcmen
4.     opoA    of CSPS in which the health teams have attended the uidl condnuIng training cycle:
-     4 CSPS per distidct per yearfor the Bamako Inive
-     4 CSPS per dict per yearfor each Minimwn Acdvilies Package
5.       e =9                     commnteesJtEd and dv  man      t n
each CSPS parcipfatng In tse DI will have a management committee forn ard wig hae
received traiing
6.    Inctor o Udlzadon Q       W urative
0.8 new casesfinhabitant/year In u4an areas
0.4 new casesfinhabitant/year In rural areas
7.    Pro.ordon ojus,d Mmalk to the CCM
-       X5% to 10% of CSPSpaents are referred to the refrral CMAI/CHR
-     80% of referrals actually reach the referral center
&     Indiators of ulizadaon   atlo         a
coverage rate: 75%
-     rate of detecion of at-rs pregnancies: 90% of wmen at risk of dystocic delhvy give
brth at a 2nd or 3rd tierfacUlty
9.    Icaors ofuwilon           o     nf  f  babies and EPi
coverage rate for well-baby consudtations under the MCHIprogram: 75%
-     coverage rate of EPI (idren 0-11 months, women of ddbeng age): 75%
-     vaccination effectveness: above 90%
10.   Indicators rdating to dcrontc4dseases
contnuity rate for chronic diseases for which programs have been established: over
80%
11.   F&Sft=  gf CMAs:
quality of clal decsions (review of case fUes of patients admitted to hospital):
weely medical review in 100% of the CMAs



58                             Annex 2.4
AUachmrnt
12. E&cSena gf GV&s:
-     occupacy rate of the CaAs and CHRs: over 80%
-     average length of stay: more than 3 days and under 10 days In pediatrics and general
medicine
-     rate ofJustifled admissions to hospital: over 75%
13.    Etishmema of ifrastcture facilties in the health sector:
-     actua constucion of 15 urban CMAs, 15 urban CSPS, and 30 rural CSPS
14A Hgita mnance:
-     installation, training and equipping of the two maintenance teams at Ouagadougou and
Bobo-Dioulasso and of sit regional teams
NU7R!ON COMPONENT
(A) ATMID-ERI
1.    The results of the baseline epidemiologickl surveys of Vtain A and iodine ddlclencies are
able.
2.    Regulatory texts covering the moirt of iodized salt are adopted and published.
3.    Micronutrients have been ordered and distributed to the health services In the provinces most
severely affected.
(B) ATPRWJECT COMPLE7YON
LhdCma gf micrnuotrent use
60% of the target population (ildren aged 6 mondts to 14 years, men aged 15 to 25 years,
and women of chdbearing age) have received a dose of iodine.
Iodized salt is available in al 30 provinces of Burkina Faso.
4tA
60% of chUdren aged 6 months to 10 years in provinces with xerwphthalma bdnces higher
than 10% have received afudi course of Vitamin A treatment.
During the first month following confinement, 40% of breastfeding mohers have received a
fidl course of Vtamin A In capsule form.



59                              Annex 2.4
Auacwmat
90% of cildren suffering from measles, xerophthalmia, ma&wfton, chronic drhea, or
acue resplraroiy Wfction have received Viamin A complementaton at ie health facility.
90% of pregnant women, and of aemic ildren aged 0 to S years, ww*o ist healtfizcites
hae received a dose of tron.



60                              Annex 2.4
Attachment
PERFORMANCE CRITERIA OF CAMEG
PROCUREMENT
1.    CAMEG must have access to such worldwide bases of comparison as the price catalogues
of international drug purchasing agencies-e.g. UNICEF, IDA, MEDEOR, ECHO. CAMEG
must at all times have the latest, up-to-date version of the price catalogue of at least three of these
agencies.
2.    At least once a year, CAMEG shall organize competitive tenders for at least one third of
the essential drugs and consumables in its catalogue. Advertisements for these tenders shall be
organized in such a way as to attract at least five bids per product (except in special cases of
products with few manufacturers).
3.    For at least two thirds of the products in its catalogue, CAMEG shall have purchase prices
equal to or lower than those of the benchmark international agencies mentioned above, plus the
cost of freight and insurance. No product purchased by CAMEG shall be priced more than 50%
above the prices of those international agencies after the addition of freight and insurance costs.
4.    Only in exceptional cases shall CAMEO resort to orders by private contract without first
negotiating with foreign or local suppliers, and then for a total amount not exceeding 3% of its
total annual turnover.
5.    All products procured by CAMEG shall have been officially authorized for sale in their
country of origin and be able to prove compliance with prevailing "sound manufacting
practices."
6.    CAMEG shall purchase only the "essential" pharmaceutical products included in the
official list published by the Ministry of Health and Social Development, together with the
medical and surgical consumables approved by this Ministry jointly with the Partners for the
Development of Social Health [Panenaires du D0veloppemem Sodosanltairel.
7.    The time taken to pay suppliers shall also be recorded for each order and shall be used as
an indicator of procurement policy. It shall not exceed 90 days.
PRODUCT QUALITY
8.    CAMEG shall adopt rigorous acceptance procedures: checking the delivery against the
order and the waybill against the physical inventory carried out upon receipt. The query rate on
deliveries shall serve as an indicator of the reliability of suppliers and shippers, as well as of the
quality of CAMEG's acceptance procedures.
9.    The proportion of deliveries with an expired "sell by" date shall not exceed 5%.



61                              Amnex 2.4
Atachment
10.   CAMEO shall insist upon an inspection cettificate for each lot of drugs impe.
Approximately 5% of the lots, either randomly chosen or taken from among the lots of the least
known suppliers , will undergo a quality control inspection which will be done by an independet
laboraory (ONPPC laboratory at Niamey, European inspection laboratory, etc.).
DTRIBUTION OF ESSENTIAL DRUGS
1.    CAMEO will establish for each product, on an annual basis, a stock assessment based
upon monthly inventories, which indicates the maximum and minimum stock levels during the
year. Frequency of over- or under-stock will serve as an indicator of stock management.
2.    Depleted stocks in the central or regional outlets should be noted and also serve as
indicators.
3.    For each product, CAMEG will note the stock situation when orders are placed as well as
when the orders are received.
4.    'Me proportion of each order received by CAMEG will be noted (quantity requested vs.
quanity received) and followed up.
S.    The time between requests from the regional outlets and the delivery from the central
outlet wi also serve as a distribution indicator.
GOOD MANAGEMENT INDICATORS
1.    Annual reports and the report of the above-mentioned indicators shaIl be published prior
to January 31 for the previous year.
2.    Audit reports will be provided as requested.
3.    The ratio of operating costs to total sales should, on an annual basis remain at less than
12%, and should decline over time. (Based on a minimum sales of 750.000.000 CFAF).
4.    Financial mark-ups should remain minimal: costs shall remain less than 20% of the
operating costs and the ratio 'financial yield/pre-tax income' shall remain greater tha 10%.
5.    Daily stock lists, outlet by outlet, shall be available at all times to the Management of the
CAMEG. Ihis shall also apply to orders placed, deliveries, and accounts payable and receivable.



62                                  Annex 3.1
Page 1 of 4
BURKINA FASO
PROlET DR DEVELOPEENT MmN ET O
graisation du systeme des Districts Sanitaires
1.            L'organisation des services de sante au niveau des districts Rantaires (DS) est la pibcw
ma_tes du progrm. do r6form  dtu sectour de la sant. Eile est une condition indispenmble a
l'am6liotation do la qualite et de I'accessibilite des soins de sante pimair. Le principe fodamontal de
cette rEorganisation est d'assurr une couverture sanitaire totale et equitable de l'ensemble de la population
dt Buina Faso, ce qui oxige no _mment quo soit amEliorEe la qualitE do la planification sanitaire nationale.
Ie district satairo a eto teleu commo base de cetto planification. II est donc n_cessaire de definir avec
prEcision le district et les structures - CSPS et CMA - qu'il coiffe, ainsi quo les zones de responsabilite
respectives et les taches spEcifiques I chaque Eche!on. II conviendra ensuite d'ideontifier les reasources
nEcessaires et de fixer les normes de personnel.
DEfinitions at Attributions
2.             Le district sanitaire est un ensemble opdrationnel qui couvre une population do 150,000 a
250,000 habiants et qui regroupe de 15 & 25 CSPS articulEs autour d'un Echelon de rEfEence ou de recous,
le CMA (ou 6ventuollement un h6pital rEgional -CHR). Le distrct sanitairo eat dirige par une equipe do
direction encore appelEe  quipe-cadre de distict.
3.            Le nouveau dEcoupage staite prevoit un total de S3 disticts, choisis mmr la base de
critkes administi   (e dEcoupago provincial), sociologique, et de sante pubique, c'est--dire
d'accesibilitd aux CMAs des patients referes par les CSPS, et d'accessibilit6 des CSPS I la supervision par
l'quipe do distict. Les CSPS, CMAs et CHRs doivent offrir un  _inimum de prestations, appele par
convention "paquet minimu d'activiteV, et identique pour chaque class. do structure. Ce n'est quw loreque
ces prestatons sont offortes en quantite et qualite muffisantes, qu'une stuctue pout developper des fonctions
additionoles.
4.             Pour aboutir a l'implantation des activit6s dans les CSPS et les CMAs, at pour assurer leur
qualite at louw utilisation, une d6centralisation de la dEcision au niveau du district s'impose. Pour so
matErialiser, I'autonte des equipe-cadres de district doit porter sur les ressours des districts, y compris la
gestion des budgets, du personnel, et des mEdicaments.
5.             Chaque district est dote d'uno Equipe cadre qui, en plus dos activit6s purement cliniques au
CMA et de la supervision des CSPS, doit g6ror les ressources (personnel, mddicaments, budget, savoir-
faire...). Blle est constitue au minimum de deux mEdecins (tun mEdecin-chef do district - MCD - et un
deuxaRme mEdocin de district), ainsi quo d'un infirmier oxpEiimente si possible titulaire d'un dipl6me do
santg publique, at du gestonnaire de I'hBpital (dans le cas du CHR). Ils sont souteaus par une equipo
conistant on un secretaire, un chaffeur, et un gestionnaire comptable (dans le cas du CMA).
6.             La gestionnairelcomptable sera chagE de la comptabilite global. au niveau du distdrt
ausi bien qu'au niveau du CMA. L'Equipocadre est chargdE de prEparer le plan de d6veloppenient du
district sanitaire (PDDS). Ce travail ne peut etre dE16gue au gestionnaire.



63                                  Annex 3.1
Page 2 of 4
7.             Les tiches des membres de l'Equpe-qadre sont les suivantes:
- la gestion/nation de 1Pequipe de sautd
- la supervision technique et le contrle administif des CSPS et CMA;
- la planification et la coordination des infrastructures st activit6s;
-18 clili que hospitalire;
- la rcherche opdrationneUe m cdiale et gestionnaire;
- la formation des asistants mdficaux et infirmiers;
- les contacts multisectoriels.
Le Centre Medical avec Antenne chiurgicale (CMA)
8.            Le CMA est un echelon de rEference pour les CSPS. Les limites gEographiques de la zone
de responsabiite du CMA devront tre pr6cisees compte tenu des distances, de la population et do sa
denite. Dans les chef lieux de region, les h6v;aux r6gionaux (CHRs) jouent le role do CMA pour la
population y residant. II n'y a donc pas besoin d'un CMA sEpare dans les chef lieux de rgion, I
I-exception de Ouagadougou et de Bobo Dioulao, oi la taille de la population justifie plus do 2 struct
de type hospitalier dana ne mEme vile.
9.             Le paquet minimum d'activite du CMA couvre l'hopitalisation, a consltation de recouas
par un m6decin, les examens de laboratoire et de radiographic, la priso en charge des urgences mEdico-
hiurgicales, et la rEcuperation nutritionelle les activitds prdventives (SMI/PF, vaccination) et lea
accouchements eutociques. Ses activites logistiques et gestionnaires concement ia gestion financire et
pharmaceutique, l'offre de mddicaments essentiels, l'information et l'dvaluatiou sanitaires.
10.           II est prdvu pour les CMAs et les CMs le personnel minimum ddcrit en appendice A. La
prEsence du troisimem mndecin peut etre n6cessaire quand les CSPS & supervisor fonctionnent I plin et quo
feur nombre dEpasse 18.
Le CSPS
11.           Lo CSPS a une zone de responsabilite de l'ord*e de 10.000 habitants qui poutmit 8a
d6coupe, en 8 secteurs sanitaires de taille approximativement Egale, destin6s & regrouper les bWdficiaites
des consultations preventives en seances mensuelles communes. Le CSPS est le lieu do premier contact
entre la population et le service de sante, mais aussi le lieu do stockage do la mEmoire clinique et
sociologique des patients. Son paquet minimum d'activite comprend la consultation cumtive priimaire, la
prise en charge des malades chroniques (tuberculeux, llpretix,...) Ia consultation pr&eatal, leas
accouchemens eoiqtes, la consultation des nourmssona sams, le plaing familial, et  a rcupEration
nutritionnelle. L'dducation sanitaire n'est pas une activitE k part entibre, mais une composante ndce_ar i
touto les activit6s.
12.           Le CSPS assure en outre des taches logistiques et gestionnaires relatives I la paticipation,
h gestion financiere et pharmnaceutique et I'offre des medicaments essentiels, la gestion de l'infornation
sanitaire, les tournees de village ou de quartier. L'exdcution de ces tiches et l'offre des reources (par
essence limitees) I une population bien definie supposent si possible un recensement sanitaire et tne
insription individuelle au CSPS (cas des CSPS urbains notamment).
13.           Le personnel minimal d'un CSPS est decrit en Appendice A. 11 doit disposer d'une
formation adequate le prdparant aux fonctions qui n'ont pas ete enseignEes daos les ecoles professionnelles
do santE. Cette formation compl _entaim est de la responsabilitE de l'equipe-cadre de district. La peonnel



64                                 Annex 3.1
Page 3 of 4
minimal de soutien du CSPS congiste en un manoeuvre ou un gerant de dEot phrmacetquet peut atto
recrutE par le Comite de gestion si le volume de travail lejustifie. La prioritE absolue pour l'utilisation des
fonds disposibles est la mise I la disposition des mEdicaments essntiels et gendriques pour les patients,
utiliaers des services publics. C'est pourquoi 80% des recetes devront toujours to affectEes a l'achat
de m6dicaments. Des sanctions devroat 8tro prises I l'oncontre des contrevenants. En aucun cas, le
ruvellement des mEdicaments ne peut ktre compromis par le montant des salaires condEs   ce
persmonnel communautie.
14.           Louque le paquet minimum d'activit6s prevu pour un CSPS est rEalisE, et que la
codmunication avec la population est satisfaisante, les activitds peuvent Wtro etendues a de nouveaux
domaines, comnme indiqu6 ci-aprs
(a)    La promotioa sanitaire inclut la promotion nutritionnelle, I'adduction d'eau, et l'asanissement du
milieu (dont 1'6vacuation des dechets solides). Comme ces progrmmes requierent des ressources
supdneures & celles des services de sant6, la promotion saoitaire a pour objet principal
l'information r6ciproque de la population. La promotion sanitairo no fiit pas pattie du paquet
mioimum d'activite parco qu'elle exige des changements de comportoment at des ressoure
importntos.
()    Les sousqui reprsentent des ajouts aux activit6s du paquet minimm  doivent 8tre
effctuds selon les possibilites nouvelies de financement IBs doivent rEpondre I 1'identification de
probllmes locaux par los professionnels de la sant6 et/ou A la domande de la population Exemples:
d6paratisation semestrielle des moins de trois ans, progmmme de prise en charge des hypetondus,
etc.
(e)    Les stratEsies avanc6es concr6tisent la prise en charge des populations de la zone de responsabilitE
qui habitent loin des CSPS par des visites pnriodiques destinees I offrir des soins prEventifs, &
supervisr l'ASV, et I rdpondre aux problmwes soulevds par Is population. Elles devraient
progressivement so substituer aux SMI mobiles effectu6es par I'equipe mobile du district.
(d) Les ASV pomnettent a des populations enclaves, trop petites pour justifier h crEation d'une
infrastructr sanitaire nouvetle, d'entrer en contact avec un CSPS. Les ASV doivent servir de
reois aux activites des CSPS et offrir des soins ElEmentairos aux maldes.
Les hopitaux rEgionaux (CHRs)
15.           Les h8pitaux rEgionaux sont les premiers 6chelons du service de sante oi l'on trouve des
sp6cialistes, parmi lesquels il y a, au minimum, un chirurgien et un dentiste. Dans la mesure ob les CHR8
servent comme deuxieme niveau de rEfrence (au dessus du CMA), is so trouvont au-dolk de s stuctre
du district sanitaire; ceci I I-exception du district desservant  popuation reaidente de la capitale regionale
pour lequel le CHR joue le role de CMA. A noter que par contre, les CMAs no devraient pas jouer le r8le
de CSPS pour la population olk ils se trouvent.
Les sevie spEcilisis
16.           Intesation Administrative et Onprationnetle. Divers services spEcialiss poss&dent une
infratuctue operationnelte sp6ciale, des superviseurs spcialises, et des ressources propres. Its rEpondmnt
de divisions reativement autonomes au niveau du MSASF.



65                                  Annex 3.1
Page 4 of 4
17.            LA politque sanitaie des ann6es & vonir sera caract6ris6e par une intEgration
op6rationnelle ot admistrative progresive des activites specialisEes do contr6le des pathologies. L}
directions sp6cialisdes doivent s'eloigner de la gestion ditecte des programmes pour se concentrer wr la
gestion des recherches et la vulgarisation des r6sultats. Les directions sp6cialis6es ne devtaient pas
superviser dirwctement les CSPS. EBles ne s'y pr6sentent quo pour collecter l'information utile & la
conception et l'Evaluation des progrmmes. Les raisons sont les suivantes:
(a) l'int6gration permet de renforcor techniquement les services polyvalents;
(b)    I'am6lioratioa de    tecbnicitd des CSPS et des CMAs acorolt leur acceptabilit6 aupr&s de la
populatlon;
(c)    l'intgration des activites dans les CSPS permet d'y developper une mddecine globale; tous les
aspects du patient peuvent alors etre rEellement pns en consid6ration par la structure;
(d)    le maintien des sevices verticaux est co18teux en personnel et frais r6currents;
(e)    les injonctions des suprvisu  sp6cialisEs donn6es aux CSPS sont coatradictoires: chacun d6fend
les int*rts de 'son' prgramme, au dEtriment de 1'6quilibre de 1'ensemble.
18.            Cependant, l'intdgration no peut se faire brutalemenLt. Ele doit au conire rEpondre a
une swategie d'extenasion I long terme de la couverture. De plus, toutes les activitds no sont pas bonnes I
mtgtr. Celles qui no r6pondent pas I une demande de la population (comme les activites du service
d'hygi&ne, a surveillance dpid6miologique, et l'intervention en cas d'urgence Epiddmiologique), ainsi quo
cellos qui  quierent des techniques non m6dicales (comme I'aainissement du milieu, la lutte anti-
vectorielle) sont I exclure du processus d'intEgration.
19.            Le district doit donc 8tte dote d'une equipe mobilo, dont les tiches sont la ourniture de
prestions pr6ventives aux populations enclavees qui no peuvent - proviiment - Wtte d6sservies par un
CSPS, ainsi quo la d6livrance des programmes non integrables.



66                                   Annex 3.1
Appendice A
P-euotmel minimal des infras futures de district
CSPS
1 E ou B, I ace aux, 1 AIS, ou I manoeuvre (soit 3 personnes)
CM
1 M4decin, 1 SFE, 3 II)E ou lB, 1 acc mix, 1 manoeuvres (soit 7 porsonnes)
2 m6decins, 2 infirmiers-anesthdsistes, 1 pharmacien, 2 infirmiers spdcia s en chiurgie, 1 1DE, I SFE,
1 laborantia, 4 LB, 1 acc aux,I aide-comptable, 1 fille ou gargon de salle, I infirmier sp6cialiste en
dontologie, 1 cuisinier, 1 blancheusses
2 manoeuvres, I chauffeur et } gardien (soit 23 personnes)
- equipe-cadre: les deux m6decins du CMA, I'admstrateur de l'hOpital (s'il s'agit du CHR) et un
infirmier expdrmnt  en sante publique;
- phamaies: les pharmaciens, les pr6parateurs en pharmacie et les infirmiers brevet6s sp6cialistes en
phmacie sont utilisds dans les phannacies de district et dans les laboratoires du CMA/CHR. Cependant,
les auttes infimiers peuvent aussi convenir pour co travail (confer supra), moyennant une formation aw 1e
tas approprie ;
- I'dquipe mobile de district necessite deux mi-temps infirmiers (un des deux peut Wte reznplac6 par un mi-
tompa AIS).
DPS
1 m6decin, membre de PEquipe cadre de district, I adminisrate1r,  iirmier statisticien, 1 secretaire, 1
chauffeur, 1 gardien, I manoeuvre/agent de liaison (tota17 agents)



67                                 Annex 3.1
Appendice B
Nouveau dEcoupaue en dtricts1
1.            Les disticts suivants ont ete d6finis par le Mistre chargE de la SantE. Us out EtE discutEs
avec la mission d'dvaluation du PDSN.
2.            Les crt;res utilisds sout 1'accessibilitd du CMA aux patients refrs par les CSPS et
Vaccessibilit6 des CSPS I la supervision des membres de 1'6quipe cadre des dishicts, une taille de popuoatin
de 150,000 & 250,000 habiants, et le respect des limites de dpartment. L'accrdssment de la popuation
pour la pEriode 94 - 99 a et pns en considEation. La ncessite de cr60r de nouveaux districts pourrait re
reoconsideree b Iissuo de cette periode.
3.            Cotte plmnification doit he scrpuleusement respect6e pour 3 raisons:
(a)    touto crdation de CMA nouveau induit des coOts r&currents eleves (environ 15% de l'investissement
soit 67,000,000 FCFA par an) si l'on veut que les infrastuctr  soient utilis6es de manire
consistanto avec ce pourquoi eUes ont t6 prdvues; danm le cas contrair, les CMAs fonctionnent au
mieux comme de grs dispenaires et l'investssenet est patiellement inutile;
(b)    les infrastuctr  existantes no tournent pas, loin s'en faut, I pleine capacite; la priorit eat
d'obtenir quo ces infasuctures soient fonctionnelles, plutOt que d'en cr6er de nouveoles;
(c)    la multiplication des CMAs comprOmet le fonctionnement des CSPS en rdduisant laws ressouroes.
Proince de Ram}
Distict de  Kongussi
1 CMA:        Kongoussi
12 CSPS:      Loaga, Boumuga, Nasmero,Namsiguia, Rollo, Rouko,
Tikare, Guibaro, Sabco, Zimtenga, Ylou, Malgtsba.
Proinc do NMeg
Disic de lomissi
I CMA:        Kombissiri
12 CSPS:      Guirgho. Monomtenga, Tuiti, Kalwiga,* Koubri, Toece,
Toudou, Zanghogo Bousrma, Doulougou. Rakaye, Gana.
Distri de Sapozue
1 CMA.:       Sapone-K
I CM:         T-Daawuri
17 CSPS:      Sapone-Marche, uliala, Kounda, Kougpaka,* Ipelce,
Sambin,Komsilga, Ponsomtinga, Bassemyam, Bazoule,
Doundoulma, Lugsi, Sanne, Kayao, Kossilcy, Vipalogo,
Tmtilou-sud.
N'oexist pss ou no fonctionne pas.
Les CSPS sont ceux, fonctonnels ou non fonctiomwels, identifies par l'etudo de is SAFER en man
1993. No soot pua inclus lea dispensaires, les maternites.



68                                Annex 3.1
Appendice B
P"viox du Boupurib
District de Diebougou
I CMA:       Diebougou
I CM:        Dissin
9 CSPS:       Bamako, Bapla, Tiankoura, lolonioro, Diassara, Dolo,
Boundigw, Koper, 7Ambo.
Disict de Dano
1 CMA:       Dano
7 cSPS:       Founz.n, Gueguoe, Badone, Mower, Koti, Oronkua,
Poulebs.
Prviced Baulgu
Disrict de Teholdogo
I CH,        Tenkodogo
1 CM:        Gan=go
23 CSPS:      Tenkodogo, Loukou,* Moaga, Bissiga, Ounziego,
Sabtenga, Bagre, Ouad, Bane, Fottigue, Mogomnore,
Sawenga, Yargatenga, Cikance, Sanogho, Torla,Magourou,
Lenghs, Ouaregou, Bousouma, Beguedo, Niagho, Komtoega.
Disthict de Ouae
1 CMA:        Ouargaye
7 CSPS:       Vaongo,* Sangha, Koaongho, Yourga, Lalgaye, Tensobtenga,*
Dourtenga.
District de Zabre
I :A          Zabre
7 CSPS:       Zonso, Zoaga, Sampae, Youngou, Youga, Wouagala
Monpaba.
Poince do BouHdemdt
Dbistrct de Koudougou
1 CHR.       Koudougou
1 CM:        Koudougou
22 CSPS:      Palogo, Sect. 8, Sect. 10, Nayalgue, Latou, Saris, Nandias,
Bingo, Koanga, Poa, Niakado, Kokologho, Pitmoaga, Sakoinm,
Ramongho, Sabou, Nabadogo, Gode, Nariou, Sourgou, Wowo,
Thyou.
District de Nanoro
1 CMA.       Nawro
7 CSPS:       Soaw, Nazoagp, Sigle, Pella, Sommssi, Kindi, Imasdgo.
Provice de 4 Coumo
Disrc de aora
1 CHR:       Banfora
2 (Ws:        Niangoloko, OST/SOSUCO Banfota
19 CSPS:     Dianoko, Teagrela, Sideradougou, Kouere, Ouo, Mangodam,
Koflande, Beregadougou, Drmandougou, Kmkounadeni,
Koutoura, Ouangolodougou, Pangs, Soubaka, Dakoro,
Niankorodougou, Fourkoura, Mousodougou.
*exisle pas ou no fonctionne pas.



t           X         X1X               X      X        X                         8 X w  I R  X
>0  _CA
p  -  ~~~~~~~~                                            P~~
to ~ ~     ~    o
0    Si"~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



70                                 Annex 3.1
Appendice B
Povie de Kossi
Disbit de Nou_
I CMA:        Nouna
1 CM:         Djibasso
13 CSPS:      Bourasso, Koro, Konakoira, Dokmy, Sanba, Ouerobae, Iha,
Kier, Doumbala Barani, Bena, Bonborokuy.
Disrict de Salaze
1 CMA.        Sole=
8 CSPS:       Bena, Daboura, Balave, Kouka, Diontala, Mawana, Tansila,
KeUe.
Pcovm du  ortla
Diic de Kooe_
I CMA.:       Koupela
I CM:         Pouytga
14 CSPS:      Badtenga,* Ligdiguem, Digaye, Andte , Ouega,
BDakure, Kando, Kodemende,* Tensobentenga, Kabega,
Dismisstenga,* Gounghin, Nioughin, Leogstga
PCBim dut Mouhou4
3bic de Deougou
1CHR          Dougo
1 CM:         Safane
20 CSPS:      Kari, Kato, Tionkay, Soukuy, Tcheriba, Tkln, Tiedkou, FakeP,
Nounou, Datomo, Kona, DR, Ouana, BDndokuy, Kern,
Koumans, Ouakua, Ouarkoye, Yaho, Mu.
D3is   deBorom
1 CMA.        Bomo
1 CM:         POUM
10 CSPS:      Siby, Ouhabou, Dagai, Pompoi, Vy, Pa, Kopoie, Oury, Sers,
Soubouye.
MduodNaloui
ICMA          PO
8 CSPS:       Ziou, Kaya, Kampala, Gueon, Gio, Tiebele, AW,
Guelwongo.
cevi   du  aeg
DbM de Bua
1 CMA-M       Dous
I CM:         Tougouri
6 CSPS:       Yalogo, Bowoum, Dargo, Zeguedeguin, Dabossore, Niega.
PMd d'Oxibrita
Didric de Zidue
I CM          Ziniae
I CM:         Dapelogo
17 CSPS:      D     i , Sawana, Naroo, Absouya, BilogWtga, Zitenga,
Saba, Gouso, Tanlargbin, louwbila, Donsin, Manem
Nio2mioogo, Voapa, Ourougou, Pabre, SabtengL.
Drict de Douse
1 CMA         Bous.
5 CSPS:       Koni, KorinsanMouni, Niou, Laye, Toeghi.
N'ae pa ou no f_nctome pas.



71                                Annex 3.1
Appendice B
Province de I'udalaa
District de Goron-Gorom
I CMA:        GoomoGorm
1 CM:         Deou
5 CSPS:       Tasmat Korezena, Tin-akoff, Markoye, Oursi.
Provine duPasr
Disbict de Yako
I CMA:        Yako
2 CM:         Sanba, Bokin.
20 CSPS:      Arbole, Guipa, Componsom, Yake, Dourou, Tibia, Zougo,
Boubna, Tndik, Boulkon, Kirsy, Kona, Bage, Zongbega,
Laod, Pilimimkou, Nama, Seguedin, Dour., Bour*
eod do POWi
Dihct de Gnaoa
I CHR:        Gaoua
2 CMs:        Gaoua, Kampti.
12 CSPS:      Brambera, Bouroun-Bouroum, Gomblosa, Bouis,ra Nako.
Taliere. Legmoin, Tobo, Galgouli, Petigban, Loropeni, Dipeo.
D3istict de Batie
1 CMA:        Batie
3 CSPS:       Midebdo, Kpuere, Fadio.
Pcoemodu au
Dsic de Ree
I CMA:        Reo
13 CSPS:      Pouni, Dasa, Tenado, Kandamna, Didyr, Moguwy,, Goundi,
Kyon, Zawaa, Lab,Tyelle, Zamo, Kordis.
I CEIRL       Ksya
12 CSPS:      Secteur 1, Namissguima, Boussouma, Nessemtga, Manw,
Korsimoro, Imiougou, Soubeitn, Pibaoro, Dibilou, Ziga,
OuedeDiin
District de asaoh
1 CMA:.       BmArsaogho
7 CSPS:       Ba=6, Foube, Pensa, Dablo, Pissia, Kiemma, Lebda.*
EmP  du St
Disrc de Doi
1 CHR         Doti
4 CSPS:       Katchirg, Bani, Falagontou, Gorgadji.
Distict de Sebba
1 CMA.        Sebba
4 CSPS:       Mansda, Higa, Sawpelga, Seytega
pon de Ia Sis8iU
District do Leo
I CHR         Leo
11 CSPS:      Koalga, Outoulon, Bieba, Yale, Yelbouga, Boumn, Bozo,
Zamouna, Niaboury, Niegho, Oue
ONuiste poa ou no fnci"ome pas



72                                 Annex 3.1
Appendice B
District de To
I CMA:        To
16 CSPS:      Kassou, Dao, Beun, Tabou, SiUy, Fms, Nabou, Tone,
Bougnounou, DaloYasrce, Sapouy, Nabou, Koumbogoro, Sourou,
Neboun, Tiarn.*
PNwdes;oum
District de Djibo
1 CMA:        Djibo
11 CSPS:      Baraboule, Petega,* Pobe-Mengao, Dipgl, Kelbo, Aribinds,
Gassaliki,*Gasselnaye,* Yalauga,* Gorel,* Borguinde.*
Province du Sourou
District de Tougan
1 CMA:        Tougan
1 CM:         Kie}a
18 CSPS:      Kouy, Da, Niankore, Kassoum, Koumba, Yaba, Niassn, Kon,
Tiso, Tianra, Lanfiera, Di, Cassan, Dio, Bangassogo, Lankoue,
Toeni, Bonou.
District de Toma
1 CMA:        Toma
7 CSPS:       Psnkele, Ye, Daman, Kougny, Gonsia, Bibs, Kem
Peyic de 14 Mm
Distrit de Dia
ICMlA:       Diaopa
18 CSPS:      Kantcbsi, Mission Protestant, Logobou, Namounou, Kalbouli,
Tambaga, Dngungou, Botou, Sambalgou, Partiag, Boudieri,
Kabougou, Kogoli, Sampieri, Tansar, Kotchazi, Yrini.
Prvice du Yatens
1 CHR:        Ouabigouya
19 CSPS:      Sissaba, Kapali, Bingo, Naba Tigrm, N  _nsiguima, Youba,
Zogoro, Gourcy, Lago, LAa,* Bougo_n, Tangaye, Bousou,
Tougo, TMiou, Kain, Koumbri, Baga, Banh.
Dist de S       _euea
1 CMA:        Seguenega
7 CSPS:       Bema, X:ousoum , Oula, Ziga, Nogfire,* Ksa, Rambo.
Disrit de itao
1 CMA:        Titao
4 CSPS:       Silia, Dougouti, Ouindigui, Soils.
Dbctde Maa
I CMA:.       Manga
14 CSPS:      Gomboussougou, Nobere, Guiba, Boura, Medega, Gogo, Bew,
Damanga, Binde, Kab-centre, Kibo-s:, Kaibo-nord, Nobili,
Bilbalogo.
*N'exise pas ou ne fonctionne pas.



73                                  Annex 3.2
Page 1 of 3
BURKINA EAS
PRO=S DE DLVMELOPEMNT SAN-I ET NU1rRMO-N
1.            Pour mettre en oeuvr la rfm  des services do sant et  d     lisation au  ives du
distict sanitaii, un plan d'action, do couverue, et do budgdtion des besoms intitul6 * Pla  de
Ddveloppeimnt du Distict Sanitairo (PDDS) sora 41abord par l'4duipe-cdre do caqe district. 1} sagit dun
plan local qui dEcrit les objectifs & court tem  do la stratdgie d deloppent adoptde par lequip-cadr do
district. Son horizon est & un an pauc quo la fr*quence des obstacles quo I'an rcontroe dans I'ex&:ution d'un
PDDS et colie des    n ndo d'envirownmnt, en font un proceu itertif & cycle court Una rEvision
anmuele est donc n6cessaire. Ds lors, il n'est pas soubaitable quo 10 PDDS 80it Un document complex, ni
que son Elaboraion n4cessite un long travail.
2.            L  PDDS est Egabement an outil de motivation et d'engagoent pour las responables du
district sanitaire. U sert do guide  a supervision par le niveau cental du MSASF, et de canenas pour
l'evaluation. 11 doit  pnsivemeot 'iSCrie dass le cadre des normes EdictEes par le MSASF. Lappi
tecique a sa ralisation est foumi par le CFDS et les directions spcialis6es du Ministire.
3.            Le PDDS indique comment l'orgsatio  des services de su6i  1 'Echelon du district so
approchera de son orgarsation optimale, comment les strucb   parendrodt progressivemeot & assurer les
activit6s du paquet mmnmm, et comment les reaources seront procress et utliseus.
Contenu du PDDS
4.            Chaque PDDS sem composE de dwi parties. La premibe partie comportea las lmets
suivants:
(a)    un plan de couverlre g pque qu dElimit les ones dde  sosabfit: caque CSPS existant
ou I cEer (aire d'intenrention) ne pout tre couverte quo pr une seuleo zone et qui iudique Is
localisation do cdapqe CSPS I l'inteijeur de cett zon   Ie plan de couvrtue indique Egalement
les pnoit6s en matibro d'ouvotro do nouveux CSPS at de   m         aion en CSPS des
et maternit6s existants.
(b)    un etat qualitatif et quantitatif de s couvt   n infiastructures et preions saoniaies du district.
(c)    un plan d'action de l'equipo-cadre du distict. Son hoizon est & un an et il ad destinE I prEciser les
modalitEs d'evolution des sorvices do santE vers Is physionomie prEvue pour eux par la planification
natiotae. 11 d6crit le profil des CSPS at explique Is rationalisation des activitEs, leo activit6s I
implanter, la rationalisation de l'utllisation des reosourcs dipWnibles et decees qu'i fat se
procure, y compris l. reddploiement au rectowmt du pesonnel le cas EchEant, et 10 reinforcement
du plateau technique du CSPS et des foncbons de direction/coonation du district.
(d)    un etat des besois cowmprnt un budget t oa coparaison avec lee reosoures disponibles.



74                                  Annex 3.2
Page 2 of 3
S.             La deuxibme partie concemera:
(a)    la coop6ration multisectorielle: d6finition de la contnbution des autres partenairs et des modes de
cooperation;
(b)    la promotion sanitaire et l'assanissement: identification des taches pnoritaires et d6finition des
_ponsabilites en matitre d'hygiaue. Ce volet no fait pas partie du paquet minimum d'activitd des
services de sante de base; il est cependant necessaire que les problemes d'hygiene importants et
vutnerables soient cibles par le personnel des disticts lorsque les ressources le pormettent (par
exemple la chlorination de l'eau de boisson ou la promotion de l'allaitement maternel en ville).
Choix des activit6s
6.             Le PDDS prcise les obctifs du district sanitair  et il incombe  son   quip-cadre de
dEcider du choix des activit6s I mener au niveau:
(a)    du CSPS:
-es activites opEationnelles (consultations curatives, prEaales, des nounisson8  sains,
accouchements eutociques, rEcupEration nutritionnelle; vaccination; PF; prise en charge des malades
chroniques).
-les activites logistiques et gestionnaires (organisation des strategies avanc6es; rationaoisation de la
gestion financiere at pharmaceutique; mobilsation des ressources; participation de la population au
CSPS; los activitts du Comit6 de Gestion).
(b)    du CMA:
-los activites operationnelles et gestionnaires (mise en place d'un systme d'information pour
1evaluation; r6alisation du plateau technique, dont les urgences medicales/chinrugicales, le
laborstoire, les radiographies); activites du Comite de Gestion.
(c)    du districk
les activitdes logistiques et gestionnaires (constitution de l'equipe-cadre; formation dos infirmiers;
rationahisation de la gestion et contr6le finanier des Echolons de base; mism en place de la
phannacie de district; communication entre les stucrs; systme d'inbrmation; rationalisation des
activites et adaptation des progammes nationaux amx rdahits locales; application des cnthros de
fonction ent du system. intEgre.
7.             Le Plan d'action est orgase selon les axes suivants:
(a)    la constitution de 'dquipe-cadr du district: sa composition, Ia rEpartition des CSPS I superviser,
les autres embres de lequipe, le partage o l'activit6 clinique, la fonration de l'6quipe en sante
pubhique, los r6unions, leas modatitds opdmfionnelles;
(b)    la formation continue des infirmiers, prncipalement les chefs de CStjS;
(c) la rationalistion de la logisque et de la gestion (en particuhier pour la pharmacie
d'appnoviniement du district);



75                                   Annex 3.2
Page 3 of 3
(d)    la rationalisation des stuctues de r6fdranc et de lutilisation des ressources. Trois aspecs sont I
considre.
-le raiwrement de  blzelon do recougs,
-4appovisionnement en mEdicaments enties,
-Tutilisation rationnele du persomel;
(e)    la mtionalisadon des activit6s du CSPS, "comptis I'adaptation des programmes nationaux et de
lews instructiaon x conditions du district et ladaptation de instructions national.s relatives 4
l'utLUsation des ressources;
(f)    l'extension de la couvera : proa        dans la temps do nouvelles structures ou de nouvelles
activites; amElioration de I'6quipement des CSPS;
(g)    la  miso en  place  des comitds do  gestion  et le  d6veloppement de  lours activitds.



76                                  Annex 3.3
Page 1 of 4
BIUA FASO
lpRtOET DE, DEVELOIPPEMENT SAT ET POPULATION
Le sysko   d'orgiisations communautaires
pafticinant I l'effort de santo
Organisation d'un rdseau d'associations
1.            La participation comu     ir sign. une nouvelle conception du semce public. un
service auquel contibue bi comomun    par us effort suppl6menaire. mais qui lui donao droit &I 1500-
geaton de lintfritut. Comme les choix sont plus techniques dans ls CMAs t les hOpitaux, c'est
mrtout au niveau des CSPS que la participation do la population peut s'exprmer pleinement.
2.             La participation communtaire no peut remettre en question 1'existence du paquet
minimum d'activit6s (PMA) prevues pour lo CSPS. Elle joue pour en modifier les modalitos (hoires,
lieux, ...), les tarifs (rcettest ddpenses peuvent 8tre dEtrminds I I'ioterieur de certaines marges), les
activitEs qui 'appartiennent pas au PMA lorsque ce dernier est entierement offert par le CSPS & toute la
popuation, ot enfa, la participation sert I l'information reciproque do la populaon et des professionnels do
la satE  Cos doeors prennent   me    des demdes de la population pour moduler les activites
prventives ou curdives, et la popuation beneficie d'une information technique afin d'augmenter son
autonsoe individule at coolective, c'est-&-dre sa capacitE de rsod. certains probUmes anitaires sans
dpedre do l'institution mEdicale.
3.            L'organisation do la participation communautaire so matrialiso par l'elction d'un comite
do gostion qui r%wrsent. la population. Cette reprEsentation doit km sociale, gaphique (cbaque village
on chaque qualier important doit avoir son rorsentant), par Age (los jounes ont lo droit d'ar reprEsentEs)
et par sexe (loes fimmes doivent avoir aussi des reprdsontantes). Le comite de gestion no doit pas tre trop
nombrux, fiute do quoi il est difficilo de prendre des dEcisions, ni trop rEduit, fauto do quoi les n_canisos
democratiques sont compros.
4.            La co-gestion signifie quo lo comit6 de gestion no prend pas soul los docisions
gestionnaires, mais bieo mnsomblo avec l'equipe du CSPS et avec son mEdecin supervisor. De mAne,
I'arget collocte et mis en banque so peout &w mobilise par lo esus repr6sentants de la population: une
double signaturo est indispensable, l'uns Etant cels d'un membre du comite de gestion, I'autre Etnt celle
d'un profeionnel (I'infirmier chef de CSPS ou son medecin speviseur). Ce systme permet un contr6le
r&ciproque dont on a vu dans de nombrwux pays qu'il pormettait d'eviter des abus et les thsauriDons.
5.             La Comite do gostion est confome I l'arret No. 93-315 du 4 fEvrier 1993. n comprend
au moins 6 membres kIus en assemblee gnderalo. Les membres de l'assemblMe gnrale sont: (a) pour un
CSPS rural, toks les adultes innds qui acoeptent de so ddplacer pour l'lection, les responsables du
villages ou louts repr6sentants, et ls reprisentants des groupements de femmes et des associatioos de jeunes;
(b) pour un CSPS urbain, tous les adultes informi qui acceptent do se dEplacer pour l'eloction, et (c) pour
un CMA, los repr6sentants dos comites des CSPS (qui dependent du centre pour la rdference).



77                                  Annex 3.3
Page 2 of 4
6.             Linformation des populations, prdalable I I'election du comite de gestion, est esseatielle
au bon fonctionnement d'un organisme de d6mocratie locale.  C'est pourquoi des visites I domicite
effechi6es par l'infirmier chef de CSPS, des toumdes de village pour discuter avec les adutes, des contas
avec les responsables du village sont utiles avant I'61ection. Si possibles, des visites I domicile wont
men6es afin de proposer les termes du conut qui unira la CSPS et sa popuation, c'est-&-dire les droits et leg
devoirs de chaque partie. En outre, on pourmit profiter des visites I domicile pour effectuer l e nt
(pour l'evaluation des activit6s, on obtient ainsi le ddnominateur), l'ouverture des dossiers familiaux (pour la
synthese de l'information clinique), l'insription individuelle (qui permet de savoir qui exactement
bdndficiera de l'ensemble des preaations offertes pa le CSPS). Cela ne sera cependant rdalisable qu'en zone
urbaine.
7.             L'assembl6e gdnerale, constitude par les electeurs, discutera une fois par an des principaux
problRawe du CSPS. Elle sera charg6e d'approuver le prograwme d'action, les tarifs, les conditions de
patticipation ou d'acces aux formations sanitaires, et l'utilisation des fonds disponibles aux fins de
promouvoir, d'une part, les activit&s des formations de sante, et d'autre part, les actions d'am6lioration de
1'environnement sanitaire et de l'hygiene publique de la zone couvete con_spondante. Le budget
distinguera dans sa prsentation: (i) les activit6s de la formation sanitaire financ6es principalement I partir
des recettes; et (ii) les actions sur la zone f_nanc6es exclusivement par les autres tevenus.
8.             La gestion de ce budget sera confiee au bureau qui ser elu par l comit6 de gestion pour ta
durEe de vie du comitd, c'est-adire pour deux ans. Le comitd sera, en outre, responsable de: (i) percevoir
lea tarifs sur les visites at les mEdicaments; (ii) honorer leas d6penses pr6vues aux budgets annuels approuvws
par l'assembl&e generale; (iii) passer, avec lea responsables de la formnation -4'infirmier-chef du CSPS et le
m6decin chef du district- les commandes de produits pour la formation sanitaire, notamunent de m6dicaments
et produits essentiels. Le comite sera sounis & des r*gles strictes et pr6cises de gestion, notamment en ce qui
cerne  les proc6dures comptables et l'allocation des fonds, et il rendra compto de ses activites I
l'assembleo deux fois par an. Grce aux nouvelles dispositions zglementai  qui serout pnses, les membres
des bureau pourront r6pondre en justice d'actes contmaires aux reglements en vigueur, offrant une garantie
de contr8le et de sanction.
9.             Les Comites de gestion des CSPS do la zone de reference relevant d'un CMA (ou
Eventuellemint d'un hopital regional) constituiornt l'assemblee general du comite de gestion du CMA qui
sera responsable, avec le Medecin-Chef du District, du fonctionnement du cente do reference et do
1'execution des programmes d'actions au niveau du district. Leur principale fonction eat la gestion des
CMAs. Lo budget des CMAs sera alimente: (i) psr lea tarifa perus sur les consultations, les medicaments et
les intervenDtions du centre de reference, (ii) par les tarifs eventuels sur leas visites z.ZZres par les CSPS; (iii)
par we contribution forfaittire ou proportionnelle au nombre de cas referes des CSPS vets le CMA, venant
des comites de gestion relevant du district; et (iv) par des contributions financietes axternes. Ces revenus
serviront I completer le finanement des activites du district. La gestion du budget du district eposern sMr
un bureau elu par 'assemblee gEnEral. et sur les profssionnels de la sante. Les procEdures de gestion, en
particulier lea procEdures comptables, et les mewues de contr8le s'appliquant au Comite de gestion et a son
bureau weaont semblables I celles pour le comitd de CSPS.
Aspects financirs
10.           Sous le plan de fincemeat pmpose pour les districts sanitaires, lea contrbutions des
patients, canalisees I travers les comitds de gestion, sont essentielles a fonctionnement du CSPS et, & un
moindre niveau, pour le centre de rEfErence. Pour le CSPS, le comite doit mobiliser leas revenus sffisants
pour cowuvrir 100% du coOt des mEdicaments et des salaires du peonnel comu taire ainsi qu'un padtie
des coOls reurrents; des allocations budgetaires gouvemementales couvront le salim  du personnel
minimal prevu pour le CSPS et d'autres cofts tcurrents. En plus do la mobilisation des fonds auffisa J



78                                  Annex 3.3
Page 3 of 4
l'oprationaliti des CSPS, lo comit6 devra assurer l'utilisation appropri6e de ces fonds, a savoir: (a) assurer
lutilisation des fonds danm les operations du CSPS (avec l'obligation de tenir des comptes separes pour les
fonds utilises pour d'autres *projets-), et (b) assurer leur allocation appropri6e entro lea composantes
suivantes: mdicaments, au mois 80% des revenues; salaires, environ 15%; et d'autres depenses r6currentes,
5%. Ces dlements de gestion fmanciere feront partie des rbglements quo le Gouvernen.;- doit edicter pour
la gestion des comitds de sante; rbglements definissant les obligations spdcifiques de chaque partie concernEe.
1}.           Bien qu'une contribution relativement plus faible soit attendue des patients au niveau du
district et surlout du CMA (voir Annex. 3-11 pour dEbils), il est prdvu quo les 6ystemes de fixation des
tarifs, de collecte, et de gestion des revenus au niveau du district, soient semblables I coux qui existent au
niveau des CSPS, ce qui impliquera une co-gestion avec le MCD. Cette contribution, peoruo au niveau des
CMAs, servim & favoriser l'utilisation rationnelle des senrices tout en founisst au deuxieme echelon des
recette complementairos: les tarif& pdnalisoront l'utiLsation directe du mddwcin (sans consultation prealable
au CSPS ni billet de reference) hors du contexte d'urgence, I'accouchement sans consultation prEnatale
prdalable (si elle est disponible), certins actes medicaux superfetatoires (examens de selles I la demande par
exemple). Les textes officiels pr6voient que les comites sont responsables, avec le personnol de sante, de
l'utilisation des revenus qu'ils collectent. Cette approche es. un complement crucial aux mesures de
dEcentralsation budgetaire miss en oemre en parall&le par le Gouvornoent. Comme tout comite, le
Co=mte de gestion du distrct (en association avec les collectivites locales ventuoellment) pourra choisir de
mobiliser des ressoutces supplEmentaires en vue de subventionner les contributions de tous les patients ou
swlment une certaine categorie moins favorisde. Ces ressourees supplementaires pouraient egalement
sewrir & amEliorer la qualite des services founis, en plus de financer des programmos pour ameliorer les
conditions sanitaires au niveau du district.
Aspects l1gaux et rEglementaires
12.           Lo Gouvemement a deji adopte le decret presidentiel No. 93-001 accordant l'autonomie de
gostion aux CSPS, CM, et CMA, ainsi que P'arrtE d'application fixante les modalites d'application de ce
d6creL Des dispositions rbglementairos seront prisoes afin d'assurer 1'enregistement des comites par le Haut-
Commisar. Les statuts et obligations dos Comites seront egalement specifies.
Mise en place des comit6s de gestion
13.           Losque ce cadre legal et reglementaire aura ete officiellement adopte, on pounra alors
procEder & la mise en place des comites de gostion. Le medecinichef du district sera responsable pour
programmer cette mise en place, en collaboration avoc les autorit6s administratives (prefets et limat-
Commisaire Prefet). Une fois le PDDS adopte, un echdancier sera finalise pour les CSPS. Des
I'approbation de cet echdancier par les autorites, un programme de mise en oeuvre ser etabli par le medecin-
chef du distict, en consultation avec le bailleur de fonds participant I la promotion des activites du district.
Ce progrmme de misn en oeuvre comprendra les tournees de sensibilisation, les visites & domicile, la
rEmion de reprEsentants I I'assembWe gEn&ae, U'Election de chaque comit6 en commengant par ceix des
CSPS (les comites de CMA ne serout constituds quo lorsque plus de la moiti6 des CSPS du distict auront et6
dotes d'un comit6 de sante), et des journdes dinformation avec les bureaux et membres des sous-comites de
sante Ehus par ces assemblees.
14.           Chaque programme de mise en oeuvre, incluant l'6cheancier so mise en place des comitds
de gestion sea transmis au CFDS pour servir de base  la supervision du district par le CFDS. Une copie
oera transmises I la Dirction Gen*ale de la Sante Publique.



79                                  Annex 3.3
Page 4 of 4
Appui pr6vu da  le cadre du projet pour prornouvoir la participation comm ire
15.            Paralllemot aux mesures instttionnelles, des moyens d'appui pour promouvoir les
comit5s d gestion devrwt re disponibles. Le prgramm  financera ces moyens qui wcluent.
(a)    des visites I domicile efctues par les infirmis chefs de CSPS, des tournaes de vilage, lee
doasiers faillatux (1000 par CSPS de 10000 personmes) odi seront inscrits tous les membres des
populations couvertw par un CSPS.
(b)    un manuel a lusage des membres des comit6s de gestion contenat le fonctionnement, les
proc6dures, leurs droits et responsabilit6s, ainsi que les proc6dures et documents comptables et de
gestion standardises pour faciliter leur travail et les moyens de contr6le.
(c)    une etude sur l'efficacite du sytAme de recouvrement des coas, y compris les r6actions de tous les
groupes bdn6ficiaires des comit6s de gestion, notamment leur degre de connaisace sur ces comites
et de leur participation.
16.            La formation des comites de gestion sera dispense par l'infimier-chef de CSPS et par le
mddcen-chef de district en coopEation avec les autorit6s administratives, qui, pour ce faire, recevront une
formation sur l'organiation de comitMs de sante. Eventuellement si cela est ndcessaire, l'inflrmier-chef de
CSPS fotmem les g6nts des d6pots  a cutqucs aux rudiments du systbme comptable ainsi quo les
aponsables des comites k la natue dos responsabilits, obligations et proc6dures des organes d'execution et
des tesponsables du syst&me do sadte publique.



80                                  Annex 3.4
Page 1 of 6
LBURLtA FAS
PROJEr DE DEVELQPPIMENT SANTS ETM NUTION
Formation du Personnel des Districts Sanitaires
1.            La d6centralisation de la plsnification des activites opEationneiles et gestionnaires au
mveau des distri   exigo la formation de ses cadres aux responsabilit6s nouvelles, ainmi qu'une
hmonsaion et une normalisation de la m6thodologie de formation du personnel medical et paramedical des
disticts Au cours des annEes ocouldes, nombreuses sont les formations qui ont ete dispens6es par le canal
de projets et progamme, d'ol une grande heterogeneite do contenu, duree, mdtbodologie, et instruments de
wspporL Les activit6s etaient d'avantage choisies sur une base ad hoc que dans la perspective d'un
prog_mme int6gr6 et une strat6gie bien definie. n s'egit maintenant de rationaliser et d'harmoniser la
mdthodologie do formation du personnel en cours d'emploi, de la mettre I jour tenant compte de la nouvelle
politique nationale de la sante et du nouveau systame de district sanitaire, et surtout d'inscrire la formation
dans une sttgie globale de renforecment des services.
2.             Cette sous-composante soutiendra le developpement d'une s6rie de programmes de
fimation pour les mEdecins-chef do district (MCD), chargEs eux-memes de-l. fonnation des infirmiers chefs
do CSPS en vue de prEparer ces agents & la prise en charge de nouvelles responsabilit6s gestionnairs et
techniques. Le projet apporter egalement son appui & la prEpartion d'un plan de district sanitaire pour
din8er la mise en oemure des reformes au niveau des districts. Le deuxieme m6decin de district, qui
pwge   les I esponsabiites de supervision et fonnation avec le MCD, participera au programme de
fomation approprie. Un medecin sera forne I la chinrurie d'urgence.
Cantm de la fonmation.
3.              Le contenu des modules est ddfini par a strategie des SSP, qui cherche I apportr une
rdpons. (cuative, pr6ventive ou promotive) I Ia majorite des problmes sanitaires. Le CSPS, stucture la
plus peripErique des services o  travaille Un professionnel do la sante, y occupe I ce titre une place
privilEgide I l'interface du service et de la communaute. Son fonctionnement doit mre au coeur de
l'enseignem_t
4.              L'objectif premier des CSPS est la prestation de services dans une perspective de
participation communautaire. Ces prestations sodt analys6es et enseign6es par les modules 2 & 9 (curatve,
pnse en charge des chroniques, consultation des nourrissons sas et vaccinations, rahabilitation
nutritionnelle, consultation prntle, planning fmilial, activites mobiles et agents de sante communautaires
et participation conmnutaire). Le module 10 traite de la transformation du CM en CMA, c'est-&-dire
d'une polyclinique en rEef.e structure de recours par l'amdlioration de ses performances techniques et de son
Efficience.
5.              Les modules de gestion qui suivent, traitent d'une meilleure utilisation des ressources, &
savowir a fomtion et la gestiora du personnel (module 11), le financement et Ia comptabilite (module 12), la
gstin pque (module 13), le systeme d'infonration (module 14), l'administration et Ia gestion
do uavoir-fire (module 1S).
6.              Le tout premier module est differedt en ce qu'il donne sux participants les Eldments
houiqus  _iniux pour juger de la qualitd d'un service, des soins, et qu'il Etablit un vocabulaire



81                                  Annex 3.4
Page 2 of 6
commun au staff et aux participants. En outre, I'ADC des statistiques et de l'Epid6miologie y soot
enseignds car its sont utiles I la collecte des donn6es, tout comme un minimum de techniques sociologiques
d'observation et d'observation participante.
7.              Lo module 16 est un tait d'union entre la formation initiale de trois mois et la
supervision du m6decin par l'6quipe du projet. Apres avoir requ la th6orie du systlme intdgre, les
participants elaborent un plan de couverture et un programme d'action pour leur district (to 'pln de
ddveloppement sanitaire de district', ou PDDS, confer infra). Apprendre I confectionner un PDDS
implique que l'on sache coordoniror divers elements appris s6par6ment. Par exemple, dans la cadre de
l'initiative de Bamako, il faut savoir coordonner dans la temps la curative (rationaliation de Ia
prescription), l'organisation de a participation, la gestion des finances et des mddicaments. Enfin la
module 17 d6crit la planification nationale et explique danm quelle politique nationale stincrit la gestion des
districts.
Structure des modules
8.              Chaque module de formation est structurd de mmaniet  siunaire.   Ls canevas
d'observation contient des informations a recueillir par l'observation des agents au travail, 'examen de
documents, l'interview de patients et de membres du personnel. Us sont elabords de maniete k mettre en
lumi&re les dysfonctionnements, les am6liorations possibles et les originalitds des services. On les a rEdig6s
en partant des interrogations qui concernent leurs qualites (efficacitW, efficience, acceptabilit6,
accessibilit,...) et en regroupant par postes d'observation les moyens d'y rdpondre.
9.              Les observations proprement dites sont mendes par petits groupes pour no pas interfErer
avec les activit6s. A l'issue des visihes, les participants les echangent en sEance pleniere. Les encadrmus
founissent alors l cadre theodriqe des solutions possibles, qui se distinguent de simples recettes par la
theorisation des problemes, Ia proposition de plusieur solutions alternatives et l'Evaluation.
10.             Parfois, un detour par des exposes de sciences fondamentales s'impose lorsqu'ils sEOt
utiles I l'elaboration des solutions. Ainsi la theorie du risque et de sa mesuue est nEc6ssaire & l'orgmiuation
de la prenatale; les statistiques descriptives sont utiles I l'pidemiologie de la malnutrition, les concepts do
sensibilite et de sp6cificite, I l'organisation du laboratoire du CMA; d%s elements de sociologie au
programme de planning familial.
11.             L'etape suivante consiste & rEdiger un 'ocument de progamme sanitaire qui docrit lea
problemes connexes & une activite (par ex.: le nombre eleve d'abandons de traitement antildpreux),
I'analyse des solutions (par ex. faut-il integrer les activites antilbpreuses dans les dispensair  ou le
maintenir dans les equipes mobiles ?) et le choix motive de l'une d'elles.
12.             Puis on e1abore une strategie qui precise les modalites de la solution retenuo (qui, quad,
oi , comment). Des exercices chiffres permettent de les adapter au contexto particulier do chaque district
(par ex: combien cela coi1terait-il de pratiquer la chloroquinisation & Ouahigouya?). Finalement, en vuo de
deleguer les tAches aux infinniers, on redige des instructions ecrites docrivant minutielsement le travail
qu'on attend d'wux dans le cadre du programme traite. Doublees de supervisions rEgulibrew par le m6decin,
ces instructions se posent en altemative aux coOteux et inefficaces sdminaires de formation.
13.             A la fin de chaque module, le responsable du programme national (tubeculo,
nutrition...) est invite a exposer lea lignes de la politique nationale et a les confronter avec I'enseignement.



82                                  Annex 3.4
Page 3 of 6
14.             Le programme d6crit ci-dessus est enseign6 en 3 mois de cours, soit en contnue, soit par
paquet do modules de fawon discontinue.
Objecif particulier de la fonnation en sante publique
15.            A I'issue de cette formation, les MCD doivent donc atre capables de ompreadre, d'Etudier
at d'adapter les shtgies pour m6decins et les isntuctios pour infirmiers chef de CSPS ddcivat los
activitEs op6rationnelles, et d'en effectuer la  vision technique. Les fimxicules seront distribuds aux
participants i 1'occasion des sEminaires de fonnation, I raison de llCSPS et 2/districts pour les itucos,
et 2/distict pour les sbategies. Les supports 'stratgies pour les m6decins;  instructions pur ls ICC)
doivent kto praablement elabords par le CFDS. I sagit de rediger, d'editer, d'imprimer, de rolier, et de
distibuer ces documents, qui concernent:
(a)    pour les strategies, les activites op6rationnelles des CSPS, & savoir, la consultation curative (oomit6
de rationalisation do la preiption), le planning famiial, la prise an chae des chrniqu, los
consultations prdnatales, les consultations de nourisson, la nutr.tion; l'offre d soins de aucoura
r6els par les CSPS; at 1. travail administrf au CMA et au distria (systbme d'infolnation, dossiers
d'hospitalisation).
(b)    pour les infiriers-les instuctions relatives I ces m8mes activites;
(c)    celles relatives aux activites adninistratves du CSPS (comptabilite, gestion des medicaments,
rocensemt, enregistrement, participation, travail du billeteur, etc.).
16.            Avant que ces trois fascicules ne soient constitues, deux autres seront prEpar6s, qui s8ot
distribues avant d'&re ulterieurement integres aux trois fascicules sus-mentionn6s: (i) les stratEgies relatives
& 1elaboraion des PDDS (y compzis les plans de couverturo et l'initiation d'un CSPS); et (ii) los instm_tions
ratives & la distribution du medicament essentiel. Ces deux documents seront ultdrimuement intWgrs dans
les trois fascicules sus-mentionnEs.
17.            Pour tous les thbmes de frmation, I l'exceptio  de a ehirgie, le CFDS I Ouadougo
aura Is responsabilit6 technique de l'orgmisation des seossios e de la production des docments La misn au
point de ceux-ci so fea sous la direction du MSASF et ean collaboration avec des nprsentants do divan
progammes.
18.            Deux elements du 16eme module, mEitent d'tre dEveloppds ici: la prEparation des PDDS
et l'initiative de Bamako. D'autres elements de ce module (constitution de l'quipe.cadre, rechehe
opdrationnelfe et techniques de supervision des CSPS) no seront pas explicitds dans cette annexe.
PrEpartion d'un PDDS, ouvertmre et administration d'un CSPS
19.            Un PDDS comprend les ElEments suivants: un plan de couvoreu, un plan d'action et un
budge.
(a)    Le pla de couverture gjofgaphique d'un district rEpond I trois questions: (i) Queles sont ls aires
de responsabilite ddpendant d'un CSPS qui composent la totalita de la superficie d'un district ?, (ii)
danas chaque aire, quelle est la localisation optimale du CSPS ? et (iii) s'il fant ouvrir de nouveau



83                                  Annex 3.4
Page 4 of 6
CSPS ou transformer ceraines stuctr  (dispensaires, et maternit6s) on CSPS, quelles en soat les
priorit6s chronologiques ? Pour chacune do ces questions, Is m6thodologio de llaboration des
plans do couvertr a dt6 formalis6o1
(b)    La alal d'action est docrit en Annexe 3.6. II decrit l'int6gration des activitEs dans lee CSPS,
I'amdlioration de ler qua4t6 technique et to doveloppement des CSPS
20.            Pour co qui est du developpement d'un CSPS, chaque CSPS doit faire l'objet d'une
s eatEge individualis6e do d6veloppement, qui sort do support aux supevons techniques dont il fat l'objet.
(a)    Le-s nouveaux CSS: Un ordonnceemnt de l'ouverture d'un CSPS par la m&hode du chemin
critique (PERT) ost propos6 en annexe du document Trogrammation de l'appui de la Banque
mondiale au d6veloppement des circonscriptions m6dicales'. II comprend en particulier
I'engagement de la communaut6, la construction et l'6quipemont, la formation, les contacts directs
avec la population (voir Pangu K. Asila, op.cit.).
(b)    Les CSPS ddMI en activite
Prtales a la formation
21.            Les participants a la formation doivent s'y prdsenter munis do reasignemont leur
permetant de pr4parer, au cours d'un exercice, le plan de couveruro de leur district:
-um plan du district (disponibles au service documentation de la DEP ou MSASP);
-nm plan au 115000 des villes do la zone (disponibles dans les administrations du cadastre);
-un releve des infrastuctures sanitairos du distict.
Approvisionnement en medicamenats essentiels et organisation de l'auto-financefent.
22.            L'approvisionnement en medicaments essentiels d6pend de la rdussite d'une strdtgic
complexe dont les elements doivent 8tre executes de manibr coordonnee. Les objectifs de formadon dont
V'ensmble est destin6 I doter les MCD des conip6tences necessaires & I'organisation de l'approvisioaemont
en m6dicaments sont 6numeres ci-dessous:
(a) un investissement initial doit ette trouv6 (ddmarches auprbs d'un bailleur de fondslagence de
coopEration, organisation d'un evenement social (tombola, f*tt), pouvoirs locaux,
participadon/co11ecte...). (voir Programme d'urgence mis en place & la dEvaluation du CPA)
(b)    los pescripteus doivent te fonmus I l'utilisation de schemas therapoutiques standardisEs ; ces
sch6mas doivent decrire les traitements de syndromes et symptomes frEquents qui n6cessitent des
m6dicaments chers ou nombreux. De tels schemas ont et6 mis au point par un comibt national
dirige par la DSPH. Is sont decrits dans un fascicule I l'usago des MCD qui regroupe (i) des
conduites I tenir, (ii) des notions de th6rapie; et (iii) des donnees pharmacologiques. Seules lee
conduites a tenir doivent 8tre enseiga6es dans le contexte de I'approvisionnement en mdicaments
essentils. Lobjectif est de faire appliquer ces schemas par les m6decins eux-m8mes s'ils sont
1 Pangu Kasa Asila. Los soins do sante primaires, c'est possible. Vexporience de Kasong  Zaire. Thbse de
doctorat en sante publique present6e I l'universite libre de Bruxelles, 1988.



84                                  Annex 3.4
Page 5 of 6
amens k traitor des pathologies primair  et do fire former tous les precipteurs de lour distict au
cours de s6mrr.
(c)    les pascripteurs doivent Otoe foumds A L'ducation sanitaire des patients en natibre d'utilisation des
m&dicaments esseiels, ainsi qu' 'empathie avoc les patients. L'objctif eat quo les poscriptwus
sachaat convaincr tes patients do lefficacit, ideotiqur ou suprioure des nouvesax schm
thraputiques, sacbont discur utlemont avec eux des mddicaments essntiela, et rcbercber au
d'autres solutioos quo mEdicamenotuses & lours problTmes (approche psychotherapeutique, psycho-
sociale, etc).
(d)    la pharmacie du district doit etre orpnisee efficacemont. Le MCD doit savoir former le persononl
de la pharmacie, adapter et utiliser les supports, orgaiser les stocks et leur securit6, effecatur lea
commandes bas6es sur l'utilisation ant6rieuro des m6dicamenta. La confection de pomnades at de
comprimes, et Ic recyclage des flacons ne font pas partie des objectifs priotires de la formation.
(e) deo stocks doivent Mtmo mis en place dans les services. Leos infirmiers chefs de service at de CSPS
doivent We formEs I l'uilisaaion des cabiers de rquisition aux commandes hebdomadaires (pour
les services du CMA) ou menuoulles (pour les services du CSPS).
(f) une pharmcie de dEtail au CSPS doit Otre organisde. Son g6rant doit savoir tenir lea caliers
(enregiatrement du nom des patients, numdrotation des tickets, description des medicaments
fournis...).
(g)    la participation de Ia population doit Oto redynamisdo I J'occasion de l'appovisioment en
mEdicaments esetiels, non seulement pour assanir la gestion des finances du CSPS, mais aussi
parce quo l'offre d'un service nouveau met le personel de sante dans une position favorable I la
negociation. Les infirmiers chefs de CSPS devront savoir comment travailler avec les comit6s de
gestion et stimuler la participation, mobiliser les avoirs financiers des comites de gestion, conmaitre
leas recours et procEdutes en cas d'abus. Us devront aussi savoir fimer le g&nt aux procEdures
(h) les recettes des structures de sant6 doivent correspondre au volume de prestabtions delivr6es. Ceci
uppse le bouclage du CMA par un mur d'enceinte avec mise en place d'une gudrite & l'entre
(aucune personne non munie d'un ticket no peut rentrer le matin), l'impression de tickets
numdrotes, pour chaque activits du CSPS, la destruction des tickets lors de l'activite ou de la
dotaion de mndicaments I un particulier, la teaue d'un cahier de vente do ticket par le gerant (une
colonne par ticket, avec premier et dernier numEro du jour et uno ligne par jour), le contrOle par le
MCD, en coopration avec le bureau du comit6 de gestion du district, de 1'ad6quation entre les
rentrees financieres et le volume d'activite des CSPS, le contr8ls mensuel de cette ad4qation au
CSPS par le major.
(i)    un systamo comptable approprin doit Oteo utilis6 au CMA, dans les CSPS, et pour lensemble du
district, concu comme un imstrument de geslion.
()     l'&piipe cadre du district doit savoir evaluer la coosonmatiotn des mddicaments (par exemple par la
comparaison semestrielle des consommations par 100 nouveaux cas des principaux mddicaments
dans les CSPS du district) et le bilan financier des suctures sanitaire.
(k)     a sratge de d6veloppement phar   ique du district doit te elaborde sous form. de
diagmme PERT. Elle ser effectude par le stagiaire au cours d'un exercice qui lui permettm de
pr6ciser pour son district la pro  n de 1'extension, les Etapes vers un flux du mddicament
plus efficace (voir scihma), le couplage entre approvisionnement en m6dicaments et financement,
etc.



85                                  Annex 3.4
Page 6 of 6
Mouvements du n6dicament dans un district
23.            QuIques exemplais do   que sppot  (cahiers, fiches. bodeeaux d'envoi, fact ,
etc.) seunt rm   amx paticipants & l'occan des sminaires de fonnmafio. Law uiliioon fea  l'objet
d'exerices. La progrmmo d6cdt ci-desus est eax en une soaine do fontioi (5 jourm de deoi soit
44  ues de cours).
Calendrier
24             Deux sex ions de formation de trois mnois chacme sot plaoifiees annuelemnt Leur
capacit6 est de 10 m6decins formEs par session.
25.            Les plans de d6veloppement de distret devmsient Ste pet losque les cradits du PDSN
sout disponibles. Pour les disticts non conceorns, c'est moins urgent. 1 faudra donc quo les m&Iecins,
travaint dans b8 districts oil l'IDA intenriendra, aient la priorit6 pour la fornation au CFDS. Coet.
formation amra lieu au cours de I'ann6e qui pr&cd la mise en vigueur dU PDSN et Irs de sa premter
annde, wr financement du PDSS. Pour chaque sErie, les participants swot rect6nis dans toutes les r6gions
de nenire k eviter d'en affaiblir une par Il ddpart simultane de tous ses cades.
26.            La formation du MCD conditionno la mise en place du stock do m6dicaments dans lee
in  fUc         prEvues du district. la formation doit 8tre synchronisde avec la miss en place des premiers
stocks de mddicaments dans les distncts.  Comme cell-ci commencoa la prembwe ann6e du prjet dans
tous los disticts, c'est au debut de cette aunde quo Ia formation dont il est ici question sers progmnmE. On
pifvoit S sEries de sEminaire d'une semaine chacun. Dix mWdecins assisteront I chaque sErie (50 MCD au
total, mais une partie d'entre eux a d'ores et d4jk regu la formation, avec ul finaucoment de l'UNICEF). La
formtion n     ire Ia  miso en oewre de l'litiative de Bamako pourra 8tre dissocite do reste do la
formation en sante publique des mddecins de distict. 11 faudra toutefois essayer de minimisr autant quo
faire se peut le nombre de seminaires pour mndecins hors de la fomation gnEale de trois mois qui vient
d'Stro d6crite.
Chirgie d'urgence
27.            Un des deux m6decins de district sem forme en chinrgie abdominal durgence et an
trmatologie. Ls aides-anesthesites pourrnt SIre recycles en anesthesie (techniques do rachi-anesth6sie et
bases de la rdanimation). La population cible sem prioritrent les mddecins et aidecite des CMAs
enclavEs Le sUivi som assure par les chinmrgiens des hopitaux rdionaux du mEdecm. La supevision de Is
formation initiue sen la responsabilitE de Is DPS et les sJpervisions techniques ultereures cel. du mEdecin
forme (to chirurgien rEgional, & raison d'une visite d'unjour tous les deux mois). La dure d'ue formaion
est six mois par m6decin, pendant lesquels la DPS  uera lIr remplacoment par un stagiaire. Les
cactEristiqus de cette fornation en chinuogio d'urgeoce et en anesthdsie restout ideatiques a celes qui
avaient ete prEvues par le PDSS.



86                                 Annex 3.4
Appendix A
lFormtion des   s    Fhne- s de CSPSgu
acftsogiratinnde  Iotip    et adtwminsraie
CAtn et Moooi
1.            Les ui4dcLnm s de disttict sont rsnsables de la formation compltairo des infirmiers
chef de CSPS. Ceux-i doivent maltrisr les activit6s sivantes:
(a)    activitds mddico sanitaires (celles du paquet miniamm d'activitd) - consultation curaive (y compr
larationtion e la prise de d6cision, la ratiotion   de la pracription, la pri   eanbar
psycho-social. et Iempathie), la csultatiou prenaa, los acucments eutociques la
consultation des nourrimssons sains, le planning familial, la pros en charge des mlades clriques
(tuborculeux et l4preux), la rurion nutritionnelle. Cos activitds suppoaent deux types do
capacite, I savoir tchniquwes t oretisaonnelos.
(b)    activitEs administraives-le rt, 1'inscription, la comptabilite, I'as_itac et la co-gestion
avec le comit6 do gestion, le traitement discriminatobire des popuations (selon qu'elles swt insorites
ou non), la supervision do g&int, la tenue et l'interprtation du systlmo d'informaion. Ca derejer
point compread ea particulier le comptag et la mise & jour du ddaominatew, le rmpisag  di
rappor:t mensuel standard d'activit6, la tenue des fiches individuelles et des cahierm.
(c)    actvitds logistiques-la tenue des outis do comptabilite et do gestian des mEdicaments (cahier do
commando, etc.), l'utilisation des instructions ocrites.
2.            Cet appendico detaillo le conten do co quo dovroat appndre lee inimiera do CSPS en
cous do tail, solon un calendrier strictemeat individuel leur pmetant d'acqurir le connuisaces n
moment oh ils pourront lea mobiliser gdce I un changement dans lour env_vrm
Consultation curative
3.            Les obiocif sont:
-application des schEmu  thbrapeutiques stad adis6d ndgociation avoc les patients;
-empathie et prise ea charge du problbme du patient;
-tiisation de la fiche curative, du cahier de oconsltation, et de l fiche de synthbwo;
-dlgation du travail de nursing I n AIS ou un manoeuvre;
-onisation du circuit des patients.
4.            Les  b      .thodes  Pour enseigner los scbh s thEtapeutiques, il y a int*t a regrouper les
infims qui devront les appliquer en un groupe. Les schemas peuvent ktto enseiguds en un journie. Pour
chaque uympt6me ou syndrome, 1'enseigment joue des divrgences de pique ente participants pour
monter l'inefficience ou l'inefficacit6 do low schEmas et promouvoir les nouvles attaudes cliniques. Les
15 infirmiers chefs de CSPS peuvent participer au seminaire, mais si I'on no dmande qu'a une parie dentre
eux de ratonalr effectivement ka ta2peutique, d vaut mieux ne former quo ces deriem
5.            Comme chaque fois qu'il est question de travail administatif, co sont des exercices qui
suvent un briefing qui pemottent le iueux d'enseigner l'utilisation des suppors (fiches et cahiers). II y a
intfert & pr6voir la distribution d'un stock de supports que lee participants pourmt amor chez emx t
6.            L'empathie peut s'apprendro toriquement, mais le miem est d'organiser l'obsevation
individueo dune consultation faito par un infirmier trta emphatique.



87                                  Annex 3.4
Append  A
7.             L'orgauisation du circuit des patients doit 8tre faite par le m6decin supervisr du CSPS ob
i profite de la disposition des lieux pour am6liorer le confort, rWduiro les temps d'attnte, viter lee
bousculades.
Consultation prnatle (CPN)
8.             Las objectift sont:
-thorie de la prEratale (detection des femmes A risque d'accouchement dystocique, y compris le
calcul de la date thWorique de l'acoouchoment et d6tection et prise en charge des anomalies de
grossesse comme les infections des voies urinaim , les infections gynecologiques, les pr66clampsies,
at vaccination anti-tdtanique;
-la pratique d'une prdnatale, I'application des instructions, 18 contenu des deux contact
srstEmatiquos prevus pour toute grossesse et celui dos consultations non planifiees;
-I'utilisation de la fiche et du cahioer de CPN;
-le recrutement pour la post-natale et le plannig familial;
-'organisation d'une SMI mobile;
9.             Methodes. La thonrie et le travail adminstratif peuvent 8tre enseignds en grupe. Mais U
vaut miemu qu'ils le soient individuellement ou, I la rigueur, par groupes de deux parce quo: (i) la partie
pratique doit         e tre enseign6e par des dEmonstrations; (ii) celles-i no peuvent etre organis6es
pour tous les CMAs d'un district simultanement car l'extension par niveau de soins n'est pas appropriee pour
ia CPN; et (iii) il n'est pas souhaitable qu'un intetvalle de tenps important s6pare la formation theorique et
1'eDaignement pratique.
10.           On prconise donc que soient combines les enseipements theoriques et pratiques, at qWils
sojont founis & des groupes do deux ou trois A la fois (une ou deux sessions par an).
11.           L'apprentissage pratique s'effectue de la manibre suivantes:
-on regroupe dans un CSPS les infirmiers des CSPS voisins concernes par l'implanbtion de la CPN;
-quolques femmes enceintes sout convoqu6os pour le jour de la visite du m6decin stperviseu;
-devant un ou deux infirmiers, le mEdecin effectue quelques prdnatales;
-ensuite, un infinnier en feam une, altetnativement, avoc le mndecin;
-lon de la seance suivante, l'infirmier les fera toutes, sous la supervision du mEdecin.
Eventuellement, on peut accompagner cot apprentissage d'un stage dans un CSPS oit la
CPN rationaLisde a d6ji ete intEgrde.
12.           L'appntissage  thdorique prdalable conceme la notion de rsque, le tuitement des
anormalites de la grossesse, l'organisation d'une SMI et le decoupage de I'aire en sous-sectourm preventifS
(qui seront utilis  aussi pour les CNS/PEV).



Re'
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                        S                        I.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~cG
Ii  BLUE               I "tRi*[I ~~~~~~                UtEell'~



89                                  Annex 3.4
Appendix A
Planning famil
19.           Las oLbjec  soat
-ratique: application des cnitlrs de recrutement, choix d'une technique, prectiption at
suivi des acoeptrices de pilule anticonceptionneUe at d DIU (v compris lee decisions face
aux oublis, le gestion des effets secondaires..);
_dministation: utilisation de la fiche op&rtonnmele et des suppo*ts d'infomation.
20.           MetIode:
-tage dans un CMA ob ur bon centre de PP existe.
wcition de la population, ecsement, ouverture et tenue des dossiers familaux, etablis_sment du
d6noininatsur, etablissoment du plan de la zone du CSPS, etc.
21.           Obectif
-thEique: utilite de l'inscription et de la prise en charge discrimistive d'une population;
-pratique: dsseia d'un plan de couverture en zone urbaine, visites & domicile, ouverr de
dossies fimiliaux, discussion des termes du contrat, calcul et mise & jour du ddnominateur.
2.           M14thodes:
-6mnaures (ventue1lement de groupe) avec exercices pratiques et demonstation. Dures estimEe,
un jour. (Note: les visites & domicile doivent stre supervisees comme touts autte activite.)
Tenue et interprtation du syst&me d'information
23.            Obiectifa:
-paique: collecte des donn6ss dans les cahiers et les dossiers, tenue du rapport standatd mensuel
d'activit6 du CSPS, prEsentation graphique des tendances;
-torie : interpration des indicaturs et discussion de feed-back possible.
24.           Methodes
-smnaires en petits groupes (avec exercices) et demonstration. Duree estimds, deux joums
Geston fianci&re etpharnacoutique
25.           Qjwtift:
teue 4orrecte de la feuille do comptabilite, du cahier do dEpense, do la caiss d'avancs supervWion
du billetur,
-scurite des m6dicaments;
-gestion et commande des m6dicaments, tenue des cabiers et supports;
-activites d'assistance at de co-gestion avec les comitds de santE;
-co-signatures avec le Bureau du comite sur les chequos.
26.            MdthodolouIe. Avant son entrEe en fonction, le fitur infirmier chef do CSPS devrait
b6dnficier de stages destinEs I to prEparer t son nouveau r6le. Un carnet de stage structu  convenablement



nsg
~~~                            a~O
no ~ I                                                 I46
S..>



91                                 Ann= 3.4
Appdix A
36.           Le CFDS msa dgalmt chag du dEvotoppemmat et do 1'oxiEcuou d'ua  pia d'&vaui
sr l'impct de ceats foratio   A cefo fin, i lira un systbm do *foed4bck do la pelt dos MCD et dus
infirmi  do CSPS-stmis ot, vars la fin de chaque asnde do mise an aew%, bffectum  do viitos saprs
d'un dhan tiLn preavE au blrd des ancions atagi  e n vuo d'alur les aspecets fois ains quo la
fubleassm du prognom. Le CFDS reverm le progamme tous les uns et apporteta tus changems
n6ssare8 amrt ka ban des rEltsts de ses examns.



92                               Annex 3.5
Page I of 2
AURIME FASO
PRtOGRAMME- DE REPIMUMEMENT ElwDE BERUE(REMM DU
PERSONNE DE SANTE PUBLIUE
Suggestions sur les recherches A mener:
A.    Diagnostic sur la situation actuelle
* Nombre d'agents du secteur sante
* Le regroupement par catdgories des personnels de sante publique recense et par origine
(nationale ou Otrangbre):
1. les specialistes de sante
-le personnel medical (medecins gdndralistes, spdcialistes,
pharmaciens et dentistes)
-le personnel paramedical Cnfirmier dEtat, sage-femme,
accoucheurs, agents itinErants de santd, etc.)
2. les spdcialites
-spdcialites techniques
-gestion admWistrative
-personnel de soutien
- La rdpartition par stucture
* La repartition par province
B.    Bases d'Evaluation des besoins en personnel
* Les normes minimals retenues sont les suivantes:
1. pour le CSPS
2. pour le CMA
3. pour le district
4. pour les hOpitaux rdgionaux
5. pour les hOpitaux nationaux
C.    Objectifs de redeploiementfrecrutement sur la periode 1993-98
* L'objectif prioritare retenu privildgie la mise en place du reseau de 53 districts
sanitaires, c'est I dire, par district un CMA et une quinzaine de CSPS.
* Le deuxieme objectif concerne la mise en oeuvre de plans de restructuration et gestion
du personnel pour toutes les structures de sante publique, autres que les districts



93                              Amex 3.5
Page 2 of 2
(es hOpitaux, lea services specialises et administaif)
4- personnel mddical: le personnel disponible dans la province et
celui I tr'iuver en dehors de cellei
-lc pOrstouel para-medical : idem
-le personnel non mEdical et non para-mEdical
En co qui conceme la gesdon de I'ensemble du personnel du MSASF, un programme
d'tdes sera mis en oeuvre, compldtant les contributions ddja prdvues des autres
donateurs. Compte tenu des problemes et la structre du MSASF, le programme d'etudes
de restrnt n deva s'articuler autour de quatre volets principaux:
-plan de developpement des h8pitaux rEgionaux
-plan de developpement des CHN
-plan de restructuration des services specialises
-restructuration et renforcement du MSASF
D.    Programme de reddplolement pour 1993-94
Le personnel I reddployer sera celui des provinces.
E.    Possibles mesures do motivation
* Construction d'un logement pour l'infirmier chef du CSPS, et pour, eventuellement le
mEdecin du CMA.
-Autres mesures I approfondir et discuter dans une Commission intrntiello
F.    Programmation, suivi et contrOle.



94                                     Annex 3.6
Page 1 of 5
BURMINA PASO
LA PATRIE OU LA MORT, NOUS VANCRONSI
DBCREr No 94O70IPUIS/SASP  PorA
MODIUICATION DU DBCRW No 92-
127/SAN-ASP DU 21 MAI 1992 PORTANr
CREATION      D'UNE       CENTRALS
DAPPROVISIONNEMENT               EIN
MEDICAMEBNS ESSENTIES GBNEORQUE
LE PRESIDENT DU PASO
PRESIDENT DU CONSEfL
DES MINISTRES,
VU      La constitution;
VU      Le Ddaxu No 92-160/PRES du 16 juin 1992, portt nomnaton du Premier Ministre;
VU      Le D6wet No 92-161/PRES/PM du lPjuin portmat composition du Gouvernmaent du Burina Paso;
VU      Le D6orat No 92-214/PESM du 19 jui portant organisation du Ministbre de a Sant6, do t'Actiom Sociale
et do Ia Famille;
vU      Le DWore No 92-127/SAN-ASP du 21 mai 1992, portant cration d'une Centak d'Approvisinaet en
Mddicaments Bsenties OGn&iques;
Sur proposition du Ministre de Ia San, et de l'Action Sociale et de la Panu. Le Conseil ds Ministres
enteadu en sa sEance du 14 Wrier 1994;
DECRET
ARTICLE1e:
Jl est orde a BuDuina Paso, mue sruct   d'Approvisionnement en Mddicament Essentials sous
neam  Gn6urique et en Consommabls Mdiux appdo Central. d'Achat des M6dicarea
Esentics GdoEriques et des Consommables Mddicazx en abr~    CAMEO *.
TrrRE  1.       GENERALrlTEST 08BTS
AR'11LE 2
La CAMEG eat un projet dote de Ia personnalite molrae   dde 'autonomio financihe.
Son sitgo social est fine it Ouagadougou et pent etre trman  en tout autre liou du
toritoue nationaL Des depots rgionaux peuvent &re crfes.
Lour nombre et kw sige seront pr&cisds par Arte du Miiste chargE de la Sante, sur
proposition du Conseil d'Administraton.
ARTlCLE 3:
La CAMEG a pout objet:
-       Contrlbuer a ka miso en oame  de l'nitiative de Bamako au Burkina Faso.



95                                      Annex 3.6
Page 2 of S
-       Matute en circuatcon la M6dicaments Essasdonls Gniques, I des pix sooiaux urw toutl
'entendue du tenitoire.
-    lGaantir ls dponibiL  des MEdicaments Essoniel Gddriques, do qugt confor m   la
rglemontation nationale et international en viguemr.
AhI=LBI4:    Pour atteindre ces objectif, la CAMEG proddera a lachas et ou & l'impotaton par appel d'offes,
des M6dicaments Essentiels GOn6riques et dci consommables m6dicaux adosam   au
foactionnement des fomations sanftrc publiques et des etablissont de soins pnivs & but non
lucratif.
ARTICLE 5:
-       La durde de vie du Projet es de cinq (5) ans.
-       BiLe pout eAt  prolongde d'un conunun accord entre lo Gouv ernennt I=as Partmais du
Developpemnent Socio4anitaire aprbs 6valuation.
-       La dissolution anti. pdo ou   fin d6finitive du projet ect ddoidde danbs lma  mo condtion
quo ci-dessus.
-       A la fin du projet, une fonnc juridique definitive devra etr decidee conforndmnt awx
textes on vigucur.
rrIE H.         DES RESSOURCES
A (CLi:         Les ressources du Projet sont consituees:
des subventions de l'Etat;
de Ia dotation initial. on Medicaments Essentil GdCdriquas et consommables Mdicax
founnis par l'Etat at les Puonaires du Ddveloppement Socio-Si
des recettes issues des ventes des Medicaments Essentiels Gdniques ct des
Consommables Mddicui;
-       des subvendons et toutes autres reswources atribudc  par convention Nationals ou
Intemationale; des Dons et Legs.
7TI8E m.         DE LA TUTELLE
ARTICLE 7:    Le projet est plac6 rous la tutolle technique du Ministe charg  de Is San  ct sous la tutl
flnanciere du Ministre charge des Fuances.
Agn=LE 8:    Les deux (2) Ministres de tutelle sont tenus infonmds rEguliemant de l'volution at do la geation du
projet.
ATIElV           DE L'ADMlNISlRTION
A IB I& 9:    La CAMEG est admninisre par un Consoil d'Administra  de dix sept (17) membrs, composE do
la ifaon suivante:
-       Six (6) reprdsentants de l'Etat
-       Deux (2) represcntants des Consonumateurs
-       Quatre (4) reprdsentants des Paitenaires du Ddveloppment Solo-Santire
-       Quatre (4) reprdsentants des Professionnels de la Sante dont:
-       Un (1) reprdsentant de l'Ordre Unique des Medecins, Plharacien  at
Chirurgiens Dentistes
-       Une. (1) reprdsentae de I'Association des Sages-Femmes
-       Una (1) reprdsentante de V'Amicale des InfinniFres
-       Un (1) reprisentant de le 1'Associaion Professionnelle des Infinmies et
Infinr ers.
-       Un (1) repreant des Travailleurs do la Structure.



96                                     Annex 3.6
Page 3 of 5
Lea Membres du Consoil d'Administtion reprsent l'Etat sont:
-       Deux (2) reprisentnts du Ministb chare   de la Sante
-       Un (1) roprdentant du Minisre chargE des Funancem
-       Un (1) repr6sftait du Minitbre chargE du Commerce
-       Un (1) repr6sentant du Ministbe chargE de V'Administzratiou Tertoriale
-       Un (1) reprdsoentat du Ministtro chargE du Plaa
Le Conseil dAdminisaion el pami les membrea reprd e  la tutela technique, urn Pridant
pour un mandat de trois (3) ens, renouvelablo une fos.
ABI&iLE 1:    Lea membres du Consil d'Administration representant l'Ett, sont nommds per DEorat pris en
Conwe  des Ministres pour un mandat de trois (3) ans rnouvelable une fois.
ARllCLE J t:    La designalion des reprdsentants des autrer structures, sieant au Consell d'Administration, scra
entdrinde par la Conseil dos Minstres.
ARlCL8 1:    Le Consil d'Adminisiraton pout s'adjoindrc toutc peronne physique ou morals do conp teuoe
reconnue dans un des domaines faisant l'objct de so ddcLbdrations I dtre consultetif.
ARlCL8 13:    Le Conseil d'AA,ninistretion so rdunit ordinairement une (1) fois par scmestre pour e,wmincr les
rappolta, les progremmes ou ic budgets ayant trek I la vie de l CAMEO.
Toutefois, il pout Wre convoqud en seance extraordinami  sur convocatika do son pr6sident oo d'un
tiers (1/3) de ses membres.
RTICLE 14:   Quinze (1S) jours au moins avant la date pour la rEunion Ien convocations sont cuvoy6ew mam
admiristrteurs accompagnea dce dossiers & examiner.
RTICLE 1S:    Dens toutes le reunions, le Conseil d'Administration doit reunir au moins la moitie d ceoun des
entit6s qui Ic composent. 11 eat teou une feuilk de prdsence EnargdS  par os adninistrateuss
presents.
AfCL    1:    Les ddlibdrations du Conseil d'Administration sont prises I la majoritd des voix, cell du priet
dent prEpooderanton cas de paitago epi des voix. ElIe sont constatees par dos proobsk-veau
insrits sur un regst spcial signe par l Prsident et o Secrdtaire de seanoe.
ABflCLL217:   Le Conseil d'Admiistration assure la plus haute responsabilitd de 'Administretion de l CAMEO.
1 ost obllgatoiremont saui do toutes ke  uestions d'impoztanoe pouvant in9uer     marcho
gEnerale do la CAMEG.
11 dEIhber sur les principales questions touchant au foneionneni   et a la gesdon do la CAMEO
notamment:
-       il exmine et approuve lorganisation de la CAMEO, k projet de budgt, a coNeciifs
budgetaires, les conventions d'octoi do subventions ou d'avance do trdsorcrie;
-       il approuve Ics propositions des salaires, indemnitds et autres emolumonts;
-       il prend a bail tous bions, meubles ou imnmeubles;
-       il autoriso lo Directeur Gdneral a contractor tous emprunts;
-       il fait toutes d6ldgetions, tous transferts de crffnces;
-       il consent toutes subrogations avec ou sans garantio;
-       il transfert ou alihno toutes ventes au valeurs; il acquieut tous immeublea, et droits
immobiLiers; il consent tous gages, nantissement, hypoth4quces u autres   Anties;
-       il fixe to stetut des agents coreactuels propres au projet;
-       il fixe s'i y a lieu, lea trifs gdnraux de cession des biens et srice  produits etou
vendus par l CAMEG.
ARTICLE 18:   Le Consel d'Administration peut deldguor seo pouvoirs sauf dans Is matieree suivantes:
a)      Examen et approbation du projet du budget, dos comptes sfinecie, des coitions
d'emission des emprunts et des conditions d'octroi do subvention et d'avanoo do trdsork,



97                                    Annex 3.6
Page 4 of S
b) Acquisition, transfeots et afldnations int4ressant le patrimoine immobilier doe I CAMEO.
TITRE V.        DE LA DIRECTON
hBIMLM J19:   La CAMEO eat dirigde par un Dirocteur, nomme en Conseil des Ministres.
ARM=Le 20:   Le Conseil d'Admiistton propose la nomination du Directeur de is CAMEG, au Ministm charsg
de Ia SantE.
RrcLe 21:   Le Directur eat pesonnelemont rosponsable de as gestion devant le Conseil d'Adminisron qui
pout proposer Sa rvocation au Ministro chargc do b SantA.
AIMCL  22:    Le Directour ddtient les pouvoirs la plus etendus pour agir au nom du Consell d'Adminis.atioa.
1 a notammunt les pouvoirs suivants:
-       il rocruto et lioenoci It personnel conttactuel conformnment aux tdxes en vguel,
-       il propose I I'approbation du Conseil d'Administration les salaires indemn6s et autes
mohments conformnment aux textes en vigueur;
-      il eat l'ordonnateur des recetes et des ddpenso;
-       i assure l'excution des decisions du Conseil d'Administration;
-       il reprnte la CAMEG vis  vis des tiers;
-       il ropr6sento la CAMEO en Justice;
-       U prond dans ke cas d'urgence, qui ndcessitont in dpassenent doe sea attibutions
nonmales, toutes rnaures conservatoir    essaires, a charg pour lui d'en rendre compte
a PrEsident du Consoi d'Administration dans les plus brefs ddlais;
;I propose l'organigramme, t0 rlement intdriour et la nomination des Cadres au Conse
d'Administration:
-       ;l asit st. avec voix consulive, aux ddlbUratiow- du Conseil d'Admisitban et en assure
1e secrdriat;
-       ,1 sine lea actes concernant la CAMEG;
-       U1 est tenu par ailleurs, d'adresaer I chaque Ministre de ttele:
*      les comptas prdvisionnels de receltes et de ddpenm;
*      ;e progamme de financemer des _nestissenents;
*      lks comptos financiers;
*      les conditions d'emission des emprunts;
*      Dans un ddlsi maximum d'un (1) mois aprs chaque rEunion du Conseil
d'Admmbisin une ampliation du procha verW des ddh1braions.
ARICLE 23:   Lea dElibUrations du Conseil d'Administation doviennont ex6outoires, soit par un avis de non-
opposition des Ministres do tutelle, wit par l'expition du ddt1i do quinae (15) jours I pattir de is
date e deot aux Cabinets.
En cas d'opposition, le Ministre doit atatuor et notifier sa d6oision danm un ddlai d'tun (1) mois I
partr do lopposition.
PassE ec ddE,iIs decision devient exdeutoire.
3:I    VI.      DU PERSONNEL
ARCLE 24:   Le personnel de Is CAMEO comprend:
a)      Lea agents titaires d l'Elat affectds au projet. Ceux-i conservent quel quo 8it lkut
cadre d'origine lour qualiz de fonctionnaire et lintgralit  des droits at prdrogatives
attachds I leur saut;
b)      Les agents contractuels recrutds dans les conditions prdvues par To code du tavai;
c)      Les coopdrants mis a Is dispositions du projet dans lea condkions prdvs  par be
conventions bilat6rales signdes avec le Burldna Faso.



98                                     Annex 3.6
Page 5 of S
Tlrt yVL        DE LA VElRIFCATION DES COMS
ARllCLE  25:            Doux Comnissair  aux Comptes sont ddsignes par to Consoil d'Administraion pout un
mandat de (2) deux ans, ronouvelable (1) fois.
A CLJ!             -    Les ACo ssires aux Comptes proc6dant i h verification et -1 a cetification des comptes
avant Jour oxamen par lo Conseil d'Admini n.
TITRE VIll.      DES DISP_SITIONS TRANSITOIRES
ARTICLE:    -           Pendant la pdriodo tmnsitoim prEcEdant la miws en place d6finitive de a CAMEO, le
Ministrc charge do la Sanut, nommea, par arrT6, un Directeur.
ARTICL  28:    Le Directour do la CAMEO pendant cefe pdriode transitoire, sera charge de:
-       prendre toutes dispositions utles pour la misc en place do la CAMEG, dans un deimi
raisonnable;
prendre tous es contacts ndcessaires (Adminuston Publique et Patnaiues du
Ddvolopponint So_oSanitairo);
-       prepar la premibnr session du Conseil d'Adminisaon;
-       effecur toute mission, pour acceldror l dnmage effcdf do 1a CAMEO.
ATICLE 22:    La comptabili de la CAMEG ssra fixE par un Arr&  Conjoint des Minisre de tte  sur
proposition du Conseil d'Administration.
ARTCLU. 30:   Les comptes sont soumis annuellement I un audit oxterno ..Jon uno procEdure acceptqd  des
diffents  -ires.
ARICLE 31:    Le Ministre de la Sante, de l'Action Socialo et de la Pamille, lo Ministre des Fmances et du Pln et
le Ministre de l'Administration Tenitoriale sont chargEs chacun en ce qui le concerns do 1'exAoution
du prEsent D6cret qui sea pubL au Journal Officiol du Paso.
OUAGADOUOOU,
LE
Pla}se CONQ?AORE
Le Minite de la Sant", de I'Action               Le Mnistro d'Etat, Ministre
Social at de la Famille                                  des Fmances et du Pbn
Catdonbe DABR13E                                         Rock Cbrisin N        AORE
Le Miisc du Commrce do                                   Le Ministe de I'Administradon
MIustrie et des Mines                                    Teritoriale
ZMiN  DIABRE                                             Raeoe Antoine SAWADOGO



99                                     Annex 3.7
Pag I of 2
BURKIAZ
HEALTH AND NUTRM"ON RlC-
DET^LEd MPEMENTATION PLAN AND O.lE
1.     The o,bjgcive of this compnent is to improve the nutritional status of ta  groups among populatos
suffeing from a deficiency in iodine, vitamin A and iron.
2.      The     trouos an:
- for anema: pregnant women and anemc chldren 05 y,ears old throug     he country.
- for iodine deficiency:
*%didSalt: In al 30 provincs.
*- Scheme A: in the sic prvinces with the highest prevalence of goiter (at leat 20%):
women of reproductive age (IS to 49) including pregnant women prior to the 11th week of pregnancy
,children 6 months to 11 yean of age
, men 14 to 2S yoe of age (this group is argeted mainly because the expeience in Passor4 shows that if men
get the injection, they are more likely to mobilze women and clden to comply with the program).
-Scohm  B: in the proinces with bwer prevalce of goiter (ess than 10%): women of reproductive agc,
inluding pregnat women, and children les than age one are taugeted among the popution who use fixed
health facilities.
- fr vitmin A deficiency:
*  in all 30 provinacs for therapeutic purposes: chldren who have consulations nd have meales, acute
respiratory infection, pmistea diarrhea, or xerophtahnia.
** for preventive purposes, in the 14 provine with the highest prevalence of night blindness (more than 1%):
children 6 to 12 months and those 1 to 10 years of age, and lactating mothers within 1 raonth of delivery.
3.      Shtey: in order to acheve the above objectives the PDSN wi help to:
. design and implment a national progam to control micronutient deficiencies;
. in the short term, incramse supply of vitauin A and iron to target groups by integrating the ditribution to hea
sevios, to other sectors, such as educadon and agriclturo, via an    ng camp   and of Wdine via
a campan of orl iodine capsules in the 16 provinces with the most bhea  problems (coring six Provinces duing
tdwes year and al 16 during the Ist two years of the project), using the three eitng  P appraches: fixed
centre, advanced teams (going within a 15 km radius from the health center) and mobie teams (going beyond the
15 km. radius) and also using the school distibution system as wll as community wers. Iodine capsu   will
lso be made avaiLable to target groups who come in contact with health servics in the 14 other provincs with
lower rates of goiter as of the fourth year of the project;
. for the long term: the population should have access to food forified in iodine. To aieve this, a falty sd*y
to iden    th best ways to acceleMrate importation, distrbution, and consumption of a food fte  in odine
(pbably salt), wil be undea    with the support of UNICEF before June 1994. A study on the commerol
distribution circuit of salt wili be undertken, financed by the project, to identiy area that cannot be rachod by the
fortified salt;



100                                     Anex 3.7
Pago 2 of 2
coatributo  the Incesig consumption of vtamin A-rich food by influencing food habit of tagt groups.
4.                i national, but fouses on the aeas whore the dironutuie  problem is th mo  not:
Numbr of provinoe covered by the PDSN for each micronutrint
mb            C             PComtm            94   95   96   97   98
VIbi_A    hotpsl          6 6ptev. (frmiobe  6    6    6    6    6
ddst,d,bv en)    .___
I  5od prov.(te vow           8    8    5
._________                 1UUNICEFAISA)  .  
for_ am        nJI30D            30   30   3- _ 
_l_p_ ovs 30   30   30    __  30
loom         uoAum br      16pv.              6    6    6    16   16
uut..b I
,_wAmtb     l4urpe.                               14 j    1    1  314
S.       me ooveage b  heh services and the pimary school sector will prmt rachig only pas of tho
objtiveo ; the mest will be ahied through the iodine campain  s well as an effost in lnfomao, Uducadon, and
(EC) to mobilinw _om :umitie:
Percent of theo tg  population presetly reahed by different svic
R 1~~    ~~ A   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ 
Wor 15.45- _as      1 (VAT 1)
_      _         Lo8X31.41 (VAT 1)          !      _      _
0-Imiolis    ~ ~~atS1%(DTcp )________
1-2mrold.               ;92X MM 1)
_____ _a             20X(amtlw)           _____20 (_ _)
5S 7 yewol               OXs  0
7 -12er oW             lOX                    29"X pm         _
Sou1r. fotbea  svices: Enques Natinas de Couvertmre Vaceinalo de mav/i 1990 et do jvier 199, MAS.
1  VATI - first anti4tanus vaecies are used horn as a proxy for possible coveag for micronuiin.
DTCPI - first DTCP vacines ar ued here as a proxy for posble oovenpge fotr ioita.
The Minsay of Basic lducao  has already devdoped a Plan of Acton with the Ministry of Heallt fo the
oadei year 93-4 to eliv  iodie apu  through schools.
Ddailed oxplatio  of the Feaues Alicable to all lTree Minutrets, Control of Vitamin A Defldimay and
Conrl of Iodine Deficiency Disas  are conaed in a separted background docm t which wi be icluded in the
kOIr tuiOn ManuAL



101                             Annex 3.8
Page 1 of 3
DRAFT
PROGRAMME DE LUTrE CONTRE LES DMICIENCES
EN MICRONUIMJNTRS
Protocole d'Accord
entre
le Gouvernenent du Burkina Faso et l'Unicel
1. Un programme de lutte contre les deficiences en micronutriments a ete Elabor6 suite 4
une demande adressee I l'Association Internationale pour le DEveloppement OP4) par le
Gouvemement du Burkina Faso. Ce programme a *t prepare selon un processus de consulWtation
large avec le Gouvernement du Burkina Faso, les Agences des Nations Unies, les ONG et les
assistances bilaterales et multilaterales. L'Accord de Crddit a ete signe entre le Gouvernement du
Burkina et l'IDA octroyant un financement de l'IDA le ... Fevrier 1994
2.    Les composantes majeurs du programme sont prEsentEes dans le plan des
operations.
3.    Le Gouvemement du Burkina Paso a demande a l'IDA un pret de 4 736 000
dollars EU pour la mise en oeuvre de ce programme I travers 1'UNICEF comme partenaire de
gestion et d'exEcution.
4.    L'engagement du Gouvernement pour executer ce programme comprend la mise
en place du personnel national dOment qualifie, tel qu'indiquE dans le plan des operations les
rEnmunerations de personnel national participant aux activitds du programme, la mise I la
disposition de locaux necessaires ainsi que leut entretien, un stockage adequat du matEriel et sa
ditribution rapide, l'entretien, les assurances et les fials de rdparadon et le carburant necessaire
aux vehicules existants.
5.    Le Credit de l'IDA smr utilise pour l'achat d'equipement, de matEriel et de
micronutriments aussi bien I l'interieur qua lexterieur du pays,le financement sur place des
formations, perdiem et autres frais recurrents.
6.    Le programme sera mis en oeuvre pendant une periode de 3 ans & partir de la
signatre du present protocole d'accord. Apres evaluation I mi - terme des activitds par le
Gouvernement du Burkina Faso, I'UNICEF et la Banque Mondiale, le prdsent protocole peut Wtre
prolongE pour 2 ans et un avenant y relatif signe.
7.    L'UNICEF founira, selon ses rbgles et procedures qui sont pleinement accept6
par le Gouvernement du Burkina Faso, avec le Crddit octroye par l'IDA au Gouvernement du
Burkina Faso, les equipements et materiels ainsi que le finmcement tel que stipule dans le Plan
des opErations.
Proocok dawrd  P/UNICEF                                           16 Fivr 1994



102                             Annex 3.8
Page 2 of 3
8.    LUNICEF co-financera le programme pour un montant total de 60 000 $ E.U.
sur la masse commune des ressources pour la periode 1994-1995 et cherchera I mobiliser des
ressourcs addltlomnelles sous forme de fonds suppIdmentalres de l'ordre de 781 000 E.U. pourla
pdriode 1994-1995 de ses rosre  et dgalement d'autres sources. Loctroi par l'UNICEF de ces
rsources est conditionne par la disponibilit6 des fonds et les rdponses positives des bailleurs de
fonds.
Les details de l'apport de lUNICEF sont presentes dans le plan des opErations.
9.    Le programme sera mis en oeuvre par le Gouvernement du Burkina Faso avec
l'appui de l'UNICEF tel que definis dans le plan des opErations.
10.   LUNICEF soumettra, tous les six mois,  travers le Gouvornement du Burkina
Faso un, rapport sur l'etat de pogrbs du programme I la Banque Mondiale. Un rapport final sera
soumis dans les tros mobs aprbs la fin du programme.
11.   L'UNICEF recema des paiements selon le calendrier suivant jusqu'& concurrence
di montant total de 4 736 000 $ E.U.
a. A la signature du present protocole d'accord, un montant de 697 800 dollars E.U sera
octroye comme avance pour les achats initiaux .
b. Des palements ulttrieurs seront effectues I la demande du gouvernement contre des
justifica;t de depenses acceptables fouris par 1'UNICEF au Gouvernement (Direction du Projet
de Ddveloppement Sante et Nutrition), lequel fera la requee de deblocage des fonds I l'IDA.
12.   Tous lea paiemets effectuEs par l'IDA sur demande du Gouvernement du Burkina
Faso dans le cadre du prEsent protocole d'accord seront effectues en dollars en E.U. au compte
bcair ci-aprbs de l'UNICEF:
13. Un plan d'action annuel sera elabore conjointement entre le Mlnistbre de la Sante , de
l'Actiou Sociale et de la Famille (MSASF), 1'UNICEF et l'IDA.
14.   Des reunions pEriodiques, une fois par mois au cours de 13 premiere annde et tous
ls trois mois ensulte seront tenues enre l'UNICEF et le MSASF pour le suivi du projet.
15.   Sur la base du plan d'action annuel et les ajustements ventuels, l'UNICEF
iditiera les dEpenses slon le calendrier prEvu.
16.   LUNICEP n'imputera aucun frais pour les services administratifs, de gestion et
d'achat pour lea fonds octroyEs dans ce programme.
?'olck d'aordW/U?JICIP                                             16 Ffivr 1994



103                             Annex 3.8
Page 3 of 3
17.   Toute observation, requete ou approbation requise ou autorisee a Wtre remise ou
faite dans le cadre du present protocole d'accord dot etre r6digde en langue frangaise et rev$tira la
forme Ecite. Les correspondances seront adressdes:
Pour le Gouvernement du Burkina Faso:
A Monsieur le Ministre de la Sante,
de l'Action Sociale et de la Famille
B.P 7009 OUAGADOUGOU, Burkina Faso
POUR L'UNICEF
UNICEF, Bureau pour le Burkina Faso
B.P 3420 OUAGADOUGOU, Burkina Faso
Telex : 5357 BF
TElEfax (226) 30 09 68
18.   Le prdsent protocole d'accord entrera en vigueur I la date de sa signature par les
parties intdresstes. Le prEsent protocole d'accord pourra Wre modifie d'un commun accord entre
les parties.
En foi de quoi les soussignes dlment autorises I cette effet, ont signe le present protocole
d'accord.
Fait en cinq exemplaires en langue frangaise
A Ouagadougou                          A Ouagadougou
Date:                                  Date:
Signature:                             Signature:
Nom                                    Nom:
Tire:                                 'Titre:
Pour le Gouvernement du          Pour le Ponds des
Burkina Faso                     Nations-Unies pour l'Enfance
Protcok d'accord WIMFUCEF                                         16 Fikr 1994



104                              Annex 3.9
Page 1 of 2
AURINAFASO
PROJET DE NOTE TECHNIOUE SUR
l.A RtEORGANISATIONS DE LA DIRECTION DE LA MEECINEf PPYOENTIrVE-
QO   ngr e et ddfinitions des fonctions
Le service de coordination des programmes est chargE:
- de concevoir, de planifier les programmes de lutte contre les maladies aussi bien transmissiblos
quo non transmissibles, et d'evaluer leur application et leur valeur intrinseque;
- d'organser; de coordonner; et de suivre les programmes dits 'verticaux', c'est-h-dire les
programmes non integres dans les services polyvalents de sante;
- de promouvoir et de contribuer a toute recherche pouvant concourir au contrBle ou I
I'elimination des maladies.
Le service regoit sos informations du service epidemiologique, des equipes-cadres de district, et
des specialistes universitaires ou appartenant aux organisations de cooperation.
11 transmet les instructions dcrites, les supports et les strategies aux districs sanitaires et bien sur
mx organisations specialisees.
Chaque bureau est charge de plusieurs maladies. Cette polyvalence doit permettre l'adjonction ou
la soustraction de nouvelles pathologies au spectre des preoccupations de la DMP en fonction des
besoins de la politique nationale de sante.
Le programme elabore est expose au CFDS, charge de la formation des equipes-cadres des
districts, chargees de la mise en application, du monitorage, et de la supervision des activites des
programmes executes au niveau des CSPS, des CMA et des hOpitaux.
Les activites des programmes, qui, pour des raisons techniques, geographiques, financieres ou
opdrationnelles, ne peuvent Ote executees par les services polyvalents seront executees sous la
responsabilite de 4 Equipes regionales. Cette equipe dEpend directement des services de la DMP et
conduit ses activites directement au niveau de la communaute. Ses rapports avec les districts sont
les suivants:
- conseil et formation technique des cadres, dans le domaine du contr8le de cortaines maladies;
- evaluation de la conception des programmes par analyse des operations dans les districts;
- del6gation de certaines tidches aux equipes mobiles attachees I chaque district. A noter que cette
delegation sera toujours effectuee I l'intermediaire de I'equipe-cadre de district, qui conserve toute
autorite sur l'ensemble de son personnel.
Ressoc   humaine
Les fonctions des niveamx centraux de la DMP se partagent comme suit:
- le directeur national est un medecin;
- le responsable du service dpiddmiologique est un specialiste en epidemiologie;
- le responsable des maladies transmissibles et non transmissibles est un seul medecin.



105                               Annex 3.9
Page 2 of 2
Les 3 Equipes rgionaloes seront composdes d'un mEdecin dpidemiologiste et de 2 infirmiers qui
seront affectes au staff de l'h6pital regional. L'equipe de Ouagadougou sera intdgrEe au niveau
central et l'un des medecins de la DMP cumulera les fonctions de responsable national et rEgional.
Les equipes mobiles de district comprennent deux infirmiers ou un infirmier et un AIS affectds I
temps partiel k cette tfche.
PjEt PASE: L'infirmier forme dans le cadre de ce programme fait partie de l'eqipe de
district, centre sur le chef lieu de province. 11 est base au niveau du CMA. Dans la mesure oi il
n'est pas prevu par le projet canadien de former un infirmier pout chape district mais seulement
un pour chaque province, l'infrmier PASE verra provisoirement ses activites etendues aux autres
districts de la province a laquelle il appartient. L'evaluation du programme verifiera s'il est utile
d'affecter un tel agent A chaque district du pays.
Raoul Follereau et autres pogrammes dits 'verticaux": Les infirmiers charges de l'application
de ces programmes et affectes au niveau de la Direction Provinciale de la Sante (DPS), sont
affectds k l'equipe de district et sous la responsabilite des medecins de district et do I'quipe-
cadre.



106                             Annex 3.10
Page 1 of 2
BURKINA FASO
PROJETI D' ORGANISATION DU SERVICE DE MAINTENANCE
Objectlifs
1.           La mission de ce service devrait 8tre l'installation, les rdparations, et la
maintenance preventive du materiel et des 6quipements m6dicaux, le contrOle et 1'6valuation de
leur fonctionnement, et enfin le maintien de la securite liee a l'appareillage. L'analyse des besoins
procede de l'epidemiologie clinique et n'est pas du ressort dLi service de la maintenance. L'achat
et les procEdures d'acquisition doivent Wtre le fait d'un departement des approvisionnements, mais
yini parfois, exiger l'opinion des techniciens du service de maintenance.
Prinepes
2.           La dElEgation des tfches, l'utilisation du secteur prive, la polyvalence du
personnel, un systbme efficient, evalue ulterieurement pour voir ses moyens adaptes, devraient
guider la conception du service de maintenance.
3.           L'utilisation du secteur prive est particulierement indiquee pour les reparatons
dans les domaines de 1'electricitd et de la plomberie.
ActivitEs
4.           Outre les activit6s techniques proprement dites, le service de maintenance doit:
- planifier les programmes de maintenance (horaires, ddfinition des t5ches, etc.);
- participer I la formation et I la supervision du personnel du ministtre de la
sante aux activites de maintenance;
- contrOler et evaluer l'efficacite et la securite du materiel et de son utilisation;
- gerer et coordonner les ressources humaines propres du service de maintenance.
Organlston
5            Le programme national de maintenance prevoit une unite centrale et 10 unites
rgionales bases dans les 10 CHR. Dans le cadre du projet PDSN, on envisage une stucture plus
lEgere dont l'efficacite et la charge de travail seront evalues et qui pourront Wtre eventuellement
asif ultdrieurement.
6.           On propose trois niveaux:
1) 2 dquipes (une dans chaque hdpital national), chargdes de toutes les rdparations
et de la maintenance preventive dans les CHN, de certaines reparations dans les
CHR qui dependent d'eux, de la formation continue des techniciens des CHR ainsi
que de leur supervision, et de l'organisation du travail dans les CHR et au CHN.



107                            Annex 3.10
Page 2 of 2
Un ig6nieur est requis pour chacune de ces deux equipes; pour les regions oi leg
CHN sont implantes ces equipes cumulent leurs fonctions propres avec celles des
CHR;
2) 5 equipes r6gionales constituent le second echelon. Elles ont pour fonction
d'effectuer les rEparations et la maintenance preventive dans les CHR, ainsi que
les reparations dans les CMA qui existent dans les zones concernees. Les
techniciens en maintenance de ces Equipes doivent aussi former le personnel des
CMA b la maintenace preventive.
3) Un responsable de maintenance est nomme pour chaque CMA. n peut Wtre
ouvrier ou laborantin, selon les disponibilit6s locales. n est charge de la
maintenance prdventive, du contrOle, et est encadrd par P'dquipe regionale.
7.           Certains plans de travail sont particulibrement utles pour chaque infrastructure
sanitaire du pays:
- un programme de maintenance prEventive, qui comprend la description des
tiches, leur progrnmmation chronologique, la definition des responsabilites de
- une liste des reparations I court terme a EtE effectueo pour les hOpitaux par un
consultant de la GIZ; il faudrait la completer par une classification des
rdparations en catEgories de priorite;
- une liste des tiches qui doivent 8tre maftrisEes par chaque catdgorie d'agent du
service de maintenance et par ceux I qui des tidhes ont etE doelgueos (ouvriers,
laborantins). Cette aiste devrait servir de base I la formation continue du
personnel, et Oe  cochee de manire a detecter les complements de formation
necessaires au niveau individuel.



108                   Annex 3.11
Page 1 of 5
M]lNlSERE DE LA SANTE,                   BURKINA FASO
DE LACTION SOCIALE Er                LA PATRIUE OU LA MORT
DE LA FAMIlLLE                            NOUS VAINCRONS
SECREARIAT GENERAL
DRECTION DES ETUDES Er
DE LA PLANIFICATION
FINANCEMENT
DR
llINITIATIVE DE BAMAKO
AU BURKINA FASO
ESTIATION DES COUTS TOTAUX DE SANTE
DANS LE CADRE DU SYSTEME DE SANTE DE DISTRICT
AU BURKINA FASO
DWcembre 1993



109                            Annex 3.11
Page 2 of S
Le Gouvemement du Burkina Faso, en date du 21 Juillet 1993, a adopta en Conseil du
Milistres, la Stratgie natlonale de relance des Soins de SantE Primaires par }'litiutivo do
Bamako.
Cela a consacrd l' tssement dune rflexion concert6e, institude entre le Ministe de la
SantE et ses partenaires, et menee depuis mai 1992, date de l'Atelier National pour la relance des
Soins de Sant6 Primaires au Burkina Faso.
La stratie nationale adoptEe par le Gouvemement se cactse principalement par:
1.    I'adoption de ta ror   on du systbme de sante pour la mise en place de
districts de sante dotds de Pautonomle de gestion, et la revitalisation des services de sant6 de
district (CSPS, CM et CMA), selon des normes at standards officiellement dEfinis.
2.    La mise en oeuvre du finamcement COMunauair, dans le cadre de la pardcipation
des populations dans le fonctionnement des services de sante de district, et pour la gestion des
problemes locaux de santE.
3. le reinforcement du plateau technique des sevices de sanot de district, at I'ameioration
de la qualite des soins grce b la mise en place des mddicaments essentiels gEnEriques (cf crEton
de la CAMEO) et la mise en oeuvre dune strg  de mantenance hospitaliere
4.    le developperient de Ia recherche-action dans le cadre des district saniaes.
S.    Le partago des responsabiitds dans PexEcution de la strategie do relance des Soins de
Sante Primaires (Population,Etat, Partenailres)..
Cette strat6gie de dEveloppement sanitaire constte par alemus une des princiaes
cornposantes du "Pan d'Action National pour ta Survie, la Protection et le Dvelopp   des
Enfints au cours des Annes 1990 au Budina Paso".
Dans ce contexte, rEpondre ux besoms de satwe de base des communautEs au Burkina
Faso, consiste, pour 1s resto de la ddcennie 1990, & rEaiser les perfomances suivnes:
-assurer I cdaque burknab  l'acces B des sois de qualitd par une formation sanare
fonctionnelle situee I une distance de 10 km am plus. Cola consistera notmment I remett en
etat de marche optimale des quielques 763 CSPS recenses au Burkina Paso (AoOt 1993)
-crer les conditions pour une prise en charge optimale des malades dont I'etat de maladao
nEcessite un transfert des CSPS veon les centres d recours plus Equipds (notamment en dirurgie
d'urgences), fonctioneds, et e n ent accessibles aux populatdion, y compris les plus
demunies.



110                             Annex 3.11
Page 3 of S
-prEserver et amEliorer la qualit6 des soins au sein des structures de sant, grSce I un
syst&me d'encadrement du personnel, de maitence des equipements, de suivi et de soutien des
activitds (en infonmations et en logistique), grAce I un renforcement des capacitEs oprationnelles
des schelons intermEddaires (districts et provinces)
-mobilisr et ddplcyer les ressources (humaines, financitres et matErieles) a
allouer aux services et au bon fonctiomnement de programmes de sants.
La realisation de ces objectifs fosdamentaux va ncessitor l'execution d'un ensemble de
stratgies et de programmes dont:
-l'operationnalisation du systkme de sante de district, dans to cadre d'une decentralisation
de l'organisation et de la gestion des soins de saute, telles que presente dans le document de
l'lnitiative de Banako.
-le renforcenent de la capacite opdrationnelle du reseau des hopitaux rdgionaux et
nationaux (CHR et CHN).
- 1 intensification de certains programmes dont l'IEC, le PEV, la SMIUPF, la lutte contre
les diarrhees, les progrommes nationaux de lutte contre la tuberculose; contre la cecite, contre la
dracunculose, contre le paludisme, contre le SIDA.
4-'approvisionnment continu en medicaments essentiels genErques (y compris les
aniuberculeux), en contraceptifs, en preservatifs, et en reactifs de base pour les laboratoires,
ainsi Ia promotion des ressouces de la pharmlacopEe traditionnelle.
Tous ces programmes s'itrent et/ou renforcent la stratdgie de Soins de Sante Prlmaires
par J'Initiative de Bamako. Le fimancenent de l'nitiative de Bamako implique donc le f
inancement d'un ensemble d'activltEs intEgrEe, mises en oeuvre dans le cadre de programmes
varies de sante.
Singulierement, la mise en oeuvre de l'Initiative de Bamako passe par l'operationnalisation
des S3 districts de santE.  Cela necessite, entre autres, le renforcement des infuctures
sanitaires (construction d'antennes chirurgicales, de CSPS, normalisation de dispensaires et de
matemnits isoles, renforcement de CHR), etc.
L'esdmation des besoins de flancement peut, dbs lors, Wtre rEalis6e grice aux coCits
umiair  relatifs aux invesdssements et au fonctionnement d'un district de sante dans le contoxte
du Burkina Faso. Les donnes d'etudes antdrieures (Etude du Boulgou et esdmations diverses)
seront utilisees I cet effet.



I11                             Anne  3.11
Page 4 of S
I.   b=ODOLODD: M= US NITAIR  PAR I= PE } STRUCI RM
SANrrALRES AU BURXINA.FASO
1.- AU NIVEAU CSPS
1. -cot de demarrage de l'IB pout lea 612 CSPS existants, y compris les strucur
acgellement fermfes (30 CSPS, 11 dispensaires et 7 marornit&s).
2. -coOt de fbniono nont de l'ensemble de ces CSPS existant
3. -coOt de demarrage de IB dans les CSPS inconplets
4. -collt de fonctionement de ces CSPS incomplets
S. -codt de renforcement des CSpS incomplets, sous la forme de constuctions de:
-      130 maternitds,
*     21 dispensaires
6. -coot de dnMarrage de IB dans ces CSPS normaises
7. -coOt de fonctionnement do ces CSPS normalisds
1.2. NIVEAU CM SIMPLES:
S. -coOt de demarrage de l'.B an nivean des 30 CM existants ot coOt de fonction t
de ces CM existants
9. -coOt de Sfonctnnement des 30 CM
1.3. NIVEAU CMA El CHR (existantsm:
10. -coot de demarrago de 1'LB dans les 16 CMA et les 10 CHR existants ou en co   do
construction
11.-coOt do fonctionnomont des 16 CMA et les 10 CHR existants ou en cours de
construction
1.4. CAS DES FUTURS CMA:
12. -codt de renforcement progressif do chacnm des 27 CM en CMA par la constuction
des antnas chirurgicales
13. -cot de dmarrage de 'IB dans les 27 CMA



112                            Annex 3.11
Page 5 of 5
14. -oomt de fonctionndment de ces 2? CMA apres la reatisation des antennes chivurgicales
1.S. NIVEAU EOUIPES DE.DIRECEION El APPUI:
15. -coOt de fonctionnement des 6quipes de directi.a (district et provinciale)-
16. -coOt de 1'appui par le niveau central (supervision, rdcherches)
17. COUTS SPECIAUX:
17. -co1ts des prognmmes services specialises (Assainissement, Nutrition, etc)
18. -colt de 1 'Assistance technique
19. -coOt de l'appui des institutions sqlalls6es (CFDS, CAMEO)
IL    RUSVLTATs: COUT TOTAL POUR LA PERIODE 1994200
Selon les estmations basdes sur les coots unitaires disponibles, les coOt total des activitds
de sanut lie a la mise en oeuvre de l'Initiative de Bamako au Burkina Faso s'elve I la somme
de 402.139512.265 F CFA, pour a pEriode 1994-2000.
Ce coOt total total reprEsent. l'nsemble des coats k supporter par les differents concernes:
-      1'Etat burkinae    :            36.977.463.600 F.CFA
-     lea .nftaes                      1363.740.000 F.CFA
-     les partemies bitdraux,
ltilatErax et lea ONG:         351.198.308.665 F.CFA.
Le TabluLen appendice ddrfmi la rdpartition envisageable des parts respectives de 1 'Etat,
des mnnage et de la Communte intornationale, dans le financement de ce coat



113                           Annex 3.11
Appendlo
couis UNITAJE PAR TYPE DE SUCTUE SANIT
I.           COUTS UNffAIRES DES CSPS (Source: UNICEF)
1.1-        CoOt de preparation et de d6narrage IB. (WltE =US$)
1. Renovation                                                  3 S0
2. Equipement complientaire                                    3 620
3. Equipement chaine de froid                                  2560
4. Stock initial                                               5 000
5. Fournitures                                                   140
6. Logistique de supervision                                    1 500
7. Supervision/monitoring
Evaluation                                                  1 400
8. Carburant et gaz                                              650
9. Formation du perscanel et
comitds de gestion                                            650
10. Mobilisation sociale                                         200
11. Outils de gestion                                            600
Sous-totl Demarrage                                           20 070
1,2-        Cott de fonctionnement par an
1. Salaire                                                     6 500
2. Renouvellement stocks MEG                                   8 920
et consommables                                           750
3. Supervision                                                   250
4. Monitoring/Evaluatio-                                         300
S. Formation recyclage                                           250
6. Entretien locaux                                            1 300
7. Amortissement                                               1000
8. Motivation
Sousw F:onctionnement                                         19 890



114                            Anex 3.11
Appendice
2..  IC       R UITATE    CM (Sources: UNICEF, Etude du Boulgou)
2.1.. PrEparation et d6narge de I'IB
USS
1. construction/renovation                                     112 600
2. Equipement complementaire                                     3 680
3. stocks MEG                                                    6 500
4. chaine de frold                                               2 50
5. fournitures                                                     300
6. logistique (v6hicules)                                       20 000
8. carburant et gaz                                                650
9. formation personnel et comitds de gestion
10. mobilisation sociale                                           750
11. supervision                                                    200
12. outils de gestion                                            2 550
13. monitoring/evaluation                                          600
250
otal prEparationldemare                     uS$          154 640
2.2.- Coft de Fonctionnement par an
1- matibes et fourniures consomms                            1 880 620
2- mat*riels et objets de pansement                          3034S56
3- petit matriel mddical                                      613 460
4-vaccins                                                     402 206
5- r6actifs et consommables de laboratoire                     199 201
6- personnel local                                          11528 824
7- entrien et rdparation                                     1 174 726
8- amortissement                                             3 670 963
Total fonctionnement CM:                 FCFA        22 505 156



115                           Annex 3.11
Appendice
3.          COUTS UNITAIRES CMA
3.1-        PrEparation et d&nage de rIB                        us$
1-construction/renovation                                     112 600
-24quipement complEmentaire                                     3 680
3-socks MEG                                                     6 500
4-chaine de froid                                               2 560
5-fournitures                                                     300
6-logistique (vebicules)                                       20 000
8-carburant et gaz                                               650
9-formation personnel et comites de gestion                      750
lO-mobilisation sociale                                          200
i-supervision                                                   550
12-outils de gestion                                             600
13-monitoring/lvLluation                                         250
Total   araton/dag                                      USS  154 640
3.2-        CoOt de Fonctionnement par an
1- salaire                                                      42 700
2-renouvellement stocks MEG
et autres consommables                                        10 270
3-supervision                                                      750
4-monitoring/evaluation                                            250
5-recherche opriaonnelle                                           600
6-formation recyclage                                              300
7-entretien des locaux                                             S00
8-amortissement                                                  5 250
9-motivation                                                     1 000
Total coOt de fonctiouseme$ USS                                 61 52



116                            Annex 3.11
Appendice
44 PROaRAMMESE   EVCS  PCAIE
(Sourw Banquc Mondiale)
1 - Approvisionnement en ema potable                     US$256/capita/an
2- Assainiement                                          US$1,42/capita/an
3 - Nutidon                                              US$1,00/capitalan
4-PF                                                     USS1,00/capita/an
5 - Incitation du persoanel                              US$0,09/capkta/an
Total                                            US$6,07/caplta/an
8o0t    1700CFA/capita/an
S. AUTRES COUTS UNrrAMRES
Appui du niveau cental                              US$0,93/caplta
(Souwe. Danque Mondlale)
-     Assistance tecnique      15.000.000 F CFA/homme/an



8iz 1  illeits  tt  tj e- &t  o3. t- 
=-  =======-  =2==  ======-=5-===========a    a a
-~~~~? .3                                                               * X>I1  i     
.4~~~                                       ~~~~~~  3  a
;.~~~~~i -                                       afig
U f 2 ift 
i                          '           X       Z E 1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 ft 
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f f t2 n
.~~~~                                    ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ i  h 
1    {    -   1  1 g ; | i ~~~~~~~~~t            t  U  
..-                                                 =*.   - .



11         COi UT O ITAIRE EN FCFA)                                INOMBRE IIM81       I          COUT TOTALEN FCFA.                                               n
QESGAATION    if                          r                             CUMUL.    IPE STRUCXIpannm                        =8CUMUIesi
11    ETAT      II IOMMUNAUT I PARTENAES  1                        IITURES  lg.2000           ETAT       II         TE   !l  PAR1EES   U                           11
DID"DCXDeusuninnfcincincm .ncc      ffini         fUS=amc           IImall=i=nain===.===,.=  JCS4tUScXsDe=WQinfl..aacc==D===s#emca=asfe=l3SWt3SS.ic3SinD DS3
O.Caddedwom-              31.626,000 1I    106.40011       8.732.18011       43.229.20 1  26   H          1     822276.,W II        2.766.40011      2672160 11    1.051.A4.50 
a CA  St CHR        11                                               l                          .l                           1.                         .n1
xbwI11                                     '      11                11       I'11              11  il              II *f              .         U 
N.               11         n1i                  11                11        11I       11              .11                 al        .                             a
1- CouAde. nW-    I       12.717600     3.696.000 11         6400011         17.253.60011   26   II  7   11   2,314.603,200 11    672.672.000 11        5309.9501 1      3.040,785.10 ,
or_wnt d.          II               II            11                II                 11        II       II                II                 I1 *                1      
AoIACHR            11               U             II                 U                 11        U         U                 U                 U                   U                  41
2-sbraxft         11                11                          A    11     2j0.13 tl            11       P1                                              ! .0,0X 11    SA OM             .11
2.cans~tlon        if               ji       *    ii     200,000.000II      200.000,0600 nI 27   II        i        .        *I iti                   5.400.000.000 II    5.400.000.a000iI
,_ ~    ~     I                I I           II                il                  i         II*    .11                 iI                II                  II                 ||
3. Osmana  IS    ||       31.626.0o011    108.40011        8.732,16011       43229.20011   27   1I        ||      653.902.00011       2.672,.80011      235.504.160j1     1.092.2M9801
amW nouveau                         11            11                                                                          11  11  1  !     I                  H                   11
11 .11                         11                11                11        II     11  11                H        -        U
4. C4tdenc-    11         12.717.60011   3.696.00011         640.00          17.2530011   27   11  s   11   1.711,S76,00X II        490.960.000          73.711.050H      2.29.547.0W     .
vwmnI tI1                                                                                        1111                       II                II                 11 1In
auutCMA        1                 11
S.Culd9f0ln-                        U             n      589.000,000        580.000.0   11  53   11  7   U                                      U   218511000  11  2118.19.o.1o I!
mNeme  Equlp.   11                  II           UI                 H,                PI         U         U                 li                I                   U
5$App dufWSm W U       2,470.000,000| n I         U                       2,470.010.0,OOW             7      I i,17.290A    1 1                                          l7.290t000.O00 i
ante    **I                n         I              1iI                               ilt 11                                 ii                iI    l             iI    D
?.fPtogm        l et                                   13)150.000.0X11   13.15000,00I   7                                                                               11 U  H  113.0 000  X01  113.0 ,   II
"icsespe                                                        .   11          .                11                          If n                                  II                 .11
if  II            II                II                 if        II       II                 U                  11                 II                 II~~~~~~~~~~1
I .f 11.111                                      II                 II        If       II           .     I                 II                  if .11 II
. Com  de rAd     Ij jj                           jj      16,0DO,D0001       15.000.000 i96      jj  4   jj                                           5760.700.0X   1     5i 70.000.000 ll
11                11        11 II   II   II   *11       1                  11                 1I                 II
9-huin           |I P.M           11PM          jjP.M             1P.M               I P.M     jf P.M   1i P.MP            jjF.M              11P                iP.M               II
pcla     scFDSIl H                  I-            11                In 11                        I                           (I .I                                 U                   I1
uItl* AM    1) 1                              II                 Ii                If         II       11                                     .11
*w""""S"""""U                  II IeIsX4ww"no"e"nSl   IID"B|X""WU==i" Ne"=Zwe3e IDIXllZ;l3 _1 DI4IXw""B  4nn .0                                                          -I
3TAL               II  2,611,057,00011  20,07,00 If  14.019,571.BO 11   16,859.068,0O01,         ||        I   36,977.463.600 11  13.963,740,000 I   351.1963665ti11   402.139.512.265,
mwo bn creowt  frk_ , promt pw an                                                                                                                                                      ;.



120                              Ann, 4.1
Page i of 2
B,UKNA FASO
PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT SANTI Er NUTON
Sante
Plan dg supervision
1.           Apport de Ia Bnque en matiere de suDerviSion.  Les besois normaux de
supervision sont decrits dans le tableau ci-dessous. De plus, certaines taches, comme l'examen
des rapports sur l'etat d'avancement du projet, la passation des marches et le decaissemont, la
verification des comptes, etc., devraient n6cessiter au total quatre semaines de services de divers
specialistes chaque annde.
2.           Contribution dg I'Em=runteur a la supervision
a)    Des rapports sur l'etat d'avancement du projet seront pr6sent6s deux fois par an,
en avril et en octobre; Us comprendront un resume de la mise en oeuvre de chaque
composante du projet, de m8me que les tableaux financiers. L'Unite de
coordination du projet (UJCP) recueillera les contributions de chaque Unite de
soutien des composantes (USC) et preparera les rapports.
b)    La coordination, le suivi et l'evaluation du projet releveront de la responsabilite
de l'UCP, sous le contrdle general du Comite interministeriel.
c)    Une fois par an, en octobre, une reunion conjointe Gouvernement/donateurs s
tiendra pour examiner tous les aspects du projet sur la base d'un rapport prepare
un mois plus tOt par l'UCP. Los examens annuels conjoints seront presides par le
Directeur du Plan au Ministere de l'economie, des finances et du Plan (MEFP).
Un examen comprehensif du progrbs realise dans la mise en oeuvre du projet aura
lieu en novembre 1996;
d)    L'UCP sera chargee de coordonner les dispositions a prendre pour les missions de
supervision de l'IDA et de donner a celles-ci les informations necessaires. Des
responsables des organismes concernes accompagneronw les missions sur le
terrain.
e)    Des reunions d'information pour les missions, I I'arriveo et au ddpart de celles-ci,
seront presidees par le Directeur du Plan au MEFP avee la participation des
directeurs de l'UCP et des USC, ainsi que de representants des organismes
d'execution.
3.           Contribution des autes bailleurs de fonds a la supervision. Les autres bailleurs de
fonds seront consultes I propos Jes activites de supervision et invitds I y participer; ils seront
teums au courant des cadres de ieference, des aide-mEmoire et des resultats des missions de



121                                         Annex 4.1
Page 2 of 2
supervision de l'IDA. II est prevu que les bailleurs de fonds participeront I l'examen annuel
conjoint d'avril et apporteront un compldment de compEtences aux missions de supervision.
CALENDRIER DES MISSIONS DE SUPERVISION DE LA BANOUE MQNDIALE
Delft                       Vtiv                 COM_P&OS                                 App o en penouid
(mele
Oct.94       S    alre de  bow o du               Roponsable du prqet                             14
ptret et prnme mion de               Doex  e n sa on  puihqu
supvision por exminer Ib             Expet en passation do manhi
ddmana  diu proe                     SpOcilite ean formation
Export on pharmacio
Dec.94       Missio d supviion                    Raponsable du projot                             8
Expert ea passation des marchs
Analyse finacier
Export on saat6 publiqe
Mel ff M9ison de supervision                      Roponsable du proet                              8
Export on pasation des marchEs
Expect en wavaux de gdnie civil
ExpoCt On pharmacie
Nov. 9S      Supo    nem    loxuOnenocoonlohn     Reponsable du projt 
SpEcialist on formation
Expeot eon ant publique
Med 96      MIsion de supervision                 Reponsable du ptoid                              6
Eaxptn en t publiquoe
Expot on phermaclo
Nov. 96      Ms    do supervisio                  Reponsablb du prjet                              8
Export on san_ publique
Expet on pharmacio
Exper en tavaux de gnie civil
MR 97        Rivue do miacours                    Respablo du proJet                               8
DeuxAmno eoxment coqioln             SpEciAt to formation
Expt on sae publique
Nov. 97      Supa  vsic oibnea examen *o4uhn      Rosabso do prqjet                                6
Sp6caite o foradion
Expon on sa_  publique
mgl 98      Mion de supervi                       Reponsable du projet                            4
Expeat n pharmwcie
Nov. 98      Supervision(Quaurib  oxamna caqjoint   Rosponsablo du prqjet                          6
Exprt on sante publique
Analyste financier
Mi 99       Msion do supervison                   Responsable du projet                            4
Expeot en st publique



122                              Annex 4.2
Page 1 of 8
BURKINA FASO
PROJET DE DEVELOPPEMENT SANTE ET NUTRIMON
TERMS DE REFERENCE DE L'UNITE DE COORDINATION DU PROJET
1.    Objectifs. Pour aider le Gouvernement I atteindre les objectifs qu'il stest fixe, le projet
fournit a travers l'Unite de Coordination du Projet (UCP) une assistance au Ministere de la sante,
de l'actlon social et de la famille pour gerer les fonds, coordonner et suivre le projet - dont les
divers elEments sont mis en oeuvre par ses propres services ou des agences d'execution comme
Faso Baara I qui il aura del6gue des thches d'execution.
2.      oncdions. Chargee de sulire l'exEcution du projet et d'evaluer des resultats qualitatifs et
quantitas, l'UCP supervise et coordonne les activites du projet, y compris toutes les liaisons
avec les differents services du MSASF, les autres ministeres et services officiels intdresses par le
projet, et les bailleurs de fonds. Dana le cadre de ses activites quotidiennes, l'UCP a pour
fonctions specifiques de:
(a)    coordonner tous les aspects de l'execution du projet entre les divers services
officiels intEresses,
(b)    veiller I ce que les coordonnateurs d3 chaque composante s'acquitent efficacement
de leurs fonctions;
(c) organiser la delegation de ma,trise d'ouvrage pour les travaux de genie civil et
suivre pour le compte du Ministere, 1'execution physique et financiere des contrats
de travaux;
(d)    organiser la passation des marches de mobilier et de materiel - notamment en
prdparant ou en aidant I preparer les dossiers d'appels d'offres, analysant les
offres, et presentant des recommandations pour I'attribution des marches, et
s'assurant que les marches sont passes conformement aux directives de l'IDA ou
des autres bailleurs de fonds;
(e)    s'assurer que les fournitures et approvisionnements achetes au titre du projet sont
livres I leurs desdnations et inscrits dans le registre central des avoirs;
(f)    organiser le recrutement des specialistes et administrer les accords d'assistance
technique et les programmes de formation;
(g)   suivre et contr6ler les dates d'achhvement et les co&ts des acquisitions;
(h) assurer le flux satisfaisant et ponctuel des fonds aux elements du projet;



123                               Annex 4.2
Page 2 of 8
(1)   tenir les comptes du projet selon des methodes comptables generalement
accept6es;
0J)    stablir les demandes de decaissement des fonds du credit de l'IDA;
(k)    assurer le versement ponctuel, par le Gouvernement, des fonds de contrpartie du
projet;
0)    tenir les ecritures, y compris les ecritures flnancibres 1Ees a l'execution du projet;
(m)   preparer rdguRirement les rapports d'activite et autres rapports devant tre
presentes aux responsables des composantes du Ministere et aux bailleurs de
fonds; et
(n)    organiser la preparation des futurs projets.
3.    M o=: L'UCP est rattachde au Bureau du Secretaire genEral du Ministbre; elle est
dirig6e par un Directeur a plein temps, appuye par un personnel comprenant un directeur adjoint,
un comptable, et autre personnel de soutien approprie.



124                               Annex 4.2
Page 3 of 8
TERMES DE REFERENCE DU DIRECIEUR
1.    Le directeur de l'UCP est responsable de la bonne gestion et coordination du projet. A ce
titre il veille I ce que les moyens du projet soient utilisss avec le maximum d'efficacits pour
atteindre les objectifs fixes en terme de resultats, conformdment aux accords passss avec les
bailnurs de fonds. II est charge plus prscisement des taches suivantes:
(a)    Assurer une diffusion suffisante de la documentation relative au projet (rapports
d'evaluation, rapports d'activites, accords de credit, documents de travail,
directives des bailleurs de fonds);
(b)    Preparer toute la documentation necessaire pour les examens annuels des plans
d'actions avec les bailleurs de fonds;
(c)    Assister les responsable des composantes dans la prdparation de leurs plans de
travail et do leurs budgets annuels;
(d)    Coordonner tous les aspects d'execution du projet et donner l'impulsion necessaire
I temps voulu;
(e)    Veiller I ce quo les responsables des diverses composantes assument efficacement
leurs fonctions;
(k)    Superviser les composantes et les unitEs de gestion, de passation des marchEs et de
comptabilitd de l'UCP pour que les moyens prdvus sur le projet (fournitures,
travamx et services) soient delivr6es selon les programmes etablis en ce qui
concerne les aspects financiers et qualitatifs, et selon les procedures acceptables;
(g)    S'assurer quo les fonds de contre partie nationale ou de co-finamcements soient mis
en place;
(I)    Approuver les mouvements de fonds;
(i)    Veiller I ce que tous les comptes des projets soient tenus selon des procedures
comptables acceptables par les bailleurs de fonds;
(a)    Signer tous les documents necessaires pour les demandes de retrait de fonds sur
les comptes de crEdit, sur les fonds de roulement et comptes speciaux;
(Ic)    Prendre tous les arrangements n6cessaires pour que les verifications des comptes
soient effectuee selon les stipulations des accords de credit;



125                              Annex 4.2
Page 4 of 8
(O)    S'assurer que toute la documentation requise sur le projet soit disponible et
transmise aux bailleurs de fonds selon leurs directives.
2.    OUALFICAI          Q REOU!SS.
(a)   dtudes supdrieures;
(b)   experience d'au moins cinq (5) annees I un poste de responsabilite equivalente
dans des fonctions de gestion ou d'administration publique;
(c)    experience durant les cinq (5) dernieres annees dans le domaine de la
programmation, de la gestion du secteur sanitaire;
(d)    une bonne connaissance du secteur de la sante;
3.    Conditions d'eimpi: Los conditions d'emploi feront l'objet d'un contat de deux ais
renouvelable, I negocier avec le Gouvernement. Le Direteur pourra atre un fonctioimaire, mais
dans co cas, son contrat ne pourra pas tre financ sur le credit de l'IDA.
1.    Lieu d'affectation:        Ouagadougou
2.    Duree du contrat:          Deux ans renouvelables (avec une duree maximum
de 5 ans)
3.    Date de prise de fonction:    Septembre 1994



126                              Annex 4.2
Page 5 of 8
TERMES DE REFEENCE DU DIRECEUR ADJONT.
ADMINIS1RATEUR GESTIONNAIRE
1.    Place sous l'autorit du Directeur de l'UCP, l'Adm insu w Gestionnaire lui rend
compte de toutes les acivitds soumises I sa responsabilit4 hidrarchique. II est responsable de tous
documents pour information et signature decisionnelle relatifs & la lprogrammaon, au suivi et k
l1ex6cution des commandes, ddpenses et acquisitions pour l'ensemble des activitds du projet. Plus
precisement, il est charge des thches suivantes:
(a)    Avant le ddmarrage du prolet niettre en place:
Le systeme de gestion et de circulation de l'information;
Le systeme de gestion comptable et flnancibre;
Les tableaux de visualisation des flux montaires desdns aux diffErente
responsables du projet;
Les tableaux de suivi des acquisitions de biens et de services;
(b)    En ce qgi concerne la gestion flnancimre:
Elaborer les budgets annuels en liaison avec chaque composante;
Suivre les opErations financieres (engagements, retraits, rbglements en motmaie de
credit, rapprochement bancaire);
Etablir lea etats fnanciers du projet;
Veiller au respect du calendrier des activites, et au maintien permanent diu nhveau
des liquiditds;
PrEparer les lettres de commandes;
Viser les engagements et bons de commande qui seront presentds I la signatre du
directeur;
PrEparer les demandes de paiement et/ou remboursements qui seront prcetds I Ia
signature du directeur;
(c)    En ce qui concerne la gestion comnable:
Supeavisr le saisie des operations et veiller I la teme des difrents res
comptables;



127                              Annex 4.2
Page 6 of 8
Donner le visa sur les dossiers de reglement;
(d)    En ce qui concerne la gestion des marchds et des stocSs:
Superviser la programmation et l'utilisation des acquisitions de biens et de
services.
2.    QUALIFICATIONS REQUISES.
(a)    Etudes superieures (en economie, comptabiite publique, gestion);
(b)    Expdrience d'au moins cinq (5) annEes 9 un poste de responsabilite equivalente
dans le secteur publique et prive ou la gestion de projets financEs par des
organismes de financement;
(c)    Experience dans le domaine de la sante, de la formation et des ressources
humaines, souhaitable, mais non decisive;
(d)   connaissance de systbme de gestion comptable et financiere indispensable.
3.    Conditins d'emloi: Les conditions d'emploi feront l'objet d'un contrat de deux ans
renouvelable, I negocier avec le Gouvernement. II s'agit d'un poste de contractuel.
1.    Lieu d'affectation:        Ouagadougou
2.    Duree du contrat:          Deux ans renouvelables (avec une duree maximum
de 5 ans)
3.    Date de prise de fonction:    Septembre 1994



128                              Annex 4.2
Page 7 of 8
TERMS DE REFERENCE DU COMPTABLE
1.    Description des tflches
Sous l'autorite de Directeur de l'UCP, et sous la responsabilite de I'Administrateur
Gestiounaire. le comptable de l'UCP est responsable de la tenue journaliere de la comptabilite,
ainsi que de la preparation des verifications comptables relativt i I'execution du projet. Plus
precisement, il est charge entre autre des taches suivantes:
(a)    Veiller I ce que les comptes soient suffisamment approvisonnds en vue du
rbglement rapide des depenses engagees dans le cadre du projet;
(b)    Tenir I jour et de maniere roguliere des documents financiers aournaux et livres
comptables) et une comptabilite d&taillee pour chaque categorie de coUts,
composantes et sous-composantes;
(c)    Etablir les demandes de paiement et assurer leur suivi;
(d)    Preparer les demandes de retrait de fonds et toute la documentation ncessaire aux
decaissements conformement aux directives de I'IDA;
(e)    Dresser mensuellement !es etats de rapprochement bancaire du compte spEcial du
projet et sortir la situation financibre de chaque composante;
(f)    Superviser les activites de l'agent comptable matibre du projet;
(g)    Tenir une comptabilite informatisee et sortir les rapports presentation rfguliWre des
comptes, etats et tableaux de bord du projet;
2.    Quaiin,s,
(a)    Formation de niveau superieur (DUT) dans le domaine de la comptabilite;
(b) Expdrience d'au moins cinq (5) annees dans un service comptable traitant un flux
annuel Equivalent;
(c)    Connaissance et/ou expErience des rtgles et procedures de decaissement des
projets finances par la Banque mondiale ou des projets similaires comprenant
plusieurs  composantes  et sous-composantes  est  souhaitable  mais  non
indispensable;
(d)    Bonne connaissance de l'utilisation de la micro-informatique en gdneral et des
logiciels comptables en particulier.



129                            Annex 4.2
Page 8 of 8
3.     opdons d'empoi. Les conditions d'emploi feront l'objet d'uz contrat de deux ans
reaowviable, k ndgocler avec le Gouvernement. II s'aet d'un post. de contractuel. Le candidat
no pouma pas apparteir I la Fonction Publique.
1.   lUeu d'affectation:       Ouagadougou
2.    Duree du contrat:        Deux ans renouvelables (avec une duree maximum
de S ans)
3.    Date de prise de fonction:    D6but 1997



130
Annex 4.3
Pape 1 of 2
PROCUREMENT AilNOEMENTO
tIPLLMETATION 8CHEDUt
PrM project   __i__ _                     r0i5Ot Year                               I               Pmroure        ot
1993          1994          1999          1996          l997          1S98           Total       .nsnt   Pakate
Piroaet Elemetsuaner          1 t.2.1.3.1.4.t 1 .2-1-3.d4. .1 I2 1 3 14  t1 2 1 3.i4  tL.2L1.31.4.t 1 .21.3.14..   Paywment    _Method   Conteats
Bierd              X
SirieturajEffeativenesu/Clcaing             X X                                                                 X
A. WORKS                                                                                                                 12105
1. Heaith Infrestr.tuee                                                                                                   11676
t1.. Rehib/Contr. CMAs                  dd dddddbbe            dddddbbe      dddddbbe
IDA                    -A     omw ww _wve.         Aamwwwwww Aomwwwwww www                            3a83    ICe         12
KFW                ddbbeowwwww                                                                     960   N8FIK        3
1.2. CHRs Rehabilitaton                         dddddbbe ww       _                                                         362   NBFIK        2
1.3. CSPS Urban                                                                                                            1 w  1112    LCS   15
1.4. CSMS Rural                                                    www lrw _w*    wwwww                                    2376    LC8        30
1.9. Staff houses                                                      V4             _wawewVe                             2622    LCB        t9
1.8. Boehole.                                                 dddddbbe Acmwwwwww www                                        402    IC8        2
2. Other tgtrMute                                                                                                           429
2.1. Rehab/Meinterwnc. Cantr                             ddbbeswwwww                                                        125    OTH         4
2.2. Carnegs Warehouses                                  ddbbeowwwww                                                         43    OTH         1
2.3. Construction of OMP                          rrffAodd dAbbeAcomww wwwww                                                261    ICe         I
B. EQUIPMENT                                                                                                              8011
1. Meicel Equpwent                                   ddd Abb.A         AbbeA         AbbeA                                 4460
1.1. CMAiIOA                                                    cmmnww www   cmmiw www   cmmw wwwww                        2140    ICe         9
CMAIKFW                                         ddbbe mmwww                                                              918   N8F/I       2
1.2. CSPS (Urb + Rud/Celd Chain                                     ddd AbbeA
cmmww   wwwwww                               1078    ICs        a
1.3. Lab. Eqpt/Surveillenoe Eqpt                     ddd AbbeA
rcmmww vywww  cmew  www   cmmw www                          324   OTh          2
2. Office Equdpt & SuMBes                                                                                                  1467
2.1. Mt intenance Eqot & Kits                                   cmmww www   cmrnw www   cmmw www                            7i8   ICB          3
2.2. Computer                                         ddd AbbeA         AbbeA
cmmww www   cmmnw www                                       6OO    ICB        3
2.3. OidecticjiEC tool                                          cmmww www   cmrnw  www   ommw www                           65t    OTH         3
2.4. Off. Eqpt/DMP/IJCPIDAF                                                                                                 144    LCB         2
3. VeNclealMotarcyoel_                                                                                                     2084
3.1. Motorcyceos                                     ddd AbbeA          AbbeA         AbbeA
cmmww         cmnww         cmmww                           932    ICB        3
3.2. Vehicles for CMA                                ddd AbbeA         AbbeA         AbbsA
cmmww         cmmww         cmmww                           949    ICa        3
3.3. Vehiclee DMP/DEPIUCP                                           ddd AbbeA
__________                                      cmmww                                 -       203    IC8         I
C. DRUGS                                                                                                                  7154
E.G.D.11iA                                               dddAbbe
inci. trypeno drugs                                              cmmm n wwww          w w           wwwww                  2442    ICE         3
ELG.O.KFW                                                              wwww                                                1128    NBF         1
Vaccine.                                                         cmrnm wwww           wwww          wwww                    1 5    UNA         1
Mlc,cnutrients                                           dddAbbe
c Cn wwww          wwww          wwww                    342S    UA         1
r: recruitment of consultant - d: bid docslLoilTdr - b: bidding period - e: evaluation - A: approval (BankrGovt) -  NBF/G: Financed by Goveemment
c: contract signature - m: mobilization/manufacturing - w: works, supplyrinstallation or execution of services    NSF/K: Financed by KFW



131
Annex 4.3
Pre proleot                                 Praiet Yeot    _                                            Procut,    *of
________________ _ _  1993 _    1994- I9 5 11- 1996            1997           1998          Total        4nant   Pasgee
Proieot Elementas%uartern                           .11.1.2..t..3  1.4. t-3.2..L13.1.4 112114  . 21314. .1.1-2-1-3 14. _1.l..2..l..3..l.4..   Peymat  Method   Conreti
0. SPECIAUSTS
SERVICESISTUDIES                                                                                                              4492
LOIOrrORe/Sh L for Approval                  dded dde                     dde            dde                                                    $14m.mth
Award/Contact revow by IDA                       sea           ao              co            ceo                                                 in utal
* Specalist klntedone l                           wvwwww   wwwwwwwwvwwwwwwwv wwwwwwwwYM  wwzww                                 1766
Camp 1.l:Etude CHR1Meint. Eqpt                                  ww wwwwwvvwwwwwwwv v,                                            178    OTH       n.e.
Comp.1.2:Peop. moduti foant                                 wwwwwwvrww                  1                                       072   OTH         n.
Mi aen piae  rystem*                                                      wvwwwwwwww                                                    OTH       n.e
Comp. I.,,: Audit CAMEG                                    ww             www           ww . 56    OTH                                           na.
Camp. 2.1: Enqueteet Etude                        ww                                                                              33   OTH        n.
Fairabiblite lodation                                  wv                                                                               OTH       n.e.
Camp. 2.3: Strategie long tome                                  wwwwwVw                                                          117    OTH       n.a.
Camp. 4.1: Organiostion/Form.                          ww                 wwwwwwwv wwwwwvrwwwww                                 287    OTh        n.o.
Camp. 4.2: Etude Feieabillte Lobo                          ww                                                                     20    OTH        na.
Comp. 4.3: Spec. Goat. Recera.                             wwwwwww                                                               153
Como. 4.S: Audit UCP/Comp.  _                  ew          www            www            wwWv          www                       250    0Th       n.e.
- Spec. or Loao SarAcee                                                                                                        1177
Camp. 1.4: Distnbution Medico-                         ww                                                                         30   OTH         ns.
marts et Etude consommetion                                wwwww                                                                                   n.
Camp. 2.1: Systema de contrtot                         ww                                                                         39    OTH        n.e
Enq. EpidJO prov. at Evalueion                             wwwwwwww                                                                                n.e.
Camp. 2.2: Enq. 14 pravinoes                        wwww wwww                                                                     23    OTH       ns.
Comp. 2.3: Ev. beainx foomaton               wwwwwwwwv  wwwwwww   awvwwwwwwv irwwwwwwww VewwwwwwnV                                17    OTH        n.e.
Camp. 3.1: Enq. Oraauncufose                                wwww                                                                 112    0TH        n.
Comp.4.3: Invantairc patrinobw                      wwww wwWw                                                                                      na.
form bontgeation sulv petim.                                 wwwwwwww    vwwwwwwwwwww                                            267    0TH        n.
Camp. 4.4: Inventaite finwna. ext.                         wwww                                                                   47    OTH        n.e.
Camp. 4.S: Etudealsafv. d-apput                         ww            ww             ww            ww                                              n.
'dont acsntn d'-xacution mrtches                _w wwwwwwwwwwwWW%VWWWWWWWt VWWWWWWWWV NWWWwW1  PJWWWWWW                         642    OTH        n o.
- ArchlEnpJ8upvn                                                       _                                                         5c
Comp. 1.1: OAO/Suporv. treveux                      www   aw wwwwwwv    W         rwwwwwww  wWwcwwwl iwwwwvtwwwv                400   OTH         na.
KFW                        wwvw wwwwwwwww                                                              1Coo   N8FIK      na.
Comp. 1.3: DAOtSup. tr. logle CS                           wwwwwwWWI  VwWWWVwwv MWWWVWWwwW N                                     124   oTH         ns.
Comp. 4.1: OAO/Sup. trav. OMP              _V _V _wwwwwwwwv Vw_                                                                   2t   OTh         n.
E. TRAINING                                                                                                                   1121
- Foregn Ttaining                                                                                                                614
Camp.1.1: Stage" Mantenan wew   wwwww                                                                                           449    OTH         n.e.
Camp. 1.4: Stegefmtlsion Info.                                    w             w              w                                  20    OTH        no.
Comp. 2.3: Form. nutdtion (CE)                                        ww wwwwww                                                   90    OTH        n.e.
Comp. 4.1: Stegee Epidmieologie                                  ww             ww                                                38    OTH        n.s.
Comp.4.2: Stge Goat. phaumm.                                     wv            ew                                                 17   OTH         na.
Loca TraIing                                                                                                                   507
Comp. 1.1: Far.Meint.Ieborentins                       ww wwwwwwwwww                                                              11    OTH        n.a.
Comp. 1.2: Mod. Chef 0D4t./Chirur                             wwwwwww   wwwwwwwv vwwwwwwww N                                    134    OTH        n.e.
gie/04 Infirmists en Aneetheele                             wwwwwwww  wwwwwwwwv owwwwwwww   rTh                                                    n.
Camp. 1.4: Proteript/get. depot                                       ww wwwwww                                                   20    OTh        ns.
Comp. 2.1: Fomwnion ASC                                    wwwwww         wwwwww         wwwwww                                  176    OTH       n.e.
Comp. 2.3: Techniques IEC. *telier.
seminsirc sonsibiliation                                   wwwwww         wwwwww         wwwwww                                   81    OTH        n.
Comp.3. 1. Syatemtee aurveillenco                                     ww wwwww40    OTH                                                           n.e.
Comp.4.1: Semineitr epidermio.                                        ww                                                           2   OTH         n.e.
Comp. 4.3: Form. outilo gcdtion                                       wv wwwwww                                                   37   OTH
F. MISCELLANEOUS               _7__62_ 766w                                                                                     4
IEC MwwNww  7wwwwwwww  wwwwwwwwv wwwwwwwv wvrwwwwww                                                                454    OTH        n.a
OPERATING COSTS                                                                                                                             n.
IDA                wwwwwwwww  wwwwwwww  w-vwwwwwwv Nwvnwwwwwww wwwwwwww                              4563    OTH        nn.
GOVT -________               wwwwwwww   v      r  wwwwwwwwv .                wvww  wwwwwwwwv            w acu  NBF/G      n.e.
TOTAL  IOA/OPEC         __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                             32500
NSF               _____________________________________                                                            4400
TOTAL COST                                                                    _ ___                                 40545
r: recruitment of consultant - d: bid docs/Loifrdr - b: bidding period - e: evaluation - a: approval (Bank/Govt) -    NSFIG: Financed by Govemment
c: contract signature - m: mobilization/manufacturing - w: works, supplyrnstallation or execution of services         NBF/K: Financed by KFW



132
Annex 4.3
Appendix
Prior Review Threshold, Contract Profile by Value/Number
Range of Contract
Values Oncl.                     Estimsted value (no.) of
Contingeneies)                 Contracts within each Range   Cumulative value (no.) above   Percentag, of total value
(US$ thousands)                     (USS millions)          threWhold US$ millions)    (no.) above threshold
GOODS
Value        Number        Value       Number        Value       Number
1,000 and above                   0.0           0.0           0.0          0.0          0%           0%
500 to 999                        2.8             3           2.8           3           21%          5%
200 to 499                        8.8            31          11.6           34          88%         53%
Threshold
3Oto 199                           1.4           24            13           58          99%          91%
0 to 29                           0.1             6           13.1          64         100%         100%
Duration of procurement Is about four years
WORKS
Value        Number        Value       Number        Value       Number
1,000 and above                   0.0           0.0           0.0          0.0          0%           0%
500 to 999                        0.0           0.0           0.0          0.0          0%           0%
200 to 499                        4.6            18           4.6           18         45%           19%
Threshold
30to 199                          6.2            79           10.8          97          55%         81%
0 to 29                           0.0            0.0         10.8'          97          0%           0%
Duraion of procurement is about four year
lincluding $2t1 million of OPEC funds to be administered by IDA.
1 .Threshold selecton correspond to a desirable percentege coveage of conract value (round 90% for goods and 45% for woaks).
2. Indicates a rasonable wo*ioed for the task nenager; lower thrhold would require dditional staff.



BURKINA FASO
HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
(PDSN)
Disbureemont Prof e/Proft de Debourowments
O      nJ                PhOW      ,
IDA h ys                                               nd                                          -R-        Health and Nutrition Project   -*   Regional Sector Profile
n            eS~v Ouuee o cur adati   Codit   semcr
s.ct.wa
Aw,m hudgaW,00r 1.00%
D t4mar.  Ab riman    Crouhn             Crg *
________  (US$  dni  EUSS IlI    1%M      ,%l
1906       1             A          0.4    1.28%     0.00%                          90.00%
2            0.4         O.8   2.67%     1.50%
3            0.4         1.1    3.85%    3.00                       3 
4            0.4         1.6    6.14%    4.60% A                        80.00%
1996       1             A.4        2.9   9.86%      6.00%o                    E
2            1.          4.3  14.66%     6.OO0                     a
3            1.4         6.6   10.26%   t 10.00o                        70.00%
4            1.4         7.0  23.97%A   12.00%
1097       1            1.9         8.0  30.48%    14.009%                     1     0.00%
2            1.*        10.8  36.090%    16.00%
3            1.9        12.7  43.40%    18.00%
4            1.9        14.6  50.009%  20.00%                           50.00%
1990       1            2.0        18.6  66.93%    22.00%                             *
2            2.0        18.7  83.07%    26.00%-
3            2.0        20.7  70.80%    30.00%L                         40.00%
4            2.0        22.7  17.741%  34.00%                       13
1909       1            1.2        23.9   01.86%   38.00%
2            1.2        26.1   86.96%  44.00%                           30.00%
S            1.2        26.3  90.07%60.00%A
4            1.2        27.6  94.18%   54.00% 9A
,400       I            0.0        28.   97.09%  60.00A                             20.00%
2            0.         29.2  100.00%    62.00%
10.00%
0.00%
0            a            a             a            0)           g
Ficl Year lExrer l
o b



mSO *d06 e000dspiUiNP*Pd                                                                                        mnIITToW
20Hw,ft    Acomoti by Cafoonemrft .Sm. o s                           HELT                                                  06gi.N  USYUTK*ft O LTREWUTIENIMG
(US.oo                                         "Noh sy*im    ad UMt"lo AtedH.h                Esnitl                       La6       6(03  PARAMM 0O6S6AE8             VWP         DSP          VW*         06P         ICP                      ld
Prm            NW            II da           Diug              Wu40s   Tam    Epidwiab0cd           POPL44dbn      Cap""y       CqIacl      C340lr    C.ap&*        Cqacty
ammom"                .ea*edzdIo      AvRf         lnbu      A      maimgeft S Mwu            6..WMmdum b         mmtCvWm                DotndOvmw   D*vov2o    Ta                     it    "'NA
A. 024L 328918
I. POVAd.uOa*u
C3  cmuahm -          iw ombl                 2.60                          16                                                                                                                                              .2        7     0324
CUASWW                                           0.704                                                                                                                              -.0,794                                              70    0050
c8P8a0u4                                         0.76                                                                                                                                                                          0.712     70O   0053
COPS ~ mos                                       16                                          1.200                                                                                                                             210       7.0   0,19
fladobs                                              -                -                              .                        -                                           ______  ______________________          0310       70    co
ftwadFUrwA         $Wdhkn                         6,475                         1163          1.20                                                          -                                                                    .659     104   067
bldf   W0UK                                          017                           116           1.230                                                         *        012         002:*.                                         017       7.0   0088
COIPS hWad  ftau*                                510**                                                                                  20                                                                               .    02         7.0   0056
d03dflq4amuiflsdsd  1.23   *   -          *       ..      -                     0260                             -                                                -    3626       1.0   0241~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-SU' 1.    04
2.6QdM*636a.~~~~~~a~da8               0.717OJ                       C.10          0.04    0.005             Oslo*                                                    0.128        0.1360      O     002084          1.166     70    0063
1ydteWoOmO                           ~~~~~~     ~~~~~              ~~0.745  2096  060   .62*            .                                       -        0.1                                  02              .      .61       1     11
m*OddEQIWWUOT                          ~~~~~       ~~~~~~4.730  0.03   .6          06        16               .1             023                          0.110         .           16          06          084      6.3       7      .4
DRUWXFW                              ~~~0.045         --.-                                                                                                                                                          0.045    7I     04
E60Mi6Wftwm                                        026*&M0.6                                                                                                                                                                    0 210      70    09
ve040,                                             .121            --                                              .                                                                              *                             0121       71O   0406
aw3s act6sgk a"                                                                               120       .160'  0.16                         *-*                                                                                 2020- 
t~~~~~u43ub                  -           -                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fl2,1    02341                                                                                                      2 -   -  ___   0.162
& ORgO"U                                           .7            --                          17      2.423   0.464                     0.6                  ---                                                                 013 
S.dddOWhkfffuIWd                                    0.140       02651                 *        0.164    0.02              003                                          0.23        0000         0.10        1570        0106      31,16     25s  6001
Lade.Od                                                        -                          0.017   0.02    0.01      01              010                  **                               0.1152      0 025        0.343    0602      6 0    0012
1.140   -   036   -        .       .        -                *               -       ~~~~~~~                                        ~     ~~~~~~~         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.018      1266  s0    0463
&64dd660wC66                                         1270        0.68              01m$         0.15     0040    0.011     . 0.0.Om                                     0.242       0.03        0262         1*p5        042       5.065     as   0110
Feawobtoo                                          0166         .O             0.067012    0.27                    -    0.2              @1 OA*00011                            o              01031                             020       s0    0016
FammOmlSiOIImwo          .fJ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3.   -                   0~~~~~.010                0041                ..                       0032         0014            -0410                                   50   0023
Oi*sgdfUAUSO                        0.363        0~~~~       ~       ~     ~ ~~~~~~.06?  -   042  0,137  *    0075        0.110                        0.033        0114        0.031                             06 Om0s          0 -06
P.E                                                                  -                 -0.  2                     02                                       0 147                                                                  0210.    5 0   0010
T*dWd  ICliO                                          14.715       0.14212                        2.7      2.418   0.515    0.102            0.402           017          051         02           .4           64         065     2.1          6    14
0 Reumiw Cods
A. Fabs Pwxmd
D46m-ts                                            02n         0.392             M01                                    0.019            0106            0066            *                        --                    13      0607       5 0   0029
SAO"                                  03J 3        0.066            0.161         0.175    A4  J4fl.   -                      2-                                          -OA                              0066    12.....      0   OM
inMdd   Fegwm                                    0k6          0.146`           0.163         0.178    0.143      *     0.102           0.32             0.146           -           -*                          .    015 -Ifl            s0    0067
L. 0dcads6.s                                                                                                                                                                                                             O    --  .2  0.22   s0    0011
C. FdF oIr (CPudsgcMo)                               1.216       0,2               0.315        0.276    0070        -coa.l                                0110            --                   0026.       GOAQ        03226     246       4 4    0111
od dbawusiCod$                                        1.604       0 269     ....4,7              0.455    02f4        -     270.404                         0,1109                               0026         002,        000      445        4 10209
?UdMS6LU4COOIO                                         W 10266       012             3.200         3.230    51409   011      6.468           O.8m             0 23        05se7        0263        047?        1672         1 176    12670     6.6   I6m6
PPAuodcdCwk0ad4                                      1144        0.061             0210         0.110    0.161    0026    C064             0047            0013         0.034       0016        0027         0006        0060      18968
P40alo. C.M                                                       .18              0.3           0.12    0.450   9053   .i140             iZ100062 ,J                                  4         0044        0011        8263     41         58 s  0241
TUdPUO36TCO6TO                          ~~~~~~       ~~~~~~1022  1.1     .4             2     160      16      03                1202                        066-5       2026        0.84?       1.601        1,510  326122       54    3.100
ftpnw       c                                        17480         .04              11620         3.42    .186    016       0.431           0.46             010         0021                     01161.10                           2         4    1.2
CD
I-l    .I2
U1IJ



Po a       W4                                                                                                                          Ttd
ammmm  ft"bmw -powmaoft   Miftbft    bdim  wwm%A  ftvft&                                 py4obwnw beywowaot povooppwlt Dow-mpn-s powebo-Wt
46CWL,
trormod"Suafts
CNLVAONMCHR                                                                                                                                                             170,=    ?A    12.=
zawlm    ?z   ISIAN
CAM 0 iw                                                                                                                                                                400.MG   7a    32im
USA"                          442.=                                                                                                                                 44220    lb    30.M
emp                                                              60SAW                                                                                                 IW,"    ?a   1.4-
dn
owww         dw*dms                                                am=
a Adw
aft& - -i-                     WIN                            M                                                                                                     M
LGQVPMW
**OWN aft"
r -  - fAldMmW 0 I   . . 101'                                                                                                                                                    ?JO   47,2w
eauwAwcwlww                       4400                                                                                                                                  44CM     7A    *I=
P"   MF                                                                                                                                                             400,40    710   33.sm
Cho     *mm*                                                                                                                                                        xz.::    rio
Obdkd               IM                                                                                                                                               7A  I=
414M                                      zm;                                                                                                  TA     Kim
S.                                                                  MODO                                                                                                  WAM ___ZJD    Z023
"4.       W4                                                         151k4w                        70AM                               3,02,014   7a  2-
coiss ow                           64"m                                                                                                                                   GUAM    ?A    3CM
RIM.,                         144im                                                                38AW                                                              MAW    ?Jo   I2,4W
IR                                 700                                                                                                                                   ?AM      ?A     4AW
9~                                                                                                                                                            I.ITYAOD
*Aftedoom                          IA2&AW                                            am.7p
lemma, -  ..                                                                                64AM                            120.0!    SDAIO!    MW     OIOAM    In=     U0.140   2A    48AKM
Lind                                                         Gm       IZM2    7.M    GM&         Sw;                                             14,74t   ISO,=    M,326
seem                                                                                                                                  psg      6A
ZBMZ    lAn                36AN               IM                    14 ---RAWl--3r4-A    R041AM    34   101.070
L*mft                         2A*     AM                      ?Ms    70;m            21AM        tow                                    Om                         IleAft   6.0    tm
F' ,                                                                                                                                                                        so
0*0  3GAN,                                                                                                                                 6-4
IED                                                                          244n    I                                                                                            I'll   11-0"
-..  .  , cam                      SANAM    41$A%                                            111.110    223,142              3MAls   140m    2WAS4                      I...       I.   log
L       Code
l2k4w    skm            746                                         M400         S'no                                        34AM     20sim    so    14AD7
IT lill I                       =am                   M    MM                                                                                                         M               W-4
'Lacm                                                                                                                                                M.604    131,044   64     4.6"
..=F                0 00"                        33       102M      ig                                                                          10.10    "'"a    L22      1443302   4 4    %t!!
M                                                                                     a             lW.;-i4   4 1   121,101
Told ROOLomd cam                                                             IM            .
SAM"                              VAWIN                          ;jgpm--     ,,,n
lotd                                                                                   30&=       ZMM     49T.MM      154."U   3MAW                                                        1AM27
C-dRpmkw                       OOLM      AM          12SAM     03AN    105=    %W           ISAN   VAN         ?.Yap    19'm     *AO    15.40      $.M      $4.04   IAM.727
-411-1.4     1,0111,
TMO
40"        2mxi   I."            'Amri;  W.M       MP9    2MA3;                mx;   lws    249.W    00,172'   wa   to.30n;   6;
M
aq R
t-i (D



Healh and Nubtfion Development Project
Components by Fnnies
(US$ Miion)
IDA             KFW            UNICEF       The Government        Total        For.   (fExct   Duies 
Amount    %    Amnount   %    Anmount   %    Amount   %            Amnount    %      Exch.   Taxesl   Taxes
A. HEALTH
Health Systen, Pyramid SbtrnghefIng        14.578    75.4   4.075    21.1   0.460       2.4   0.213     1.1   19.324    49.6   17.459   1.B6S
Staff Use nd Development                    0.954    78.3       -        -       -       -   0.264    21.7    1.218      3.1    0.840   .377          -
Public Healh System Decentrlzafon           3.708    93.9            -           -       -   0.240      6.1    3.946    10.1    3.592   0.354         -
Essenial Drugs Avaiabblty                   1.985    56.4       -        -   1.270    36.1   0.286      7.6    3.522     9.0    3.032   0.490
Subtotad HEALTH                              21.221    75.8   4.075    14.6   1.730      6.2   0.963      3.5   28.010    72.0   24.924   3.086
S. NUTRITiON
Iodine                                      3.146    89.6       -            0.150      4.3   0.213     6.1    3.509     9.0    3196   0.310          -
Viamin A                                    0.446    74.8        -       -   0.160    25.2   0.000        -    0.596      1.5    0.565   0.031        -
De4opt Long Term Straeg.                    0.418    66.2         -     -        -            0.213   33.8    0.631       1.6    0.241    0.390-
Subtotal NUITRIT1ON                           4.000    84.7       -        -   0.300      6.3   0.428     9.0    4.736     122    4.005   0.731
C. ENDEMIC PARASIMC DISEASES
Epidemloicgical Survaw                      0.742    69.9        -       -       -       -   0.320    30.1    1.082       27    0.481   0.581         -
Populion Sensublfion                        0.231    60.1         -     -        -       -   0.153    39.9    0.384       1.0    0 039   0.345
Subtotal ENDEMC PARASITIC DISEASES            0.974    67.3        -       -       -       -   0.473    32.7    1.447       3.7    0.520   0.928        -
D. MSASF INSTTUTIONAL STRENGTHENING
OMP Capacity Development                    0.63S   100.0       -        -       -       -   0.0o0        -    0.663      1.8    0.623   0.060
OSPH Capaciy Develpment                     0.291   100.0        -0.29                                                   0.7    0291         -        -
DAAF Capacity Develpment                    0.547   100.0                -       -       -   0.400        -    0.547      1.4    0.431   0.116
DEP Capacity Dwevlopnt                      0.121     7.1        -       -   1.570    92.9   0.000        -    1.691     4.3    1.661   0.030         -
UCP Capacity Devebpment                     1.391    91.6        -                            0.128     8.4    1.519     3.9   o039   0.6
Total Disbursement                            29.237    75.1   4.075    10.5   3.600      9.2   2.010     5.2   38.922   100.    33293   5.630          -
w 



BURKINA FASO
Health and Nutrition Development Project
Procurement Accounts by Years
(USS Million)                                        Totals Including Contingencies
94195    95m9    997   97198   98199    Total
A. CIVIL WORKS
Civil Works Local                          2.070   1.686   1.696   1.670   1.027    8.148
Civil Works International                  0.060   0.812   0.931   0.871   0.057    2.730
CIVIL WORKS KFW                            0.925   0.304               -             1.229
Subtotal CML WORKS                           3.056   2.801   2.626   2.541    1.084   12.108
B. EQUIPMENT/MAINTNEHICLES
Eqgipment/Maint/Vehicle Limited               -   0.109   0.061        -       -    0.170
Equlpment/MaintNehicles IntematIonal       0.683   2.178   1.829   0.967   0.787    6.444
EQUIPMENT VEHICULES KFW                    0.854      -        -       -       -    0.854
Subtotal EQUIPMENT/MAINTNEHICLES             1.537   2287    1.889   0.967   0.787    7.468
C. DRUGS
Drugs Intemational Umited                  0.041   0.042   0.043   0.046   0.047    0.218
Drugs UNO                                  0.363   0.396   0.496   1.092   1.122    3.468
DRUGS KFW                                  1.049       -       -       -       -    1.049
DrugsNaccines Unicef                       0.830   0.300   0.300   0.300   0.300    2.030
Subtotal DRUGS                               2.282   0.738   0.839   1.437   1.468    6.765
D. SERVICES                                  0.732   0.926   0.682   0.443   0.336    3.118
E. SERVICES KFW                              0.943      -        -       -       -    0.943
F. Technical Support Unicef                 0.370   0.300   0.300   0.300   0.300    1.671;
G. TRAINING                                  0.078   0.209   0.215   0.238   0.199    0.938
H. IEC                                      0.075   0.044   0.049   0.080   0.049    0.296
I. RECURRENT COSTS
RC Deplacements                            0.078   0.124   0.140   0.151   0.155    0.649
RC Salaires                                0.311   0.343   0.370   0.393   0.414    1.831
RC Services                                0.054   0.058   0.061   0.064   0.067    0.305
RC Fonctionnement (Operating Costs)        0.944   0.893   0.637   0.208   0.249    2.931
Total                                       10.480   8.723   7.809   6.822   5.109   38.922
x
0
IFl J>'
.lu



Health and Nuton Development Project
Disbursement Accounts by Financiers
(US$ Milbon)
Local
IDA             KFW            UNICEF       The Govemment          Total        For.   (Excl.  Duties &
Amount    %    Amount   %    Amount   %    Amount   %               Amount    %       Exch.   Taxes)   Taxes
A. CMi works KFW                                -        -   0.892   100.0        -       -        -       -    0.892      2.3    0.892       -
B. CVIL WORKS                              10.879    100.0       -       -        -       -   0.000        -   10.879    27.9    9.620    1.259         -
C. CML WORKS KFW                                -        -   0.337   100.0        -       -        -       -    0.337      0.9    0.337       -
D. zQUIPMENT KFW                                -        -   0.854    100.0       -       -       -        -    0.854      2.2    0.854       -         -
E. DRUGS KFW                                    -        -   1.049   100.0        -       -       -               1.049   2.7    1.049
F. SERVICES KFW                                 -        -   0.943   100.0        -       -        -       -    0.943      2.4    0.943       -
G. Techdle Support Uricef                       -        -       -                -       -       -        -        -        -        -       -
H. EQUIPMENtIMAINTNEHICLES                  6.614    100.0       -       -       -        -       -        -    6.614    17.0    6.614        -         -
1. EQUIPMENT VEHICULES KFW                      -        -                        -       -       .        -        -            -                 -
J. DRUGS                                    3.686    100.0       -       -        -       -        -       -    3.686      9.5    3.86        -         -
K DRUGS CHRJCMNVCSPS KFW                        -        -       -       -        -       -       - 
L DugeNaeles Untd                               -        -       -       -   2.030   100.0        -        -    2.030      5.2    2.030       -         -
M. SERVICES                                 3.118    66.5        -       -   1.570    33.5   0.000         -    4.688    12.0    3.761    0.927         -
N. TRAINING                                 0.938    100.0       -       -        -       -   0.000        -    0.938      2.4    0.732   0.207
0. IEC                                      0.296    100.0               -        -       -   0.000        -    0.296      0.8    0.043   0.254
P. RECURRENT COSTS
RC Deplacebents                           0.649    100.0           -            -       -   0.000        -    0.649      1.7    0.404   0.246
RC Salares                                    -                                              1.831    100.0    1.831     4.7        -   1.831
RC Ser*es                                 0.305    100.0       -       -        -       -   0.000        -    0.305      0.8    0.120   0.185         -
RC Fonctiortement (Operang Costs)         2.752    93.9        -       -        -       -   0.180      6.1    2.931      7.5    2.209   0.722
Subtotal ECURRENT COSTS                     3.706    64.8 _                               -   2.010    35.2    5.716    14.7    2.732   2.984
Total                                       29.237    75.1   4.075    10.5   3.600       9.2   2.010      5.2   38.922   100.0   33.293   5.630         -
*J D
x
0



MALI
B U R K I N A FASO A
NATIONAL CAPITAL
         CAPITALE D'ETAT                                                                                     Go0om0  Gorom                 D'vol|                                  NICtIA
PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                              SOUM
0   CHEF  LIEU OE PROVINCES
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                       D                                               \Go
LIMITES DE PROVINCES                     |_7_Dpbo_____________
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
UNMITES D'ETATS
~~8   _   Ouohigouyo         ?J2f                              > 7SN0 
f  F     _               A       ~~~~~~YATENGA    \Kno#          N r > 
I                                               The  boundaries,  clfrs. 
SOUPOU                                                                      .                                                  s  ad   ane
X  <  kX N'C~~~~~~~~Mogou                      n n     D< 
(E  bissir, ~      ~       ~       ~       ~       ~      ~      ~      n ths ma             o     o
K LTi                                               ord    on    GouA 
t           \                          9       ,>~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~>\~~~~ EtAZEC>~~~~WFA          /      _                         (SCOL).MA       t         'APOA       -
6  X t  ^   / MrJn <1 (  Tenk>daon  j                       m       o
{   JGOD  )               -LoJ-w~                 ~       ~~~~~ ZOUNDWEOGO      ,                                
f yt g 0 / SISSIU 40>\ ll~~~~~~~~~~~~OULGQU  
oiSISSILIIr   n    enor                                                                                                                                                 n         t'#
fqET                 W      u           40UEt Xioun                                                                                               ris                      '
{p-                           g  BO~~~~~~~~~~UG,OURIBA                                                                              TOG3O
)             2) 3e~~~~Snforote\G    
KOMOF                               0 (       1
/ PON~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ie{dnominofions and    arny
,a R_ ) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Im|rply,   ont thPe  par   nof
B~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~sou                                                                                                          of   .I      any   tertr,
e;   C C) T E D' | V O l R E   9                                                      -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o boncceptunce of suc-h 



BURKINA FASO                                                                                                                                                     MAt
PDSN ACTIVITIES FOR VITAMIN A DEFICIENCY                                                                      / -                                                                       I         R
CARTE DES ACTIVITES DU PDSN EN CE QUI                                                                                                     )
CONCERNE LA CARENCE EN VITAMINE A
PDSN STARTS DISTRIBUTION OF CAPSULES
IN 1995 (AND BASE LINE SURVEYS)                                            |                                                                                    / GomI
LE PDSN COMMENCE LA DISTPIBUTION DES CAPSULES                                                                                                                                   01S JSOUM
ENI 995 ET LES ENQUETES DE BASES)
_____   COVERED BY HKI / UNICEF / USAID UNTIL 1996 THEN BY PDSN                              -jbo                                             G)                                      I               -.
ICOUVERTPAR HKI I UNICEF / USAID JUSQU'EN 1996 PUIS PAR LE PDSN                                                                                                       __t____N___
m        SURVEYS PLANNED BY PDSN
ENQUETES PREVUES PAR LE PDSN                                                                                                                 SENO
(_ )i_, ~~~~~~~YATENGA                                                                                                                5GAV,S  
V  7  T g @~~~0                                                            (.E Kay                      GNAGNA                                         kK
Houna ~ ~ ~ ~    ~       ~      ~       ~       ~      ~ ~ ~ ~ TGOTebudris   oos
v                                            Ziniara~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eomntos n   n
KO {UeSSIR                                        3                                             \  Vo; 
m       UN                                                                                           Foo-NG ourn                  t       m
te ) ) /~ BAZEGA                                        G     MTAPOT Wr    an    GOUp
ZOULS                                                                                   ay dOme   on th   e
C               UD PROVINCES                                                          statu    of  ay tBOerlGOU
(    t     y              ISOUET       , g    E)HOI- T
TOO                 The~o   an e?ndorsementors
{(--   t               Z  BOUGOURI                          G ~~~~~~~~H A 114 A                                                  TG                         denomi>;naotidonrrssw d oloy
S            >) Brn             >G                                                                                                                                            other informaotion  shown
<                                 2         Goala        tSt                  i)~~~~~cvo  CAPITALE D'ETAT                                                             ;Mrply,  on    the  poto(f
< *           ~~~KOMOE                               G           i                    3       PROVINCE CAPITALS                                                             styotudgmentonY   th  le
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                           or acceptance  of such
LIMITES DE PROVINCES                                                          boundaries.
tINTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
LMITES D'ETATS
Note: Goutro hos o low prevalence and only theropestic distribu,tion s foreseen,
here as well os in KIodiogo. This service is also foreseen for the other 28 provinces  nsm. iso inA
'a                                                                                    Gama ain prvolnc tr lCOTE D'IVOIRE  G,se.,e un distfibinto n t*r thrapeutc yest pri.
10  de mmne pour I KodiogoCe srvice eMst 6golnent pr&vu pour les 28 mAres prowlnces.



B U RK I N A  FASO                                                                                                       M _ALI
PDSN INTERVENTIONS: IODINE DEFICIENCY CONTROL                                                                                                          NICGER
CARTE DES INTERVENTIONS DU PDSN: CONTROLE
DES CARENCES EN IODE
I] iSCHEME A ACTIVE CAPSULE DISTRIBUTION                                           SOUM
SCHEMA A: CMPAGNE DDISERUUTION DES CAPSULES
SCHEME B: CAPSULES ONLY IN HEALTlh FACILITIES  J                                                                                AnAmc
SCHEMA B: CAPSUJLES SEULEMEWT DANS LES_____________
CENTRES DE SANTE
L::J  ENQUETES                                                                                                     SENO
SOUROU p\  A
Woug- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~Tebudais   oos
j ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~dnoiaton<F2\ws 8n   an
MCWHOUN                                              Fado-N'Gowrm~~~~~~~~~~thrinoratonshw
tf ) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BZEGA5  G4OURMA                                                                            TAPOA 
I .a0> 5 > ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ZOUNUE                           O      G 0  {
sissiu ~ ~ ~  ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~     nthsm          d      o
HOey   n    e pt of 0 
ORAs                                                                                             of a      errit  HA F 
KOMOE             t          @                      ffi    NATIONAL CAPITAL                                            The boundari desa ecosors.
5  {  FONi                   aCY     CAtTALE D'ETAT                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~other information shown
v      t                                    <9    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROVINCE CAPlALS                           on  this mc   do  not
t   {                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CHEF - LIEU DE PRYNCf5                 "Miml,o          prart of
c7  PRNIHCE 8OUNDAZES rhwldfak;
i [ v ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIOL 80UNDAR fS                                              ,, or ony endorsement    0
W \ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LMTES EYETATSMw1                                                                         or bovcdcaeptance of such   Na
_ ~~CbTE UIVOIRE                                                                                \                                                                  4 
'0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~`



