Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 23519
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-25950)
ONA
LOAN/CREDIT/GRANT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$29.2 MILLION
TO
BURKINA FASO
FOR A
HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
3/12/2002
Human Development Unit III
Country Department 15
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective November 29, 2001)
Currency Unit = Franc CFA
794 = US$ 1.00
US$0.0126 = 100 FCFA
FISCAL YEAR
January December
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAMEG               Central Procurement Center for Essential Drugs
CHN                 National Hospital Center
CHR                 Regional Hospital Center
CM                  Medical Center
CSPS                Health and Social Development Center
COGES               Village Health Committees
DAAF                Directorate of Administrative and Financial Affairs
DEP                 Directorate of Studies and Planning
DMP                 Directorate of Preventive Medicine
DPF                 Directorate of Family Development
DPT                 Diphteria, Pertussis, Tetanus
DRS                 Provincial Health Directorate
DS                  Health District
DSF                 Directorate of Family Health
DSPH                Directorate of Pharmaceutical Services
ECD                 District Health Teams
ENSP                National School of Public Health
EPI                 Expanded Program of Immunization
IEC                 Information, Education and Conmmunication
MCH                 Matemal and Child Health
SAR                 Staff Appraisal Report
Vice President:  Callisto E. Madavo
Country Manager/Director:   A. David Craig
Sector Manager/Director:  Alexandre V. Abrantes
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Miriam Schneidman



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BURKINA FASO
HEALTH AND NUTRITION PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                       I
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                      1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry            I
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                               4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                               I1
6. Sustainability                                                                   12
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                     14
8. Lessons Learned                                                                  16
9. Partner Comments                                                                 17
10. Additional Information                                                          18
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                22
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                25
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                26
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                   29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                               30
Annex    Map #28673                                                                 37
This document has a restricted distribution               and   may be used by recipients only            in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P000287                                     | Project Name: HEALTH/NUTRITION
Team Leader: Miriam Schneidman                         l TL Unit: AFTH3
1CR Type: Core ICR                                      Report Date: March 12, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: HEALTH/NUTRITION                             LIC/TFNumber: IDA-25950
Country/Department: BURKJNA FASO                                      Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: HN - Nutrition; HT - Targeted Health
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   03/11/87                              Effective: 10/08/94          05/02/95
Appraisal:  04/30/93                                MTR: 03/01/97             11/15/97
Approval: 03/31/94                               Closing: 12/31/99           09/30/2001
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: BURKINA FASO/MINISTRY OF HEALTH
Other Partners: KfW, UNICEF
STAFF               Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:     Callisto E. Madavo                       Kim Jaycox
Country Manager:    A. David Craig                           Katherine Marshall
Sector Manager:      Alexandre V. Abrantes                   Birger J. Fredriksen
Team Leader at ICR:  Miriam Schneidman                       Bruce Benton
ICR Primary Author:  Miriam Schneidman
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactoiy, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Ent7y:                       U
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The US$29.2 million IDA credit, signed in June 1994, was designed to support the Government of
Burkina Faso to: (i) improve significantly the quality, coverage and utilization of basic health services; (ii)
enhance the nutritional status of the population by decreasing micronutrient deficiencies; and (iii) develop a
national capacity for achieving sustainable control of endemic parasitic diseases. The design of the Health
and Nutrition Project was inspired by the Government's primary health care strategy, which promoted the



establishment of health districts and the introduction of the Bamako Initiative. The goals were to promote
greater autonomy in the management of peripheral health facilities and to encourage individuals and
communities to assume greater responsibility for their health care. The government confirmed the main
elements of the policy framework for this operation in a Letter of Health Sector Policy of March 10, 1994.
Progress in achieving project objectives was to be assessed against monitoring indicators, developed and
agreed upon with the Government, as reflected in the Policy Letter.
The project was consistent with the Government's priority on human resources development and
poverty alleviation, as outlined in the May 1994 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). It responded to both
the Borrower and Bank demands for greater attention to human resources development as a complement to
macroeconomic reforn. The aim was to make the design of the health operation and the macroeconomic
credit mutually reinforcing. The devaluation supported under the 1994 Economic Recovery Credit was
expected to have positive spillover effects for the health sector: greater levels of investment in health care,
lower unit costs, and greater incentives to use generic drugs.
While the development objectives were consistent with country needs and sector priorities the
original design suffered from a traditional, input oriented approach to health investments, which
characteristized other HNP operations prepared during the 1 990s. The process of determining investment
priorities was highly centralized and focused primarily on supply side interventions. Furthermore, the
application of the cost recovery policy for essential drugs and health services may not have taken
sufficiently into account the limited capacity of the population to pay.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Not Applicable.
3.3 Original Components:
The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) included four components.
*   The service delivery component aimed to improve the quality, coverage and utilization of health
services nationwide (72 percent of total cost). To this end, the following key activities would be
supported: (i) strengthening the health system pyramnid through upgrading of health facility
infrastructure, improved referral system, and establishment of a maintenance system; (ii) promoting
staff development and rationalizing staff use through training and redeployment; (iii) decentralizing the
public health system through the establishment of health districts; and (iv) increasing the availability of
essential drugs by strengthening procurement, distribution, storage and management capacities at all
levels.
*   The micronutrient component (12 percent of total cost) sought to integrate the delivery of
micronutrient supplements into selective programs (e.g. MCH, EPI) through the provision of staff
training, dissemination of IEC messages to raise awareness and knowledge, and execution of
epidemiological surveys to detect deficiencies. These interventions would be targeted to populations
and provinces at high risk. The component also aimed to support the development and implementation
of a long-term strategy on food fortification and modification of dietary habits through financing of
staff training, IEC campaigns, and a feasibility study.
*   The endemic disease control component (4 percent of total cost) aimed to strengthen the capacities of
the health system to carry out epidemiological surveillance and to treat detected cases of
onchocerciasis, trypanosomiasis, and dracunculiasis and to increase awareness among target
- 2 -



populations of the risks associated with these endemic parasitic diseases. This would be accomplished
through staff training and strengthened supervision by mobile teams.
*   The institutional strengthening component (12 percent of total cost) sought to strengthen capacities to
ensure implementation of the above three components. To this end, it aimed to: (i) strengthen the
Directorate of Preventive Medecine to implement epidemiological surveillance and control; (ii)
strengthen the Directorate of Pharmaceutical Services to promote generic drugs and to ensure quality
control; (iii) establish a management information system within the Directorate of Administration and
Finance; (iv) strengthen the Directorate of Studies and Planning to plan, coordinate and monitor health
projects; and (v) support the Project Coordinating Unit to manage this operation.
The design of the four components was clearly linked to the project objectives. The proposed
activities built on a number of important policy and institutional reforms initiated by the Government to
facilitate the decentralization of health services (e.g. granting financial autonomy to peripheral health
facilities, supporting establishment of management cormitttees, encouraging cost recovery). The relative
weight given to the service delivery component was appropriate and timely. While the proposed nutrition
and endemic disease components were important, the wide range of activities added to the complexity of the
design.
3.4 Revised Components:
At the mid-term review, the government was proactive in requesting a redesign of the project and
the Bank demonstrated flexibility and responsiveness in addressing this request. As a result, the
Development Credit Agreement (DCA) was amended in December 1998. While both the project objectives
and components remained virtually unchanged, a new disbursement category was introduced in Schedule 1
to allow for financing of work programs of provincial health directorates and health districts (see
reallocation to Schedule I in Annex 2). The goal was to provide provincial and local health authorities
with budgets to carry out their work programs, which were consistent with national policies and priorities.
Progress would be monitored in accordance with key performance indicators and funds would be disbursed
on a quarterly basis. As discussed at length in Section 4.2, these modifications were innovative and timely,
supporting a new way of doing business in the health sector in Burkina.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Unsatisfactory Quality at entry is rated unsatisfactory but only marginally so. On the positive
side, the design was sound to the extent that: (i) project objectives responded to the country's needs and
sector priorities; (ii) performance indicators appropriately focused on process and outcome measures; (iii)
project design was consistent with both the government's decentralization strategy and CAS goals; (iv)
policy reforms were generally addressed up front and/or a clear road map was layed out for tackling these
during the life of the project; and (v) project documentation was generally thorough with the Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR) containing a comprehensive analysis of sector issues, lessons learned and major
risks.
Against these positive aspects, the project design suffered from a number of shortcomings: (i) a
relatively broad range of objectives and activities; (ii) a centralized, input oriented approach, which did not
delegate responsibilities and resources to those accountable for health service delivery; (iii) absence of a
logical framework for setting realistic targets; (iv) insufficient attention to how sustainability would be
ensured at project closing; (v) lack of an economic analysis; and (vi) a sizable civil works component which
did not appear to be adequately prepared (i.e. lack of detailed cost estimates in the appraisal report and
working documents). Some of these shortcomings contributed to implementation problems and delays
-3 -



during the initial years, culminating in the restructuring of the operation, as noted above.
Moreover, while many of these deficiencies were addressed during the life of the project others
persisted. The design appeared to be based on an implicit assumption that expanding the coverage and
quality of health care services would lead to increased utilization. In practice, this did not materialize as
demand for health care continued to be sluggish. With the benefit of hindsight, more attention should
probably have been given to addressing the underlying causes for this low demand. While the project
preparation team flagged this as a major risk and funded a study which documented the underlying causes
(e.g. high drug costs; socio-cultural barriers) the measures proposed proved insufficient to mitigate this risk
(e.g. reducing the cost of drugs by improving access to cost effective generic drugs).
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Satisfactory Achievement of objectives and outputs under the Health and Nutrition Project are
considered satisfactory with notable progress in advancing the government's decentralization agenda,
establishing a strong essential drug program, and building capacities at all levels in the health care system.
As described in greater detail below, the quality and coverage of basic services appear to have improved
with the introduction of an innovative primary health care model. In spite of these important achievements,
there was mixed (or limited) progress in attaining the objectives of the nutrition and endemic disease
components.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Component #1: Improve Quality, Coverage, and Utilization of Health Services With respect
to strengthening the health system pyramid the project is judged to be satisfactory. The project focused on
primary health services most frequently used by the poor and targeted underserved areas, meeting all its
physical infrastructure targets: (i) 12 CMAs (Medical Centers with Surgical Units) were constructed to
strengthen 50 percent of the first referrral facilities in the country, enabling them to perform emergency
surgeries and to strengthen diagnostic laboratory capacities; (ii) 45 CSPS (Health and Social Development
Centers) were constructed/equipped and seed money was provided for the establishment of drug revolving
funds at these facilities; and (iii) about 60 accommodations for medical personnel at the CSPS level were
constructed to improve working conditions and provide incentives to work in rural areas.
However, as concluded by the ICR team and as documented in supervision reports, the
implementation of these activities encountered a number of difficulties and ended up taking considerably
longer than forseen, which contributed to the need for an extension of the closing date. The civil works
component suffered from problems of site selection, inadequate supervision, shortcomings in design (e.g.
use of standardized plans for health facilities which did not take into account the population served), and
cost overruns. The lack of detailed appraisal estimates resulted in protracted negotiations in firming up the
contracts between the Project Management Unit and FASO BAARA, the public sector enterprise which
was responsible for the civil works component. The ICR team noted that by project closing some of the
earlier problems were addressed with a discernible improvement in the quality of construction of the second
group of facilities, as supervision efforts improved through better selection and remuneration of firms.
With regard to staff development, the project is also judged to be satisfactory. The project played
an important role in the provision of training for all District Medical Officers and District Health Teams
over the past four years, with a particular focus on the management of health districts, essential surgical
care, and clinical specialization. Staff training has contributed to discernible improvements in the
- 4 -



management of health districts. While recognizing the important effort made by the Ministry of Health in
recent years to strengthen staffing of health facilities (i.e. proportion of CSPS which meet staffing norms
has risen from 65 to 75 percent in 2001) problems persist which impede the functioning of some health
facilities.
The Health and Nutrition Project appears to have performed in a highly satisfactory manner with
respect to the goal of facilitating the decentralization of the public health system in Burkina. Following the
1997 Dedougou workshop and the 1998 mid-term restructuring of the project, the focus shifted to
strengthening district health systems and to funding district action plans. In a relatively short period of
time, all 53 health districts were established, received financial resources, and carried out their annual
action plans. While performance remains variable, rendering all districts operational can be considered a
remarkable achievement. In this regard, a number of specific accomplishments and issues are worthwhile
highglighting.
*   First, a bottom up, participatory strategic planning & budgeting process has been introduced with
stakeholders playing an important role in setting priorities, developing local responses and
providing oversight. Annual action plans prepared by health regions, health districts and CSPSs,
defined specific activities to be carried out and stipulated indicators of performance for monitoring
progress. One of the primary strategies used to improve performance has been to engage communities
to assume leadership for community health. Community management committees (COGES) have been
established to provide support for planning, oversight, financial management and outreach. The
COGES have played an important role in setting user fee schedules, managing the proceeds of the cost
recovery scheme, and administering the pharmnaceutical drug depots at the CSPS level. COGES
members received training to strengthen their capacity to assume their new responsibilities. CSPS
personnel engaged in a participatory planning process with their community representatives to establish
priorities and to determnine action plans for the coming year. District health teams facilitated the
planning process by providing support, training, and guidelines to communities to establish their action
plans. It is particularly noteworthy that this process was initiated at the regional and district levels in
1999 and gradually phased in to cover all regions, districts and CSPSs by 2001. It should be noted,
however, that there was substantial variability across districts in terms of COGES participation, CSPS
involvement, and the overall effectiveness of the district health teams. Recognizing the need to address
these issues, the Ministry of Health plans to carry out a study to better understand the key determinants
of performance.
*   Second, the decentralization offinancial resources and use of management agreements have
enhanced ownership and accountability at all levels of the health system. In fact, the single most
important factor in assuring success of this new primary health care model has been the autonomy and
flexibility in the use of fnancial resources which were channeled directly to the 64 local bank accounts
opened up under the project at the district and regional levels. For the first time, local authorities
received an assured source of funding and were held accountable for achieving specific results and for
managing the funds put at their disposal. Moreover, use of management agreements has been
instrumental in clarifying expectations and motivating health actors to improve performance. While the
management agreements did not include penalties for non-performance, they created an environment of
improved transparency, to the extent that they specified the amount of funds to be allocated, obligations
of recipients, payment modalities, financial management and auditing obligations, and conditions of
termination. Indicators span measures of management (e.g. number of operational COGES, number of
drug depots that are fully stocked), health utilization (e.g. population that benefited from at least one
curative care visit) and coverage (e.g. imnmunization, prenatal care). Health regions and districts were
required to submit progress and financial reports to account for expenditures and propose activities for
- 5 -



the upcoming year. Perfornance data was reviewed three times a year in collaboration with the Project
Management Unit and all key stakeholders to determine progress, identify bottlenecks, and agree on
allocation for the upcoming year. The ICR mission performed a sensitivity analysis of the transaction
costs (e.g. developing action plans, establishing management agreements, auditing financial statements,
monitoring results) associated with the introduction of the management agreements and found that even
under a high cost scenario per capita transaction costs were very low (i.e. about US$. 12 per
beneficiary), suggesting that the benefits outway the costs. The ICR mission also found that the
performance of the system could be further improved by simplifying reporting requirements, using
performance indicators more strategically, and by broadening participation at the local level. Likewise,
the mission concluded that while the initial focus on quantitative aspects was a reasonable first step
towards strengthening performance, additional efforts will need to be made to introduce indicators
which capture qualitative aspects.
According to data from progress reports the results to date are generally encouraging both in terms
of process and results. An external evaluation of the decentralized, performance based scheme confirmed
these generally positive results (Evaluation Externe de la Performance des Services de Sante Appuyes par
le Projet de Developpement Sante et Nutrition, January 2001). There has been a notable improvement in
terms of process measures with the number of meetings, supervision visits, financial management control
activities going up steadily. It is particularly worthwhile noting the tremendous effort made to strengthen
supervision, which is a critical element in improving quality of care. This has been accomplished through
improvements in logistical means (e.g. provision of vehicles and vaccination cold chain) and on going
training, in order to provide technical oversight and support to lower levels of the health system.
Notwithstanding these important achievements, it should be noted that there are still concerns with the
absorptive capacities of health districts. While the rate of physical implementation improved during the
past few years it still remained, on average, at only 65 percent, emphasizing the need to further strengthen
managerial, technical and financial capacities.
Inmmunization coverage rates have improved in recent years and surpassed levels of the mid 1 990s.
Coverage rates plummeted during 1995-97, reflecting a cycle of epidemics with high case fatality rates, a
severe drought which led to worsening nutritional conditions, and logistical and technical deficiencies in the
health system. During this period BCG fell from 78 to 46 percent, DPT3 dropped from 47 to 28 percent,
and measles from 56 to 33 percent. While coverage rates started picking up in 1998, the performance
based approach probably gave an important boost to the immunization program. A review of a sample of
district action plans found that immunization figured among the top three activities of local communities
with a wide range of innovative strategies used to improve coverage, including: (i) assigning village health
workers to track children and maintain immunization record books; (ii) working closely with traditional
birth attendants to follow up on newboms; (iii) providing per diems to motivate health agents to travel to
remote areas to vaccinate children; (iv) supporting community health education activities to improve
understanding of the importance of immunization; and (v) using community management committees to
encourage women to immunize their children. As a result of these innovative practices, inmmunization
coverage for BCG climbed to almost 85 percent by 2001 and DPT3 rates reached over 64 percent by 2001
(as can be seen from figure below). In order to ensure that financial barriers did not pose a constraint for
families, the Govenmment has adopted a policy of removing all fees on preventive services in the context of
the Poverty Strategy Reduction Credit (PRSC) II. The removal of charges on syringes and needles should
give a further boost to the immunization program.
-6-



DPT3 Coverage Rates, 1995-2001
70
60 -
I 50 - 
20 40-
30
20
10
1995  1996  1997  1998  1999  2000  2001
Progress in improving reproductive and maternal health has been more gradual. The proportion of
pregnant women benefiting from at least two prenatal visits rose slowly since the mid 1990s, reaching a
level ofjust over 60 percent in 2000. The proportion of women receiving the neonatal tetanus vaccine rose
from 20 percent in 1999 to 26 percent in 2000, which appears to suggest that the primary health care
delivery system is improving. Nevertheless, substantially larger improvements are needed to reduce the
high matemal mortality rates in Burkina. Moreover, use of modem family planning methods remains very
low, and the proportion of women who delivered with the aide of a trained birth attendant rose only
modestly (i.e. from 30 to 33 percent).
In contrast to improvements in coverage of some preventive services, utilization of curative care
remains low with no significant changes in recent years. This was confirmed by the project extemal
evaluation (January 2001) which concluded that the "rate of utilization has remained low in spite of recent
efforts." The sluggish demand for health care is related to the high indirect costs of accessing health
facilities (e.g. high opportunity cost of travelling long distances), socio-cultural impediments and financial
barriers to health care. While the project has contributed to improving access to basic health services
through the expansion in the first level referral system it may not have done enough to address the other two
constraints to health care. A substantial proportion of the population has continued relying on traditional
healers and on self medication rather than accessing the modem health system. In fact, limited purchasing
power and capacity to pay were cited as the key impediments to accessing health services in a beneficiary
assessment funded under the project. While the policy of allowing COGES to set fees and to retain the
proceeds from the cost recovery scheme was sound in principle, communities may have been given
excessive latitude in the application of the Bamako Initiative. Government officials recognize that the
policy of allowing each committee autonomy in setting user charges and in determining how the proceeds
would be used needs to be reassessed, as a number the COGES have been found not to use the revenues
judiciously for reinvesting in their local facilities.
- 7 -



In terms of increasing the availability of essential drugs, the Health and Nutrition Project
performed in a highly satisfactory manner. Together with other development partners, IDA contributed to
strengthening the government's essential drug program at the national, regional and local levels. There is
an overwhelming consensus among key stakeholders in Burkina that the country has one of the best
functioning essential drug programs. During recent years CAMEG has demonstrated its effectiveness in
improving geographical access to cost effective, generic drugs nationwide, as measured by the low drug
stock outs (i.e. less than 2 percent). The project has provided financial and technical support for the
national procurement center for essential drugs (CAMEG); funded the establishment of a regional
pharmaceutical depot; financed the construction of 400 storage sheds within the premises of existing and
newly constructed CSPS; and provided initial stocks to the newly constructed CSPS to establish revolving
drug funds. Particularly noteworthy is the accomplishment of transforrming CAMEG from a public sector
entity into a private, non-for-profit organization. The government should be given credit for recognizing
the potential for improving efficiency and management of the national drug program and for working
closely together with the Bank and other donors in bringing about this important institutional reform. In
spite of some resistance to these changes, the government demonstrated resolve and determination in
adopting tough measures which have an important impact on sector perfornance. Not withstanding these
impressive accomplishments, further attention needs to be given to addressing the financial barriers of the
population to essential drugs, as noted above.
Component #2: Reduce Micronutrient Deficiencies The micronutrient component is rated as
unsatisfactory, reflecting the limited scope and impact of these activities. This component was intended to
complement activities carried out under the 1992 IDA-fimded Food Security and Nutrition Project, which
did not address problems of micronutrient deficiencies. The component was rated as unsatisfactory
through virtually the entire life of the project, reflecting the limited progress attained. At project
completion, the main activities carried out were summarized by the project management team as follows: (i)
training of about 80 district officials and community health workers in micronutrient management; (ii)
distribution of vitamin A and iodine capsules; and (iii) dissemination of health education messages through
community outreach activities and a mass media campaign. From the information available it is unclear
what proportion of the population at risk was covered with vitamin A and iodine capsules and what
percentage of health workers benefited from training. Moreover, no progress appears to have been made on
the development and implementation of a long-term strategy based on food-fortification and modification of
dietary habits nor on the feasibility of importing iodized salt. The ICR mission was informed that
following the 1998 restructuring, the goal was to carry out these activities in a more decentralized fashion
through the financing of district action plans. While this decision appears reasonable, in practice only a
handful of districts included activities aimed at reducing micronutrient deficiencies. With the benefit of
hindsight, it might have been desirable to drop this component at some stage, since it appears to have
suffered from limited ownership of key stakeholders.
Component #3: Achieve and Maintain Control of Endemic Parasitic Diseases The endemic
disease component is rated as satisfactory, reflecting the government's overall success in controlling
endemic parasitic diseases in Burkina with both onchocerciasis and drancunculiasis virtually eliminated.
At the same time, it should be noted that the ICR team found that the project's contribution to these
accomplishments was modest with the bulk of these accomplishments stemming from a concerted
international effort to eradicate these diseases. Out of the US$1.1 million earmarked for this component at
appraisal only US$0.7 million was actually spent by project completion. During 1995-99 the project
provided financial support to strengthen epidemiologic surveillance, mount IEC campaigns, and carry out
screening and treatment. The results attained were generally positive. Burkina has now joined the ranks of
African countries which have seen an eradication of onchocerciasis during the past decade. The number of
cases of trypanosomiasis has dropped dramatically, from 130 in 1993 to 15 in 1999, reflecting intensive
- 8 -



efforts to diagnose and treat all cases. Efforts to eradicate dracunculiasis during the past decade have also
been encouraging with a sharp decline in the number of reported endemic villages, reflecting substantial
involvement of local communities in screening, case notification, and health education outreach. The
project provided funding for training/supervision en cascade from district health personnel to CSPS health
staff, down to village health workers and traditional birth attendants. The engagement of community
leaders has facilitated surveillance efforts and prevented the spread of this disease. At project closing, there
were some concems about the sustainability of these activities, which stemmed principally from the vertical
nature of these programs. Districts and communities appeared to have limited incentives to sustain these
activities and poor ownership of these programs. The challenge will be to identify creative ways to sustain
and finance community surveillance efforts for these endemic diseases.
Trends in Dracunculiasis, 1992-99
t    14000
E    12000
* ,,, 10000
tu    8000
°-    6000
@ >   4000
E     2000
z        0
c4.  e)  '  uin  co  t~-  co 0
0) a7t) CD n 0) m     a
am a~ow wo o~ ow O~ow
aw ao aw al ow a ow a7
Year
Component #4: Strengthening Ministry of Health (MOH) With respect to strengthening the
Ministry of Health, the project is judged as satisfactory. Particularly noteworthy are the efforts made to
strengthen capacities to decentralize health services. At the national level, a Management Committee was
established to accelerate approval of action plans and to guide the decentralization process. Personnel at all
levels of the health system benefited from the provision of training, management tools and logistical means
to carry out strategic planning, design action plans, strengthen supervision, and provide technical and
financial oversight. At the regional level, the project funded the provision of vehicles to strengthen
supervision as well as the recruitment of accountants to reinforce financial management capacities.
Following the 1998 restructuring, greater attention was given to providing technical backstopping to health
districts. Data from a sample of health districts for 1999-2000 found that the number and frequency of
supervisory and technical support visits has increased substantially with improvements in district
implementation capacities. For example, in Tenkodogo district, the number of supervision visits rose from
23 to 81, technical visits increased from 0 to 32, and the rate of physical completion of their action plans
went up from 40 to 54 percent. While this data does not capture the qualitative aspects of these efforts, it
nevertheless does give a good indication of improvements in institutional capacities.
Efforts made to strengthen capacities at the district level are probably the single most impressive
achievement and must be given high marks. The provision of management training and logistical means
enabled the district health teams to intensify supervision of the CSPS in their jurisdiction, with particular
attention to supporting the implementation of priority programs such as immunization, essential drugs, and
epidemiological surveillance. The presence of district health teams on the ground has provided
opportunities for hands on support to strengthen the technical quality of action plans and to provide
-9-



financial oversight. While the performance of both regional and district health teams has improved
considerably in recent years, quality remains highly variable and staff turnover persists. Substantial
capacity building efforts were also supported by the project at the CSPS and community levels. Training
of community health management comnmittees has enabled community representatives to assume a greater
responsibility in planning and management of activities and resources, as noted above.
Various departments of the Ministry of Health at the central level have also also benefited from
institutional strengthening through the financing of staff training and provision of equipment, supplies and
logistical means. While there probably have been some improvements in the effectiveness of these central
departments, these are not easy to measure, particularly given the high staff turnover. Three main areas of
technical focus have been targeted: (i) epidemiological surveillance; (ii) pharmaceutical services; and (iii)
management information systems. Staff of the Directorate of Preventive Medicine have benefited from
training in epidemiological surveillance. Some stakeholders interviewed during the ICR mission felt that
the management of the 2000/01 meningitis epidemic illustrated the improved capacities of the central level
to provide technical support to districts and to manage this crisis efficiently. Nevertheless, as noted above,
there are still important shortcomings in epidemiological surveillance that remain to be addressed. In terms
of pharmaceutical services, the project has funded the training of a pharmacist of the Directorate of
Pharmaceutical Services to improve drug quality control. In addition, the project has supported the
financing of regular technical and financial controls of district essential drug depots by regional teams.
Finally, efforts to improve management information systems have been encouraging but shortcomings
persist. The emphasis on performance indicators has raised awareness amongst health sector actors of the
importance of focusing on results rather than only on inputs. A tremendous effort has been made to begin
the process of using information more strategically for decisionmaking. Nevertheless, there are some
concerns with the self reporting aspects of the system, and with potential duplication between information
collected under the project and that generated by the health information system. Finally, it should be noted
that the project provided financial and technical support for the preparation of the 10-year Health Plan,
which is expected to provide a coherent framework for investment in the health sector.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not Applicable
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not Applicable
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Substanffial The project's institutional development impact was substantial, as described in
Section 4.2 above. In this respect, two key points are worthwhile highlighting. First, the introduction of
the performance based contractual approach reflected intemational best-practice, with notable
improvements in accountability, autonomy, and ownership. This approach built on policy reforms initiated
by the government, which should enhance institutional impact. Furthermore, the direct channeling of funds
to local bank accounts has generated importants lessons for the broader financial decentralization process
in Burkina, to the extent that the health sector has been at the forefront in implementing these
innovations. Second, the establishment of an effective national essential drug program is another important
achievement in terms of institutional development impact. As noted above, CAMEG has been established
as a top notch private, non-profit organization which is providing essential drugs in a timely fashion to all
health facilities throughout the country.
- 10 -



5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Not Applicable
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Three factors subject to government control were found to impede the execution of the Health and
Nutrition Project. First, difficulties in assembling a project management team hindered the start up of the
project, with the IDA credit declared effective in April 1995 (i.e. 10 months after credit signing). While the
process of declaring credits effective in Burkina tends to be lengthy there were project related factors which
impeded start up. For example, the government took about six months to replace the project director who
left shortly after credit signing with the new director coming on board only in March 1995. Staff related
issues also adversely affected project implementation during the first three years. Lengthy absences due to
illness of the procurement/financial management specialist also contributed to procurement delays and
sluggish disbursement performance in the initial years. Absence of a monitoring and evaluation expert
resulted in limited attention to these important aspects of project management. Following the restructuring
of the operation, the Project Management Unit was strengthened substantially, as discussed below.
Second, rapid staff turnover was found to be detrimental to the functioning of health facilities and
to the institutional development efforts. There appears to be a consensus amongst all stakeholders that this
continues to be the single most important constraint affecting the effectiveness of activities supported under
the project. This issue is related to the need for broader systemic reform of human resources. While the
government recognized the importance of redeploying staff to underserved areas, it has been unable to
introduce the 'right incentives' to limit turnover.
Third, problems in meeting counterpart funding requirements persisted throughout the life of the
project, highlighting the government's difficult macroeconomic and fiscal situation. At project completion
the government was estimated to have mobilized only 35 percent of the total counterpart funding it had
committed to provide. According to the project management, in spite of these shortfalls in counterpart
funds, implementation was not adversely affected, as the IDA credit ended up funding a larger share of the
total project cost. It should be noted, however, that the practice of relying on the special account to
pre-finance operating costs, which were reimbursed several months later, placed pressures on the special
account and contributed to delays in paying contractors, which in turn, fuelled implementation delays.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Following the restructuring of the operation, the Project Management Unit demonstrated its
effectiveness in implementing the project. The project management demonstrated leadership, drive and
commitment in expanding the performance based contractual scheme nationwide. The project manager was
able to build a cohesive and strong team that worked well with other key stakeholders. While the
dynamism of the unit was a key ingredient of success it has also created problems of turf and ownership
which are quite common. The problem was partly resolved through the establishment of a Project
Management Commnittee, which improved coordination of project activities and strengthened transparency
in decision-making at the central level.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
A couple of issues are worthwhile highlighting with respect to costs and financing. First, the bulk
of project proceeds were spent on civil works and goods (i.e. about 57 percent), as is the case in many
-1 1-



traditional investment operations. While the cost of the civil works activities contracted out to FASO
BAARA rose by about 43 percent over the life of the project the strengthening of the dollar in relation to
the FCFA resulted in a substantial foreign exchange gain which allowed the government to complete
virtually all activities planned at appraisal. Project staff have noted that the relatively low initial allocation
of the special acccount prevented quick replenishments and payments of contractors, such as FASO
BAARA, which in turn, fueled implementation delays and contributed to cost overruns. This was
exacerbated by the occasional use of the special account to pre-fmance activities which were to be funded
from the government's counterpart funds. To respond to the government's concern over lack of liquidity,
the amount of the special account was raised both in 1997 and 1998. Second, the slow start up and the
problems encountered in the initial years (discussed above) translated into implementation delays,
disbursement lags, and two extensions of the closing date. By 1997, only 30 percent of the total IDA credit
was disbursed. While disbursements picked up in subsequent years, the project required two extensions of
the closing date and ended up taking 7.5 years to complete (i.e. from project signing to completion) in
contrast to the 5.5 years estimated at appraisal.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sistainability rating:
The project sustainability is rated as likely but somewhat uncertain. On the positive side, a
number of key factors augur well for sustainability. Firt, there is strong ownership of all stakeholders to
pursuing the decentralization process in the health sector even though there may not be a consensus on how
this should be done. The participatory manner in which the performance based contractual approach was
designed augurs well for both ownership and sustainability. From the design stage, the overriding goal was
to take sustainability into account. To this end, all key stakeholders in the govermment and in the donor
community were involved in key decisions, such as the choice of performance indicators to ensure
consistency with those used for monitoring progress under the HIPC initiative, the selection of procedures
for channeling of funds to districts to facilitate use of the same procedures by other donors, and the
establishment of a Project Management Committee that would ultimately become permanent. The
involvement of the Ministry of Economy and Finance was critical in allowing the channeling of funds into
commercial bank accounts. At project closing, the ICR mission found that district and regional health
authorities were strongly committed and highly motivated to the bottom up planning process. This
important constituency is highly likely to make their preferences known and to mobilize for a continuation
of the performance based contractual scheme. Health actors have the most to gain from a continuation of
these activities as they have benefited enormously from the availability of financial resources and have been
empowered to identify their priorities and to carry out their action plans.
Second, the involvement of civil society is likely to create additional pressures for sustaining these
activities. The health management committees have become champions of the decentralization process, and
have the incentive to lobby for continuation of these activities, particularly as their constituencies are
beginning to see some tangible results (e.g. immunization).
Third, discernible improvements in capacities augur well for institutional sustainability. The
Management Committee established under the project is likely to play a pivotal role in guiding the
decentralization process in the future, irrespective of what shape it may take.
Fourth, the strong performing essential drug program is now operating in a self-sustained,
autonomous manner, requiring limited extemal assistance.
- 12 -



Fifth, there is govemment commitment to removing and/or rationalizing user fees. Under the
PRSC II, the govenmment has already taken a decision to remove fees on preventive services and to reduce
the profit margin on drugs sold by CAMEG in order to alleviate the financial burden on households.
Authorities are also planning on reassessing the fee structure by carrying out analytic work to measure the
cost structure of health facilities and to measure income and price elasticities.
Against these enabling factors the overriding concem is how to ensure institutional andfinancial
sustainability. As noted above, the govenmment experienced difficulties in meeting even the modest
counterpart funding requirements under the project. The govenmment's fiscal difficulties may make it
difficult to fully meet its obligations in the future, casting doubts as to whether all newly constructed health
facilities will operate at optimal levels. Even assuming that the govemment meets its financial obligations
to provide resources to health districts, as envisioned under the PRSC II, it is unclear how authorities
intend to maintain liquidity, which was essential to success. To address these concems discussions are
underway with the Ministry of Health to firm up agreement on key measures which will ensure the
institutional and financial sustainability of activities initiated under the project, as described below.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
With IDA assistance to the health sector in Burkina shifting from project lending to budgetary
support through a series of PRSCs a new set of challenges and opportunities emerge. The team recognizes
that the PRSC, combined with the HIPC initiative, provides important opportunities to support policy and
institutional reforms and to tackle cross sectoral issues affecting health sector performance (e.g. public
finance reform; human resources reform). Annual reviews of the govemment's expenditure program will
offer opportunities to engage the govenmment in discussions over the efficiency and equity of health sector
expenditures in an effort to shift towards a pro-poor focus in public spending. Performance indicators
used under the project are also being used to monitor progress under the PRSC and IHPC initiative, which
helps to coordinate activities and to focus attention on key priorities, (e.g. immunization, essential drugs).
Under the PRSC framework the govemment is committed to provide continuing support to health districts
and to addressing key sector issues, such as appropriateness of user fees in light of weak demand for health
care and the redeployment of staff to peripheral facilities to meet staffing norms. A number of studies will
be carried out using a Japanese grant to strengthen the analytic underpinnings of policy reforms. While
these measures represent an important step in the right direction, it will not deal with the need for liquidity,
as public finance rules prevent the deposit of these resources in commercial bank accounts. Thus to ensure
sustainability of project benefits, there may be need for an interim, transition arrangement along the lines
described below.
In the view of the ICR team, there are four key challenges to a smooth transition. First, there is a
need to continue with a dedicated team that will spearhead the performance based contractual scheme. As
noted above, the achievements attained under the project were in large part due to the commitment and
effectiveness of the Project Management Team. While in the medium-term it will be important to
institutionalize these activities, in the short run it is probably desirable to continue with a dedicated team.
Three years is a short time to test a new process. More time is needed to finetune the process and to
introduce modifications to planning, management contracts and oversight. Second, there is a need to assure
continual extemal financing which provides the liquidity that is essential for decentralized authorities to
make effective use of these funds. The 10-year health plan and the medium-term program provide a sound
framework for donor support. The perfornance based contractual scheme contains all the essential
elements for channeling funds through a sector-wide approach. Third, and most importantly, there is a
need to continue with the dispensation provided by the Ministry of Economy and Finance, whereby extemal
funds were deposited in commercial bank accounts to ensure liquidity at the district and regional levels.
- 13-



Finally, it is also important to explore the modalities for establishing the caisses de regies d'avance at the
r
district level, as agreed upon during the January 2002 PRSC pre-appraisal mission.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank performed in a generally satisfactory manner during the identification, preparation, and
appraisal of this project, even though there were a number of lapses which resulted in the unsatisfactory
project design rating. As noted above, the Bank collaborated with the govenmment in identifying an
operation which responded to the country's needs and in building on policy reform measures which were
already initiated. Project documentation was generally thorough with a good analysis of issues, lessons and
risks. Nevertheles, the absence of an architect and an economist from the preparation team raises concems,
which were reflected in the project design section (e.g. weaknesses in appraising the civil works component;
lack of a thorough economic analysis). While some of the design limitations of this project (i.e. centralized,
supply driven nature) were common to operations of that era, a greater emphasis should probably have
been given to how sustainability would be ensured. In addition, while risks were accurately identified
effective remedial measures were not always proposed. For examnple, the SAR recognized that the
introduction of cost recovery measures may place a heavy financial burdem on households but did not
propose measures to adequately address this. Finally, no institutional assessment of the capacities of key
stakeholders appears to have been carried out.
7.2 Supervision:
Supervision of the project was also satisfactory. While the project had five task team leaders from
identification to completion, there was continuity throughou,t the critical years (1996-2001) with two task
team leaders each managing the project for about three years. In spite of this relative continuity, during the
ICR'mission the Borrower raised concems about different approaches of task team leaders, which led to
some inconsistencies in the advice provided, particularly during the restructuring of the project (as noted in
the government's contribution). The project was well supervised with about 3-4 missions per year.
Missions were generally well staffed with a good skills mix of implementation and technical specialists. In
the initial years there was a major emphasis on supervising the civil works and essential drugs components.
The Bank's team should be commended for taking an initial lead in addressing the legal framework of
CAMEG and for working closely with the govermment and donors to transform the institution into a
non-for-profit entity. Following the 1998 restructuring, the frequency and size of supervision missions
rose, ranging from 7 to 12 specialists, which received highly satisfactory marks from a Quality Assurance
,Group (QAG) review in 1999. The Bank further strengthened its capacities to provide hands on assistance
by recruiting a health specialist at the country office.
The quality of advice was generally good with particularly high marks on the timeliness and
relevance of the recommendations made during a March 1998 supervision mission, which led to the
restructuring of the operation later that year. The Bank team should get high marks on its responsiveness
and flexibility in modifying the credit agreement, in negotiating with the Ministry of Economy and Finance
to allow for channeling of funds into commercial bank accounts, and in providing hands on assistance to
the project management team, particularly in the design and introduction of management agreements. The
ICR mission found that the Borrower was highly appreciative of these efforts even though some concems
were raised about the size of supervision missions in the latter years. In stark contrast to the intensive
support provided on the decentralization process, efforts made on the micronutrient and parasitic disease
components appear much more modest, raising questions about the Bank's follow up of these activities.
- 14 -



Likewise, perhaps with the benefit of hindsight the civil works activities should have been supervised more
intensively, especially given their importance as a proportion of total project costs. Out of the total number
of missions only five included an architect.
In terms of implementation progress and performance ratings there appears to be a bit of a
disconnect in several areas. First, while all aspects of the project were rated consistently as satisfactory
during the first three years by late 1997 there was general dissatisfaction with the project both within the
government and in the Bank with the operation classified as a 'problem project'. Second, it is unclear why
the counterpart funding rating is considered satisfactory when the government failed consistently to meet its
financial obligations under the DCA. Third, while supervision reports reported substantial progress in use
of performance indicators by all health districts, monitoring and evaluation was consistently rated as
unsatisfactory from 1998 to project closing and the majority of supervision reports did not report on trends
in performance indicators. By project closing it was difficult to compare the SAR targets to achievements
on the ground, as many of the original indicators were not collected and not used by decisionmakers. The
ICR mission also found it difficult to compare the revised set of indicators agreed upon following the 1998
restructuring to the data collected by health districts and reported in annual status reports. As a result,
Annex 1 makes an attempt to analyze a 'select' group of indicators which are believed to be good proxies
for quality of care and were often collected by health districts. The best that can be attained with the data
available is a confirmation of general trends rather than a precise analysis of whether targets were met or
not.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Satisfactory
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower performed in a satisfactory manner during the preparation of the operation.
According to the SAR, detailed project preparation was carried out by technical staff of the Ministry of
Health with assistance from external agencies. Throughout the preparation process, discussions were held
with other donors, particularly with KfW, UNICEF and the OPEC Fund.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government's implementation performance was generally satisfactory. The Ministry of
Economy and Finance displayed flexibility in providing a dispensation for funds to be deposited directly
into commercial bank accounts. Nevertheless, a greater effort should have been made to ensure timely
availability of counterpart funds. The Ministry of Health created an enabling environment for the project,
making an effort to redeploy staff to rural areas, even though staffing problems persist. The Ministry of
Health took an important lead in organizing the 1977 Dedougou workshop, which was viewed as the
turning point in identifying shortcomings in the operation and proposing remedial measures for adapting the
project design to the decentralization process in Burkina. Likewise, it should be noted that there was
compliance with virtually all legal covenants with one notable exception (i.e. completion of a hospital study
did not lead to an agreement on a more rational deployment of staff within the health sector). Against this
very favorable assessment, it should be noted, however, that a greater effort should have been made by the
government during the last year of the project to identify a strategy for sustaining and institutionalizing the
gains of the project, particularly as this was the main justification for the second extension of the closing
date.
- 15-



7.6 Implementing Agency:
After a rocky start the Project Management Unit proved effective in implementing the project, as
discussed in Section 5.3. The unit benefited from a small group of competent and committed staff and
strong leadership. The unit's effectiveness is in fact quite impressive when considering the number of
actors with limited knowledge of Bank procedures which it had to deal with at both the central and local
levels. It is noteworthy that procurement was the only area which was rated satisfactory throughout
virtually the entire life of the project, reflecting the unit's experience and knowledge in preparing bidding
documents, arranging for bid evaluations, and overseeing contracts. The timely submission of audit reports
and the unqualifed evaluations reflect the sound financial management capacities of the Project
Management Unit.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance.
Satisfactory
8. Lessons Learned
The key lessons leamed from the Health and Nutrition Project can be summarized as follows:
* Adoptingflexible and decentralized procedures for channeling funds improves acccountability,
raises staff motivation, and improves response to local needs. The introduction of the performance
based, contractual approach of financing district health activities has generated a number of important
lessons. First, having an assured source of funding and liquidity to use the funds efficiently served as a
major source of motivation for district health teams. As a result, they were able to program priority
activities and carry these out in a timely fashion. Second, use of management agreements has been
instrumental in improving ownership and accountability at all levels of the health system. While there
was room for improvement in the way performance indicators were collected and used, this represented
an important step forward in making health care actors accountable for the results attained. Third,
community participation proved an important element of success in setting priorities, developing local
responses, and providing oversight. Fourth, the introduction of appropriate safeguards (e.g. strong
technical support, intensive training) for the decentralized management of funds was essential to
success. Fifth, district action plans offer an opportunity for addressing other priority public health
problems (e.g. I{IV/AIDS, malaria) as well as for expanding district efforts for intersectoral action in
support of the Millennium Development Goals. For example, raising girls' education is essential for
reducing child mortality, fertility and malnutrition levels; expanding economic opportunities of poor
women will be critical to sustained sexual behavior change; and improving access to clean water will
have a tremendous impact on health outcomes. Finally, the experience piloted in the health sector
needs to be viewed in ternns of its potential usefulness in inspiring the broader public sector reform
process in Burkina, as many of the lessons leamed can be generalized to other sectors.
*   Focusing on improving quality and coverage is insufficient to raising utilization of health services.
One of the key lessons stemming from the project is that more attention needs to be given to
understanding and addressing the factors contributing to the persistently low utilization of health
services. The focus of the project on raising the quality and coverage of primary health care services
was appropriate but insufficient. While some efforts were made to urge health districts to prioritize
activities aimed at addressing this issue the results appear modest. In the future, it will be important to
tackle the underlying factors behind the sluggish demand for health care in an effort to bring about
changes in consumer behavior. To this end, particular attention needs to be given to the population's
- 16 -



ability to pay for health services to ensure that financial barriers do not impede individuals from using
health facilities. The policy dialogue initiated in the context of the PRSC has been instrumental in
firming up the government's commitment to removing and/or rationalizing user fees and lowering the
profit margins on essential drugs. Given the pervasive poverty levels in Burkina, these measures are
likely to have an important impact on utilization of health services. Likewise, further thought needs to
be given to addressing socio-cultural barriers to accessing health services, through community outreach
activities aimed at overcoming demand-side barriers, use of female practitioners, and patient feedback
mechanisms that improve accountability.
* Adopting a simple monitoring and evaluation system and ensuring that information is used
strategically for decision making is critical to successful implementation ofprojects. While the
SAR included a reasonable set of process and outcome indicators, there was probably insufficient
attention devoted to how this information would be collected and how it would be utilized. In practice,
monitoring of the project by the Ministry of Health was rather weak and there was little ownership of
this activity. Following the 1998 restructuring, a new set of process indicators were selected and
incorporated into the management agreements, in line with the decentralization process. While the
indicators were appropriate and consistent with those monitored under the HIPC initiative there were
shortcomings in reporting and in the quality of the data. For example, there was little standardization
of what constituted a supervision visit with some districts reporting up to 81 visits (Tenkodogo)
annually while others reported having carried out 9 visits (Gaoua) in 2000. In short, the basic lesson is
that indicator selection is important but insufficient. More attention needs to be given to who will be
responsible for data collection and monitoring, how this information will be collected, and how it will
feed into decisionmaking.
* Integrating the project management unit into the government's institutional structure is essential
to ensuring broad based ownership and sustainability ofproject activities. While part of the
success of the Health and Nutrition Project was due to the dynamism and efficiency of the Project
Management Unit it was also a source of tension, as a number of other key actors did not have the
same sense of ownership of the results. As a result, by project completion, the Ministry of Health did
not appear to have the same sense of urgency to ensure the continuation of the activities initiated under
the project. In the future, it will be important to avoid creating parallel structures by integrating
management units within the structure of the Ministry of Health from the outset.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Translation of Government Letter of 7 March 2002:
Mr. Director:
In response to your letter of BS/051/02 du 06/02/02 with regard to the Implementation
Completion Report of the Health and Nutrition Project, it is my pleasure to inform you that we have no
specific comments on your report.
I would like to take this opportunity to express the recognition of the Governmentfor the quality
and rigour of the technical support provided by the Bank during the implementation of this project. The
sustained and concerted efforts of all parties have resulted in the overall satisfactory outcome of the
PDSN.
- 17-



Our overriding concern at this stage, which emergedfrom the ICR workshop held in
Ouagadougou in October 2000, is the sustainability of the achievements of the project within the context
of the National Development Plan.
Sincerely yours,
Jean Baptiste MP. Compaore
Ministre de l'Economie et des finances
Officier de l'Ordre national
(b) Cofinanciers:
General comments receivedfrom Dutch Cooperation
From the Netherlands embassy we can confirm the conclusion of the ICR that the refocused
project, since 1998, implemented an innovative approach to strengthening the decentralised health system.
A system of disbursements linked to performance contracts with evaluation, and management and financial
training guaranteed by the project has improved the autonomy and functionality of the districts. The
involvement of the project officers in the development of national policy documents testifies of the
dynamism of the group.
The approach of the project as well as the involvement in national policy development seem so
important that to this moment it is disappointing that the Bank did not decide to extend the project. This
extension is needed to the time in the, hopefully near, future when the government will be ready to
guarantee the technical and financial evaluations of a similar system of performance contracts as foreseen
in the Plan National de Developpement Sanitaire 2001 - 2010.
As is known, the Netherlands embassy had decided to fund a brief extension (to the end of
February 2002) of the project to allow for another round of disbursements to the districts under the
perforrnance contracts as well as to allow for the fmalisation of national policy documents. Unfortunately,
without the continuation of the system built by the project, it will be difficult for any donor to support
decentralised health institutions.
The ICR comments on the disparity between the implementation of the decentralisation efforts and
the micronutrient and disease control aspects of the programme. I would like to comment that this outcome
seems logical, given the 'comparative advantage' of the Bank as a bank - in contrast to e.g. the WHO as a
technical advisor in the health field.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
The Project Management Unit organized a project completion workshop in October 2001 to
discuss and reach consensus on the main messages of the government's ICR. The workshop brought
together a large number of stakeholders who had been involved in the design and implementation of the
project. While everyone aknowledged the positive contribution of the project, the overriding concem at
completion related to the need to ensure sustainability of project activities. There was a general consensus
on the following key lessons: (i) according greater attention to demand-side factors which are related to
financial and socio-cultural barriers to accessing health services; (ii) integrating project management units
- 18-



into the structure of the Ministry of Health; (iii) assuring timely availability of government counterpart
funds and donor funding; (iv) establishing good baseline data against which to measure progress; and (v)
mobilizing communities and regional authorities.
The Bank's team was led by Miriam Schneidman (Task Team Leader). The team included the
specialists listed below. The team used trust fund resources to complement the task team budget, in order
to cover a number of areas in greater depth (e.g. decentralization; contracting, civil works). A number of
background technical reports were prepared by the various team members and are available upon request.
Decentralization & Performance Contracting:
*   Francois Diop (Economist)
* Rena Eichler (Economist)
* Ibrahim Magazi (Health Specialist)
Public Health and Nutrition:
* Souleymane Kannon (PublicHealth Specialist)
* Issaka Compaore (Public Health Specialist, WHO)
Civil Works:
* Daniel Dupety (Architect)
Institutional, Financial Management & Operational Aspects:
* Korka Diallo (Operations Officer)
* Caroline Cederlof (Economist)
*   Nicole Hamon (Team Assistant)
Comments were received from:
* Jean Mazurelle (Country Representative, Burkina)
*   Eavan O'Halloran (Operations Analyst, AFC 15)
* Bruna Vitagliano (Former Task Team Leader)
* Denise Vaillancourt (Former Task Team Leader, AFTH3)
*   Bruce Benton (Former Task Team Leader, AFTF3)
*   Ini Huijts (Dutch Cooperation, Burkina)
* Irene Xenakis (Operations Adviser, AFTQK)
* Ron Ridker (Consulltant, AFTQK)
These comments are available upon request or from the project file.
-19-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Key Indicator          SAR           Latest                         Comments
End of Project   Information
Target
Immunization coverage       75            2001:      Data from the Rapport d'Execution du PDSNAnnee
(%)                                     BCG: 84.5    2000 includes only coverage figures for BCG, DPT3 and
DPT3: 62.2    measles and not for 'fully' immunized children. While it
Measles: 65.4  is unlikely that the SAR target was met it is noteworthy
that immunization coverage has improved in recent years
and recovered (BCG) or surpassed levels of the mid
1990s (DPT3; measles).
Prenatal coverage (%)       75             61.5      Latest figure is derived from the Ministry of Health
(DEP) information system. While SAR target has not
been attained there has been a significant improvement
in prenatal coverage, which rose from 47.8 in 1995 to
61.5 in 2000. Data from the last two Demographic and
Health Surveys also confirm an improving trend in
prenatal coverage, even though the absolute levels differ
from the MOH data, possibly because of differences in
definition.
Obstetrical coverage (%)  No target set    35.1      Not identified at appraisal but often used by health
districts as a measure of the quality of care. Obstetrical
coverage improved more modestly, rising from 27.1 in
1995 to 35.1 in 2000.
Neonatal tetanus        No target set      26.1      Not identified at appraisal but often used by health
coverage (%)                                         districts as a measure of the quality of matemal care.
Utilization of curative   .8 new         .2 new      According to data from the Ministry of Health (DEP)
consultations (%)     cases/inhabitants/ cases/inhabitants/ information system the curative consultation rate has
year in urban      year      remained low with no significant changes in recent
areas                     years. This was confirmed by the project extemal
evaluation which concluded that the "rate of utilization
.4 new                     has remained low in spite of efforts of recent years".
cases/inhabitants/              1995: 18.2
year in rural                 1996: 21.2
areas                      1997: 20.0
1998: 19.8
1999: 20.6
2000: 20.4
Average no. of annual  Target set after  Average no. of  The trend in the number of quarterly supervision visits
supervision visits by  restructuring:    annual      has been increasing; on average there have been 3/4
health district teams to  4 visits/quarter supervision visits: supervision visits by health district teams to the CSPS in
CSPS                                    1999: 55.4   their jurisdiction, which is consistent with the target set
2000: 60.6   after the restructuring of the project.
-20 -



Average no. of COGES  Each participating   No. of    The trend in the number of COGES
established & operational  CSPS will    'established'  established and rendered operational
establish a     COGES:      has increased gradually in recent
management       1999: 17.9  years. It is unclear what proportion
committee &      2000: 19.3  of CSPS have established and
receive training              operationalized their management
No. of     committees.
'operational'
COGES:
1999: 13.7
2000: 15.7
Level of physical      Target set after   1999: 63   There have been shortfalls in physical completion rates,
completion of district  restructuring:    2000:65    which reflects problems of absorptive capacities.
health work plans (%)        90
Proportion of drug depots  Target set after  1999: 97
with availability of all  restructuring:
essential                    90
drugs
- 21 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest  Percentage of
Estimate     Estimate      Appraisal
Project Cost By Component           US$ million  US$ million
1. Service Delivery Component                    23.10          18.10         78.35
2. Micronutrient Component                        3.90           2.40         61.54
3. Endemic Disease Control Component               1.10          0.70         63.63
4. Institutional Strengthening Component          4.10           6.85        167.07
Total Baseline Cost                              32.20          28.05
Physical Contingencies                            1.90                       85.26
Price Contingencies                              4.20
Total Project Costs           38.30          28.05
Total Financing Required           38.30          28.05
Project Costs by Procurem nt Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category    ICB          NCB         Other"
1. Works                   0.40         10.40        0.00         1.20       12.00
(0.40)      (10.40)       (0.00)      (0.00)      (10.80)
2. Goods                   6.00         0.30         0.40         0.90        7.60
(6.00)       (0.30)      (0.40)       (0.00)      (6.70)
3. Services                0.40         0.00         0.00         3.00        3.40
Essential/Generic       (0.40)       (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.40)
Drugs
Vaccines                 0.00         0.00         0.10        0.00         0.10
Micro-Nutrients         (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.10)       (0.00)      (0.1 0)
4. Specialist services     0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
a) Intemational
b) Audits
c) Nationals
d) ArchitectVEngineer/SPN
5. Training a) In B.F.     0.40         0.00         0.00         0.00        0.40
(0.40)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.40)
b) abroad
6. I.E.C.
Total                    7.20         10.70       0.50         5.10        23.50
(7.20)      (10.70)       (0.50)      (0.00)      (18.40)
- 22 -



Project Costs by Procureme nt Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equival nt)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category     ICB          NCB       Mthod2         N.B.F.    Total Cost
NCB         Other
1. Works                    0.00         10.70        0.13         0.03       10.86
(0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                     1.32        2.18         1.25         0.00        4.75
._____________________  (0.00)  (0.00)    (0.00)      (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Medicines
Essential/Generic Drugs                   .03          .08                     .11
Vaccines                     0.48        0.39         0.58         0.00        1.45
Micro-Nutrients              .85          .10         0.0          .00         .95
4. Specialist services
a) International
b) Audits                   .10          .35                                   .45
c) Nationals
1.27        .05          1.32
d) ArchitectVEngineer/SPN
.56          .35                     .91
5. Training
a) in B.F.                                         1.00                     1.00
b) abroad
.54                      .54
6. I.E.C.
.37                      .37
7. Supplementary Costs
3.26                     3.26
B. Spare parts/provisions                            .05                      .05
9. Other O&M                                         1.55                     1.55
Total                     2.74         14.31       10.43        0.08        27.57
-23 -



I                        I    (0.00)   I   (0-00)   l   (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)   l
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
f                           [ |  | Percentage of Appraisal]
Component            Appraisal Estimate        Actual/Latest Estimate
._________________  Bank    Govt.    CoF.     Bank      Govt.    CoF.    Bank   Govt.  CoF.
t. Service Delivery    21.20     1.00     5.80     18.10     0.03     0.00    85.4   3.0   0.0
Component
2. Micronutrient       4.00      0.40     0.30     2.40      0.00     0.00    60.0   0.0    0.0
Component
3. Endemic Disease     1.00      0.50     0.00     0.70      0.00     0.00    70.0   0.0    0.0
Component
4. Institutional       3.00      0.10     1.60     6.30      0.50     0.00   210.0  500.0   0.0
Strengthening Component
Customs charges and taxes  0.00  0.00     0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00    0.0    0.0    0.0
Total                  29.20     2.00     7.70     27.50     0.50     0.00    94.2   25.0   0.0
Health and Nutrition Project, Schedule I
Category        Original Amended
'SDR ('000)
(1) Works         7040    7832
(2) Goods         2180    3920
(3) Supplies &    2180     766
spare parts
(4) Drugs          290      183
(5) Vaccines &    2180    1639
micronutrients
(6) Consultant    2110     345
services
(7) Training       580     667
(8) Media          220     219
(9) Incremental   2390    1556
operating costs
(10) Work Programs        3623
of DSs & DRSs
(11) Unallocated  2030     450
TOTAL            21200   21200
- 24 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
The Staff Appraisal Report did not include an economic analysis of the proposed project and the
ICR team did not attempt to make a retrospective evaluation. The team concluded that, on a general note,
the project appeared to contribute to improved equity in access to health services, to the extent that it
targeted investments in underserved rural areas and in services and facilities which are disproportionately
used by the poor. The largest components of the project were targeted at extending and strengthening basic
health services, building a reliable drug supply and distribution system, and providing support to the
decentralization process in the health sector. The extension of the basic health services focused on building
new health centers in rural areas to increase the geographical coverage of public health services. Such
investments generated additional recurrent costs in terms of human resource, maintenance and drug related
costs. These incremental costs, however, have to be weighed against the benefits of extending the
geographical coverage of basic health services which have contributed to the reduction in the opportunity
cost of accessing health services. The additional component of the basic health services, strengthening
health centers, included investments to improve the use of existing resources in general, and the use of basic
health services in particular. Building a reliable drug supply and distribution system also contributed to
efficiency gains through the improvement of the mix of inputs within existing service delivery organizations
The shift from high cost brandname drugs to low cost generic drugs sold through the strengthened national
essential drug program has also contributed to downward pressures on the intemal drug market.
The decentralization of health services has generated benefits and costs which are more difficult to
ascertain. The cost recovery efforts supported under the project has generated additional resources for the
health sector, which will assist in covering a portion of the incremental recurrent costs but may at the same
time exclude a segment of the population from the health system who is unable to pay. Decentralization
and community participation efforts supported by the project, however, may contribute in the medium-term
to a greater awareness of costs and to cost-reduction efforts, increased transparency, and greater
accountability in the allocation and use of resources in the health sector.
- 25 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty          Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count          Specialty                     Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
03/92                       6   TTL, PH (5)
06/92                       5   TTL, PH (4)
02/93                       8   TTL, PH (6), Op
Appraisal/Negotiation
06/93                       7   TTL, PH (5), Op
10/93                       1   PH
02/94                       6   TTL, PH (3), Op (2)
Supervision
06/94                       3   TTL, PH, Op                       HS           HS
09/94                       1   TTL
Project Launch
Workshop
11/95                       4   TTL, PH, Op (2)                   S             S
07/96                       2   TTL, Op                            S            S
11/96                       4   TTL, PH (3)                       S             S
03/97                       3   TTL, PH (2)                        S            S
11/97                       8   TTL, 0th (3), Ec (2), Op, PH      U             U
03/98                       6   TTL, PH (2), Ec, Op (2)           U             U
07/98                       7   TTL (2), Op (2), Ec (2), PH       U             U
10/98                       9   TTL, PH, Op (7)                   S             U
5/99                        4   TTL, PH, Op                        S            U
10/99                       8   TTL, PH (2), Op (4 ), Other       S             S
12/00                       4   TTL, PH, Op, Ec                   S             S
ICR
10/01                       9    TTL, Op (2), PH (2), Ec          S             S
(3), 0th
TTL: Task Team Leader
PH: Public Health/Nutrition/Medical Specialist
Ec: Economist
Op: Implementation/Architect/Procurement/Financial Management/Institutional Specialist
Other: Task Team Assistant
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                  ActualLatest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation              NA                      134,000
Appraisal/Negotiation                   NA                       88,396
Supervision                           195.20                    625,330
ICR                                    12.69                     44,311
Total                                 207.89                    892,037
-26 -



Note: The total cost of preparing the project from identification through negotiation was US$222,396. As data is
not available in a disaggregated form it has been assumed that identification/preparation represented about 60%
and appraisal/negotiation constituted roughly 40% of the total.
- 27 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M-Modest, N-Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macropolicies                        O H OSUOM       O N   * NA
El Sector Policies                     O H   OSU*M     O N   O NA
El Physical                            O H   *SUOM     O N   O NA
El Financial                           OH   OSUOM      ON    ONA
El Institutional Development           O H   * SU O M O N    0 NA
l Environmental                        O H   OSUOM     O N   * NA
Social
l Poverty Reduction              O H  OSUOM      O N   O NA
L Gender                         O H  OSUOM      O N   O NA
EL Other (Please specify)        O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
Li Private sector development          0 H   O SU O M  * N   0 NA
L Public sector management             0 H O SUO M     0 N   0 NA
O Other (Please specify)               O H  OSUOM      O N   * NA
- 28 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                 Rating
0 Lending                                           OHS*S OU OHU
O Supervision                                       OHS OS       O u   O HU
LI Overall                                          OHS OS       O u   O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
L Preparation                                       OHS OS       O U   O HU
L Government implementation performance             O HS O S     0 U   0 HU
L Implementation agency performance                 0 HS 0 s     0 O u  0 HU
LI Overall                                          OHS OS       O u   O HU
- 29 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1.     Seminaire de lancement du projet (25-29 juillet 1994): Grandes lignes proposees pour la
pr6paration et la tenue du seminaire + Presentation  sur develop. Instit. Et Decentralisation du
systame de sante
2.     Manuel d'Execution, tomes 1 & 2 (7/1994)
3.     Manuel de Procedure de Gestion Decentralisee des Fonds PDSN
4.     President's Report No. P-6297-BUR, March 9, 1994
5.     PDSN Staff Appraisal Report, March 11, 1994
4.     Rapport d'evaluation du PDSN (6/20/1994)
5.     Procedure d'Elaboration des Documents de la Politique Sanitaire Nationale et du Plan National de
Developpement Sanitaire (MES, avril 1999)
6.     Apercu Projet Planification Familiale DGSP/GTZ, juin 1999
7.     Enquete Demographique et de Sante Burkina Faso 1998-1999, Rapport Preliminaire (oct. 1999)
8.     Etude sur la Charge de Travail dans les Formations Sanitaires: Rapport Final Tome 1: Rapport
General ; Tome 2: Charge de Travail dans les CSPS, CM et CMA; Tome 3 Charge de Travail
dans les CHR et CHN (MES/DEP, nov. 1999) Projet de Politique Sanitaire Nationale (juin 2000)
9.     Evaluation Externe De La Performance Des Services De Sante Appuyees Par Le Projet De
Developpement Sante Et Nutrition (P.D.S.N),
janvier 2001, Societe Africaine D'Etudes et Conseils.
10.    Rapport de l'Evaluation Interne par les Pairs du Systeme de Gestion Decentralise des DRS et DS
Appuyee par le Projet de Developpement Sante et Nutrition, Rapport Definitif, decembre 2000.
11.   Enquete sur l'Utilisation des Services de Sante au Burkina Faso, fevrier 1999, BASP '96.
12.    Evaluation par les Beneficiares et Acteurs des Interventions de Sante au Burkina Faso, septembre
2001, CNESS-BOZARI.
13.    Rapport d'Evaluation des Activites du ler Semestre 2001 des Directions Regionales de la Sante
(DRS) et Districts Sanitaires (DS), septembre 2001.
14.    Rapport d'Execution du PDSN, Annee 2000, mai 2001.
15.    Bilan Execution du PDSN Annee 1997, fevrier 1998.
16.    Bilan Execution du Projet de Developpement Sante et Nutrition 1996.
17.    Rapport sur Execution Physique et Financiere du Projet de Developpement Sante et Nutrition,
Periode du ler juillet au 31 decembre 1995
- 30 -



Evaluation Externe de La Performance des Services de Sante Appuyes par le Projet de
Developpement et Nutrition: Conclusion
Le processus de gestion decentralisee basee sur les performances est une experience hardie engag6e
par le PDSN en 1999. Son caractere innovant est determine par la contractualisation dans laquelle elle
s'inscrit. Accordant une grande place a la responsabilisation des acteurs au niveau peripherique elle permet
une plus grande motivation par la disponibilite des ressources qu'elle assure. Apres une annee de mise en
ceuvre, meme si l'impact de ce processus reste encore a prouver, son apport a l'accroissement des capacites
notamment gestionnaires des DRS et des DS a ete positivement apprecie tant par les acteurs du niveau
peripherique que par les responsables du niveau central. Les questions essentielles qui se posent pour la
perennisation de ce processus sont:
*   Si la philosophie d'une gestion basee sur les performances est tres seduisante de premier abord, il reste
a prouver la reelle applicabilite du principe de rentabilite a des structures de sante;
*   Une autre question, liee a la premiere, est celle de la d6finition meme de la performance et de son
utilisation pour l'allocation des ressources;
*   La question des possibilites d'appropriation d'un processus initie dans le cadre d'un projet par les
acteurs traditionnels du Ministere de la Sante n'est pas uniquement d'ordre financier mais aussi et
surtout d'ordre organisationnel;
*   Comment, dans le cadre des structures traditionnelles de gestion du Ministere de la Sante, la derogation
du Ministere des Finances sera - t - elle maintenue ?
*   En d'autres termes acceptera-t-on que le PNDS soit mis en ceuvre avec les memes procedures que le
PDSN ?
En depit de toutes ces questions qui aujourd'hui sont sans reponse, on peut raisonnablement
souscrire a une prolongation de cette experience.
- 31 -



EVALUATION DE LA COMPOSANTE CONTROLE DES MALADIES TRANSMISSIBLES DU
PDSN
La surveillance et la lutte contre les maladies transmissibles par vecteurs dans les provinces a
risque devait permettre la liberation de l'energie humaine necessaire a la mise en valeur des vallees fertiles
dont regorgent les regions infestees. Le processus de d6volution s'inscrit donc dans le cadre d'une politique
de developpement global. Pour atteindre ces objectifs, les structures sanitaires de base doivent etre
renforcees dans certaines provinces. Ce renforcement des structures devait consister a renover ou
rehabiliter des infrastructures sanitaires deja existantes et a les equiper afin qu'elles puissent effectivement
jouer leur r6le de soutien / recours et de reference dans le systeme national de sante. Au moment oui les
zones libWres d'onchocercose connaissent une intense activite de repeuplement et de mise en valeur, le
Gouvemement du Burkina Faso entend privilegier une politique d'education et de sensibilisation des
populations pour le maintien des acquis du Programme Oncho et la sauvegarde du patrimoine naturel des
bassins fluviaux. La formation et le recyclage des personnels de terrain est egalement a prendre en compte
dans ce renforcement. II est absolument necessaire d'associer les populations au controle de ces endemies
par une information soutenue, leur formation, leur responsabilisation, leur motivation pour leur
participation aux activites.
L'appui au PEV a permis la disponibilisation de l'equipement mais surtout du vaccin anti-amaril
qui a permis la vaccination contre la fievre jaune dont aucune flambee n'est apparue depuis 1983.
Le PND prend en compte l'ensemble de ces constats et resultats et rentre dans le cadre general de
l'objectif du PDSN qui est d'ameliorer la sante des populations. Le PEV complete la lutte contre les
maladies transmissibles par la vaccination. Ces deux programmes, PND et PEV associes aux trois autres
composantes tendent a l'atteinte de l'objectif general. Ils doivent avoir des actions complementaires et
synergiques pour non seulement permettre une utilisation efficace des ressources mais favoriser
l'integration de certaines activites. Pour cela, des rencontres de concertation entre les responsables de toutes
les composantes du PDSN sont a promouvoir sous la direction du comite directeur du PDSN pour une
meilleur comprehension de la philosophie du programme, une harmonisation et une coordination des
activites.
- 32 -



Evaluation par les beneficiaires et acteurs des interventions de sante au Burkina Faso
L'investigation au sujet de I'appreciation des beneficiaires et acteurs des interventions de sante, a offert
l'opportunite de mesurer le degre de satisfaction des communautes par rapport aux actions mises en ceuvre
dans le cadre du developpement du secteur sanitaire. II ressort que seulement 34 % des beneficiaires
eprouvent une certaine satisfaction par rapport aux services de sante. Aussi, 1'etude a revele I'etendue du
concept de qualite des services chez les acteurs et beneficiaires.
En effet, si pour les populations, la qualite reside dans la nature de l'accueil, les services, le niveau
d'organisation et la disponibilite des medicaments, cela n'est pas le cas chez les prestataires des services de
sante qui reduisent tout aux equipements, aux services et au renforcement des capacites.
Or, pour r6ussir le pari, les actions doivent a l'avenir tenir compte des opinions, appreciations et
perceptions des ben6ficiaires qui en sont les principaux concemrs.
Si anterieurement, le systeme de planification sanitaire s'etait opere de la base vers le haut, dans les
perspectives actuelles et futures, les efforts a consentir doivent concourir a renverser la tendance
En outre, les resultats ont pernis d'identifier les besoins des conmmunautes en matiere de sante, les canaux
et voies d'expression des besoins, ainsi que la portee et la pertinence des recents changements dans la
politique sanitaire du pays (recouvrement des couits de soins, decentralisation et participation
communautaire).
De ce fait, le contenu de cette prospection est, en quelle sorte, un proces que les principaux concemrs ont
tenu au sujet de la politique sanitaire qui a prevalu durant toutes ces annees.
Et comme l'efficacite et l'efficience du developpement sanitaire sont des variables dependantes du niveau
d'implication des beneficiaires et acteurs dans l'identification, le choix, 1'execution, le suivi et l'evaluation
des activites de sante, des pareilles etudes constituent un echeveau de point de depart. Cela peut desorniais,
etre un outil a travers lequel, le chemin parcouru dans la mise en ceuvre du PNDS pourrait etre repere.
L'analyse des resultats de cette etude a penris de faire le point sur les forces et faiblesses et d'identifier les
acquis a conserver et les ecueils a eviter, ainsi que des suggestions sur la base desquelles des actions
futures se doivent d'etre edifiees.
Le choix combine des outils (decentralisation, recouvrement des cofits, participation communautaire et
MEG) dans la mise en nuvre de la politique sanitaire, est pertinent. Cela a ete la source de la dynamique de
la politique sanitaire du pays.
Cette politique et ses ingredients ont recu globalement, une certaine approbation de la part des beneficiaires
et acteurs des interventions de sante.
Actuellement, le Burkina est en passe d'emprunter un toumant decisif de son developpement sanitaire, avec
l'elaboration du Plan de Developpement Sanitaire 2001-2010 qui induit a la capitalisation des acquis et la
redefinition des actions et strategies pour un developpement durable.
Ainsi, partant des resultats de l'6tude, il est indispensable que;
I .Les actions et strategies soient basees sur les besoins et priorites des populations sans lesquelles, aucune
- 33 -



perspective n'est envisageable;
2.La multisectorialite et le developpement integre du secteur sante doivent constituer le principal cheval de
bataille dans les actions a venir;
3.La qualite des prestations doit etre au cceur de la dynamique du developpement du secteur sante;
4.Les recents changements introduits doivent etre imperativement continuer et etre consolides.
Concretement, si l'objectif recherche a travers le PDS, est le developpement significatif du secteur de la
sante, des actions strategiques doivent &re entreprises, a plusieurs niveaux.
Conditions prealables
Generalement, les PDS se caracterisent par un faible niveau d'execution; c'est pourquoi pour y remedier,
les responsables de la politique sanitaire nationale doivent prendre des mesures adequates pour rehausser le
niveau d'execution du contenu du PDS 2001-2010. Pour se faire, le developpement du
partenariat-contractualisation est a promouvoir et des reflexions et actions se rapportant a l'allegement des
procedures de deblocage des fonds, a tous les niveaux, doivent s'operer.
Renforcement des cavacitks
Comme les prestataires des services de sante constituent la plaque toumante de l'amelioration de la qualite,
les actions de renforcement de leurs capacites et de celles de leurs partenaires impliques dans la mise en
ceuvre du PDS, doivent etre deployees. Pour ce qui est des prestataires de service de sante, des modules a
vulgariser doivent les persuader pour qu'ils en soient des facilitateurs au service du public et qu'ils fassent
de l'accueil leur principale preoccupation.
Les formations des Agents de Sante Villageois et des COGES doivent etre poursuivis. Un vaste programme
de renforcement de capacite des structures de participation communautaire devra etre mis au point et
operationnalise sur le terrain. II aura pour cible les COGES, les ONGs/Associations locales et les autres
comites villageois oeuvrant dans le secteur non sante.
A 1'endroit des COGES, le but vise est le renforcement de leur capacite de mobilisation communautaire;
pour les autres, il sera question de rehausser leur niveau d'implication dans la mise en ceuvre des activites
de sante contenues dans les PDSD.
Appui a la mobilisation communautaire
A travers cette composante, le souci est de mettre un dispositif cons&quent pour appuyer les communautes
dans la mise en ceuvre des actions de developpement sanitaire. Cette preoccupation ne peut etre obtenue
qu'au moyen d'un encadrement rapproche des populations, realise a l'aide des ONG/Associations locales
en sous-traitance. A ce niveau, la toile de fonds de cette preoccupation est d'initier, davantage, les
communautes a l'identification, I'analyse des causes et effets des problemes de sante et sur les exercices
d'e1aboration des Plans d'action sanitaire.
L'appui a la mobilisation communautaire devrait etre soutenu a travers un effort consequent de
decentralisation, pour permettre aux communautes de recevoir directement, les ressources du programmes
pour l'execution de leur Plan d'action, comme l'a fait le Projet PDSN entre 1995-2000. L'experience de ce
- 34 -



Projet en matiere d'appui A la mobilisation conimunautaire pourrait etre consolidee, capitalisee et diffusee.
En outre un accent particulier doit etre mis, A tous les niveaux, sur l'utilisation de la demarche participative
dans l'elaboration des PDSD et des micro-plans.
Dans un proche avenir, il est A envisager l'integration de ces Plans dans les futurs Plans holistes de
developpement Communautaire qui seront issus du processus de decentralisation afin de garantir, au niveau
operationnel, la multisectorialite des interventions de sante.
Aussi, I'appui A la mobilisation communautaire ne doit, en aucun cas, faire l'economie des actions qui
tendent A promouvoir les Organisations usagers des services de sante.
Analyse constante de l'environnement du svsteme
La mise en cuvre des actions contenues dans le PNDS 2001-2010 doit accorder une place de choix a
l'analyse de l'environnement du systeme, c'est A dire, I'6conomie, 1'education, I'hydraulique,
1'environnement, etc. Car leur prise en compte est une opportunite d'adaptation constante des actions A la
situation. Cela garantirait la flexibilite dans la mise en ceuvre, gage essentiel de succes de toute entreprise.
L'organisation du suivi/ evaluation participatif
Le suivi et l'evaluation participatifs doivent etre retenus comme l'aune, dans la mise en ceuvre du PDSN
pour rendre compte A la communaute du niveau de realisation des activites, les contraintes rencontrees et
les suggestions d'amelioration.
Trois (3) types d'indicateurs peuvent etre utilisees, pour mesurer le niveau de realisation des objectifs du
PNDS.
Indicateurs de performance
*   Le nombre des communautes qui ont eu A elaborer et A mettre en a:uvre des Plans de developpement
sanitaire
* Le nombre d'infrastructures et d'equipement mis A disposition
* L'etendue des competences et le potentiel des ressources humaines formees
* L'evolution des indicateurs de sante
* Le niveau d'utilisation des services
Indicateurs d'impacts
* Le taux de prevalence des principales affections
* Le niveau d'accessibilite des services
Indicateurs de resultats
Les indicateurs des resultats peuvent etre relatifs aux aspects suivants:
* Fonctionnement des COGES
* Renforcement des capacites
*   Appui A la mobilisation communautaire
* Niveau d'ex&cution des actions entrant dans le cadre du partenariat
*   Mecanisme de transfert des ressources aux conmnunautes
- 35 -



*   Niveau d'execution des plans et Micro-plans
*   Ratio infrastructures sanitaires
*   Ratio personnel de sante
- 36 -



MAP SECTION






MAURITANIA
BURKINA               FASO                                                                 M A L I                 .       M_AM2 M ------
NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                  - .                         NIGtR
NION                                                                               I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~BURKINA FASO  I
CAPITALE D'ETAT
RIVERS                                                      --G5 OUDALAN                               GUINEA                   i
RIVIERES                                   OUDALAN                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ENSN?
______ PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                  u'                 rom-Gorom '                                         *,; _1,'
LIMITES DES PROVINCES                                                          0                                                  2,CT  HN
_   _ - INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                        ~ rivoiR                                                   t?I _
FRONTIERES INTERNATIONALES                   'U_
-144                          <           's     odiibo      t              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Dori  1 A---4 - G1
14 0    50     100      150     200                   LORUM°                                                            OCEAN
KILOMETERS KILOMETRES             .YATENGA (                                               '
I        \Ouahigouya      BAM
Sn-' ~~   \~Kongou iN 
.C                 SOUROU j ~     o8 ' -  ¾    0>K u S   (SANMATENGA  3  (
Tougan    ,o               (      OKaya  (     ,' GNAGNA     -
M     A L I      >        KOSSI          "   --     o Yako               t            S   0Bogand\
_,,t,  ONouna  NAAA    7   -K   RwEOUl PASSORE            >
0        ~NAYALA                                                                 ARI
Dedougo      R&o                 QUA                   ,,
o~ Koudou  ~ KADIOGO C  
BANWA          MOUHOUN     SANGUIE                         c ZorghoUKT
E12°  .~o.  s  A§t  _  v  a   (   /<  to  GANZOURGOU\ oUS  G 6vU R M A  ,  TAPOA
12'                                                    ~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~BAZEGA  -
~~,/   a  ¢  <{ 0S  Z  W\>  .27       AT\--\\ ~?(oBAZGA/-Xri0KD\                     Fada-N'Gounnma  jDiapaega         \,;a 12°-
l       -         LE BALE  n       _                   Mangas jTenkodoga0       '    .A 
KENEDOUGOU                  *                                           J *O    BOULGOU)
TUY } H  HOUET                                              __P-  1  .-  MI  /  C  RaS  )  ,KOULPELO  KOMPIENGA  ,3  _
rZ       %         Bobo- .S I S S I L I
J     '>      0~~~~~~Dioulasso'N-                   1,6' LO 
9;OrojaraO -                                  .c--7-------97 ? -'            5-.
Di6bogou
JLA J BOanfora| '  ~  r BOUGOURIBA .
r-4          f             I             \~~~              ~~~~                   ~~O N I G  '>       fira
COMOE               PoN01G0
3_ 4 3_ S~ _)NOUMBIEZ                                                              T krhismap os produced by the °
10'                                                                         1  M p  DesigM Des ig  Un tof  Th   W orld   Bank
3  ~~~~~~~~  - ~~~~~~~~~  NOUMBIE                                    * ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~The boundaries, colors, denominations
and onyother inf-rmotion shown an
thin op do not imply, on the part of
The World Bank Group, any judgment  F,
an the legal staus of any territory,or 
> C C) T E D ' I V OiE t ) ~~~~~~~~~~~~G                     H     N     A fr.wi> 
COTE      D'IVOIRE                                                                                      Tany endorsement.o acceptance of   0
c6TE   D'IVO                                                               TOGO       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~such boundaries.  I",,
'0                                                                                                                NJ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0



