Page  1
February 9, 1999
H.E. Tertius Zongo
Minister of Economy and Finance 
Ministry of Economy and Finance 
Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso
Excellency:
Credit No.2595 BUR (Health and Nutrition Development Project)
Amendment to Development Credit Agreement (Decentralization of Project 
Financing) 
We refer to the Development Credit Agreement (the Agreement), dated June 8, 
1994, as amended, for the above-mentioned Project between Burkina Faso (the Borrower) 
and the International Development Association (the Association) and to your letter, 
dated October 28, 1998, in which you requested us to amend the Agreement, inter alia, 
to decentralize the project financing to the level of the health directorates in the 
districts and the regions.
We are pleased to inform you that the Association accedes to your request and 
agrees, accordingly, to amend the Agreement as follows (with changes indicated in 
bold): 
1.
Section 1.02. of this Agreement is amended as shown in the attached Annex A. 
2.
Schedules 1, 2, 3 and 4 to the Agreement are amended as shown in the attached 
amended Schedules.
3.
Paragraphs 1 (a) and (c) of Schedule 5 to the Agreement are amended as follows: 
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (9) and (11) 
set forth  in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to CFAF 
550,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
All other provisions of the Agreement, except as amended herein, shall remain in 
full force and effect.
Please indicate your agreement with the foregoing amendment by signing and 
dating the confirmation form on the attached copy of this letter and returning it to 
us, while keeping the original for your records.
This amendment will become effective as of the date of confirmation of this 
letter.
Sincerely,
By /s/ Miquel J. Saponara 
Acting Country Director for Burkina Faso 
Africa Region
Attachment
AGREED:
BURKINA FASO
Page  2
By /s/ 
Authorized Representative
Date:
March 3, 1999
ANNEX A
“Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms 
defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement terms have 
the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 
(b) of this 
Agreement; 
(b)
“CFAF” means the currency of the Borrower; 
(c)
“Faso Baara” means the Contract Managing Agency established 
pursuant to ARRETE 
No. 91/151/MAT/SG/DELPAJ of the Borrower, dated July 17, 
1991; 
(d)
“PCU” means the Project Coordination Unit established under the 
Development 
Credit Agreement between the Borrower and the Association dated 
June 17, 1985; 
(e)
“CAMEG” means the Centrale d’Achats de Médicaments Essentiels 
Génériques et 
des Consommables Médicaux, the Borrower’s procurement center 
for essential generic 
drugs, established by Decree 92-127/SAN-ASF dated 
May 21, 1992 as amended by Decree 
94-070/PRES/SASF dated February 15, 
1994; 
(f)
“DMO” means the District Medical Officer (s); 
(g) 
“CSPS” means the Health and Social Development Center (s);
(h)
“MS” means the Ministry of Health of the Borrower; 
(i) 
“DAAF” means the Direction des Affaires Administratives et 
Financières, the 
Borrower’s Administrative and Financial Affairs Office; 
(j)
“DEP” means the Direction des Etudes et de la Planification, the 
Borrower’s 
Directorate of Planning and Studies;  
(k)
“DMP” means the Direction de la Médecine Préventive, the 
Borrower’s 
Directorate of Preventive Medicine; 
(l)
“DRS” means the Direction Régionale de la Santé, the Borrower’s 
regional health 
directorates; 
(m)
“CMA” means Centre Médical avec Antenne Chirurgicale, a medical 
center with a 
surgical unit; 
(n)
“CM” means Centre Médical, a medical center; 
(o)
“CHR” means Centre Hospitalier Régional, the Regional Hospital 
Center(s); 
(p)
“CHN” means Centre Hospitalier National, the National Hospital 
Center; 
(q)
“ENSP” means Ecole Nationale de Santé Publique, the National 
School of Public 
Health; 
Page  3
(r)
“DSPH” means Direction des Services Pharmaceutiques, the 
Directorate for 
Pharmaceutical Services;
(s)
“WHO” means the World Health Organization; 
(t)
“IEC” means Information, Education and Communication; 
(u)
“EPI” means the Expanded Program of Immunization; 
(v)
“DSF” means Direction de la Santé de la Famille, the Directorate 
of Family 
Health; 
(w)
“MCH” means Maternal and Child Health; 
(x)
“CFDS” means Centre de Formation pour le Développement Sanitaire, 
the Training 
Center for Health Development of ENSP; 
(y)
“OST” means Office de Santé des Travailleurs, the Bureau of 
Workers Health;  
(z)
“DHT” means the District Health Team; 
(aa)
“IGESS” means Inspection Générale des Etablissements et Services 
de Santé, the 
Borrower’s Inspectorate General of Health Facilities; 
(ab)
“DFP” means Direction de la Formation Professionnelle, the 
Directorate of 
Professional Training; 
(ac)
“DEM” means Direction de l’Equipement et de la Maintenance, the 
Directorate of 
Equipment and Maintenance; 
(ad)
“CADSS” means Cellule d’Appui à la Décentralisation du Système de 
Santé, the 
Health System decentralization Support Unit;
(ae)
“DGSP” means Direction Générale de Santé Publique, the General 
Directorate of 
Public Health; 
(af)
“CD” means Comité Directeur du Projet de Développement Santé et 
Nutrition, the 
Steering Committee for the Health and Nutrition Development 
Project, created by 
Arreté No. 98/194/MS/SG/PDSN of July 1, 1998; 
(ag)
“DS” means District Sanitaire, the Borrower’s health districts;
(ah)
“Work Program Agreements” mean the programs of health related 
activities, to 
be carried out each Fiscal Year on the basis of signed 
agreements, in form and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, 
between, respectively: (i) the CD and the 
DRSs; and (ii) the CD and the 
DSs; 
(ai)
“Fiscal Year” means the period from January 1 to December 31; and 
(aj)
“Procedures and Management Manual” means the manual referred to in 
Paragraph 3 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, setting out procedures, 
guidelines, criteria and 
other arrangements, acceptable to the 
Association for the preparation, selection, 
implementation and 
evaluation of Work Program Agreements.
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
   Credit
   % of
Page  4
  Allocated
Expenditures
(Expressed in
   to be
Category
SDR Equivalent)
   Financed
(1)
Works
   9,040,000
100%
(2)
Goods
   4,350,000
100%
(3)
Supplies and
     420,000
100%
spare parts
(4)
Drugs
     180,000
100%
(5)
Vaccines and
   1,470,000
100%
micronutrients
(6)
Consultants’ services
     580,000
100%
(7)
Training
     740,000
100%
(8)
Media
     220,000
100%
(9)
Incremental
   1,350,000
35% 
operating costs
(10)
Unallocated
    0
(11)
Work Program Agreements
   2,850,000
100%
of the DSs and the DRSs
  __________
         TOTAL
  21,200,000
  ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "Media" means all costs related to information, communication 
and education campaigns, inter alia: (A) radio and television features; (B) 
interviews; (C) posters; (D) pamphlets; and (E) seminars, workshops and meetings; and
(b)
the term "Incremental operating costs" means: (i) $200,000 each in years 
one and two of the Project for CAMEG's operating costs; (ii) costs of DMO's 
supervision of CSPSs; (iii) salaries, benefits and travel allowances for local PCU 
staff; and (iv) operating and maintenance costs for items under Categories (1) and (2) 
of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals: (i) in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
SDR 80,000 may be made in respect of Category 7 on account of payments made before 
that date but after November 1, 1998; (ii) in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of SDR 395,000 may be made in respect of Category 11 on account of payments 
made before that date but after January 1, 1999.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures: (a) under contracts for goods 
and works not exceeding $200,000 equivalent; (b) under contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms not exceeding $100,000; (c) under contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants not exceeding $50,000 equivalent; and (d) under all Work 
Program Agreements not exceeding $100,000 equivalent, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
Page  5
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in its efforts to: (a) 
improve significantly the quality, coverage and utilization of basic health services; 
(b) enhance the nutritional status of the population; and (c) develop a national 
capacity for achieving sustainable control of endemic parasitic diseases.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Institutional Development and Decentralization of the Public Health 
System
1.
Strengthening the Capacity of MS to decentralize the Public Health System by 
providing support to:
(a)
DAAF through: (i) the establishment of a comprehensive asset inventory; 
(ii) management training; and (iii) the supply of information technology equipment;
(b)
DEP's coordination and evaluation efforts through: (i) the carrying out 
of a survey of ongoing external financing for the health sector; (ii) the 
establishment of a consolidated mechanism for the coordination, monitoring and 
evaluation of public health programs; and (iii) the implementation of a mechanism to 
strengthen the collection, analysis and utilization of national health information, 
including the purchase of equipment and material.
(c)
DMP's capacity to combat tropical diseases through: (i) construction of 
offices; (ii) supply of equipment and vehicles; and (iii) training of professional and 
support staff; 
(d)
“IGESS” to strengthen its capacity to: (i) advise MS on organization, 
human resources management, the applicability of legal and regulatory texts and 
monitoring methodology; and (ii) monitor and inspect the infrastructure of the health 
facilities as well as the quality of medical services offered;
(e)
“DEM” to strengthen its capacity to establish preventative maintenance 
for facilities and equipment for health services; and
(f)
the carrying out of a study of the hospital sector to define the 
respective roles of the CHR and CHN in the context of the decentralized national 
health system.
2.
Strengthening the institutional training capacity of the decentralized health 
system by:
(a)
supporting DFP in the development and implementation of a human resources 
plan for health development;
(b)
financing of fellowships for specialization in the disciplines of general 
surgery, obstetrics and gynecology, health inspection, pediatrics, and public health; 
and
(c)
supporting continuing education for (i) district medical officers and 
other key staff at the district level in emergency surgery; (ii) key members of 
district health teams in health services management and in primary health care 
training, promotion and outreach; and (iii) CHR technicians and CMA laboratory 
assistants.
3.
Decentralizing of the Borrower's public health system and strengthening 
its peripheral services by:
(a)
supporting the redeployment of health service personnel;
(b) 
carrying out of a study on the workloads of health service personnel and 
the implementation of the recommendations proposed under such study;
(c)
supporting the establishment of selected DSs and DRSs and strengthening 
the capacities of such DSs and DRSs to decentralize strategic sector management and 
Page  6
carry out priority programs and activities included in their development plans;
(d)
supporting the upgrading and extension of health infrastructure at the 
operational level through: (i) transformation of about 15 CMs into CMAs; (ii) the 
construction of physicians’ living quarters at two existing CMAs; (iii) rehabilitation 
and staffing of about 30 CSPSs; (iv) construction of about 30 additional rural and 
about 15 urban CSPS; (v) construction of living quarters for nurses at about 35 CSPSs; 
and (vi) acquisition of vehicles for district health teams for the supervision of 
CSPSs;
(e)
strengthening the organization and continued operation of the Comités de 
Gestion to manage CMAs and CSPSs and to implement cost recovery plans; and
(f)
rehabilitation of one CAMEG warehouse and provision of storage and office 
equipment for said warehouse.
Part B:
Essential Drug Distribution Program
 
Strengthen the Borrower's capacity to distribute quality generic drugs to the 
population by: 
1.
Supporting the operational capacities of the national health system, including:
(a)
provision of construction and equipment of storage sheds within the 
premises of approximately 400 CSPSs;
(b)
acquisition of a one-year stock of essential generic drugs for about 45 
CSPSs constructed under the Project and CMAs to serve as initial capital for a drug 
cost recovery fund; and
(c)
training health personnel in: (i) the management of drug stocks; (ii) in 
management techniques for cost recovery; and (iii) budgeting;
2.
Supporting the DSPh in its efforts to ensure the implementation of the national 
pharmaceutical policy, including:
(a)
the acquisition and the promotion of the use of essential generic drugs;
(b)
the implementation of a viable system for the distribution of essential 
generic drugs;
(c)
the support of quality control improvement through (i) the carrying out 
of a feasibility study related to the introduction of a quality control pharmaceutical 
laboratory; and (ii) the systematic control of the quality of pharmaceutical products.
Part C:
Endemic Disease Control Program
 
1.
Treatment of endemic parasitic diseases by providing support to DMP to:
(a)
detect, report and treat cases of: (i) onchocerciasis; (ii) 
trypanosomiasis; and (iii) dracunculiasis;
(b)
strengthen local mobile health teams and the national coordination team; 
and
(c)
implement the ongoing dracunculiasis eradication program through: (i) 
distribution of water filters, and (ii) execution and review of a national prevalence 
survey.
2.
Educating the affected population through IEC campaigns organized by DMP.
 
3.
Preventing the outbreak of EPI targeted diseases by providing support to DSF: 
(a) to provide yellow fever vaccines; (b) establish a functioning cold-chain network; 
and (c) organize mobile vaccination teams under the supervision of DHTs.
Part D:
Micronutrient Supply Program
 
1.
A short-term strategy to end micronutrient deficiencies by: 
Page  7
(a)
support to DSF in: 
(i)
micronutrient delivery to the population, in particular, 
distribution of 
micronutrients within the prenatal and 
curative care programs and the EPI 
delivery system; and 
(ii)
execution of epidemiological surveys to detect micronutrient 
deficiencies and 
evaluate their impact; and 
(b)
providing training for health care staff at all levels.
 
2.
Carrying out a strategy for food fortification and dietary modification through: 
(a) execution of a feasibility study aimed at promoting importation of iodized salt 
consistent with WHO standards and implementation of the recommendations of such study; 
(b) implementation of a monitoring system to gauge the iodine content of imported 
salt; and (c) supporting IEC campaigns aimed at heightening the population's awareness 
of the importance of a diet rich in micronutrients.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as provided in part D hereof, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in 
Sections I and II of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA credits” 
published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines)
(a)
For fixed-price contracts, the invitation to bid referred to in 
paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines shall provide that, when contract award is delayed 
beyond the original bid validity period. the successful bidder’s bid price will be 
increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed correction factors acceptable to 
the Association, one to be applied to all foreign currency components and the other to 
the local currency component of the bid price.  Such an increase shall not be taken 
into account in the bid evaluation.
(b)
In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with this Part A, the 
Borrower shall use the relevant standard bidding documents issued by the Bank, and 
with such modifications thereto as the Association shall have agreed to be necessary 
for the purposes of the Project.  For the procurement of drugs, the Borrower shall use 
the Bank’s sample bidding document “Procurement for Drugs and Vaccines” published in 
September 1993.  Where no relevant standard bidding documents have been issued by the 
Bank, the Borrower shall use bidding documents based on other internationally 
recognized standard forms agreed with the Association.
(c)
To the extent practicable, contracts for works related to the execution 
of boreholes and the procurement of goods shall be grouped into bid packages estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more.
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in Burkina Faso may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:
Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures described in 
Page  8
Part A thereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of preference to domestic contractors 
in accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
(a)
Works, estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or less per contract, 
up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $10,400,000; and
(b)
goods, supplies and spare parts, estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $300,000, may 
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised 
locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.
Goods, supplies and spare parts estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
less per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $1,600,000, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from 
at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines in accordance with procedures 
acceptable to the Association.
3.
Medical equipment and micronutrients may be procured directly from United 
Nations specialized agencies.
4.
Vaccines and vaccination material may, with the Association’s prior approval,  
be procured directly in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the 
Guidelines.
5.
Drugs may be procured directly from CAMEG in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.10 of the Guidelines.
Part E:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
(a)
With respect to each contract for works and goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.  Where payments for such contract are to be 
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the 
two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association 
pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Association prior to the 
making of the first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect of each contract no governed by the preceding paragraph, the 
procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply.  Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, 
such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the 
contract, together with the other information required to be furnished to the 
Association pursuant to said paragraph 3, shall be furnished to the Association as 
part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall not apply to 
contracts on account of which withdrawals from the Credit Account are to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
1.
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out (a) Parts A (1) (c); (3) (b), 
(c), and (f), the Borrower shall employ Faso Baara for construction work; and (b) 
other parts of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose 
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be 
satisfactory to the Association.  Such consultants shall be selected in accordance 
with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the 
“Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank 
Page  9
as Executing Agency” published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).  
For complex, time-based assignments, the Borrower shall employ such consultants under 
contracts using the standard form of contract for consultants’ services issued by the 
Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Association.  Where no 
relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall 
use other standard forms agreed with the Association.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association review or approval of budgets, 
short lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation 
reports and contracts shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) 
contracts for the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent each.  However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to: 
(a) the terms of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of 
consulting firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by 
the Bank; (d) amendments to contract for the employment of consultants firms raising 
the contracts value to $100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts 
for the employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 
equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
The Borrower shall:
1.
during the execution of the Project, maintain PCU in adequate offices with 
adequate equipment, attached to the Secretary General of Health at MS, under the 
management of a Director, to be assisted by: (i) a Chief Administrative Officer and 
financial expert; (ii) an accountant responsible for the Project's accounts; (iii) a 
Monitoring and Evaluation Officer; and (iv) support staff.  The officer referred to 
under paragraph (ii) of this section shall be recruited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; all said positions to remain 
staffed by suitably qualified and experienced persons acceptable to the Association at 
all times. Said PCU shall (i) operate under terms of reference acceptable to the 
Association; (ii) be in charge of the administration and coordination of Project 
activities and supervision of Project implementation and progress; and (iii) support 
the activities of the CD;
2.
ensure that the CD, chaired by the Secretary General of Health, will (i) review 
and adopt Work Program Agreements of the DSs and DRSs; (ii) ensure appropriate 
allocation of financial resources in support of these Work Program Agreements; and 
(iii) monitor the progress in the DS’s and the DRS’s implementation of their 
respective Work Program Agreements in accordance with key performance indicators, 
satisfactory to the Association;
3.
not later than January 31, 1999, adopt, or cause to be adopted, a Procedure and 
Management Manual, satisfactory to the Association;
4.
recruit, in accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement, a qualified accounting firm experienced in working according to the 
International Accounting Standards, acceptable to the Association, to assist in the 
establishment of an accounting system for the Project and give periodic support to the 
Project accountant;
5.
provide a detailed implementation plan for the first year of activities under 
Part D of the Project prior to the Project launch workshop;
6.
conduct, prior to the Project launch workshop, a feasibility study, under terms 
of reference satisfactory to the Association, concerning accelerated importation of 
iodized salt consistent with WHO standards; thereafter, through transmission of a copy 
of such study, invite the Association to a review meeting to decide on an action plan 
based upon the recommendations of such study and implement such action plan prior to 
March 31, 1996;
7.
integrate, prior to the Project launch workshop, micronutrients in the 
Page  10
algorithms, supervision manuals, training curricula for the health district teams, 
patient cards, and ongoing training sessions of MCH and EPI;
8.
ensure that the Work Program Agreements of the DSs: (i) are prepared annually 
and reviewed quarterly by district health teams in a fully decentralized and 
participatory manner; (ii) are fully reflective of national health sector policy and 
priorities; (iii) are prepared in accordance with key performance indicators for 
health districts; (iv) are implemented in accordance with the same indicators; (v) 
include an itemized budget and financing plan; and that (vi) the implementation of 
these Work Program Agreements is supported and supervised quarterly by the DRSs;
9.
ensure that the Work Program Agreements of the DRSs: (i) are prepared annually 
and reviewed quarterly by regional health teams in a fully decentralized and 
participatory manner; (ii) are fully reflective of national health sector policy and 
priorities; (iii) are fully reflective of national health sector policy and 
priorities; (iv) are implemented in accordance with key performance indicators for 
regional health directorates; (v) include an itemized budget and financing plan; and 
that (vi) the implementation of these Work Program Agreements is supported and 
supervised semi-annually by the CD;
10.
ensure financial support to the implementation of the Work Program Agreements of 
the DSs and DRSs through the decentralization of financing and financial management in 
accordance with the Procedures and Management Manual and the Work Program Agreements 
of the DS and the DRSs, satisfactory to the Association;
11.
hold, annually in November, beginning November 1995, a Project implementation 
review meeting with the Association, based on a report, submitted one month prior to 
such meeting by PCU, of Project implementation in the year past and a proposed budget 
for Project implementation in the following year; such meeting to assess Project 
progress against monitoring indicators agreed upon by the Borrower and the 
Association, attached to the Program; and to agree on Project activities for the 
following year;
12.
initiate a study, analyzing the hospital sector under terms of reference agreed 
upon by the Association, to improve: (i) the management and the effective use of 
services offered, and of financial resources; (ii) the planning of technical equipment 
required, based upon geographic coverage of hospital facilities; and (iii) the 
effective use of manpower resources;  the actions to be recommended by such study to 
be suitable to strengthen the tertiary level of the national health system; such study 
to be completed by June 30, 1995; invite the Association to a review meeting of such 
study to comment and approve its recommendations;
13.
execute base line epidemiological surveys and periodic rapid surveys to detect 
micronutrient deficiencies; evaluate their impact on the population and report such 
conclusions to the Association;
14.
prepare, by June 30, 1995, a national plan of redeployment, recruitment and 
training of CHN, CHR and OST staff, acceptable to the Association; such plan to take 
into account: (i) the newly established personnel norms for DPS, CMAs, CMs and CSPSs  
according to Decision No 93-304/SASF/SG dated October 18, 1993, and (ii) the 
recommendations pertaining to human resources, approved by the Association, of the 
study referred to under paragraph (7) of this Schedule, and implement such plan prior 
to March 31, 1997;
15.
conduct, by July 31, 1995, a national prevalence survey on dracunculiasis and, 
at the latest prior to the mid-term review referred to in paragraph (a) of Section 
3.02 of this Agreement, invite the Association to a review meeting to recommend 
revisions of the National Plan for Eradication of Dracunculiasis taking account of 
such survey; and implement such National Plan;
16.
conduct, by July 31, 1995, under the supervision of DEP, a national survey of 
ongoing external financial aid in the health sector, devise a plan, satisfactory to 
the Association, to monitor and coordinate such aid and implement said plan by July 
31, 1996;
17.
ensure that CAMEG management meets at all times the performance criteria agreed 
upon by the Borrower and the Association as reflected in an Attachment to the Program;
Page  11
18.
ensure, in accordance with a timetable attached to the Program, that in all 
Health Districts: (i) the CMAs and the CSPSs to be constructed or to become 
operational under the Project are staffed with the minimum personnel as defined in 
Decision No.93-304/SASF/SG dated October 18, 1993; (ii) the DHTs are working according 
to a district health development plan established for the district concerned; (iii) 
the DHT and the CSPS staff are regularly trained and supervised; (iv) a financial 
accounting system for each CMA and its respective CSPSs involving the stocking and 
selling generic drugs is established; and (v) the community management committees for 
the CMA concerned and each of its CSPSs are duly registered;
19.
maintain the Training Unit of CFDS to train the DHTs; and
 
20.
not repeal nor substantially modify, without prior consent of the Association: 
(i) Decree No. 93-001/PRES/MFPL/SASF/MAT dated January 28, 1993 and Arrete No. 
93-015/SASF/MFP/MAT dated February 4, 1993, providing for increased autonomy of the 
CMAs and CSPS; (ii) Decree No. 92-127/SAN-ASF dated May 21, 1992, and No. 
94-070/PRES/SASF dated February 15, 1994, establishing and regulating CAMEG; and (iii) 
Decision No. 93-304/SASF/SG dated October 18, 1993, establishing minimum personnel 
requirements for DPS, CMAs, CMs and CSPSs.
