Document of
FILE COPY                         The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Repor Ng. P-2307-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO INDIA
FOR A
RAILWAY MODERNIZATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
July 24, 197R
IThis doenmat ba a restlct  dbbuWd. mmd m  be m_d by rclpi   emy In Xb. _ Iuf.xm f d
their oelali dutis. Its ceteb my _t e&uwwise be d_slosd _Wlbu  Wold DSn  0iborkmlh.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      =      Rupee (Rs)
Rs 1                      Paise 100
US$l                      Rs 8.6
Rs 1               =      US$0.1163
Rs 1 million       =      US$116,279.07
Rs 1 billion              US$116,279,068;.77
(Since September 25, 1975, the Rupee has been officially
valued relative to a "basket" of currencies. As these
currencies are now floating, the U.S. Dollar/Rupee ex-
change rate is subject to change. As of July 10, 1978,
the exchange rate was Rs 8.18 to US$1.0).
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED IN THIS REPORT
GOI     -    Government of India
IR      -    Indian Railways
CLW     -    Chittaranjan Locomotive Works of Indian Railways
TISCO   -    Tata Iron and Steel Company
DLW     -    Diesel Locomotive Works of Indian Railways
ICF     -    Integral Coach Factory of Indian,Railways
RDSO    -    Research, Designs and Standards Organization of
Indian Railways
MIS     -    Management Information System
DSP     -    Durgapur Steel Plant
BHEL    -    Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited
UNDP    -    United Nations Development Programme



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDIA
RAILWAY MODERNIZATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           India, acting by its President.
Beneficiary:        Indian Railways.
Amount:             US$l90 million.
Terms:              Standard.
Project
Description:        In order to help the Indian Railways (IR) reduce manufac-
turing and maintenance costs of locomotives and rolling
stock and to improve their performance and availability,
the project provides for: (i) acquisition of workshop
machinery and equipment, together with necessary parts
and components for implementation of a unit exchange
system; (ii) construction at Yelahanka in the State of
Karnataka of a wheel and axle plant, with an annual
rated manufacturing capacity of 70,000 wheels and 23,000
axles, and supply of about two years' requirements of
imported wheels, tires, axles and wheel sets; and
(iii) development support for a product improvement
program for IR's manufacturing units, including technical
advisory services and overseas staff training. These
project components form part of Indian Railways' invest-
ment plan covering the period 1978/79 - 1982/83, which
amounts to about US$3,750 million equivalent. There
are no significant project risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated                                                    (US$ million)
Project Costs:                Items                     Local  Foreign  Total
Workshop Modernization
i)  Workshop Modernization       33        95       128
ii)  Unit Exchange               105        56       161
Sub-total            138       151       289
Wheels and Axles
i)  Wheel and Axle Plant         37        38        75
ii)  Wheels and Axles             49        28        77
Sub-total             86        66       152
Development Support                 6       12        18
Total Project Cost /a       230       229      459
/a  The project cost estimates are based on January 1978
prices and include a price contingency averaging 7%
per annum for local and foreign costs. A physical
contingency of 10% is included in the cost of the
wheel and axle plant component.
Financing                                                   (US$ million)
Plan                                                   Local   Foreign   Total
IDA                               -         190       190
Proceeds of Credit 582-IN         -           7         7
COI                              230         32       262
Total                230        229       459
Estimated
Disbursements:          IDA FY          FY79  FY80  FY81  FY82  FY83  FY84 FY85
Annual              6    23    52    61    36    10    2
Cumulative          6    29    81   142   178   188  190
Rate of Return:      Workshops, 27%; wheel and axle plant, 19%; weighted
average, 23%.
Appraisal Report:   No. 2020-IN,  dated July 24, 1978.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE GOVERNMENT OF INDIA FOR A RAILWAY
MODERNIZATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to India in an amount equivalent to US$190 million on
standard IDA terms, to help finance a project designed to support workshop
modernization, wheel and axle manufacture and product development for Indian
Railways' manufacturing units. These components are part of the Indian
Railways' investment plan covering the period 1978/79-1982/83. Because Indian
Railways is part of the Government of India, the proceeds of the proposed
credit will not be on-lent but will be channeled to the Indian Railways as
part of the railway budget.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(2008-IN dated April 17, 1978), was distributed to the Executive Directors
on April 18, 1978. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        India is a vast, continental country with over twenty States divided
on linguistic and ethnic grounds with a population of over 620 million people,
almost as many as live in Africa and Latin America combined. It has a dual
economy. While 79% of its population lives in rural areas, their productivity
is low. Agriculture's share in value added declined only gradually from about
50% to 43% over the last twenty years. The share of manufacturing has in-
creased slowly and, since the late 1960s, has remained approximately constant
at about 16%. Industry has a highly diversified structure with import substi-
tution and self-sufficiency pushed to the point where India has the capacity
to produce virtually every type of consumer and capital good required for a
modern economy. As in the case of many other large economies, the foreign
sector plays a relatively minor role; both exports and imports represent about
7% of GDP; foreign saving has supplied only about 5% of gross investment in
the recent past.
4.        Even though growth has been slow in the past, the economy enjoys
many of the prerequisites for sustaining faster growth and development.
Although literacy is far from universal, India has large resources of well
trained administrative, scientific and technical manpower and a dynamic entre-
preneurial class. Per capita consumption of commercial energy is low by
1/   Parts I and II of this report are the same as Parts I and II of the
President's Report for the Haryana Irrigation Project (Report No.
P-2349-IN), dated July 19, 1978.



- 2 -
international comparison and power shortages are a way of life; but India is
relatively well-placed with regard to primary fuel sources. There are very
large reserves of coal and nuclear ores, and considerable hydro-electric
potential. Recent petroleum and gas discoveries have begun to be exploited
and prospects are bright for further discoveries. The basic elements of the
infrastructure needed to serve the economy have been established; in absolute
terms the irrigation, railway, telecommunication, road and power systems are
each among the largest in the developing, and in some cases the developed,
world. However, considerable gaps remain as the situation varies greatly
from state to state.
5.        Given the size of India's population, its annual increase of 13 mil-
lion people is such as to absorb a large portion of any provision to increase
standards of living. It is not possible to discern any significant increase
in the incomes of the vast mass of the rural and urban poor, who number 200
million with a per capita income of US$70 per annum or less. Although food-
grain production may be persistently underestimated, there has been no perma-
nent increase in per capita foodgrain consumption recorded in aggregate
statistics since 1960/61. Many years after the initial target, primary educa-
tion is still not universal. The labor force has grown faster than employment
and a considerable backlog of unemployed exists. Nevertheless, there has been
progress, with per capita income increasing on trend 1%-1.5% per annum; birth
rates falling to below 37 per thousand from levels of 45-50 per thousand at
the start of the 1950s, life expectancy increasing from about 32 years in
the 1940s to 45-50 years in the 1970s, school enrollment rising from 32%
to 65% of children of primary school age and from 5% to 29% of children of
secondary school age since 1950/51.
6.        The rate of growth of GDP has been 3.5% per annum over the period
since Independence and 2.8% per annum over the period 1969/70 to 1976/77.
These low rates of growth are only partly due to low availability of inves-
tible resources, although there have been times that foreign exchange was a
severe bottleneck. The net transfer of resources from abroad has never been
above 3% of GDP and fell to as little as 0.8% between 1969/70 and 1973/74.
India's saving effort has grown steadily since the beginning of planning in
1951, when it was 9% of GDP, to its recent level of 20% of GDP, which compares
well with other countries' saving performance at the same level of per capita
incomes. Despite a doubling in the rate of investment, from about 10% of GDP
in the early 1950s to about 20% at present, the trend rate of GDP growth has
not increased. This marks a decline in the efficiency of capital use which
transcends fluctuations due to weather, war or international terms of trade
shifts.
Recent Trends
7.        In many respects economic conditions during the last three years
have been significantly different from those prevailing in previous years.
In the late 1960s and early 1970s, the economy faced several shortages--
foodgrains, agricultural and industrial inputs and foreign exchange--which
retarded production and investment and often led to price increases. An ad-
verse shift in terms of trade, starting with the oil price hike in 1973 and



-3-
continuing with the foodgrain and fertilizer price rises in the following
year, greatly increased the cost of acquiring these essential commodities
abroad. These external shocks combined with a spate of bad weather played
havoc with the economy through 1974/75, causing slow growth in production
and investment and a record level of inflation.
8.        Since the excellent monsoon in the summer of 1975, a new situation
has arisen. The period 1975 to 1978 has been characterized by much greater
price stability, enhanced agricultural and industrial outptlt and comfortable
foodgrain and foreign exchange reserves. The new situation was a combined
result of domestic policies and fortuitous circumstances. The increase in
foodgrain stocks was only in part due to improved policies and programs. The
more decisive factor has been the three good-to-excellent monsoons coming on
top of substantial foodgrain imports in 1975 and 1976. Industrial output
increased on average by 7% a year in 1975-1978 compared to 3% in 1970-75,
due to greater power availability, better management in the public sector,
improved labor relations, better transport and some increase in demand derived
from increased incomes due to improved harvests, greater exports and higher
levels of public investment. The most dramatic turnaround ocurred in the
balance of payments, with a sharp real reduction of the import bill helped by
good harvests and increased domestic production of iron and steel, fertilizer
and oil, which reduced demand for imports. The supply of foreign exchange was
also greatly increased by a significant step-up in the volume of exports, an
increase in foreign aid and a substantial jump in remittances from Indians
working in the Middle East, Europe and America.
9.        In 1977/78, the growth of GDP was about 5%, a recovery over the
rate of 1.6% in 1976/77 but less than the 8.5% reached two years earlier.
Prices, which had been rising during 1976/77 after a decline in 1975/76,
were stabilized; wholesale prices at the end of March 1978 stood at about the
same level as in March 1977, and the yearly average was only 5.4% above that
of the previous year. Exports in 1977/78 are estimated at US$6.4 billion and
imports at US$6.6 billion. The inflow of invisibles from abroad at US$1.4
billion and net aid disbursements of US$1.2 billion more than offset the small
trade deficit of US$200 million and IMF repurchases of US$330 million to in-
crease reserves by US$2.1 billion to USU5.8 billion by end of March 1978.
10.       The 1977/78 foodgrain crop may exceed the 1975/76 record level of
121 million tons due to very good weather and increased input use. Support
purchases could result in peak foodgrain stocks as high or even higher than
in 1977, when they were 21 million tons. In addition to ample and evenly
distributed rainfall, more intensive and widespread use of three crucial
inputs--irrigation water, fertilizer and extension advice--contributed to
the bumper harvest. Fertilizer consumption surged 30% in 1977/78, continuing
its recovery from the depressed level of 1974/75. Annual additions to irri-
gated area have averaged 2 million hectares since 1975/76 compared with
1.3 million hectares per annum achieved from 1969 to 1975. An improved
extension system, which has been getting heartening results, has been intro-
duced in several states and is slated for further coverage.



-4-
Development Prospects
11.       India faces the future with large stocks of foodgrains, high and
rising external reserves, excellent crop expectations, price stability and good
prospects for sustaining the improved supply of foreign exchange. The circum-
stances present a great opportunity for further promoting the development of
the Indian economy. The Draft Five Year Plan for 1978-83, discussed though
not yet approved by the National Development Council, responds to this chal-
lenge by projecting a rapid growth in real terms of both overall investment
and public Plan expenditures. Investment is to rise on average by 10.7% per
annum and the economy is expected to grow on average by 4.7% per annum during
the years 1978-83.
12.       The new Draft Plan reveals an intention to reorient the country's
development toward improving the living conditions of the poor. This is
reflected in its principal objectives: (i) the removal of unemployment and
significant underemployment; (ii) an appreciable rise in the standard of
living of the poorest sections; and (iii) the provision of basic needs to
low-income groups. To achieve these objectives, the Government proposes to
emphasize agricultural development, cottage and small-scale industries, area
planning for integrated rural development and the provision of minimum needs.
As a first step toward complete removal of unemployment, the Plan envisages
the creation of a large number of new jobs through a considerable expansion
of construction activity as well as a boost in the consumption levels of the
poor--which in turn would require the production of the necessary wage goods,
largely in small-scale, labor-intensive units. Specific programs to achieve
these objectives are still in the making.
13.       In order to achieve a sizable rise in the income of the poorest
classes of society, the Draft Plan--in conformity with the Janata Party policy--
places prime emphasis on the development of rural areas. A major impulse for
agricultural development will be provided by the expansion of irrigation and
related agricultural inputs, such as fertilizers and better farming techniques.
The Draft Plan argues that efforts to increase productivity should be sup-
plemented by measures with a redistributive impact such as supporting small
farmers and small industry with institutional credit and material supplies
and assistance for marketing. The Draft Plan also intends to complement the
creation of employment and the increase in rural productivity by providing
basic services to those groups which have so far been unaffected. For this
purpose, the minimum needs program launched at the onset of the Fifth Plan
is being revitalized and accelerated.
14.       The allocation of the Draft Plan outlay for the next five years
reflects these priorities. Out of a total expected spending of US$81 billion,
US$35 billion--43%--have been earmarked for rural development programs includ-
ing agriculture, irrigation, fertilizer and social infrastructure expenditures
directly benefitting the rural areas. The share of these sectors amounted to
37% during the Fifth Plan period and to 40% in the Annual Plan for 1978/79.
It can thus be expected to rise further during the next four years. Similarly,
spending on the minimum needs program in 1978-83 will absorb 6% of the Plan
resources, as compared to less than 3% in the Fifth Plan. On the other hand,
the shares of industry and of transport and communication have been reduced.



- 5 -
15.       There is considerable scope for stepping up growth in agriculture.
The most promising development is the sharp increase in government outlays
and improved project implementation for irrigation. There are also indica-
tions that private investment in tubewells is picking up again after a slump
in the early 1970s. Other favorable indicators include the spread of an
improved system of extension to more states and the recovery of fertilizer
demand. With regard to more productive use of existing capacity, there is an
increased awareness in the Government that the benefits of irrigation projects
can be much increased, not only through command area development, but also
through improved design standards in major surface irrigation infrastructure.
Nevertheless, comprehensive improvement in water management remains a distant
goal, particularly in existing systems and where farms are small and frag-
mented. The bulk of the increase in private tubewell development in the last
few years has come from the Eastern Region, where more and more farmers are
sinking wells to enable them to grow a winter crop of wheat in addition to
providing better water control for the summer rice crop. Improved water man-
agement would make such investments even more productive. Increased farmer
incomes from the recent good harvests, somewhat lower fertilizer prices, and
grain prices supported at incentive levels have encouraged farmers to apply
considerably more fertilizer. Finally, the reorganized and improved extension
and research system which has been introduced recently in several states in
northern and eastern India holds out the hope that sound advice will reach
many more farmers in both irrigated and rainfed areas and will raise their
productivity significantly. The improved extension system is an excellent
example of how the growth effort can and must be structured so as to increase
the incomes of small and marginal farmers, who work 25% of the cultivated
land and account for somewhat more than 25% of production; more importantly,
these farmers make up about 70% of the rural population and constitute the
majority of those living below the poverty level in India.
16.       Industrial prospects are somewhat more difficult to discern.
Moderate growth in 1977/78 after an excellent year in 1976/77 suggests the
persistence of problems plaguing the sector since the mid-1960s--large un-
utilized capacity, stagnant capital formation in the private sector and low
productivity growth. Lower investment than expected, of course, is one of
the reasons for low capacity utilization in capital goods industries, which
make up a significant portion of the sector. Sluggish demand for industrial
products from all sources--not only from investments but also from agricui-
ture, exports and import substitution--has been a basic constraint. Further
import substitution cannot be a major source of growth for manufactured goods
in the future because most opportunities for efficient import substitution
have been exploited. Increased growth of real incomes from greater produc-
tivity in both agriculture and manufacturing, sustained increases in exports
and increased investment, particularly by the public sector, all can raise
demand for industrial production.
17.       The new industrial policy of the Janata government and the orienta-
tion of the Draft Five-Year Plan emphasize small-scale industry over heavy
industry and have accordingly promoted such measures as product reservation,
credit rationing and, within the small-scale sector, plans to initiate special



efforts for the growth of the "tiny" sector. While the priority accorded to
the small-scale sector is laudable, there are doubts about the efficacy of
the policy measures chosen. Past experience indicates that other factors
are also crucial to its development, particularly effective demand, quality
control, prices and marketing techniques. Some small-scale industry is cap-
ital intensive and not well suited to as rapid employment generation as is
hoped; nor can all goods be efficiently produced using small-scale technology.
18.       India's population growth rate of about 2% is not high in comparison
with that of most developing countries. Moreover, the rate is on the decline,
after growing steadily census to census from 1920 through 1970, both because
the birth rate continues to fall and because mortality is not falling as
steeply as in the past. Family planning acceptor rates slowed down in the
wake of the abandonment of the 1976 population policy after the 1977 general
elections and the momentum of the program has yet to be recaptured, particu-
larly in Northern India. However, the new Government has reaffirmed its com-
mitment to a voluntary family planning program and has budgeted the resources
to carry it out. Over the longer term, with a sustained family planning
effort, it should be possible to bring the birth rate down from its 1970-75
level of about 37 per thousand to about 23 per thousand by the end of the century,
implying a population growth rate somewhat under 1.1%. Our "best guess" pro-
jection of India's population in the year 2000 is 885 million. Many of the
benefits of family planning policy will only be 'felt beyond the turn of the
century; the decline in fertility will, however, bring about an earlier change
in the age structure of the population. The school age group will grow more
slowly or not at all after 1981, thereby reducing the pressures on the primary
and secondary education systems. However, the labor force will continue to
grow at a faster rate -- 2.5% per annum -- until well into the 1990s, result-
ing in an increasing proportion of the population in the labor force from
40.8% to 45% in 1991.
19.       The Government's goal of eliminating unemployment in 10 years implies
an expansion of the number of jobs at the rate of 9 million per annum -- 7
million new entrants to the labor force and the absorption of 2 million or
so formerly unemployed. The majority of these will have to continue to be
absorbed -- judging from the prevailing composition of the labor force -- in
agriculture and the unorganized small-scale sector. The absorptive capacity
of the modern organized sector is unfortunately low; its employment elasticity
is expected to be no more than 0.5.  Given its low current share of output,
even rapid growth of this sector would not make much of a dent in the backlog
of the unemployed. Employment in the organized sector has been growing at
about 2.2% per annum in the past ten years, less than the labor force growth
rate, and all of this in the public sector. Private sector employment has not
grown at all since 1966. While the labor absorption elasticities of the small-
scale sector may be higher in some cases than that of the large-scale sector,
a major effort to expand production must succeed before an appreciable employ-
ment impact will materialize.
20.       In the short run India's balance of payments should not be a con-
straint on growth and development. With good medium-term prospects for
India's exports, the expected continuation of growth in invisible receipts



- 7 -
and the potential for an increase in net aid disbursments, the net availability
of foreign exchange to finance merchandise imports is projected to rise over
the next five years, in current prices, from US$8.7 billion in 1977/78 to
US$16.7 billion in 1982/83, an average of 14% per annum. Given the unlikely
need to increase rapidly imports of some traditionally important items -- e.g.,
petroleum, fertilizer, foodgrains, edible oil and cotton -- other imports can
increase at the rate of 20% a year over the next five years.
21.       Altogether, these currently favorable circumstances present the
opportunity to double India's trend rate of growth of per capita income from
the average annual rate of 1.5% that prevailed for the last thirty years to
3% over the next five, and thereafter. This requires a continued fall in the
rate of population growth to below 2% per annum and a rise in the growth of
GDP from the historical rate of 3.5% to 5.0% per annum. Both of these targets
are within reach. The first should be achieved barring a total abandonment
of the family planning program. The second requires improved efficiency and
increased investment by both the public and private sectors; it also means
more fully harnessing the gains from trade through international specializa-
tion, implying a strong export effort and continued easier access to imports.
in addition to enabling a faster rate of per capita income growth, the pre-
sent situation allows for increasing the coverage of the population's minimum
needs. This requires formulating and administering effective, efficient
programs of public investment and, of course, requires larger public outlays.
22.       With the enhanced resources at India's disposal, the economy is
poised for a higher rate of economic growth. The Government is moving to
take advantage of this opportunity with increased public expenditure envi-
sioned over the next five years, and the liberalized trade policies recently
announced. It is yet too early to know whether the moves made so far will
be sufficient to achieve the desired targets or whether additional steps will
be necessary. Assured international support for India's development effort
will be an important factor in moving the Government to take greater risks
in pursuing a dynamic development program directed at meeting the huge needs
of its large and impoverished population.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
23.       Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 54 loans and 103 development
credits to India totalling US$2,117 million and US$5,932 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$901 million had been
repaid, and US$2,236 million was still undisbursed as of May 31, 1978. Annex
II contains a summary statement of disbursements as of May 31, 1978, and notes
on the execution of ongoing projects.
24.       Since 1957, IFC has made 15 commitments in India totalling US$63.6
million, of which US$14.5 million has been repaid, US$1.6 million sold and
US$6.9 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$34.6 million, US$26.9 mil-
lion represents loans and US$7.7 million equity. A summary statement of IFC
operations as of May 31, 1978, is also included in Annex II (page 2).



- 8 -
25.       In recent years, the emphasis of Bank Group lending has been on
agriculture. The Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor
irrigation and other on-farm investments through agricultural credit opera-
tions. Major irrigation, marketing, seed development, and dairying are other
agricultural activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank Group
has been active in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer sector
and, through its sizeable assistance to development finance institutions, in
a wide range of geographically scattered medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises. IDA financing of industrial raw materials and components for
selected priority sectors has been instrumental in facilitating better capac-
ity utilization in industry. The Bank Group has also been active in support-
ing infrastructure development for power, telecommunications, and railways.
Family planning, education, water supply development, and urban investments
have also received Bank Group support in recent years.
26.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, industry, power, urban development and water
supply remains highly relevant. Projects designed to foster agricultural
production through the provision of essential inputs such as credit for
on-farm investments, command area development of existing irrigation schemes,
intensification and streamlining of extension systems, and seed production
form an important aspect of the Bank Group's program for the next several
years. Special emphasis will be given to projects benefitting small farmers.
Projects supporting water supply, sewerage, and urban development also form
an integral part of the Bank's lending strategy to India for the next several
years. Lending in support of infrastructure and industrial investments will
focus on agriculture-, export- and energy-related projects.
27.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of the development of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of
Bank economic reports and of the discussions within the India Consortium.
Thanks in large part to the response of the aid community, India has success-
fully adjusted to the changed world price situation. However, the basic need
for foreign assistance, to augment domestic resources, stimulate investment
and accelerate economic growth, remains. As in the past, Bank Group assist-
ance for projects in India should include, as appropriate, the financing of
local expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods because of
the capacity and competitiveness of the domestic capital goods industry. Con-
sequently, the foreign exchange component tends to be small in most projects.
This is particularly the case in such high-priority sectors as agriculture,
irrigation, rural water supply and medium- and small-scale industry.
28.       Although the growth prospects of the economy have improved, India's
poverty and needs are such that as much as possible of India's external capi-
tal requirements should be provided on concessionary terms. Accordingly, the
bulk of the Bank Group assistance to India has been, and should continue to be,
provided from IDA. However, the amount of IDA funds that can reasonably be
allocated to India remains small in relation to India's needs for external
support, and India may be regarded as creditworthy for some supplemental Bank



- 9 -
lending.  As of May 31, 1978, outstanding loans to India totaled US$1,254
million, of which US$591 million remained to be disbursed, leaving a net
amount outstanding of US$663 million.
29.        Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements,
and 12% of net disbursements as compared with an estimated 62%, 27% and 38%,
respectively, in 1977/78. On March 31, 1977, India's outstanding and dis-
bursed external public debt was US$13.3 billion, of which the Bank Group's
share was 28%. Because Bank Group assistance to India is predominantly in
the form of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly.
In 1977/78, about 16% of India's total debt service payments were to the
Bank Group.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
Background
30.        Rail transport has been the traditional mode of motorized transport
in India and still retains an important position, carrying 60% of total freight
traffic and 45% of total passenger traffic, with highways carrying most of the
remaining traffic. In 1977 the railways carried about 246 million tons and
3.1 billion passengers. Growth in traffic over the coming five years is pro-
jected to be about 4% annually for both freight and passengers. Compared to
railways and road transport, the other modes of commercial transport -- i.e.,
shipping, coastal and inland waterways, airlines and pipelines -- are at pre-
sent of minor importance, carrying only 5% of freight traffic and less than
1% of passenger traffic, although these modes perform important functions
within their specialized areas.
Indian Railways
31.        Indian Railways (IR) is the nation's largest undertaking with about
1.7 million employees. IR operates a system of over 60,000 route-km, of which
about 60% is broad gauge (1.676 m), 35% is meter gauge (1.000 m) and the
remaining 5% narrow gauge (0.762 m and 0.610 m). About 80% of IR's traffic
is carried on its broad gauge network. It operates a large number of various
types of locomotives, passenger coaches and freight wagons. 1/ IR is one of
few railways in the world which are operated with a surplus.
32.        IR is owned by the Central Government and its operations are managed
by a Board of five members headed by a Chairman who is ex-officio a Principal
Secretary to the Government reporting to the Minister of Railways. One Board
member, the Financial Commissioner, has discretionary powers to report directly
1/   About 8,300 steam locomotives, 2,000 diesel-electric and diesel-hydraulic
locomotives, 850 electric locomotives, 2,300 electric multiple units,
34,000 coaches and 397,000 freight wagons are in service.



- 10 -
to the Minister of Finance on financial matters. The Railway Board manages the
railway network through nine Zonal Railways, each of which is administered by
a General Manager, and each Zonal Railway has multiple Divisions as the basic
units of operation. Oversight of railway finance and policy is exercised by
Parliament through consideration of the IR budget and of recommendations sub-
mitted by the Railway Convention Committee and other Parliamentary committees.
33.       In addition to its role as a major transporter of freight and pas-
sengers, IR performs an important role as India's sole manufacturer of diesel
and electric locomotives, and a major manufacturer of passenger coaches. The
IR's main manufacturing units are the Chittaranjan Locomotive Works (CLW) at
Chittaranjan in Bihar State, the Diesel Locomotive Works (DLW) at Varanasi
in Uttar Pradesh State, and the Integral Coach Factory (ICF) at Madras in
Tamil Nadu State. At present IR's annual manufacturing capacity for new
locomotives amounts to 120 diesel-electric locomotives, 60 electric loco-
motives, and 50 diesel-hydraulic shunting locomotives. New steam locomotives
are no longer produced. The capacity for the manufacture and remanufacture
of parts and components for maintenance is becoming increasingly inadequate.
Accordingly, IR is making plans for its expansion. Total passenger coach
manufacturing capacity in India is currently about 1,550 units per year, of
which IR's capacity amounts to 750, with two private companies accounting for
the remainder. Total wagon manufacturing capacity in India is about 30,000
four-wheeler units annually, shared by nine private and public sector companies.
IR workshops manufacture a very limited number of special purpose wagons.
34.       At the same time, IR is also the principal buyer of wheels, tires
and axles and a major buyer of electrical and mechanical goods for its manu-
facturing units. The largest domestic suppliers of electrical goods for
locomotives are Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited (BHEL), a public undertaking,
and CLW. Installed capacity at BHEL for manufacture of equipment relevant to
IR is currently 1,300 traction motors for diesel-electric locomotives, 220
transformers, and 100 blower motors. Capacity at CLW amounts to 400-500
traction motors for electric locomotives.   For manufacture of wheels, axles
and tires, there are currently two indigenous sources of supply: Durgapur
Steel Plant (DSP) at Durgapur, West Bengal State, and Tata Iron and Steel
Company (TISCO) at Jamshedpur, Bihar State. The DSP wheel and axle plant is
part of an integrated steel complex controlled by the Steel Authority of India
Limited, a holding company for public sector steel plants; the TISCO wheel,
axle and tire plant is part of an integrated steel complex of a private sector
undertaking. The combined rated capacity of these two plants is about 90,000
wheels, 27,500 tires and 50,000 axles. Capacity utilization at DSP during the
past 10 years has been on the average only about 30%, mainly because of very
poor management/labor relations, high rejection rates due to poor quality of
raw material and lack of proper quality control, and inadequate equipment and
machinery. While DSP is currently engaged in a productivity improvement
program, it is unlikely that utilization of current rated capacity will be
substantially improved in the short term; in the long term, annual capacity
utilization is not expected to exceed 75%. Capacity utilization of TISCO over
the past decade has been close to 100%. Even if total capacity at both plants
were utilized, domestic production could cover only about 60% of wheel demand
and 85% of axle demand. The proposed project would support the construction
of a new plant to cover the shortfall in domestic production.



- 11 -
35.       IR's maintenance workshops were set up and equipped in the latter
half of the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries by the State and Company
Railways. At the time of integration of the Railways in 1952, there were 41
workshops dealing with the overhaul of rolling stock and motive power, and
the size of these workshops varied from 150 to 15,000 employees. These work-
shops were designed primarily to meet the operational need of each individual
State/Company Railway. Since little effort has been made to integrate the
maintenance network nation-wide, individual workshops had to carry out mul-
tiple activities, instead of specializing in certain areas of repair and
remanufacturing work; their operational efficiency has consequently been low.
Meanwhile, extensive changes in the mode of traction have taken place, from
steam to diesel and electric motive power which now together carry about 80%
of the total freight traffic, although about 8,300 steam locomotives are still
in service. Since 1952, the number of freight wagons has grown two and a half
times and the number of passenger coaches has doubled, but IR's investments
in workshop have not kept pace with the growth of the Railways as is shown by
the fact that, in the past two decades, IR's investments in workshops have been
only about 3.5% of the investment made in rolling stock and motive power. In-
adequate capability and poor quality of maintenance work have resulted in a
decrease in the availability of effective motive power and rolling stock. In
an attempt to provide improved maintenance, IR developed a workshop rational-
ization plan, which is intended to maximize the efficiency of the total net-
work instead of achieving self-sufficiency on a Zonal level. The proposed
project would support such workshop rationalization and modernization and help
IR establish a unit exchange maintenance system -- i.e., a system by which
major parts and components of locomotives are repaired or remanufactured
centrally and made available for immediate installation in workshops in order
to reduce time and cost of maintenance and to increase availability of
locomotives.
36.       The Research, Designs and Standards Organization (RDSO) is a sepa-
rate functional unit under IR. Guidelines for its research and development
activities, which have been directed mainly towards domestic production of
railway equipment,are laid down by the Railway Board. The most urgent long-
range research and development efforts of RDSO are directed towards tech-
nological improvements in power packs for diesel locomotives, and transmission
and auxiliaries for diesel and electric locomotives. The proposed project
will assist the RDSO in acquisition of technology and testing apparatus for
the development of improved technology relating to power packs for diesel
electric locomotives.
37.       Since India began to manufacture diesel and electric locomotives
in the 1960s, considerable improvements and innovations have taken place in
traction technology, resulting in reduced manufacturing, operating and main-
tenance costs and improved operating performance. Some major technological
innovations and improvements remain to be incorporated in locomotives manu-
factured by IR. IR recognizes the need to upgrade the existing locomotives
and to adopt traction technology specifically suited to the operating condi-
tions in India; a study of the Railways' requirements for motive power by a
committee established for this purpose is now underway.



- 12 -
Transport Policy, Planning and Coordination
38.       The Indian transport sector is under the concurrent jurisdiction
of various ministries: railway planning, construction and operation is under
the Ministry of Railways; civil aviation under the Ministry of Tourism and
Civil Aviation; pipelines under the Ministry of Petroleum; and roads, ports
and shipping under the Ministry of Shipping and Transport. Planning and
coordination is undertaken within the context of overall national and regional
plans. The Government carried out a transport sector review in 1973/74 in
accordance with a program agreed during negotiations of the Eleventh Railway
project (Credit 280-IN of December 1971). As a result of this review, a
Corporate Plan for the railway sector was completed in 1976. It provides a
long-term perspective of IR development, on which five-year plans will be
based. It outlines a development strategy for IR for the period from 1977/78
to 1988/89 and covers inter alia forecasts of passenger and freight traffic,
requirements for traction and rolling stock, strategies for research and
development, management and manpower and financial aspects. Planning cells
have been established in each of the nine Zonal regions of IR to enable the
initial Plan to be updated and revised as appropriate. The draft Five-Year
Plan (1978/79 - 1982/83) of IR envisages a 25% increase in freight traffic
over the five-year period (5% per year) and an increase of nearly 20% in
passenger traffic (4% per year). In 1982/83 IR is expected to be carrying
about 300 million tons of freight and 3.8 billion passengers, compared with
254 million tons and 3.3 billion passengers in 1978/79. Compared with the
previous Fifth Plan period considerably more investments in machinery and
plant are needed to replace assets installed in the IR's manufacturing units
and workshops which are of an advanced age. Thus, in order to support pro-
jected traffic growth and to replace of assets, IR's investment during the
five years would total about Rs 32.3 billion (US$3.8 billion equivalent).
The proposed project finances part of this program.
Bank Group Operations in the Transport Sector
39.       The Bank Group has long been associated with the Indian transport
sector and IR. The first Bank operation in India in 1949 was a loan of US$34
million for IR (Loan No. 17-IN of August 1949), and since then the transport
sector has received direct assistance totalling about US$1,135 million. Sub-
stantial indirect support has also been provided through industrial imports
credits, under which imports of components and materials for the manufacture
of commercial vehicles have been financed. From the late 1950s to the mid-
1960s, Bank Group lending included finance for three of India's major ports
(Bombay, Madras, and Calcutta) and for a highway project serving Eastern India.
Oil tankers for coastal and international service have also been financed.
There was also, in the 1960s, a loan for purchase of aircraft by Air India.
All transport projects have been successfully completed except the Bombay
Urban Transport project (Loan 1335-IN of December 1976). In the case of Loan
1335-IN, disbursements have been somewhat slow because of delays in procurement
action. However, contracts for major hardware components have been awarded,
and steps are being taken, with the assistance of consultants, to minimize
the delay in project implementation.



- 13 -
40.       Over the past 29 years, IR has been the beneficiary of six loans
and seven credits, totalling US$896.5 million, which has been the major share
of the Bank Group's assistance to the transport sector. Previous lending
operations to IR have been satisfactorily completed, and the ongoing Credit
(582-IN of August 1975), is expected to be successfully completed by September
1978. These loans and credits have assisted IR in increasing the volume of
freight carried and its passenger traffic by more than 50% and 86%, respec-
tively, between 1965/66 and 1975/76. Project audits have been carried out
for Credits 280-IN and 448-IN, and the audit findings are contained in Report
No. 1658 of June 30, 1977. The report found that the original investment pro-
gram was scaled down because of higher costs and lower than expected traffic.
The projects were implemented on time, and the re-estimated rates of return
were similar to the appraisal forecast. Because of unusual economic and
political circumstances, the financial situation of IR deteriorated during
the 12th project period, but has improved since. The report also found that
in spite of many years of dialogue between the Government and the Bank Group,
transport planning and coordination remain rather weak. An ongoing transport
study by the Planning Commission with UNDP assistance is expected to help
overcome this weakness. IR has been complying with all its covenants under
the loan and credit agreements.
41.       The thirteen previous lending operations to IR, which have financed
a time slice of the Railway investment program, have contributed to high
engineering standards and to the present managerial and financial strength
of IR. Because of achievements to date, the opportunities for further
institution-building through this approach are limited. At the same time,
the Government wished, in view of IR's importance to India's economy, that
the Bank Group continue its association with the development of the railway
system. In the light of these considerations, the Bank and the Government
agreed on a fundamental change in the approach to lending for the sector --
focusing on certain key aspects of IR operations and directing Bank Group
assistance to the specific steps that need to be taken in these areas to
improve railway efficiency. The proposed project, while prepared and appraised
against the background of IR's overall investment program, is the first to
embody this new project-oriented approach; it is designed to improve the
operational efficiency of the railways by rationalizing and modernizing main-
tenance, removing existing bottlenecks in manufacturing capabilities, and
supporting research and development activities related to improvements in
motive power.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
42.       The project was appraised by a mission which visited India in
January/February 1978. The Staff Appraisal Report entitled "A Railway
Modernization and Maintenance Project" (No. 2020-IN, dated July 24, 1978)
is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors. Negotiations
were held in Washington in June 1978. The Indian delegation was headed
by Mr. K. S. Rajan, Chairman, the Railway Board. A Supplementary Project
Data Sheet is attached as Annex III.



- 14 -
Project Description
43.        The proposed project consists of:  (i) acquisition of workshop ma-
chinery and equipment to be installed in the main and supporting workshops 1/;
(ii) construction and installation of a wheel and axle plant, with an annual
manufacturing capacity of 70,000 wheels and 23,000 axles, and import of two
years' requirements of wheels, tires, axles and wheel sets; (iii) development
support for a product improvement program for IR's manufacturing units, includ-
ing thyristor control transformer sets for IR's present AC electric locomotives
and technical advisory services and overseas staff training for manufacturing,
quality control, cost control and design personnel. The workshop moderniza-
tion component of the project is the first phase of the IR's workshop modern-
ization and rationalization program and is scheduled to be implemented by
December 1983. The new wheel and axle plant will be erected at Yelahanka,
16 km from Bangalore, in the State of Karnataka; it is expected to begin ini-
tial operation in January 1982. The development support component includes
acquisition of testing facilities in support of product improvement to be
carried out by IR's Research, Designs and Standards Organization (RDSO),
supply of thyristor control transformer sets, and technical assistance and
overseas staff training.
Project Cost and Financing
44.        IR's investment program for the period 1978/79 to 1982/83 totals
about Rs 32.3 billion (US$ 3.8 billion). The proposed project, which forms
part of the program, is estimated to cost Rs 3,949 million (US$459 million),
including US$80 million in duties and taxes. The project cost estimates are
based on January 1978 prices and include a price contingency averaging 7% per
annum for local and foreign costs. A physical contingency of 10% is included
in the cost of the wheel and axle plant component. The foreign exchange com-
ponent of the project is estimated to cost US$229 million. It is expected
that Indian suppliers would submit the lowest conforming bids for items
to be procured by international competitive bidding amounting in total to
about US$45 million equivalent, therefore reducing the direct and indirect
foreign exchange component of the project to US$198 million. The proposed
credit, together with the balance of about US$7 million remaining from Credit
582-IN and US$1 million allocated from bilateral sources for imports of wheels
and axles and unit exchange components, would cover the estimated foreign
exchange costs; it constitutes about 50% of estimated project costs excluding
duties and taxes. The balance of the funds required for the project will be
provided by the Government.  The exchange risk will be borne by the Government.
Procurement and Disbursement
45.       All items financed under the proposed credit would be procured by
IR through international competitive bidding and limited tender from estab-
lished manufacturers in accordance with Bank/IDA guidelines, except for:
1/   One manufacturing unit, Chittaranjan Locomotive Works (CLW); four major
repair workshops, Kancharapara, Kharagpur, Matunga and Parel Workshops;
and about 47 sheds and repair facilities.



- 15 -
(i) contracts for equipment and materials of US$100,000 equivalent or less,
which would be too low in value to warrant the administrative complications
and cost of international bidding procedures, with a total value of not more
than US$5 million equivalent; and (ii) contracts with an aggregate value of
up to US$8 million for proprietary items to be installed at the wheel and
axle plant at Yelahanka. Due to proprietary technical know-how and patents
applied to certain critical plant components, procurement of these items
through international competitive bidding is not feasible. The aggregate
value of contracts for the workshops modernization component and the wheel
and axle plant component under the project which would be awarded on the basis
of limited tenders from establish manufacturers is estimated to be at US$21
million. Such contracts will be placed using IR's internal procedures for
procurement which is found satisfactory to the Association. Indian suppliers
would be granted a preference margin of 15% or the current rate of import
duty, whichever is less.   It is expected that Indian manufacturers of equip-
ment and machinery would submit the lowest conforming bids for items amounting
in total to about US$45 million equivalent, or about 24% of the value of items
financed under the credit. The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed
against 100% of: (a) the c.i.f. cost of imported items; (b) the ex-factory
cost, net of duties and taxes, of items procured from Indian suppliers; and
(c) the cost incurred for training, technical advisory services and overseas
staff training.
Project Implementation
46.       IR will implement the project as part of its ongoing works and
manufacturing program. An acceptable master plan for project implementation
was submitted to the Association by IR. It was discussed in detail and was
agreed upon with the Association during negotiations (Section 3.01 (b) of the
Development Credit Agreement). In order to enable the Association to monitor
the progress in project implementation, a project reporting system satisfactory
to the Association will be employed and the reporting requirements were dis-
cussed in detail during negotiations.
47.       Under the workshop modernization component, IR will take action as
necessary for modernizaton of its workshops and will introduce a unit exchange
maintenance system. As part of project implementation, IR will complete a
workshop modernization and rationalization program based on a plan of action
which was discussed with the Association during negotiations and was found
acceptable, and introduce new expertise in machine tool technology and a
method for monitoring work performance.
48.       The location of the wheel and axle plant was chosen with a view to
minimizing costs of electricity and transport of raw materials and finished
goods. The Karnataka State Electricity Board has provided assurances to IR
that it will supply power to meet the requirements of the wheel and axle plant
(about 23 MW) from its power distribution centers at Peena and Hoody, which
would transmit power dispatched from the Kalinadhi hydro-electric scheme.
Karnataka has also assured IR that it will meet the requirement of water (2.3
million liters or 0.6 million gallons per day) by the time of the initial
operation of the plant scheduled for 1982. A water pipeline and two power
transmission lines to the plant site are under construction.



- 16 -
49.       Installation of the wheel and axle plant would generate job oppor-
tunities for about 1,200 workers and staff for plant operation, out of which
about 800 employees will be engaged in manufacture, plant engineering, quality
control and material management, the balance being general management, railway
colony and security workers. Appointment of managerial, supervisory and tech-
nical personnel would be done in sufficient time to permit prompt implementa-
tion of the project and the Government has confirmed that the plant would
maintain adequate staff under the supervision of experienced and competent
management (Section 4.05 of the Development Credit Agreement). Technical
advisory services for detailed engineering, preparation of specifications,
plant construction and start-up would be provided by the technical collabora-
tors, and an adequate staff training program is being prepared and would be
carried out in consultation with the collaborators. The Government has agreed
to implement a training program for the technical staff and work force of the
wheel and axle plant, which will be submitted to the Association by December 31,
1978 (Section 4.04 of the Development Credit Agreement). The targets for
building up production of the wheel and axle plant are: (i) for the wheel
unit: 10,000 in 1982/83, 26,000 in 1983/84, 50,000 in 1984/95 and normal
operation at rated capacity thereafter, and (ii) for the axle unit: 4,000 in
1982/83, 13,000 in 1984/85, 16,000 in 1985/86 and normal operation thereafter.
50.       The development support component under the proposed project would
support technical advisory services through experts with qualifications, ex-
perience and on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association (Section
3.02 of the Development Credit Agreement). The experts would provide assistance
to IR in the following areas: (i) for the wheel and axle plant to be estab-
lished at Yelahanka: in detailed engineering, preparation of specifications,
and plant construction, commissioning and start-up; (ii) for the product im-
provement program of RDSO: the development of improved designs and products
for incorporation in existing diesel locomotives; and (iii) for the workshop
modernization program: to supplement the multi-disciplinary expertise required
for program implementation in the fields of machine tool technology, mechanical
handling, industrial engineering, costing systems, etc. IR has concluded a
technical collaboration agreement on the wheel manufacturing process with
Amsted Industries of the U.S.
51.       In 1977, a task force was appointed by the Railway Board to study
application of a management information system (MIS) at IR's production units.
The task force submitted its findings and recommendations on improvement of
production planning and control systems at IR's manufacturing units, inter
alia, in the areas of product costing and departmental performance measurement.
IR intends to introduce the MIS at IR's manufacturing units, including the
wheel and axle plant at Yelahanka.  Implementation of this system is expected
to facilitate better cost control and improve operational efficiency.
IR Finances
52.       In financial matters, the Government, through Parliament, exercises
control over IR based on recommendations submitted by the Railway Convention
Committee and other Parliamentary committees. IR's earnings are regulated by
financial policy guidelines set by the Government. The Government had in the



- 17 -
past applied a tariff policy which had tended to subsidize large segments of
freight and passenger traffic. Rail freight for coal over longer distances
in the past has been a prime example of subsidized transport, which annually
resulted in considerable losses to the railways. The latest rate and fare
increases in 1975/76 represent a distinct step towards cost-based tariffs.
Coal freight rates are now close to actual costs and freight rates for other
commodities are also primarily based on actual costs. As a result, most sub-
sidies on freight traffic have been eliminated. A similar cost-based tariff
policy had been applied to passenger fares. In addition to the recent rate
increases, the Government set up a Rail Tariff Enquiry Committee in September
1977 to examine primarily the structure of fares, rates and other charges for
public traffic carried by passenger trains and/or goods trains and to recommend
improvements. The Committee is expected to submit its report by December 1979.
53.        IR's financial objectives are to generate net revenues to meet the
6% dividend payment due to the Government on capital provided to IR (capital-
at-charge), after covering working expenses 1/ and certain appropriations to
statutory reserves 2/, and to generate surplus. Due to the fuel cost hike,
wage increase and the reduced level of freight caused by the shortfall in
domestic output of major bulk commodities such as steel and coal, IR registered
operational deficits of Rs 1,155 million and Rs 1,139 million in 1973/74 and
1974/75, respectively. The operating ratio during these two years increased
from 84.5% in 1972/73 to 93.7% in 1973/74 and 93.5% in 1974/75. In 1975/76,
however, reflecting the recovery of Indian economic activity and improved in-
dustrial relations, freight and passenger traffic increased by 10% and 18%
compared with the previous year, and IR could meet all operating expenses and
85% of the dividend payable out of internally generated resources. In 1976/77,
IR's financial situation further improved. The operating ratio dropped to
84.4% and IR registered a net surplus of Rs 872 million and fully met its
dividend liability. Given the favorable current economic situation, the out-
look for the immediate futute is encouraging. The result for 1977/78 indicates
a surplus of Rs 893 million, with a further reduction of the operating ratio
to 84.0%. This represents a marked improvement, since no tariff increases
were granted for this fiscal year despite cost escalation. Operating expenses
were kept about Rs 377 million below the budget figure, although traffic ex-
ceeded the budget forecast, primarily because of increased efficiency and
tighter expenditure controls.
54.       New capital investment has been financed primarily from capital pro-
vided by the Government through the railway budget along with any internally
retained surplus available to IR, and any cash flow shortfall is met by bor-
rowing from the Government ("temporary loans"). Although IR earned a net
1/   Working expenses of IR consist of following elements:  personnel cost
(about 60%), fuel cost (about 20%) and other costs of miscellaneous items
(about 20%).
2/   Depreciation Reserve Fund for replacement of fixed assets, Development
Fund for general improvement of passenger and other amenities, and
Pension Fund.



- 18 -
surplus of Rs 872 million for 1976/77, it had to draw temporary loans from
the Government amounting to Rs 1,469 million because of the deficit carried
over from earlier years. IR's outstanding loans drawn from the Government
amounted to Rs 4,619 million as of March 31, 1977 and the amount reduced to
Rs 3,686 million in 1977/78. It is projected that IR would need to cotninue
to borrow temporary loans from the Government in the foreseeable future. A
Committee on Capital Restructuring of the Government has been set up to in-
vestigate the various alternatives to handle this. It is expected that the
Committee will submit its recommendations on financial arrangements to be made
between IR and the Government shortly. Assurances were obtained from the
Government that it will maintain freight rates and passenger fares and shall
take necessary action to provide IR with such net revenues as to enable IR to
meet, out of internally generated resources, all operating expenses, appro-
priations to statutory reserves and dividend on capital-at-charge (Section
4.02 of the Development Credit Agreement).
55.       The capital costs of the wheel and axle plant, including working
capital and taxes, is estimated at Rs 647 million (about US$75 million equiv-
alent). The foreign exchange portion of the capital investment of the plant
is about US$38 million equivalent, or about 50% of the total outlay. The
amount required for construction will be included in the railway budget pre-
sented annually to the Parliament. Dividend on capital-at-charge is payable
by IR to the Government on plant investment at a rate of 6% per annum. Since
the wheel and axle plant will be installed as a captive manufacturing unit of
the Railways, the output from the plant will be transferred to IR at prices
to be determined on the basis of internal transfer price system used in IR's
existing manufacturing units. IR has agreed that the transfer price will
be based on direct manufacturing costs, overhead costs and full depreciation
(Section 4.06 of the Development Credit Agreement).
Project Justification and Risks
56.       The proposed project would help improve the maintenance of motive
power and rolling stock and thereby reduce the cost of their maintenance as
well as improve their performance and availability. Cost savings derived
from the project which are not passed on to IR's customers or retained by IR
will be returned to the general GOI account for use in accordance with over-
all Government policies.
57.       The weighted average economic return on all project components in-
cluding technical assistance is 23%, with the workshop component having a
return of 27% and the wheel and axle plant component a return of 19%.
58.       All project components will use proven technology that has been in
extended use in other parts of the world. Thus, construction, installation
and initial operation are not subject to significant risks. IR has been
successfully managing large-scale railway operations and manufacturing enter-
prises for decades. It has competent management and suitable technical
expertise to execute the project.



- 19 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
59.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the
Association, and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
60.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
61.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
62.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
July 24, 1978






ANNEX I
Fage I~
INDIA               - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND    AREA    (THOU  KM2)           - - -- -- --- --- - --- --
TOTAL     3280.5 l--                            INDIA                                REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL     3280.5                                        MOST RECENT
AGRIC.    1797.5                        1960       1970   ESTIMATE           INDONESIA      PHILIPPINES   BRAZIL**
ONtP PLR CAPITA (USS)                     60.0      100.0      150.0              130.0        230.0       550.0
-----------
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
_______________________________
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)           434.9      547.6    620.4  /a             117.6        36.9        92.9
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                       133.0      167.0     189.0                62.0        123.0        11.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       247.0      308.0      345,0               411.0       375.0         49.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)          43.2       41.0       37.0               45.9         44.2        36.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)           23.9       19.0       17.0               20.6         13.2         9.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)        139.0/a       .      130.0                   *        81.0        110.0
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)        41.7      47.2       49.5                   ..        55.6        59.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.2        2.9        2.8                 3.2         3.3         2.6
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                  2.0        2.3       2.1                 2.0          3.0         2.9
URBAN                                  2.5]b      3.2        3.1                 3.7/a       4.0         5.0
URBAN POPULAtION (x OF TOTAL)           17.9       19.8       20.6                17.5]b      27.6        56.0
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                        41.0      41.6       40.1                44.0        45.6         42.0
I5 TO 64 YEARS                       S5.9       55.3       56.7                53.5        51.6         55.0
65 YEARS AND OVER                      3.1        3.1        3.2                 2.5         2.8         3.0
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                     0.8        0                              0.9         0.9         0.8
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                t.1..      1.1/a    l.L.L                  ,,         1.5         1.5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)          71.0   14585.0   37658.0                259.3       320.0        250.0
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)              ..         .-       18.7                  *-         2.0         1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)        175000.0  218000.0 261000.0/a                          12400.0    29400.
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (x)          71.0       69.0      69.0                    *        55.0/a      40.4
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)            4.8 /d   4.4 /b    4.41c,d                            7.6         7.5
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
S OF PRIVATE INCOME RECOD BY-
HIGHEST  S% OF HOUSEHOLDS             26.7       25.0 /C                                                35.0/a
HIGHEST 20X OF HOUSEHOLDS             51.7       53.1 7?      ,.                  .        54.0         62.07i
LOWEST  20X OF HOUSEHOLDS              4.1        4.7 t?      ..                                         30-t
LowE5T  40X Of HOUSEHOLDS             13.6       13.1                                       3 .. -76 .i
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
% DWNEo EY TOP 10% OF OWNERS              ..         ..         ..                  ..          ..        4S.0
S OWNED BY SMALLEST 1OX OWNERS             ..        .          ..                  .,           .         1.5
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN              5840.0 Le  4890.0    4220.0             26370.0            .      1910.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         5310.0   220.0/d  368o.0oL                7630.0/c        . .     3220.0/b
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED           259o.0uhl  1610.0         ,               1640.0       850.0       260.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)          95.0      92.0       89.0                91.0         93.0       109.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)               55.0       53.0      48                  43.0         45.0        64.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          19.0li    16.0       12.6                 14.0        22.0        39.0
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4             44.0         .          ..                  ..         6.6
EDUCATION
ADuUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO              41.0       63.0       65.0                75.0
PRIMARY SCHOOL                       4.          30        6.                   50         130          8.
SECONDARY SCHOOL                     23.0       30.0       29.0                15.0         49.0        6H.0
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)              12.0       12.0       11.0                12.0        10.0        11.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(x OF SECONDARY)                       6.0         .          ..                29.0         6.0 /b     17.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                 24.0       33.0       36.0A               59.0           ..       64.0
HOUS I NG
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                 2.6        2.8          ..                  ..        2.1          1.0
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (%)                         .7. ..                ..                  .,        7.0         73.0 /C
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                    ..         ..         ..                  ..        23.0        48.0
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (%)                      ..         ..         ..                  ..         7.0         8.0
CONSUMPT ION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)           5.0       21.0       25.0               114.0        39.0         60.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)            0.7         1.0        1.0                 2.0         8.0        25.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)            48.0      114.0      143.0                20.0       235.0        491.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                0.2         0.3        0.3                 0.3         2.0         2.7
E _         A- N  D----EI---   N ----R------------------------_-----------_---------------- --------------  --_--_-----
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ANNEX I
Page 2
NOTES
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to sany year between 1959 and 1961, for 197f between 1969 and 1971, and for Moat Recent Eatimate between
1973 end 1976.
Brail baa been ealected as an ob)ective country becau.e of ire else end cmparable probilia of regional inequality.
IDA     1960     1a 95i-61 average;          to  1951-601       Ic  Ratio of population under 1) and 65 ard over to labor force age 15 and  -vr;
Id Estimated by, National Sacpla Survey, in tretin of the average namber of pereon/wseeka of unemploymnteo aS percentage
o-f total person/we..ke In ch. labor Earns;    /s  1962-            /f  Reeietmond, noat all practicing in the country;    LA   Including
midwives;    /h  1958;    /i  1960-62.
1970         Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor -force age 15 and ove;                   lb  Eatimated by National Sample
Survey, in treti, of the average number of peren/weeke of unmaploymeent an percentage o-f total pereon/wee.ke in the total
labor force;      Ic  1967-689       Id  Including midwives.
MOST RECENT ESTIMATE:    LA  1978 nid-year population and labor forte eatimated at 640.4 end 261 millione reepectively;                         /b  Ratio of
population under 15 and 63 and over to total labor forte;              Ic  1977;       Id  Estimated by Rational Sample
Survey, in tarma of the average number of peraono/eeks of unemployment aa percentage of total pernon/weeke
in tbe labor force;        Ia  Including midwivee;        IL  Population 10 yeara and over. 
IND)ONESIA      1970     /   1961-71;       lb  1971;    Ic  Includingniwva
PHILIPPINES   197i       IA.N perantage of employment;             lb  Not including private voctional nohools.
BRAZIL          1970     Ia  Economically active, population;          lb  Hoepital personnel;         /c  Inside only.
R13, May 2, 1978
nD5EXITIWC OIF SOCIAL ISCOICATORS
Lend Area (thou in2;                                                                            PoPuILaion pee nureina pareon   Population divided by numben of practicing
Total -TocL.  suface  rStacceeprielig land area and inland waters.                                male and femsale graduate nures., 'trained' or  'certified" nurses, and
m.rc      Mot rece.nt eatimate of agricultura  area uaed temporarily or patin-               eumiliary prarsonne  with training or enp-rince.
nantly for crupe, paatures, metbat & k1tchan gardens or to lie follow.                        Population pae hosnita1 bed - Population divided by ..bar of bospital bode
availabla It publio and private genara-1 end sp-oilse.d hospital and
or? Par caPita fUl$) - GNP? per capita eatimatse, atcurrent markat prices,                        rahabilitation centears; enclodsa onring home.S ead setablihalannts  for
catlculted by Same converaion metbod aS World Rank Atlee (1974-76 basia) ;                      custodial and preventive cars.
1960; 1970 and 1976 data.                                                                    Par capita Supply of calories ft of -eeuirements) - Computed from energy
equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita par day;
Population sand vital atatistic                                                                   available Supplies compriee domeatic production, imnports loae seports, and
Popolation (,eid--ran million) - ua Of July firtat   if no  -vilhe,aaro                           chenge  In stock; net euppliae  -1clde animal fend, seeds, qu.stitiauae.d
of tw.oend-year estimates; 1960, 1970 and 1976 data,                                            in food proceasing and losas. In distribution ; -aqoiremente were estimasted
by FAO based on pbysiological madea for normal activity and health consid-
Population decaity- pan eqoaro km  - Mid-year population par equate kilomter                      ering enironasottel temperature, body weights, *ge end see dietributions of
(100 bectrare) of itetl  carea                                                                 population, and allowing 10% for waste at houaebold level.
Population demaity- per equare he of agric. lend - Computed an above for                        Per capita supply of protein farama par day) - Protein c-ontnt of per capita
agiutrl.lad only.                                                                       net Supply Of fond per day; ear Supply of food is defined as above:; eaquis-
mente for all countrises establiahed by USDA Economic Reasearch Services
Vital etatistica                                                                                  provide for a minim,a alwneOf 60 grame of total protein per day, and
Crude birtch rate per tbousand, average - Annua  live birdie par thousand Of                      20 grate of animal end pulse protein, of which 10 grate shoald be animal
aid-year population ; ten-yser arithmetic averagee ending in 1960 and 1970,                     protein; these Standards are lower than those of 75 grate of total protein
and fiv-yea  average ending in 1975 for most recen.t aetimate.                                  and 23 grateo of animal protein as Son average for the werld, proposed by FAO
iC-ode death rate oar thousand, aveage - Annual deathe pan thouaand of mid-year                   in the Third World Pond Survy-
population; ten-year erithstric  yavrages ending in 1960 and 1970 and five-                   Par capita protein supply from animal end pulse - Protein Supply of food
year average ending in 1971 for moat recent eatima te.                                          derived fr-as nimala end pulsesa in grate, par day.
Infant mortality rate f/thou)- Annual deaths of infante under on  year Of age                   Death rtet f/thou) Saona 1-4 - Annual dearbe per th.onead in age grtoup 1-4
per thousand live biritba.                                                                     years, to children in this age group; Suggested os en indicator of
Life anpactancy at birth fyra) -Average noaber of years of life remSaining at                     nelnutrition.
birth; usua lly five-year -onragn ndine in 1960, 1970 end 1971 for develop-
ing counotries.                                                                              Education
Gross reproduction rats - Average naber of live deoghtars a woman will beer                     Adiusted enrollmet ratio -  rmry school - Enrollmenr of all ages as pat-
In her noomal reproductive period if She amperiences pra..ent age-specific                         tg  o   rmr  scoo-ag  populatiom; includes childrem aged 6-11 years
fertility rates; usually five-year average, ending in 1960, 1970 end 1971                      but adjuatd foar diffareat lengths Of primary educa.tion; for countnias with
for developing coutries.                                                                       universal education, enrollment may emcee.d 150% amose .-  pupils aen  below
Population xrnth rts. (it  - itotl - Compound annual growth ratee Of mid-year                     or above the official sohoal age.
population for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970.75.                                                  Adlueted enro1l,asnt ratio - secoondary school - Computed as above; eacondary
Population growth rate Cl) - urban - Computad like growth rtet of total                           educa.tion raquirse at least four yeara of approved primary inetruction;
population; different dafinitiona Of urban erase may affect comparability of                    provides general, vocational or reacher training inatructiona for pupila
data among cototriss.                                                                           of 12 to 17 years of age; correapondSnca corss  r  generally enclodad.
Urban population (% of toisS) - Patio of urben in total population ; diffarant                  Tens of Schooling provided firtte  en     -eod levels1) - Total years of
definition   of -rben ers   may affect comparability Of data amon  oountniae.                   schooling; at e-modar  lee,  oatoa   i-atruc tln may be partially Or
cmpletely secluded.
age structure (percet) - Children  (0-14 yactel, working-age (15-64 yers,                        oction1 esre1llatm  ft of secondaryl - Vocational institutions, include
and retired (65 yaars sod over) as parn...ragee of eid-yeeo ppulation.                          technicsl, industrial or other prngrema which operate independently otra
Ann' dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and Ovar to those                     d.partmente  of Secondary i-stitutiona,
of agas 11 throogh 64.                                                                        Adult literacy rate (%) - Literate adu1ta (able to read and write) as per-
icnmcdepandeocy ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 Sod over to                      acamge of total adult population aged 15 yeara end over.
the labor Corns in age grop of 11-64 yeare.
Fasily pla...ine - ecceptcr  focu tlative  thou) - Cumlation nuber of acceptors                 Sous.ing
of birth-cotrol devices order auspicee of national faily plannig prgpre                      Person  par room (urban) - Average nnber of pereons par roo  in occupied
Sios inception                                                                                  convectional dwellings in urban ara;dwellings enolde non-pe-meneta
Femily planning - uaera ft of married women) - Percentegee of married women of                    strutures end unoccupied pane.
child-heaing age (11-4 years) who use birth-control device  to all ne-rrind                   Occu.pied de11ia    withot piped water   ) -Ocpied convenional dwellings
women to som  age group.                                                                        in urban and trura  areas without inside or outaide piped water f-ollitiaa
en parc...tage of all occupied dwellings.
Poapicymat                                                                                      Ac--S to electricity ft Of all dwellings) - Convetional dwellings with
Total labor force fthouseed) - Economically active persons, including armed                       electricity in living quarters as percent of total dwellings in urban and
fortes and unemsployed but aecluding boosawi-e, Srudents, etc..; definitions                    rura  areas.
in  -aicue   -tmnioci  era not comparable-                                                   cRalI dwnllinae connectad to electricity i)-Computed as above fur trura
Labor force in eaiutasC) - Alricultoral labor force (in faeing, forestry,                         dwellings only.
hunting end fishing) So perontage Of total labor forc..
oremploy.d ft Of labor Eane) - Unemployed are usually deined aSo person  who                    Consuptio
are able and willing to tak  aJob, out of a job on a giver day, remained out                 Radio rece ivers (per thou pop) - All ty-pe of receivers for radio brond-eSts
of a Job, aod seeking work for a specified minimom period not e..ceading one                    to gene ral public per thousand of population; secludes on.cengsdreies
wek; may cot hr oepar-blo heven  outre  due to different definitions                            it conties end In years when registration  of redic sets wa  in effect;
of unemployed end S ource of dais, e.g., employmet office etatttis, Saemple                     data for recent years may nut be comparable Since most countries ebolished
Passen:ger.cars (par thou top) -, Paseg r.cr  comPri- motor cars seating
income dietributina - Percentage of private income (both in ceeb and kind)                        leste   ight personsa; e..Iodes atbolencea, hearses sand ailitary
re..nived by rirhest 5%, tichea  202, poores  202, -vd poorest h0t of hove-                     vehicle.a
holds.                                                                                       El-tncricty (kshlrr Per raP) - Annual  -rmaption of industial,cria
public and private electricity in kilowatt houre per capita, gene.rally
Distribotion of lend  -smrehip - Percentages Of lend ownd by wealIthiest 102                      based on production dais, withou.t almne for lossee in grids hut allow-
and poorestr 1012 of land oennra,                                                               ing fo  iparts and sepot  Of electricity.
Newsprint (ha/yr per cap) - Per capita annual ccmaeaption in kilogrema,
Health and NuttritIon                                                                             estimated from domestic production pius net imports Of newsprint.
Populaion per ebyslitar - Popuoarton divided by n-h5r Of pract.icig
physiciane qualIfied from a madical schuol at university level.



ANNEX I
Page 3
ECONOMIC DEVELOPItCNT DATA
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1976 4  US$ 1SO
GRtOSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1'376/77 i/                                                            ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%. constant prices) S/
C SS n.         16                                               t1960/61-1964/65      1965/66-1969/70       1970/71-1975/7t
GNP at Market Prices              86.04       100.0                                                      3.9                  3.8                   2.9
Gross Domestic Investment         16.62        19.3
Gross National Saving             18.18        21.1
t                Current Account Balance             1.56         1.8
Resource Gap                       0.95         1.1
OLTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUTCTIVITY IN 1975/76
Value Added (at factor cost)               Labor Force                 V.A  Per Worker
UsS Bin.          _____      _            _il.                                   o                  ANl verage
Agriculture                       30.2                 43                 179.0       69                 169           63
Industry                          16.7                 24                  33.9       13                 494          193
Services                          23.4                 33                  48.0       18                 488          133
Total/average                     70.3                100                 261        100                 277          100
GOVERElENT FINANCE
General Government /                                                  Central Government
7!s _B11n)     __          of GOP                                   jR   Bln)o  GOP
1976/77        1076/77    1974/75-1976/77                            19;6/77        1976/77    1974/75-1976/77
Current Receipts                    147.46           19.1            17.9                                  83-78          10.9           10.4
Current Expenditures                 140.18          18.2            16.2                                  84.25          10,9            9.6
Current Surplus/Deficit               7.28           0.9              1.7                                - 0.47             -             0.8
Capital Expenditures  e/             59-05           7.6              7.1                                 40-39            5.2            5.0
External Assistance (net)            11.21            1.5             1.7                                  11.21           1.5            1.7
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES           1970/71         2i2L3     1973/74      1974/75      195/756      1976/77       September 1976       September 1977
(Billion Re outstanding at end of period)
Money and Quasi Money               105.7         142.2       169.0        186.9        215.0        262.6            238.2               284.8
Bank Credit to Public Sector(net)  56.9           82.5         92.9        102.6        109.1        117.3            112.7               130.7
Bank Credit to Private Sector        56.7         76.0         90.1        109.5        127.5        161.0            144.0               170.0
(Percentage or Index Numbers)                               J=v  1977           January 1978
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP  24.3           27.3         26.4         25.5         27.6         31.5
Wholesale Pri ce Index
(1970/71 = 100)                  100.0        116.2        139.7        174.9        173.0        176.6            178.8              183.3
Annual percentage changes in:
Wholesale Price Index                 7.7         10.0         20.2         25.2         -1.1          2.1              7.5                 2.5
Bank Credit to Public Sector (net)  8.6           19.6         12.6         10.4          6.3          7.5              4.7 XI            15 8 V/
Bank Credit to Private Sector        17.3         18.0         18.5         21.5         16.4         26.3             24.9S./            11.9i
a/  The per capita GNP estimate is at market prices, calculated by the conversion technique used in the World Atlas.
All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing 4uring the period covered.
./ 4Quick Estimates.
S/  Computed from trend line of GNP at factor cost series, including one observation before first year and one
observation after last year of listed period.
/ Transfers between Center and States have been netted out.
!/ All loans and advances to third parties have been netted out.
t Net bank credit to Government Sector.
5/ Bank credit to Commercial Sector.



ANNEX I
Page 4
RALLNCE OF PAYMENTS                     1974/75        1975176        1976117        1977/78  "             XERCRAN DISI EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1974/75 - 12
USi  Yillion                                                                            US  Yln.
Exports of Goods                          4,174         4,665          5,760          6,400                              Engineering Goode           515            11
Importe of Goods                         -5,665        -6,084         -5,950         -6,600                              Sugar                       379             a
Trade Relanoe                            -1,491        -1 .419        -  190         -  200                              Tea                         296             6
NP3S  net)                                   2t1           310           405             500                             Jute Manufactures           294             6
Leather and Leather
Resource Gap                             -1,278        -1,109             215            300                                      Products           268             5
Clothing                    257             5
Interest Payments (net)                  -  198        -  216         -  135         -  130                              Iron Ore                    238             5
Other Factor Paymente (net)                  -             -               -              -                              Cotton Textilee             223             5
Net Transfere  &/                            257           470           73D           1,000                             Otherm                     2396            49
Total                      4866           100
Balance on Correct A..ount               -1,217        -  855            810           1,170
Official Aid                                                                                                             EXTERNAL DEBT. MARCE Ht, 1977
Disbursements                         1,761         2,341         1,553           1,840                                                                   US$ Billion
dAortilation                           -515          -531          -560          -  630                              Outstanding and Dieboreed                 13.6
Transactions with IFli                       522           242         -336           -330                               findisbureed                               3.2
all Other Items                            .58 9         -403          -292               23                             Outstanding, including Undiebursed        16.8
Increase in Reeerves (-)                      38         -794        -1,575           -2,073                             DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1976/77           14.4   peroent
Grosa Reserves (end year)                  1,378        2,172         3,747            5,820
Net Reservea (end year)  k/                 758         1,365          9,276           5,670                             IBRD/IDA LENDNG, December 51. 1977  (US5 En.)
Fuel and Related Materials                                                                                                                                   IBRD         IDA
Irporte                                   1,451         1,417         1,580         1,800                                Outstanding and Disbureed         489.0      3,560.5
of chinh: Petroleun                    1,451         1,417         1,580         1,800                               Oundisbured                        674.9      1,257.0
Outetanding, including
Export.                                       26           43            37          ..a.                                     Undiebureed                1,163.9      4,817.5
of which, Petroleum                       17            22            21          n.a.
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Prior to mid-Deeomber 1971    s    uS$1.00 = Re 7.5                                                                      After end Jane 1972    :    Floating Rate
Re 1.00 = UStO.133333                                                               Spot Rats January 31, 1978
Mid-Deoe3mber 1971 to           s    Usi1.00 = Re 7.27927                                                                           approx. USSt.00 = Re 8.063
end June 1972                     Re 1.00 = US50.137376                                                                         approx. Rs 1.00 = US10.124
h/ Eetinated.
i/  Figures given cover all investment income (net).  Major paymente are interest on foreign loana  and
oharges paid to IMF, and major receipt ie interest earned on foreign assete.
j/ Figuree given include workere' remittancee but exclude official grant aseistance, which is included
sithin official aid disbursemente.
4/  Eboludac net ue of DIP oredit.
1/  Amortization and intermet paymento on foreign lgana as a percentage of  -euchandite exports.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 15
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of May 31, 1978)
US$ Million-/
Loan or                                                                                             (Net of Cancellation)
Credit No.         Year       Borrower                 Purpose                              Bank        IDA        Undisbursed
40 Loans/                                                                               1,100.6
51 Credits fully disbursed                                                                            2,604.6
267-IN             1971        India        Wheat Storage                                   --             5.0          3.3
294-IN             1972        India        Bihar Agricultural Markets                      --           14.0           8.8
312-IN             1972        India        Population                                      --           21.2           5.7
342-IN             1972        India        Education                                       --           12.0           8.9
356-IN             1972        India       IDBI                                             -_           25.0          10.3
377-IN             1973        India        Power Transmission III                          --           85.0           1.5
378-IN             1973        India       Mysore Agricultural Markets                      --             8.0          6.9
902-IN             1973        ICICI        Industry DFC X                                  66.5         --             4.8
390-IN             1973        India       Bombay Water Supply                              --           55.0          24.4
403-IN             1973        India        Telecommunications V                            --           80.0           3.4
427-IN             1973        India        Calcutta Urban Development                      --           35.0           9.2
440-IN             1973        India        Bihar Agricultural Credit                       --            32.0         13.7
456-IN             1974        India        HP Apple Processing & Marketing                 --            13.0          9.9
481-IN             1974        India        Trombay IV                                      --           50.0          10.9
1011-IN             1974        India        Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD                         52.0          --           33.9
482-IN             1974        India        Karnataka Dairy                                 --            30.0         25.9
502-IN             1974        India       Rajasthan Canal CAD                              --           83.0          48.9
520-IN             1974        India        Sindri Fertilizer                               --           91.0          13.6
521-IN             1974        India        Rajasthan Dairy                                 --            27.7         25.2
522-IN             1974        India       Madhya Pradesh Dairy                             --            16.4         13.9
526-IN             1975        India        Drought Prone Areas                             --            35.0         22.8
1079-IN             1975        IFFCO        IFFCO Fertilizer                               109.0          --           61.6
1097-IN             1975        ICICI        Industry DFC XI                                100.0          --           24.0
532-IN             1975        India        Godavari Barrage Irrigation                     --           45.0          22.2
541-IN             1975        India       West Bengal Agricultural Development             --           34.0          24.8
562-IN             1975        India        Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) CAD                    --           24.0          17.4
572-IN             1975        India        Rural Electrification                           --           57.0          45.3
582-IN             1975        India       Railways XIII                                    --          110.0          11.5
585-IN             1975        India       Uttar Pradesh Water Supply                       --           40.0          35.8
598-IN             1975        India        Fertilizer Industry                             --          105.0          87.4
604-IN             1976        India        Power Transmission IV                           --          150.0         140.3
609-IN             1976        India        Madhya Pradesh Forestry T.A.                    --             4.0          3.6
610-IN             1976        India        Integrated Cotton Development                   --           18.0          17.7
616-IN             1976        India        Industrial Imports XI                           --          200.0           0.6
1251-IN(TW)         1976        India        Andhra Pradesh Irrigation                      145.0          --          140.3
1260-IN             1976        India        IDBI II                                         40.0          --           36.4
1273-IN             1976        India        National Seed                                   25.0          --           25.0
1313-IN             1976        India        Telecommunications VI                           80.0          --           32.3
1335-IN             1976        BMRDA        Bombay Urban Transport                          25.0          --           20.5
680-IN             1977        India       Kerala Agricultural Development                  --            30.0         30.0
682-IN             1977        India        Orissa Agricultural Development                 --            20.0         19.8
685-IN             1977        India        Singrauli Thermal Power                         --          150.0         137.0
687-IN             1977        India        Madras Urban Development                        --            24.0         23.4
695-IN             1977        India        Gujarat Fisheries                               --             4.0           4.0
1394-IN(TW)         1977        India        Gujarat Fisheries                               14.0          --            14.0
690-IN             1977        India        West Bengal Agricultural Development            --            12.0         12.0
712-IN             1977        India       Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Development   --                   10.0         10.0
715-IN             1977        India        Second ARDC Credit                              --          200.0         159.1
720-IN             1977        India        Periyar Vaigai Irrigation                       --            23.0         22.8
728-IN             1977        India        Assam Agricultural Development                  --             8.0          8.0
1473-IN             1977        India        Bombay High Offshore Development               150.0          --            95.6
736-IN             1977        India        Maharashtra Irrigation                          --            70.0         70.0
737-IN             1977        India        Rajasthan Agricultural Extension                --            13.0         13.0
740-IN             1977        India        Orissa Irrigation                               --            58.0         58.0
1475-IN             1977        ICICI        Industry DFC XII                                80.0          --            77.9
747-IN             1978        India        Second Foodgrain Storage                        --           107.0        107.0
*                       756-IN              1978        India        Second Calcutta Urban Development               --            87.0         87.0
761-IN             1978        India        Bihar Agricultural Extension & Research   --                   8.0           8.0
1511-IN*            1978        India        IDBI Joint/Public Sector                        25.0          --            25.0
1549-IN*            1978        TEC          Third Trombay Thermal Power                    105.0          --           105.0
788-IN             1978        India        Karnataka Irrigation                            --           126.0         126.0
793-IN*            1978        India        Korba Thermal Power                             --           200.0         200.0
806-IN*            1978        India        Jarrsmu-Kashmir Horticulture                    --            14.0          14.0
808-IN*            1978        India        Gujarat lrrigation                              --            85.0          85.0
815-IN*            1978        India        Andhra Pradesh Fisheries                        --            17.5          17.5
816-TN*            1978        India        Second National Seed                            --            16.0          16.0
Total                                                                 2,117.1      5,392.4
of which has been repaid                                              863.2          37.6
Total now outstanding                                                 1,253.9       5,354.8
Amount Sold                               133.3
of which has been repaid                111.5                          21.8
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                        1,232.1       5,354.8
Total undisbursed (excluding *)                                         591.3       1,645.1
*  Not yet effective.                                                                                 Juily 1978
1/ Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 15
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of May 31, 1978)
Fiscal                                                  Amount (US$ million)
Year                   Company                       Loan     Equity      Total
1959        Republic Forge Company Ltd.               1.5       -          1.5
1959        Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.                0.9       -         0.9
1960        Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                    1.4       -         1.4
1961        K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                         0.2       -         0.2
1963-66     Precision Bearings India Ltd.             0.7       0.3       1.0
1964        Fort Gloser Industries Ltd.               0.8       0.4       1.2
1964-75     Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.            11.8       1.0      12.8
1964        Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.                1.0       0.3       1.3
1967        Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                   1.0       0.1       1.1
1967        Indian Explosives Ltd.                   8.6        2.9      11.5
1969-70     Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.               15.1        3.8      18.9
1976        Escorts Limited                          6.6         -        6.6
1978        Housing Development Finance
Corporation                              4.0       1.2        5.2
TOTAL                              53.6      10.0      63.6
Less:  Sold                                6.0       1.6        7.6
Repaid                             14.5        -       14.5
Cancelled                           6.2       0.7       6.9
Now Held                           26.9       7.7      34.6
Undisbursed                         6.5       1.2       7.7



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 15
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION-
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding rea-
sonably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are below. The
level of disbursements was US$598.6 million in FY77 or 80% of Bank Group com-
mitments to India in that year. The undisbursed pipeline of US$2,236 million
as of May 31, 1978, corresponds roughly to commitments over the preceding
two-year period and reflects the lead time which would be expected given the
mix of fast- and slow-disbursing projects in the India program.
Ln. No. 902    Tenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$70.0 million loan of June 8, 1973; Effective
Date: August 16, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Ln. No. 1097   Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$100.0 million loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: July 1, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
Ln. No. 1475   Twelfth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Project; US$80.0 million loan of July 22, 1977
Effective Date: October 4, 1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
These loans are supporting industrial development in India through
a well-established development finance company and are designed to finance
the foreign exchange cost of industrial projects. ICICI continues to be a
well-managed and efficient development bank financing medium- and large-scale
industries, which often employ high technology and are export-oriented. Loans
902-IN and 1097-IN are fully committed and disbursements are slightly ahead of
schedule. Disbursements under Loan 1475-IN (US$2.1 million) are also ahead of
schedule.
Cr. No. 440    Bihar Agricultural Credit Project; US$32.0 million credit
of November 29, 1973; Effective Date: March 29, 1974;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
This Credit was originally intended to provide three years'
support for a lending program for 50,000 tubewells and pumpsets in the Tirhut
Division of Bihar. Because of slow disbursements caused by a lower-than-
estimated Dollar/Rupee exchange rate and by low unit investment costs com-
pared with appraisal estimates, IDA agreed to extend the closing date and
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 15
and to extend the project area to cover the whole State of Bihar. Disburse-
ments are expected to accelerate, and the physical targets should be achieved
by the revised closing date.
Cr. No. 715    Second Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
(ARDC) Project; US$200.0 million credit of June 1, 1977;
Effective Date: August 24, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
This project is designed to provide long- and medium-term credit
to farmers through credit institutions, for on-farm investments, primarily
in minor irrigation. As of May 31, 1978, disbursements amounted to about
US$41 million, of which some 87% have been for minor irrigation and 13% for
diversified lending. The proportion of disbursements to small farmers is
estimated at about 60% compared with the appraisal target of 50%. Training
programs for staff of the financing institutions are progressing satisfactor-
ily. Preparation of a third line of credit is underway and the preparation
report is expected to be submitted to the Association by September 1978.
Cr. No. 267    Wheat Storage Project; US$5.0 million credit of August 23,
1971; Effective Date: November 14, 1972; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
Cr. No. 747    Second Foodgrain Storage Project; US$107.0 million credit of
January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 17, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
Credit 267-IN, which is being co-financed with Sweden, finances
(i) the construction of bag and bulk grain storage and handling facilities,
(ii) staff training, and (iii) an All-India Grain Storage Study. The
government-owned Food Corporation of India is responsible for the storage
construction. All the nine 10,000-ton-capacity bag warehouses envisaged under
the project as revised became operational in 1975. The construction of five
grain silos is progressing satisfactorily after delays due to cement shortages.
The training component is being implemented. The All-India Grain Storage Study
was completed in October 1976 and proved useful in formulating the proposal
for Credit 747-IN, which is progressing satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 456    Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Project;
US$13.0 million credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
This project includes grading and packing centers, cold storage
facilities, a juice processing plant, road improvements and cableways. It
also includes cold storage facilities and a pilot project to promote oak
mushroom production. The project encountered initial delays due to managerial
and technical problems; however remedial measures have been taken to overcome
these difficulties. Land has been acquired for 8 of the 10 packing and grad-
ing sites, and procurement and construction activities are well underway. The
Project Preparation Report for the juice processing plant has been completed,



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 15
and the equipment is being ordered. The road improvement program is progres-
sing satisfactorily, and the feasibility reports on aerial cableways at the
packing/grading sites have been completed.
Cr. No. 403    Telecommunications V Project; US$80.0 million credit of
June 25, 1973; Effective Date: July 30, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
Ln. No. 1313   Telecommunications VI Project; US$80.0 million loan
of July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
Both projects are progressing satisfactorily. The closing date of
Credit 403-IN was extended by one year to cover the delivery and installation
of imported transmission and switching equipment. Disbursements under Loan
1313-IN reached US$47.7 million as of May 31, 1978.
Cr. No. 377    Power Transmission III Project; US$85.0 million credit of
May 9, 1973; Effective Date: September 28, 1973; Closing
Date: September 30, 1978
Cr. No. 604    Power Transmission IV Project; US$150.0 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
The drawdown of Credit 377-IN was slow initially and as a consequence
it has been necessary to postpone the Closing Date by one year. However, an
amount of US$83.5 million had been disbursed by the end of May 1978 and the
balance should be disbursed well before the revised Closing Date. Disburse-
ments under Credit 604-IN have been slow, with only US$9.7 million disbursed
at May 31, 1978. However, contracts aggregating about US$50 million had
been awarded by March 1978 and disbursements should now accelerate. This
Credit included a supplementary Credit of US$30 million to meet increased
costs of equipment scheduled under Credit 377-IN; all but US$4 million of
this amount has also been committed.
Cr. No. 481    Trombay IV Fertilizer Expansion Project; US$50.0 million
credit of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: August 21, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Cr. No. 520    Sindri Fertilizer Project; US$91.0 million credit of December 18,
1974; Effective Date: February 27, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
Ln. No. 1079   IFFCO Fertilizer Project; US$109.0 million loan of January 24,
1975; Effective Date: April 28, 1975; Closing Date: March 31,
1979



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 15
Cr. No. 598    Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105.0 million credit
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The Trombay IV project is now being commissioned, about 18 months
behind schedule due to longer-than-expected delivery times for critical equip-
ment. The Sindri project is also being commissioned. The IFFCO project was
delayed by about a year as a result of a change in feedstock from fuel oil to
naphtha and delays in completion of engineering contracts. However, project
construction is now proceeding satisfactorily. Mechanical completion of the
entire plant should result in August 1979. Credit 598-IN is designed to
increase the utilization of existing fertilizer production capacity. The
project has encountered delays in sub-project preparation and investment
approvals by the Government. Further, some of the sub-projects identified
earlier may not materialize because of reconsideration by the Central and
State governments. IDA has agreed to a list of sub-projects to replace the
ones that are likely to be dropped. Because of the above, the project is
likely to be delayed by 6-12 months.
Cr. No. 294    Bihar Agricultural Markets Project; US$14.0 million credit
of March 29, 1972; Effective Date: July 31, 1972; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
Cr. No. 378    Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project; US$8.0 mil-
lion credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: September 7, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
These projects were designed to help with establishment of whole-
sale markets in a number of towns in Bihar and Karnataka. Progress under the
Bihar project has generally been satisfactory. The project includes training
of the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) staff and evaluation
of the project's economic impact. Development plans have been completed for
53 market yards to ensure the project target of 50 markets is met. As of
March 1978, appraisals had been completed for 50, and loans approved for 47
markets. Construction had been completed for 16 and was in progress for 23
markets. Farmers and traders served by the 8 market yards now in operation
report more efficient marketing activities and improved farmers' terms of
trade. Progress under the Karnataka project is improving. As of June 1977,
when the project was last reviewed, construction was underway for 36 of the
39 project markets. Plans and land acquisition are nearing completion at
the remaining sites. Both projects are expected to be completed by their
respective closing dates.
Cr. No. 312    Population Project; US$21.2 million credit of June 14, 1972;
Effective Date: May 9, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
This credit is designed to finance an experimental and research
oriented population project in Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. The project's
infrastructure, which would provide the optimum facilities (buildings, equip-
ment, staff and transport) according to GOI standards in selected districts



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 15
in each state, is almost complete. The two Population Centers, which will
design and monitor research aimed at improving the family planning program,
are now functioning. To allow adequate time for the Population Centers to
complete their evaluation of family planning strategies and the introduction
of management information and evaluation systems, the closing date has been
extended by one year.
Cr. No. 342    Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million credit of
November 10, 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The project involves the development of the agricultural uni-
versities in Assam and Bihar. An initial lag in implementation on account
of late appointment of project staff has been overcome. Campus plans
have been approved, and construction has started in both Assam and Bihar.
Disbursements, which have been slow because of initial delays, should
accelerate now that construction and equipment procurement are under way.
Cr. No. 356    Industrial Development Bank of India Project; US$25.0 million
credit of February 9, 1973; Effective Date: June 22, 1973;
Closing Date: September 30, 1978
Loan No. 1260 Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40.0 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Loan No. 1511 IDBI Joint/Public Sector Project; US$25.0 million loan of
March 1, 1978; Effective Date: May 31, 1978; Closing Date:
March 31, 1983
The first IDBI Project had a slow start mainly due to institutional
problems in the participating State Financial Corporations. However, the
credit is now fully committed, and disbursements had reached US$14.7 million
by the end of May 1978. In order to continue the Bank Group's involvement in
assisting small- and medium-scale industries and in strengthening the State
Financial Corporations involved, a second operation (Loan 1260-IN) was approved
in 1976, and more than 25% of the loan amount had been committed by mid-March
1978. Loan 1511-IN is designed to encourage the pooling of private and public
capital in medium-scale joint ventures. The project will also assist IDBI in
carrying out industrial sector investment studies and in strengthening the
financial institutions dealing with the state joint/public sector.
Cr. No. 390    Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date: March 13, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Having overcome earlier difficulties, including cost overruns caused
by inflation (requiring project redefinition in February 1975), redesign of
major project components and the addition of a supplementary study on sewage
disposal, the project is now progressing relatively well. All of the major



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 15
contracts for the water supply components have been awarded and it is forecast
that works will be sufficiently advanced to permit the supply of additional
water (455 mld) in the last quarter of 1978; completion of water treatment
works for the whole supply by the end of 1979 is realistically forecast.
Completion of additional sewage disposal studies (August 1977) has allowed
engineering design of the project sewerage components to proceed, so that
completion of construction of these works is now scheduled for 1980, two years
later than originally forecast. Financial performance of the project entity
is satisfactory.
Cr. No. 585    Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0
million credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date:
February 6, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The Project has had a slow start due to delays in the preparation
of technical reports for regional and local water authorities and in the
engagement of consultants. While improvements have been made in the physical
execution, other aspects of project implementation continue to lag so that
disbursements under the Credit have fallen short of estimates at the time
of appraisal. In order to improve the situation, arrangements are being
made to appoint a full-time management adviser to closely supervise and
coordinate implementation.
Cr. No. 616    Eleventh Industrial Imports Project; US$200.0 million credit
of February 26, 1976; Effective Date: April 1, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1978
Utilization of the Technical Development Fund picked up in 1978
and it is anticipated that the project will close on schedule at the end
of June 1978.
Cr. No. 427    Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$35.0 million credit
of September 12, 1973; Effective Date: January 10, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Cr. No. 756    Second Calcutta Urban Development Project; US$87.0 million
credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: April 7, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
For the first of these projects, following considerable increases
in project costs, GOI and IDA finalized a project redefinition in April 1976.
It is now expected to be substantially completed by March 1979. Credit 756-IN
is designed to expand and upgrade the capabilities of Calcutta's administra-
tive authorities, to strengthen the city's fiscal base, and to rehabilitate
and extend its urban service system.
Cr. No. 687    Madras Urban Development Project; US$24.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977; Closing
Date: September 30, 1981
The project is designed to develop and promote low-cost solutions
to the problems of providing improved services to the urban poor in the



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 15
Madras Metropolitan Area (MMA) and to strengthen metropolitan planning.
Project components consisting of sites and services, slum improvement, small-
scale and cottage industry, and maternal and child health are designed to
benefit directly some 250,000 persons in low-income areas of the city. The
water supply and sewerage, road and traffic, bus transport and technical
assistance components are designed to eliminate bottlenecks in water supply
and transport. Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily, and
disbursements are slightly ahead of appraisal estimates.
Cr. No. 482    Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30.0 million credit
of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521    Rajasthan Dairy Development Project; US$27.7 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 522    Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million
credit of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
These three credits, totalling US$74.1 million, support dairy devel-
opment projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy coop-
erative scheme in Gujarat State. The Karnataka Project, which got off to a
slow start, has begun to show considerable improvement under new management
appointed recently. Farmer response has been good and over 600 dairy coop-
eratives with small farmer participation are functioning effectively. All
four dairy unions envisaged under the project have been established and
are functioning satisfactorily. In Madhya Pradesh good progress has been
made. About 310 new dairy cooperatives societies have been established.
Detailed design studies for plant construction are complete. The response
of small farmers to the project is excellent. GOMP has plans to cover all
districts in the State. Technical services investments are being made.
Contracts have been placed for livestock imports. The Rajasthan project is
also doing well. Four milk unions have been formed and excellent progress
has been made in organizing the servicing of nearly 450 dairy cooperatives
at the village level. Plant designs are ready, and procurement is making
adequate progress. Based upon the good results experienced, GOR is planning
to expand the form of dairy development to all other districts of the State.
Karnataka's decision to procure plant equipment jointly with Rajasthan and
Madhya Pradesh on the same tender should lead to a recovery of considerable
time lost earlier in the Karnataka project.
Cr. No. 532    Godavari Barrage Project; US$45.0 million credit of March 7,
1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
Both the civil works and equipment tenders have been awarded after
international competitive bidding. Work is in progress and is proceeding
satisfactorily. Disbursements stood at US$22.8 million on May 31, 1978.



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 15
Ln. No. 1011   Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52.0
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 502    Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83.0 mil-
lion credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date: December 30,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 562    Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Command Area Development Project;
US$24.0 million credit of June 20, 1975; Effective Date:
September 18, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Ln. No. 1251   Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)         Composite Project; US$145.0 million loan (Third Window)
of June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Cr. No. 720    Periyar Vaigai Irrigation Project; US$23.0 million
credit of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30,
1977; Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 736    Maharashtra Irrigation Project; US$70.0 million credit of
October 11, 1977; Effective Date: January 13, 1978; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 740    Orissa Irrigation Project; US$58.0 million of October 11,
1977; Effective Date: January 16, 1978; Closing Date:
October 31, 1983
Cr. No. 788    Karnataka Irrigation Project; US$126.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; (expected) Effective Date: August 12, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructure, drainage, and land shaping are
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads. Progress of these projects
is generally satisfactory.
Cr. No. 541    West Bengal Agricultural Development Project; US$34.0 million
credit of April 28, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project provides financing over four years mainly for minor
irrigation investments but also for development of markets, agro service



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 15
centers, and support of related government extension services. Although dis-
bursements have been slower than anticipated, there has been a considerable
improvement in project organization and administration and disbursements are
expected to improve considerably. The physical progress of shallow tubewells,
and of deep tubewells for the Minor Irrigation Corporation, is satisfactory.
IDA, GOWB and ARDC are combining efforts in order to solve difficulties such
as organizational problems at the farm level; lack of demand for agro service
centers; and completion of designs for water distribution systems and irriga-
tion schemes. Positive results, particularly for the redesigned water distri-
bution systems have been achieved.
Cr. No. 682    Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20.0 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 728    Assam Agricultural Development Project; US$8.0 million credit
of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: September 30, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Cr. No. 690    West Bengal Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$12.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
August 30, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 712    Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Extension and Research Project;
US$10.0 million credit of June 1, 1977; Effective Date:
September 2, 1977; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Cr. No. 737    Rajasthan Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$13.0
million credit of November 14, 1977; Effective
Date: February 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 761    Bihar Agricultural Extension and Research Project; US$8.0
million credit of January 6, 1978; Effective Date: May 2,
1978; Closing Date: October 31, 1983
These projects, totalling US$71 million, finance the re-organization
and strengthening of agricultural extension and the development of adaptive
agricultural research services with the objective of achieving early and
sustained improvements in agricultural production, particularly foodgrains.
Arrangement for monitoring and evaluation of project progress and impact is
an essential feature of these projects. The Orissa and Assam projects also
provide funds for laying the basis for longer term improvements in ground-
water development in the States. The projects' components include provision
of additional staff, training facilities, housing, offices, laboratory
facilities, equipment and transportation.
Cr. No. 526    Drought Prone Areas Project; US$35.0 million credit of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Overall physical progress of the Drought Prone Areas project (DPAP)
continues to be satisfactory. The rate of disbursement is improving and



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 15
implementation of most components is proceeding, by and large, according to
schedule. However, progress may be affected by possible changes in thinking
at the national level. GOI is presently reviewing all national rural develop-
ment programs, including the DPAP, in order to determine ways to improve over-
all performance in the rural sector. The Government's review is being fol-
lowed closely to determine whether any recommendations would have an impact
on the ongoing project and require changes.
Cr. No. 680    Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30.0 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985
This project would improve tree crop production in Kerala and has
particular emphasis on increasing benefits to small farmers. It comprises
rehabilitation of 30,000 ha coconut and 10,000 ha pepper and 2,240 ha cashew,
and new plantings of 5,000 ha coconut and 1,500 ha cashew. About 25% of the
coconut area would be irrigated for intensive intercropping. Funds have been
provided for development of a seed garden for tree crops and for strengthening
tree crops research. Ten crumb rubber factories would also be established to
process smallholder rubber. Project implementation started slowly due to
initial staffing and funding delays but has recently gained momentum. Proj-
ect actions for 1978/79 have been rephased and advance action planned so
as to make up for lost time.
Cr. No. 572    Rural Electrification Project; US$57.0 million credit of
July 23, 1975; Effective Date: October 23, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The Project consists of a tranche of rural electrification schemes
which, at about Rs 5 million each, would cover about 140 schemes. There are
now thirteen States eligible for onlending (compared with six at the time
of appraisal). The project got off to a slow start, due principally to the
need to adapt the specifications and tendering procedures to international
competitive bidding, but the position has now improved and the full amount
of the Credit has been committed.
Cr. No. 582    Railways XIII Project; US$110.0 million credit of August 26,
1975; Effective Date: October 10, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
The project was designed to cover most of the foreign exchange
requirements of Indian Railway's (IR) investment program for two years, from
April 1, 1975, through March 31, 1977. However, since the approval of the
project, increased production of steel products in India and further develop-
ments in IR's indigenization program slowed down the rate at which IR requires
foreign exchange. Therefore, the Closing Date was extended for one year in
order to complete implementation of the project. Disbursements as of May 31,
1978 were 90% of the total credit amount.



ANNEX II
Page 13 of 15
Cr. No. 609    Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4.0 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective
Date: May 26, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This project will identify a sound resource base for pulp and paper
manufacture and related industries, develop suitable logging systems, and
undertake a feasibility study to determine optimal use of the existing wood
resources in the Bastar District of southern Madhya Pradesh. It also includes
a study of ways to integrate the area's tribal population with future develop-
ment.
Cr. No. 610    Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18.0 million
credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project finances equipment, civil works and crop production
credit to support programs for cotton research and cotton production increase
in three states. The project also provides credit for improving cotton gin-
neries, new ginneries, cotton seed oil extraction plants and vegetable oil
processing factories. Effectiveness was delayed by slow appointment of
consultants, but the cotton extension services program was started without
delay and has now been in operation for two years. Disbursements have been
small mainly due to poor demand to date for project credit. A recent super-
vision mission, working with technical consultants, has made detailed recom-
mendations for more appropriate pest control practices and more adaptive
research to identify and introduce better varieties. These measures are
under discussion with GOI, and when agreed to and implemented, should speed
up project disbursements.
Ln. No. 1273   National Seed Project; US$25.0 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Loan 1273-IN supports the first phase of India's national seed
program, consisting of: seed industry expansion in the public and private
sectors, improvements in seed quality control, strengthening of breeding and
seed technology research, and development of a reserve stock scheme. Insti-
tutional development and managerial arrangements, particularly at the state
level, have proceeded fairly satisfactorily. Project implementation, however,
slowed down after loan effectiveness mainly due to organizational problems.
Project progress is now being made since endorsement of the project by the
new Government in September 1977 and is expected to gain further momentum
as GOI has filled the two top posts of the National Seeds Corporation, which
were vacant for several months and adversely affected the project. A project
supporting the second phase of India's national seed program (Credit 816-IN)
was approved by the Executive Directors on May 30, 1978, but has not yet been
signed pending receipt of signing authority from one of the project states.



ANNEX II
Page 14 of 15
Ln. No. 1335   Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25.0 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Contracts for bodies and chassis for 325 single deck and 175 double
deck buses have been awarded and some 144 buses have been delivered. Bids for
an additional 200 buses are being evaluated. Civil works contracts have been
awarded for 8 bus facilities, and 13 traffic engineering schemes. Delays are
expected in implementing some BMC traffic engineering schemes and the BEST
workshop schemes although steps are being taken to minimize such delays.
Consultants in organization, administration, financial management systems,
accounting and development planning are at work assisting the Borrower, the
Bombay Metropolitan Regional Development Authority. Other beneficiaries of
the loan, the Bombay Municipal Corporation and the Bombay Electric Supply and
Transport Undertaking, have selected consultants in traffic engineering and
operations and management assistance, respectively.
Ln. No. 1394   Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14.0 million loan and US$4.0
(Tw) and        million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 695    July 19, 1977; Closing Date:  June 30, 1983
Progress is good. All project implementation units appear
to be competent and enthusiastic and the project is progressing as antici-
pated at appraisal.
Cr. No. 685    Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date:  June 28, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Cr. No. 793    Korba Thermal Power Project; US$200.0 million credit of
May 12, 1978; (expected) Effective Date: August 14, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1985.
Ln. No. 1549   Trombay Thermal Power Project; US$105.0 million loan of
June 19, 1978; (expected) Effective Date: September 19, 1978;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
Credit 685-IN assists in financing the first stage of the 2,000 MW
Singrauli development which is, in turn, the first of four power stations in
the Government's program for the development of large Central thermal power
stations feeding power into an interconnected grid. The second such station,
at Korba, is being financed through Credit 793-IN. It is proposed that the
Bank Group will have a continuing involvement in this development program.
The National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) has been formed to construct
and operate these power stations, and the development program has gotten off
to a good start. Organization and staffing of NTPC is proceeding satisfac-
torily, and the Singrauli project is proceeding on schedule. Civil works are
in progress and contracts have been awarded for major plant (turbogenerators,
boilers, transformers). Loan 1549-IN is supporting the construction of a 500
MW extension of the Tata Electric Companies' station, in order to help meet
the forecast load growth in the Bombay area.



ANNEX II
Page 15 of 15
Ln. No. 1473   Bombay High Offshore Development Project; US$150.0 million
loan of June 30, 1977; Effective Date: October 20, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project is progressing satisfactorily. CGs and oil pipelines
from Bombay High to shore have been laid and were commissioned in June 1978.
Disbursements stood at US$54.4 million on May 31, 1978.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
INDIA
RAILWAY MODERNIZATION AND MAINTENANCE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the Borrower to prepare the project.
About eighteen months. This credit is the fourteenth
in a series of Bank Group operations with Indian Railways,
and preparation of the proposed credit has formed part
of a continuing process.
(b) The agency which has prepared the project.
Indian Railways.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank and date of the
first mission to consider the project.
The project was first presented to the Bank in
October 1977, when a preappraisal mission was in
field; appraisal was carried out in January 1978.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission.
January 7, 1978.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations.
June 16, 1978.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness.
October 1978.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
Section II:    Special IDA Implementation Actions
None.
Section III:   Special Conditions
(a)  GOI to maintain adequate staff of the wheel
and axle plant under the supervision of
experienced and competent management (para 49).
(b)  GOI to submit, by December 31, 1978 a training
program for the technical staff and work force
of the wheel and axle plant and implement it
(para 49).
(c)  GOI to employ experts to assist IR in carrying
out implementation of the project (para 50).
(d)  GOl to maintain freight rates and passenger fares
and take necessary actions to enable IR to meet all
operating expenses and special appropriations
(para. 54).
(e)  GOI to fix transfer prices for the supply of wheels
and axles to be produced at the wheel and axle plant
at Yelahanka at levels which cover direct manufactur-
ing costs, overhead costs and full depreciation
(para 55).






'C "I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
'    ;41                                                    ;SM X    
2           e m0                      )o: is.0t  
L                                0
3 i   /C p'_ 
Cd-I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t
:                                    -~~~~~~to-  
>14
-4~ ~ ~~-
1L61 IDdV
69tCL thSBI



