CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 844 IN
Development Credit Agreement
(Railway Modernization and Maintenance Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated November 13, 1978


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 844 IN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated November 13, 1978, between INDIA, acting by
its President (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02.   Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Railways" means the railways owned and operated by
the Borrower and includes all railway property, equipment and
materials of the Borrower; and
(b) "Yelahanka Plant" means the wheel and axle plant to be
established at Yelahanka under Part B of the Project.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to one hundred ninety million dollars ($190,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association,
for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to


﻿-2-
be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1984
or such later date as the Association shall establish.       The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each Feb-
ruary 1 and August 1 commencing February 1, 1989 and ending
August 1, 2028, each installment to and including the installment
payable on August 1, 1998, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to
be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
and conduct the operations of the Railways with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate engineering, finan-
cial and administrative practices, and shall provide, promptly as
needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the purpose.


﻿-3-
(b) The Project shall be carried out by the Borrower sub-
stantially in accordance with an implementation schedule agreed
upon between the Borrower and the Association.
(c) The Borrower shall carry out the workshop modernization
and rationalization program referred to in Part A of the Project
in accordance with the Plan of Action agreed upon between the
Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying
out the Project, the Borrower shall employ experts whose quali-
fications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards inci-
dent to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payabl in a currency freely usable by
the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain or cause to be main-
tained records and procedures adequate to record and monitor the
progress of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to be
derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited represen-
tatives, for the purposes related to the Credit, to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to
the Association all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where


﻿appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the
Association of their respective obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall maintain passenger fares and freight
rates, and shall take all other action as may be necessary or
appropriate, so as to provide to the Railways net revenue suf-
ficient to enable the Railways to meet annually out of internally
generated resources all operating expenses and dividend payments
on capital-at-charge.
For the purpose of this Section:
(i) the term "net revenue" means the revenue accruing
from the operation of the Railways excluding any
net revenues or losses which may result from the
operation of mass rapid transit systems in the
principal cities of India. Such revenues or losses
from mass rapid transit systems, if included Li
the Railways' budget, will be separately shown
therein and in the financial accounts of the Rail-
ways;


﻿-5-
(ii) the term "operating expenses" means all ordinary
working expenses of the Railways, and appropria-
tion for the Depreciation Reserve Fund and for the
Pension Fund of the Railways; and
(iii) the term "capital-at-charge" means the capital pro-
vided by the Borrower to the Railways and appearing
as such in the Railways' accounts.
Section 4.03. When, with respect to any goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the lowest evaluated bid, after
taking into account the price preference for domestic manufac-
turers, is for goods manufactured from outside of India, the
Borrower shall promptly grant permission to import the goods
covered by the contract, and no review of such permission to
import shall be made by the Borrower or by any of its agencies,
and all foreign exchange required therefor shall be promptly made
available.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall, by December 31, 1978,
cause to be prepared and furnished to the Association, a training
program satisfactory to the Association for the training of
technical staff and work force to be employed at the Yelahanka
Plant, and shall implement said training program.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall ensure that the Yelahanka
Plant shall at all times carry on its operations, manage its
affairs and maintain its financial position in accordance with
sound engineering, financial and administrative practices, includ-
ing an appropriate management information system, and with ade-
quate staff under the supervision of experienced and competent
management.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall fix such transfer prices
for the supply of wheels and axles to be produced at the Yelahanka
Plant as shall be sufficient to cover direct manufacturing costs,
overhead costs and full depreciation.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date January 15, 1979 is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿-6-
Section 5.02. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
4.02, 4.05 and 4.06 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate
or on a date 15 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VT
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director or Deputy Secretary in the Ministry of
Finance, Department of Economic Affairs of the Borrower is desig-
nated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affiirs
New Delhi, India
Cable address:                    Telex:
ECOFAIRS                          953-313546
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INDIA
By Is/ N.A. Palkhivala
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ W. David Hopper
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Workshop
modernization:
(a) plant and              95,000,000        100% of foreign
machinery                               expenditures and
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory)
(b) components for         30,000,000        100% of foreign
unit-exchange                           expenditures
system
(2) Plant, machinery            30,000,000        100% of foreign
and materials for                            expenditures and
the Yelahanka Plant                          100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory)
(3) Proprietary items            8,000,000        100% of foreign
for the Yelahanka                            expenditures
Plant
(4) Wheels, tires,              15,000,000        100% of foreign
axles and wheel                              expenditures
sets


﻿-9-
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(5) Development support:
(a) thyristor              9,000,000        100% of foreign
control trans-                         expenditures
former sets
(b) equipment and          1,000,000        100% of foreign
components                             expenditures and
for product                            100% of local
improvement                            expendi tures
(ex-factory)
(c) technical              2,000,000        100%
advisory
services and
staff training
TOTAL   190,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit


﻿- 10 -
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item qs required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Credit then allocated to any Category, except Category (3),
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the esti-
mated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then applica-
ble to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under
such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restric-
ting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Associa-
tion under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associa-
tion's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 11-
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is a part of the Borrower's program of moderniza-
tion and improvement of maintenance and manufacture of diesel and
electric locomotives and rolling stock of the Railways and con-
sists of the following:
Part A:
The acquisition of workshop machinery and tools for
implementing the first phase of the Railways' workshop
modernization and rationalization program in its main work-
shops and supporting units, including the acquisition of
parts and components for the establishment of a unit-exchange
maintenance system.
Part B:
The establishment at Yelahanka in the State of Karnataka
of a wheel and axle ,lant, including ancillary facilities,
with an annual rated manufacturing capacity of about 70,000
wheels and about 23,000 axles and the acquisition of wheels,
tires and axles for two years of the Railways' motive power
and rolling stock manufacturing and maintenance program.
Part C:
The provision of product improvement facilities for
diesel engines at the Research, Designs and Standards Organ-
ization of the Railways; and the acquisition of thyristor
control transformer sets for the testing of thyristor tech-
nology for application in alternating current electric
locomotives.
Part D:
T, provision of technical advisory services and over-
seas st.,ff training for manufacturing, quality control, cost
control and design personnel.
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 1984.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Association
shall reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods or
works remain to be procured on the basis of international compe-
titive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
desc.ibed in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in


﻿- 13 -
India may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
India if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Association
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in India equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods
manufactured in India.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then
be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this compari-
son, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be
selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i4f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C


﻿- 14 -
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for equipment and materials estimated to cost
the equivalent of $100,000 or less may be procured in accordance
with the usual business practice of the Railways, provided,
however, that the aggregate of such contracts shall not exceed
the equivalent of $5,000,000.
2.   Contracts for, (i) plant and machinery up to $10,000,000,
(ii) components for unit-exchange system up to $5,000,000, (iii)
plant, machinery and materials for the Yelahanka Plant up to
$5,000,000, and (iv) equipment and components for product improve-
ment up to $1,000,000 to be financed under Categories (1) (a), (1)
(b), (2) and (5) (b), respectively, of the table set forth in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement may be procured
through limited tenders from established manufacturers, provided,
that the list of such items and the firms selected for the bidding
for each such item shall be agreed upon between the Borrower and
the Association.
3.   With respect to any contract for plant, machinery and mate-
rials for the Yelahanka Plant to be financed under Category 3 of
the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agree-
ment, the Borrower may place contracts through negotiation pro-
vided, that, (a) the terms and conditions of negotiated contracts
conform to the Railways' standard form of contract, and (b) the
Association's prior approval of such standard form of contract
(and any modifications thereof) shall have been obtained.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of $1,000,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said


﻿- 15 -
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, and such other informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be inconsis-
tent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
3.   With respect to any contract costing in excess of $100,000
equivalent, before agreeing to any modification or waiver which
affects the terms and conditions of such contract materially, or
granting an extension by more than 4 months of the stipulated time
for performance of such contract, or issuing any change order
under such contract (except in cases of extreme urgency) which
would increase the cost of the contract by more than 15% of the


﻿- 16 -
original price, the Borrower shall inform the Association of the
proposed modification, waiver, extension or change order and the
reasons therefor. The Association, if it determines that the
proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of this Agree-
ment, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
its determination.


