Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9269
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND AGRICULTURAL TRAINING PROJECT
(CREDIT 1396-BD)
DECEMBER 28, 1990
Population and Human Resources Division
Asia Country Department I
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their ofrcial d. ties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency
Currency Unit = Bangladesh Taka (Tk)
Crore Taka = 10 million Taka
US$1.0 = Tk 32.27 (June 1989)
ABBREVIATIONS
AMDP      -    Agricultural Management Development Program
ATI       -    Agricultural Training Institute
BAU       -    Bangladesh Agricultaral University
BS          -  Block Supervisors
CERDI     -    Central Extension Resources Development Institute
DAE       -    Department of Agricultural Extension
DAEM      -    Directorate of Agricultural Extension and Management
DOT       -    Division of Training
FAO       -    Food and Agricultural Organization
HAITI     -    Higher Agricultural In-service Training Institute
IDA       -    International Development Association
MOA       -    Ministry of Agriculture
NTC       -    National Training Council
O&M       -    Operation and Maintenance
PCR       -    Project Completion Report
PEW       -    Planning and Evaluation Wing
PIW       -    Project Implementation Wing
PP        -    Project Proforma
SAR       -    Staff Appraisal Report
TEB       -    Technical Education Board
UNDP      -    United Nations Development Program
Fiscal Year (FY)
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of OitfecgtwCeeal
Optatbns Evaluatuin
December 28, 1990
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Bangladesh
Second Agricultural Training Project (Credit 1396-BD)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on Bangladesh - Second Agricultural
Training Project (Credit 1396-BD)" prepared by the Asia Regional
Office with Part II of the report contributed by the Borrower. No
audit of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation
Department at this time.
Attachmant
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND AGRICULTURAL TRAINING PROJECT
CREDIT 1396-BD
Table of Contents
Page No.
Preface .................                                                                                              i
Evaluation Summary .................                                                                                 iii
PART I: PROJECT REVIEW FROK BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity ..................1
Project Background .................                                                                                   1
Project Objectives and Description ......................................   2
Project Design and Organization .........................................   3
Project Implementation ..................................................   4
Project Results .........................................................   8
Project  Sustainability  ..............                         ...................................   10
IDA Performance .........................................................  10
Borrower Performance ....................................................  11
Project Relationship ....................................................  11
Consulting Services ..................................................... 12
Project Documentation and Data .......................................... 12
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Confirm the Adequacy and Accuracy of the Factual
information contained in Part III ..................................... 13
Evaluation of Bank's Performance and Lesson Learned. .................... 13
Evaluation of Borrower's Own Performance and Lesson Learned ............. 13
The  Major  Lesson  Learned  ............                        ...................................    13
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Related IDA Credit ......................................................  15
Project Timetable .......................................................  16
Credit Disbursements ....................................................  17
Project Implementation .................................................. 18
Project Costs and Financing .............................................  19
Project Results ...................                                                                                  21
Status of Covenants ...................                                                                              22
Use of IDA Resources ...................                                                                             23
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only ir. the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND AGRICULTURAL TRAINING PROJECT
CREDIT 1396-BD
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Agricultural
Training Project in Bangladesh, for which Credit 1396-BD in the amount of SDR 7.60
million, equivalent to US$ 8.10 million, was a2proved on July 7, 1983. The Credit
was closed on June 30, 1989, six months behind schedule. Of the total credit amount,
SDR 3.20 million was disbursed, equivalent to US$ 4.35 million, and the last
disbursement was  on December  1, 1989.   A balance  in the credit account of
approximately SDR 4.40 million (US $ 3.75 million) was canceled on March 5, 1990.
The PCR was prepared by Staff of the Bangladesh Resident Mission, Country
Department 1, Asia Region (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) and the
Borrower (Part II).
Following the extension of the closing date by six months to June 1989,
preparation of this PCR started in August 1989. The PCR is based, inter alia, on the
Staff Appraisal Report; the Development Credit Agreement; supervision reports;
correspondence between IDA and the Borrower; and internal IDA memoranda.



- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND AGRICULTURAL TRAINING PROJECT
(CREDIT 1396-BD)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.        Proiect  Obiectives  (Section  C)   The main  objective  of  the  Second
Agricultural Training Project was to assist the Government in improving the quality
of middle-level agricultural training. In addition, the project was designed to: (i)
improve the planning, management and coordination of all middle-level training
programs and of higher-level in-service training programs of the Ministry of
Agriculture (MOA) in conjunction with the creation of the Division of Training (DOT)
under the Department of Agricultural Extension (DAE); (ii) support the Government's
career development strategy for Block Supervisors (BS) of the extension service; and
(iii.) extend for another year the ongoing Agricultural Management Development
Programs.
2.        Implementation Experience (Section E)  There were a number of critical
variances in project implementation.   These were:  (a) vacancies in Agricultural
Training Institute  (ATI)  instructor posts;  (b)   non-implementation of Higher
Agricultural In-service Training Institute (HAITI) Training Program; (c) shortage of
DOT management staff; (d) non-implementation of the fellowship program; (e)
inadequate utilization of technical assistance; (f) inadequate operation and
maintenance budget for ATIs; (g) non-implementation of operational guidelines for ATI
farms; and (h) lack of quarterly reports.
3.        Results (Section F) The project did not fully achieve its four objectives,
mainly because the inputs provided to meet the objectives were inadequate and/or
providea toward the closing of the project.  The conclusions in this section are
mostly based on project implementation analyses reported in the previous paragraph.
4.        Since the ATI Tracer System, which was designed to obtain feedback on the
adec uacy of ATI courses, was not carried out, it is difficult to assess the degree
to which the training provided under the project was effective in improving the
quality of middle-level training, which was the project's first and main objective.
However, there are a number of factors that indicate that the first objective was not
fully met. First, a large number of ATI instructor posts were vacant for most part
of the project. As a consequence, the ATIs had to combine class sections resulting
in as many as 80 to 90 students per class compared to the planned 50. Further, the
available teachers had to teach courses for which they were not prepared or trained.
This problem was acute for the fisheries, livestock and home science/management
subjects. Second, mainly as a result of the vacancies, the ATI iinstructors training



- iv -
on teaching methods and on subject matter areas was not conducted as planned. As of
December 1986, only 54% of the instructors had received training in teaching methods.
Training on subject matter mainly started in late 19.7 and, till project closing,
about 65% were trained in only 5 out of the 11 subjects. Third, to assist the ATI
teachers in following the revised curriculum prepared by consultants and implemented
from July 1986, 11 instructors' training manuals were developed. The manuals were,
however, distributed to the ATIs only in early 1988, or at the end of the project.
Fourth, of the 25 manuals for the BS, only 14 were finalized and distributed to the
ATIs, the bulk of them in the second halI of 1988. In June 1989, IDA agreed to a
Planning Commission proposal to utilize funds from the Extension and Research II
Project to produce the remaining 11 manuals; this, however, is yet to be implemented
by DOT. Fifth, the ATI farms were not operated efficiently because the operational
guidelines, which were issued in April 1986, could not be fully followed due to
insufficient O&M budgets and failure to appoint a farm development consultant.
Sixth, the books and journals and training equipment for the ATIs were also procured
and distributed in late 19$8.   Seventh, of the 12 mini-buses provided for the
ATI/HAITI to transport stuC..nts to research stations and demonstration sites, only
four could be prc^:ured because of a Go)vernment restriction on purchase of mini-buses.
In June 1988, IDA agreed to a DOT proposal to procure jeeps instead of minibuses, but
it was not implemented.
5.        The second objective, relating to strengthening DOTs training management
functions, was also not fully met due to the following factors. First, the DOT was
not supported by adequate and specialist staff.   Second, the planned technical
support to DOT was not adequately provided. Third, the planned fellowships for DOT
staff were not implemented.
6.        The construction of the HAITI training center and the development of the
HAITI curriculum became irrelevant to the third project objective--the formulation
of a career development plan for middle-level agricultural technicians--due to
changes in eligibility requirements for higher studies and non-implementation of the
HAITI program.
7.        The fourth objective relating to the extension for one year of the
Agricultural Management Development Program (AIMDP) was satisfactorily carried out
under the project as planned and completed by June 1984. The project envisaged that
the local AMDP instructors would fully take over the management of AMDP after the
consultants' services ended. This, however, was not achieved due to lack of training
funds.
8.        Although the project did not fully achieve its objective of improving the
quality of the middle-level technicians, in terms of numbers of trainees trained it
did generally achieve its targets (para 33).
9.        Proiect Sustainability (Section G)  The two major benefits expected from
the project were improved farmers' skills and knowledge and better quality research
as a result of better trained agricultural staff.   Since the training of Block
Supervisors was less effective than anticipated, it must be assumed that the project
contributed only partially to the attainment of the expected benefits. In fact, the
present view is that the BS cadre is still lacking the skills needed for effective



- v -
extension and further training and reorganization of the extension system are bein.g
proposed under an Agricultural Support Services Project.
10.       Lessons Learned (Sections H & I)  The lessons learned mainly deal with
implementation. These are as follows: (a) IDA missions should have reported the
status of previous missions' recommendations, and followed-up as necessary; (b) at
appraisal, the linkage between HAITI and training of BS at BAU should have been more
carefully examined; (c) in April 1986, when IDA informed the Government that it would
consider suspension of disbursements if ATI vacancies were not filled by April 30,
1986, it could have used that opportunity to press the project authorities to submit
quarterly reports;   (d) given the management problems encountered by DOT, IDA
missions, particularly in October 1985, should have pressed for the appointment of
the management consultant for DOT; (e) based on experiences gathered under the First
Agricultural and Rural Training Project, the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) should have
provided quarterly report formats and guidelirtes for the operation of ATI farms; (f)
the Ministry of Agriculture and its Division of Training should have made serious
eLforts to act/follow-up on the assurances provided to IDA missions; (g) DOT should
have appointed a management consultant in 1985 to address its management issues; DOT
should also have implemented its August 1987 proposal to recruit an ATI Tracer System
Consultant and a Monitoring and Evaluation Consultant; and (h) the Ministry of
Agriculture should have provided adequate and specialist staff to DOT to enable it
to efficiently carry out its assigned functions.



PROJECT COtLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
SECOND AGRICULTURAL TRAINING PROJECT
CREDIT 1396-BD
PART I: PkOJECT REVIEW FROi BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.       Proiect Identitv
Project Name             : Second Agricultural Training Project
Credit No.               : 1396-BD
RVP Unit                 : Asia Region
Country                  : Bangladesh
Sector                   : Agriculture
B.        Proiect Background
1.        Agriculture Sector Develovment Objective.  The primary objective of the
Government's Second Five-Year Plan (FY80-85) was to achieve self-sufticiency in
foodgrains by increasing production from about 14 million tons in FY81 to 20 million
tons by FY85.   The FY85 production target was eventually not achieved and the
shortfall was about 3.8 million tons. During the second year of the Project, the
Government initiated tLie Third Five-Year Plan (FY86-90), in which it again emphasized
the attainment of the food self-sufficiency objective by the terminal year. At the
time of appraisal, it was envisaged that one of the means to achieve increased
production would be through dissemination of advice on improved agricultural
practices to farmers. The main constraint to providing the needed advisory services
to farmers was the shortage of appropriately trained middle-level agricultural
technicians, the majority of whom were Block Supervisors (BS), or the lowest-level
extension staff of the Department of Agricultural Extension (DAE) (para 3).
2.        Middle-level Agricultural Traininp, System:   Middle-level agricultural
training is conducted at 11 Agricultural Training Institutes (ATIs) under the DAE of
the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA). Normally, there are two types of middle-level
training:  pre-service and in-service.  The pre-service training is a two- year
diploma course offered to Secondary School Certificate (SSC) holders (after grade
ten). The in-service training is of a shorter duration - generally two to four weeks
- and is provided to serving BSs to upgrade their skills and knowledge. However,
under the Project a special one-year in-service upgrading course was introduced for
those middle-level agricultural technicians of MOA who were either partially trained
or totally untrained. The one-year course was designed to upgrade those middle-level
agricultural technicians to the level of ATI graduates (para 3).
3.        Policy context.  The Project was developed to assist the Government in
implementing recent policy decisions on middle-level agricultural training.  The
policies were as follows. First, all training activities would be conducted by the
Division of Training (DOT) under the reorganized DAE.   The DAE, previously the
Directorate of Agricultural Extension and Management (DAEM), was reorganized in July



-2-
1982 following a Government promulgation to consolidate, streamline and improve the
extension services to farmers through the progressive m -ger of  extension-oriented
agencies into one department. In the event eight agencies were selected, of which
only six were merged; the extension services of the Cotton Devel.opment Board and
those of the Bangladesh Water Development Board remaained independent.  Second, of the
eight instructor posts in each ATI (increased to nine by the Government before
effectiveness of the Project), four would be senior instructor posts. A.. earlier
decision in October 1978 to downgrade all ATI teaching posts from senior to 4unior
instructor levels had a negative effect cn middle-level training, as all instructors
transferred to the extension service of DAE in order to retain their status and
perquisites. Third, because of the recent unification of extension services, the ATI
curriculum needed to be substantially revised. Fourth, as part of the Government's
career development strategy for the BS, a Higher Agricultural In-service Training
Institute (HAITI) would be cstablished to train BSs, who would be eligible for
promotion, and to provide training to selected ATI graduates to qualify them for
admission to the Bangladesh Agricultural University (BAU). Fifth, the ATIs would be
provided with sufficient and appropriate reading and reference materials.
C.        Project Objectives and Description
4.        Project Obiectives.  The main objective of the Project was to assist the
Government in improving the quality of middle-level agricultural training.   In
addition, the project was designed to:  'i) improve the planning, management and
coordination of all middle-level training programs and of higher-level in-service
training programs of the Ministry of Agriculture in conjunction with the creation of
the DOT under the DAE; (ii) support the Government's career development strategy for
block supervisors of the extension service; and ('  ) extend for another year the
ongoing Agricultural Management Development Program.
5.        Proiect Description:  The project provided for:
(a) improving the quality of middle-level agricultural training through:
(i) improvement of ATI farms; (ii) appointment of 3 additional ATI
instructors for each ATI, two at senior level, and 4 additional
senior instructors for the Central Extension Resources Development
Institute (C T-DI); (iii) procurement of train4ng materials, library
books, equipment, furniture and vehicles; (iv) construction of staff
housing; (v) production and distribution of agricultural manuals for
ATI teachers and students; and (vi) establishment of an ATI teachers
training program at the CERDI;
(b) constructing and equipping of a new training center (HAITI);
(c)  technical  assistance,  consisting  of:  (i)  228  man-months  of
fellowships for teaching staff of ATIs, CERDI and HAITI in teaching
techniques and subject matter areas, and for DOT staff in the
management and supervision of agricultural training programs; and
(ii) 136 man-months of consultants' services, 88 man-months of which
would be financed by IDA and 48 man-months by United Nations
Development Programme (UNDP), to be executed by Food and Agricultural



-3-
Organization   (FAO)   through   its   on-going   Strengthening   the
Agricultural Extension Services Project (SAESP) (Details in paras 17-
19). The SAESP also provided technical support to an on-going IDA
Extension and Research II (E&R II) Project.
D.        Proiect Design and Organization
6.        Project DesiRn.  The p.oject was preparod in September 1980 under the World
Bank FAO Cooperative Program and appraised by IDA in February 1981. Hiowever, after
appraisal the Government started the reorganization of the extension service (para
3) and the modification of its policies on middle-level agricultural training. In
November/December 1982, IDA mounted a post appraisal mission to incorporate the above
developments in the design of the Project.  The task manager for the project was Mr.
Severino Santos and the Division Chief at the time of appraisal was Mr. C. P. R.
Nottidge.
7.        The timing of the project was appropriate as it followed the First
Agricultural and Rural Training Project (Cr. 621-BD), which closed in December 1983.
That project provided, among other items, the construction and equipping of new and
renovated ATIs, pre-service training for BS, and technical support on management of
agricultural and rural development projects through the AMDP. While the project had
accomplished its primary goal, which was the establishment of an infrastructure for
agricultural training, it had not improved the quality of the ATI training programs.
This issue was addressed in the design of the second project.
8.        In retrospect, with the exception of the HAITI program, the overall design
was appropriate.   The HAITI program was not implemented since the training was
redundant for admission to the Bangladesh Agricultural University (BAU) (para 14).
9.        Project OrRanization.  The overall implementation of the project was the
responsibility of the DOT with the assistance of the Project Implementation Wing
(PIW) of the MOA. In particular, day-to-day management of project activities was to
be conducted by DOT for training aspects, and by PIW for physical implementation,
accounting and procurement matters. The project organization was appropriate except
for the project accounting function assigned to PIW.   In MOA's other on-going
extension and training projects, PIW was responsible only for accounts for the
physical components it implemented.   The accounts for the other components-staff
salaries and training coets - were maintained by DAF. Following an administrative
order by the MOA in November 1985, PIW's accounting function was shared with DAE,
which wa! made responsible for all accounting matters related to ATI operating costs,
staff salaries and trainee stipends. Two missions - April 1986 and December 1986 -
commented on the split in the accounting function and recommended that PIW maintain
the project accounts to keep track of transaction and expenditures of the project as
a whole and to check disbursement backlogs.   The FY 86 Government audit of the
project reported that although DAE had maintained up-to-date project accounts and
records, it had not maintained a separate project account. This was complied with
in FY 87.  In retrospect, the split did not affect project implementation.   The
concerns expressed by the two missions were mainly management issues and could have
been addressed if there had been a proper project monitoring system in DOT (para 22).



.4-
E.        Project Implementation
10.       Variarnces.    There were  a number  of  critical variarnces  in project
implementation.   These were:  (a) vacancies in ATI instructor posts;  (b)   non-
implementation of HAITI Training Program; (c) shortage of DOT management staff; (d)
non-implementation of the fellowship program; (e) inadequate utilization of technical
assistance; (f) inadequate operation and maintenance (O&M) budget for ATIs; (g) non-
implementation of operational guidelines for ATI farms; and (h) lack of quarterly
reports.  The following paragraphs describe these and other variances in proiect
implementation, and discuss the project risks.
11.       Delay in Credit Effectiveness.  The Credit was signed on August 31, 1983
and was to become effective on November 30, 1983. In fact it only became effective
on March 29, 1984, after two postponements requested by the Government. The main
cause of the postponements was the delayed approval of the Proiect Proforma (PP)
defining the project components, categories and costs by the Government.
12.       Vacancies in ATI Instructor Posts.  Of the 12 sanctioned instructor posts
at each of the 11 ATIs, a large number of vacancies persisted during the first two
years of the project. The vacancies fluctuated from 50% in November 1984 to 45% in
October 1985 to 60% in March 1986. The vacancies were mainl caused by two factors.
First, due to limited ATI posts, ATI instructors who were eligible for promotion had
to be transferred to other departments of DAE.  Second, there was a sho.tage of
Subject Matter Specialists/Subject Matter Officers in DAE and ATI staff were posted
to fill them.
13.       In March  1986,  IDA expressed concern to the Government   about  the
vacancies, which affected tha quality of ATI training. IDA indicated that, because
of the serious and protracted nature of the problem, it would consider suspension of
disbursements if the vacancies were not filled by April 30, 1986. An IDA mission in
April 1986 confirmed that the vacancies had been filled from existing DAE staff.
Although the situation had improved, the December 1986 mission reported 20% vacancies
and the rate fluctuated between 10 and 15% till project completion. In retrospect,
given that tt:e ATI vacancies were eventually filled from the existing DAE staff, the
Government could have done this a year earlier based on its assurance given to the
February 1985 supervision mission.
14.       Non-Implementation of HAITI Training Program.  The HAITI training was not
implemented even though the construction of the HAITI training center was completed
in late 1.987 and a curriculum for the BS training was developed by DOT, with
assistance from consultants of the UNDP/FAO project. In early 1985, as an interim
arrangement, 113 promotee Subject Matter Officers (from BS cadre) completed a
specially designed six-month course at the Tejgaon ATI.  The August 1987 mission
reported that BS training was expected to start from January 1988. A probable reason
for non-implementation of BS training was a Government plan to introduce a three-year
ATI diploma course which would address the career development demands of the BS (para
27). Regarding the training of BS at BAU, the February 1985 mission reported that
BAU could admit only those BS who were Higher Secondary Certificate (HSC) holders
(after grade 12), and who had completed a one-year HAITI course. The BS were not
admitted to the BAU and the HAITI program was not implemented.   The February



-5-
mIssion's report was not in conformity with the decision taken at a meeting in MOA
in October 1983, in which BAU was also present. At that meeting it was decided that
a selected number of BS, who were HSC holders and who were nominated by DAE, would
be admitted to the BAU. For those BS, the one-year HAITI course was redundant since
the HSC was the minimum educational qualification required for admission to the BAU.
The BAU requirement meant that the career development plan for BS would not apply to
those who were SSC holders, irrespective of their time in service.   After the
February 1985 mission there was no follow-up by IDA and DOT. The HAITI now functions
as an ATI but has only nine sanctioned instructor posts compared to 12 in the ATIs.
Since its inception. HAITI has conducted on an intermittent basis only short term in-
service training for the BS.  In retrospect, the linkage between HAITI and the
training of BS at BAU was not appropriate. The linkage apparently was not carefully
examined at appraisal.
15.       Shortage of DOT Management Staff.   The Staff Appraisal Report  (SAR)
envisaged that the DOT would be strengthened by two Assistant Directors, five
Training Specialists and three Manpower Development Specialists  (MDS).   These
positions were never established. IDA supervision missions did not report on this
situation until December 1986 when the Supervision mission recommended appointment
of an MDS in DOT. MOA agreed to this but did not implement the decision and no
follow-up was done by subsequent missions.  One of the reasons for the lapses in
project monitoring by DOT was the shortage of appropriate staff.
16.       Non-Implementation of the Fellowships Pro,ram:  None of the fellowships
provided for the ATI, CERDI and HAITI teachers and DOT management staff were
utilized, mainly due to: (i) procedural delays in obtaining clearances from the
National Training Council, (NTC), which is responsible for approving all foreign
training programs for government personnel; and (ii) lack of serious efforts by the
MOA ind DOT. The proposal for fellowships was submitted by DAE to the NTC through
the MOA in June 1985, but it had to be resubmitted a number of times because of
changes in formats and procedures by the NTC. The August 1987 supervision mission
expressed concern at the delays and recommended that the MOA and DOT obtain the
necessary clearances from the NTC by September 1987. In the event the NTC clearances
were not obtained, MOA and DOT were requested by the August 1987 mission to explore
the possibility of having the needed training in suitable local institutions. The
MQA and DOT did not make any such attempts. The June 1988 mission reported that the
CERDI staff had been trained under a British Technical Assistance program.  That
mission also reported that all other training requirements of the project-training
of female instructors in home management and the training of DOT staff in training
management - were to be provided for under the Extension and Research II Project.
However, that training is yet to be implemented.
17.       Inadequate Utilization of Technical Assistance.    Of  the  24 mm  of
consultants services provided to assist DOT to plan and manage middle-level
agricultural training, only 12 mm of a local consultant services were utilized. A
review carried out by IDA and DAE in November 1984 decided that the consultant's
contract should not be extended for another year since the Director of DOT was then
found capable of carrying out all DOT activities without assistance from a
consultant. The review, however, recommended that, in the event that the Director of
DOT would need consultant services, a consultant would be recruited. In retrospect,



- 6 -
the IDA/DAE decision was not a correct one since, after termination of the contract,
two of the consultant's major outputs, i.e., the quarterly report format and a
proposal for establishing an ATI Tracer System to obtain feedback on the adequacy of
the ATI courses from the ATI Graduates were not followed-up by DOT. In August 1987,
DOT submitted a proposal to IDA to recruit two consultants: (a) six mm of expatriate
services for establishing an ATI Tracer System; and (b) ten mm of local expert
services for establishing and implementing a system for monitoring and evaluation of
ATI training. IDA approved DOT's proposal but it was not implemented.
18.       Another four mm of consultants services provided to conduct an in-depth
study of the in-service training program of MOA were not utilized. The study was
expected to enable DOT to coordinate all training activities and needs of MOA.
However, in February 1985, MOA decided that coordination would be split between DOT
and the Trainin6 Wing of the Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council.   MOA's
decision seems to have been logical since DOT's main function was to plan and
coordinate   training of only extension personnel. Another 60 mm of consultants
services (revised to 50 mm) provided to implement the Agricultural Management
Development Program (AMDP) by June 1984 were fully utilized. The project envisaged
that the local AMDP instructors would fully take over the management of AMDP after
the consultants' services ended.  Although, in June 1984, under a MOA order, an
Agricultural Management Development Unit was created at CERDI with two local
instructors, the Unit could not operate due to lack of training funds, a problem
which also affected CERDI's other training programs. IDA missions proposed to DOT to
revise the Project Prof orma to allow IDA funds to be used for conducting the training
programs. IDA's proposal was accepted by MOA/DOT but not implemented.
19.       The 48 mm of consultants services provided by UNDP were subsequently
revised to 110 mm, of which 66 mm were local and 44 mm were expatriate services. Data
on the actual utilization of mm are not available in DOT and IDA records, nor could
they be obtained from UNDP/FAO because the mm were amalgamated with the consultancy
services provided to the Extension and Research II Project.  It is assumed that,
except for 12 mm for an ATI Farm Development Consultant, the total allocation was
largely used.   The UNDP/FAO consultants services were provided to assist DOT in
curriculum development, ATI/CERDI teacher training,  female BS training in home
science/management and agricultural manual production. The consultants provided good
support to the project but their outputs could not be fully used because of
administrative and procedural problems, such as vacancies in AT.s, non-implementation
of HAITI and delays in manual production. (para 29).
20.       Inadequate Operation and Maintenance (O&M) Budget for ATIs.  The Project
provided funds for incremental O&M costs during the project period.   Except for
salaries and stipends, adequate O&M funds were not provided to the ATIs. In FY87,
each ATI, on average, received Tk. 0.8 million compared to an estimated requirement
of Tk. 1.4 million. The December 1986 mission recommended that the ATIs be permitted
to retain their sales proceeds from farms to finance 0 & M costs instead of having
to deposit them to the Treasury. Preliminary calculations made by that mission
indicated that it could be done. The MOA agreed to examine the recommendation with
the Ministry of Finance after r' eiving a proposal from DAE providing sufficient
justifications.  The DAE proposal  .s not prepared and no follow-up was done by IDA
and DOT. In retrospect, given that, as a matter of fact, this sort of retention is
never sanctioned, the IDA missions should have pressed for adequate budget



- 7 -
allocations and the issue raised with Government at a main level. During Credit
negotiations, the Government provided an assurance that sufficient 0 & H funds would
be provided annually after completion of the Project. In FY90, each ATI will receive
on average, Tk. 0.15 million compared to an estimated requirement of Tk. 1.5 to Tk.
1.7 million. The proposed Agricultural Support Services Project will provide O&M
funds for the ATIs.
21.       Non-implementation of Operational Guidelines for ATI Farms. To improve the
practical training of ATI students, a criticel need, the project was to finance the
establishment and/or the improvement of irrigation and drainage systems and of farm
layouts. In addition to offering a general prescription on improvement of ATI farms,
the Project could have provided detailed ATI farm development guidelines. This would
have been useful since, under the First Agricultural Training Project, one of the
reasons for poor performance of the ATI farms was lack of management know-how to put
the land under cost-effective production.   Based on IDA supervision missions'
recommendations, the DOT and the ATIs, with assistance from the FAO/UNDP consultants,
developed Guidelines on ATI Farm Development in April 1986.   The December 1986
mission reported that the implementation of the guidelines was hampered due to lack
of an adequate O&M budget and delays in recruitment of an ATI farm development
consultant. The next mission in August 1987 reported the status of civil works under
the farm development component but made no reference to the implementation of the
guidelines and the recruitment of the consultant, who eventually was not recruited.
22.       Lack of Quarterly Reports:  Quarterly reports for project activities were
never submitted by DOT, contravening Section 3.04(b) of the Development Credit
Agreement (DCA).  Quarterly report formats were developed by the DOT management
consultant in May 1984 and approved by all concerned - IDA, DAE and MOA - by January
1985.  Fowever, the formats were not used by DOT, the probable reason being the
termination of the consultant's contract on January 31, 1985 (para 17). The next IDA
supervision mission, in October 1985, made no recorded reference to those formats.
Instead, that mission proposed new formats. However these too, despite several
reminders by IDA, were not used by DOT.  Following concerns expressed by the February
1986 mission, MOA entrusted the coordination of quarterly reporting of all
agricultural projects to the Planning Cell of the Ministry, which was to be assisted
by consultants in developing standard formats. This decision was not implemented by
the MOA, and, after the December 1986 mission, there was no further follow-up by IDA.
Thus the only reports on the DOT component were ad hoc status reports prepared for
IDA missions. PIW submitted a monthly report to IDA/MOA, which showed the status of
physical progress of civil works and procurement in percentage terms. In late i987,
PIW submitted two quarterly progress reports to IDA, whose presentation was similar
to the monthly report.
23.       Extension of Closxng Date.  The original Credit closing date was December
31, 1988 but, at the Government's request, it was extended by six months mainly to
complete procurement of outstanding project components, namely books and journals,
vehicles, and manuals. Only the books and journals were procured within the extended
period (para 29).
24.       Low Credit Disbursement.   Of the total Credit SDR 7.6 million (US$8.1
million), or 42%, was disbursed in SDR terms and 54% in US$ terms (Table 3, Part



- 8 -
III).   The main reasons for low credit disbursement were non-implementation or
inadequate utilization of project components, e.g., fellowships, technical assistance
and manuals production) and depreciation of the Taka.
25.       The absence of any meaningful quarterly reporting progress system showing
achievements against targets, reasons for deviations and plans for the next quarter,
led to poor monitoring of project activities.  In retrospect, it would have been
useful if the formats were developed at appraisal and used during project
implementation.
26.       Non-Implementation  of  Annual  Proiect  Evaluation          During  Credit
negotiations, an assurance was obtained from the Government that it would cause DOT
to conduct annual evaluations of the outcomes of the project.  This was not complied
with. During project implementation only one evaluation was carried out, and that
was by the Planning and Evaluation Wing (PEW) of DAE in July 1985. The quality of
that evaluation was good and the report contained a number of useful recommendations,
such as expeditious filling of ATI posts and procurement of tiaining materials and
production of manuals. The evaluation should have continued but there was no follow-
up by IDA aftor the October 1985 mission . In retrospect it was not appropriate to
have assigned DOT, which was responsible for implementation of the project, to do its
own evaluation, especially when there existed an Evaluation Wing in the DAE to do
such evaluations of agricultural projects.
27.       Project Risks. The only risk identified at appraisal was the possibility
of recurrence of student strikes due to the Government's decision not to lengthen the
two-year ATI course to three years, since the two-year period was considered adequate
to procuce qualified ATI graduates. The rationale for the three-year demand was to
entitle the ATI graduates to a salary level equal to that of diploma graduates in the
engineering field, who undertake three years of training. To address the issue of
career development of the ATI graduate, and hence of their salary levels, the project
had proposed the establishment of HAITI. During project implementation the three-year
demand was raised twice, the first time in la:.e 1984 and the second in late 1986,
which led to a series of strikes. The three-year demand was eventually approved by
the Government in March 1988 and implemented from July 1989 in four ATIs. Of the
remaining seven ATIs, two are engaged in in-service training of BS and five would be
used for conducting one-year upgrading course for the two-year ATI diploma holders.
The responsibility for implementing the three-year program has been entrusted to the
Technical Education Board (TEB) under the Ministry of Education. The ATIs, like the
vocational institutes, are affiliated to the TEB, and the DOT is represented as a
member in a number of committees, such as curriculum and admission.
F.        Proiect Results
28.       Proiect Obiectives: The project did not fully achieve its four objectives,
mainly because the inputs provided to meet the objectives were inadequate and/or
provided toward the closing of the project. The conclusions in in this section are
mostly based on project implementation analyses reported in the previous section.
29.       Since the ATI Tracer System, which was designed to obtain feedback on the
adequacy of ATI courses, was not carried out, it is difficult to assess the degree



- 9 -
to which the training provided under the project was effective in improving the
quality of middle-level training, which was the project's first and mairi objective.
However, there are a number of factors that indicate that the first objective was not
fully met. First, a large number of ATI instructor posts were vacant for most part
of the project. As a consequence, the ATIs had to combine class sections resulting
in as many as 80 to 90 students per class compared to the planned 50. Further, the
available teachers had to teach courses for which they were not prepared or trained.
This problem was acute for the fisheries, livestock and home science/management
subjects. Second, mainly as a result if the vacancies, the ATI instructors training
on teaching methods and on subject matter areas was not conducted as planned. As of
December 1986, only 54% of the instructors had received training in teaching methods.
Training on subject mattar mainly started in late 1987 and, till project closing,
about 65% were trained in only 5 out of the 11 subjects. Third, to assist the ATI
teachers in following the revised curriculum prepared by consultants and implemented
from July 1986, 11 instructors' training manuals were developed. The manuals were,
however, distributed to the ATIs only in early 1988, or at the end of the project.
Fourth, of the 25 manuals for the BS, only 14 were finalized and distributed to the
ATIs, the bulk of them in the second half of 1988. In June 1989, IDA agreed to a
Planning Commission proposal to utilize funds from the Extension and Research II
Project to produce the remaining 11 manuals; this, however, is yet to be implemented
by DOT. Fifth, the ATI farms were not operated efficiently because the operational
guidelines, which ware issued in April 1986, could not be fully followed due to
insufficient O&M buugets and failure to appoint a farm development consultant.
Sixth, the books and journals and training equipment for the ATIs were also procured
and distributed in late 1988.   Seventh, of the 12 mini-buses provided for the
ATI/HAITI to transport students to research stations and demonstration sites, only
four could be procured because of a Government restriction on purchase of mini-buses.
In June 1988, IDA agreed to a DOT proposal to procure jeeps instead of minibuses, but
it was not implemented.
30.       The second objective, relating to strengthening DOTs training management
functions, was also not fully met due to the following factors. First, the DOT was
not supported by adequate and specialist staff.   Second. the planned technical
support to DOT was not adequately provided. Third. the planned fellowships for DOT
staff were not implemented.
31.       The construction of the HAITI training center and the development of the
HAITI curriculum becr ' irrelevant to the third project objective--the formulation
of a career develop-      plan for middle-level agricultural technicians--due to
changes in eligibility requirements for higher studies and non implementation of the
HAITI program.
32.       The fourth objective relating to the extension for one year of the
Agricultural Management Development Program (AMDP) was satisfactorily carried out
under the project as planned and co. ..eted by June 1984. The project envisaged that
the local AMDP instructors would fully t ke over the management of AMDP after the
consultants' services ended. This, howeve., was not achieved due to lack of training
funds.



- 10 -
33.       Impact of the Proiect on Human Resources Development: Although the project
did not fully achieve its objective of improving the quality of the middle-level
technicians, it did generally achieve its quantitative training targets. Regarding
pre-service training. 3.523 graduatec;, which was about 90% of the appraisal estimate.
Data on the number of ATI graduates employed by the research institutes and by the
private sector is not available in the Division of Training. It is assumed that,
because of vacancies in the BS posts. virtually all the ATI graduates joined the DAE
as BS. Regarding upgrading training, 3.329 completed the program, or about 70% of
the appraisal estimate. Of the total trained under the upgrading course, 93% were
BS of DAE. Another 1,200 sugar extension workers, who were expected to be trained
at the ATIs, were trained by the Sugar Research Institute (Table 4, Part III).
G.        Project Sustainabilitv
34.       The two major benefits expected from the project were improved farmers'
skills and knowledge and better quality research as a result of better trained
agricultural staff. Since the project did not fully achieve its objectives, it must
be assumed to have contributed only partially to the attainment of the expected
benefits. In fact, the present view is that the BS cadre is still lacking the skills
needed for effective extension, and further training and a re-organization of the
extension system are being proposed under an Agricultural Support Services Project.
H.        IDA Performance
35.       Malor strenzths and Weakness.  IDA fielded ten supervision missions in the
six-year disbursement period. The missions were technically strong and there was
good staff continuity between missions. From February 1985, IDA decided to supervise
the Project simultaneously with two related on-going projects E&R II (Cr. 1215-BD)
and Agricultural Research II  (Cr.  1455-BD).   Although  the joint  supervision
arrangement was not consistently followed, it did contribute to a better
understanding and coordination of the related activities, particularly the UNDP/FAO
technical assistance support provided to Second Agricultural Training and E&R II
Projects. A major weakness, however, which must have contributed to the failure to
achieve objectives, was the lack of consistent follow-up of previous supervision
missions' recommendations (Section E)
36.       Lessons Learned.  All the lessons mainly deal with implementation.
(a)  IDA missions should have reported on the status of previous missions'
recommendations, and followed-up as necessary.
(b) At appraisal, the linkage between HAITI and training of BS at BAU should
have been more carefully examined (para 14).
(c) Given the management problems encountered by DOT, IDA missions,
particularly the October 1985 one, should have pressed for the
appointment of the management consultant for DOT (para 17).



- 11 -
(d) Given the experience gathered under the First Agricultural Training
Project, the SAR could have provided guidelines for the operations of ATI
farms and quarterly report formats (paras 21 and 22).
(e) In April 1986, when IDA informed the Government that it would
consider suspension of disbursements if ATI va^ancies were not
filled by April 30, 1986, it could have used that opportunity to
press the project authorities to submit the quarterly reports
regularly (para 22).
Based on the lessons learned under this project, the proposed Agricultural
Support Services Project (FY92) will address the management problems of DAE by
seconding a full-time expatriate Training Coordinator to the Department. This post
will be backed up by short-term consultants to strengthen the downstream training
activities at ATI level. Further, management training will be provided for senior
DAE staff. Moreover, to address the issue of inadequate O&M budget for the ATIs, the
proposed project will provide funding for the rehabilitation of DAE's training
facilities and equipment. Finally, to enhance the teaching skills of ATI staff, the
ASPP will have a training of trainers program.
I.        Borrower Performance
37.       Malor Strength and Weakness.  There was good continuity in the post of the
Project Director (PD). Of the two PDs, one retired in December 1984 and the other
continues to be in post. A major weakness was the lack of follow-up on assurances
provided to IDA missions (Seetion E).
38.       Lessons Learned.  The following lessons, similar to the ones reported in
para 36, may be learnt from the experiences in the project.
(a) The Government - MOA and DOT - should have made serious efforts to
act/follow-up on the assurances provided to IDA missions.
(b) DOT should have appointed a management consultant in 1985 to address its
management issues. DOT should have implemented its August 1987 proposal
to recruit an ATI Tracer System consultant and a Monitoring and Evaluation
consultant (para 17)
(c) The MOA should have provided adequate and specialist staff to DOT to
enable it to efficiently carry out its assigned functions (para 15).
J.        Project Relationship
39.       The Bank's relationship with the Government and the cofinancing/
executing agencies - UNDP/FAO - was good.



- 12 -
K.        Consulting Services
40.       The consulting services were satisfactory, but their outputs could not be
fully used because of administrative and procedural problems (paras 17 to 19).
L.        Project Documentation and Data
41.       The SAR refers to a set of working papers and tables in Annex 8 but it does
not provide any details on their contents. It would have been useful had working
papers been printed and circulated to the DOT and been available to IDA supervision
staff. Particularly had the documents included guidelines for the operation of the
ATI farms and quarterly report formats.



-13 -
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
A.  Confirm the Adequacy and Accuracy of the Factual Information Cor.tained in Part
III.
42.       The d -aft project completion report shows that the information included in
the report, except in para. 22, are relevant and are in conformity with the
activities of the project. As regards para 22 lack of quarterly reports, the actual
position was as follows: The quarterly report in a format covering the component-
wise activities of the project for the quarter ending in December 1984 and March 1985
were sent to RMB by DOT. subsequently as decided in the wrap up meeting said report
was sent to RMB through MOA on a quarterly basis up to the quarter ending in March
1987.
B. Evaluation of Bank's Performance and Lesson Learned.
43.       The relation of the Borrower with the Bank personnel was very good.  The
Bank made review of the project activities in a scheduled manner at an interval of
six to eight months. This length of time for review was appropriate.
44.       The major lesson learned was that the overall communications between the
Bank and Borrower regarding the continuous project implementation report and follow-
up should be strengthened.
C. Evaluation of Borrower's Own Performance and Lesson Learned
45.       The major components of the project like revision of curriculum for pre and
in-service training, procurement of books and equipment, preparation of ATI Farm
Development Guide and conducting pre and in-service training were completed during
the project period.   The procurement of vehicles and production of agricu-tural
training manual could not be made in full because of delay in the fulfillment of
administrative formalities, similarly, fellowship program and technical assistance
could not be fully utilized.
46.       The following shortcomings were observed during the implementation of the
project.
(a) There was no training budget of CERDI and the operation and maintenance
budget of ATIs was inadequate;
(b)  HAITI concept for training BSs at BAU in the under graduate.
D. The Major Lesson Learned
47.       While preparing Staff Appraisal Report, attempt should be made to identify
the project component keeping in view the project objective and the financial
involvement, so that it does not create difficulty in reflecting the same in the PP
and ADP as well. More stress should be given on continuous evaluation and monitoring
of the new project activities in a planned and regular way.



- 15 -
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1. Related IDA Sredit
Credit/    Purpose                Year of       Status           Comments
Title                            Approval
Credit     To facilitate          1975       Completed in      The project had
621-BD     agricultural pro-                 December, 1983,  accomplished its
First      duction by allow-                 two and a half   primary goal,
Agricul-   ing farmers a more                years after the  which was the
tural and  effective service                 original          establishment
Rural      through the provi-                closing date.    of an infra-
Training.  sion of qualified                                   structure for
and competent exten-                               agricultural
sion field staff                                   training, but it
and cooperative                                    had not improved
workers.                                           the quality of
the ATI training
program.



- 16 -
2. Prolect Timetable
Date            Date               Date
Item                Planned          Revised            Actual
Id.ntification            05/80
Preparation               09/80                                   09/80
Appraisal Mission    1. 02-03/81                               02-03/81
Appraisal Mission    2. 10-11/82                               11-12/82 2
Credit Negotiations      11/30/81                              04/11/83
Board Approval           02/23/82                              07/07/83
Credit Signature                                               08/31/83
Credit Effectiveness                           11/30/83        03/29/84
Completion Date          06/30/88              06/30/89        12/31/89
Closing Date             12/31/88              06/30/89       06/30/89 3
IDA postponed further processing of the project to incornorate the results
of the Government's decisions to reorganize the extension service and to
modify its policies on agricultural training.
2 The approval of the Project Proforma (PP) was delayed by the Government.
The PP is a Government document, which defines the project components,
categories and costs.
3 At the Government's request, the Credit was extended by IDA for six
months, mainly to complete procurement of books and journals, vehicles and
manuals. Only the books and journals were procured within the extended
period.



- 17 -
3.   Credit Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year                     Disbursements (US S Million)
and Semester              Estimated          Actual             Actual Z of
Cumulative        Cumulative         Estimated
1983/84     1
2               0.35                0.24                 69
1984/85     1                0.85               0.41                 48
2               1.65                0.61                 37
1985/86     1                2.45               1.91                 78
2               3.20                2.08                 65
1986/87     1                4.00               2.44                 61
2               5.15                2.83                 55
1987/88     1               6.30                3.16                 50
2               7.25                3.72                 51
1988/89     1               8.10                4.33                 53
2               8.10                4.33                 53
1989/90     1               8.10 1              4.35 2              54 3
1 In SDRs, it was equivalent to 7.60 million.
2 The final disbursement was on December 1, 1989. In SDRs, the total
disbursement was equivalent to 3.20 million. At appraisal US $ 1.00 =
Tk. 24.50.
3 In SDRs, the actual disbursement was 42% of the estimated project cost.



- 18 -
4. Project Implementation
Appraisal            Actual (or
Indicators/Unit                     Estimate             PCR Estimate)
A. Staffing    (No)
1.  ATI instructors               121 X                    101 2
2.  CERDI instructors               4                         4
B. ATI Trainina (1984-89) (No)
1.  Two Year Diploma            3,914                    3,523
2.  One-Year Upgrading          4.665                    3,329 '
C. Fellowships (Man-months)
1.  ATI                           132                      0 4
2.  CERDI                          48                       0 4
3.  HAITI                           12                      0 4
4.  DOT                            36                       0 4
D. Technical Assistance (Man-months)
1. DOT - Planning                  72                     NA 5
2. HOA - Training needs             4                       0 6
3. Management Training             60                        50
E. Procurement (No)
1. Mini Buses                      12                        4
2. Manuals                         25                       14
3. Books/Journals  (S)            100                       100
F. Civil Works   (No)
1. ATI Staff Quarters              669                      50
2. HAITI                             1                        1
G. Disbursements (US $ Million)         8.10                     4.35
Subsequently revised to 132 for 11 ATIs.
2 In 1988, Dinajpur ATI was converted into a college; therefore 12 instructor posts were
reduced.
3 According to DOT, this number was adequate to meet the demand for one-year upgrading course.
One of the reasons for the differences was that about 1,200 participants from the Sugar
Research Institute (SRI) did not participate; they were trained internally by SRI.
4Not implemented due to procedural delays.
5 Of the 24 man-months provided by IDA, only 12 man-months of local consultant's services
were utilized; the remaining 48 man-months, later revised to 110 man-months, were provided
under the UNDP/FAO project. Data on the actual utilization of man-montehs are not available
in DOT and IDA records, but it is assumed that, except for an ATI Farm Development
Consultant, the total allocation was largely used.
6 Not implemented by DOT.
7Eight could not be procured because of a Government restriction on procurement of mini-
busec
8 IDA agreed to a government request to produce the remaining 11 manuals under the E&R II
Project; this is yet to be implemented.
9 Subsequently revised to 50, based on a survey by PIW and DOT in project year one.



- 19 -
5. Pro1ect Costs and Financing
A. Prolect CoSts
(US $ Million)
AppDratealEgatiuat.                   Actual
Project component               1.9ralTT   6 tLocarTorelgn
Costs    MNc5L.S Coots  Total   Cost.   Exchant Costs  Total
1. IMPROVIN0 QUALITY 0F
MIDDLE LEVEL TRJUIN40
a) Prseervic. and          3.13          1.48          4.61      2.93      0.36           3.29
nrvics
Tr sin1n  Progr
b) Agril. Manual.           0.20         0.19          0.39      0.50       -             0.50
c) Inotructors Training      0.06           0.19             0.25
Sub-Totcl               3.39          1.86          5.25    3.43       0.36           3.79
2. Higher Agril. Inseivic.    0.76          0.59          1.35      1.14      0.04           1.18
Training Prograu
3. Training Kanageunt         0.07          0.71          0.76      -           -              -  I
assistance
4. Agril. Managemnt           0.06          0.18          0.24      -         0.22           0.22
Dvt. Training
Total base coots            4.28         3.34          7.62      4.57      0.62           3.19
5. Contingenciess
a) Unforeen               0.43          0.33         0.76        -          -
b) Price Escaltio  -        1.02           0.51            1.53          -           -
Total Froject cost        5.I3          4.1a         V.SI       4.a        .6Z           5.1S
1 Data could not be provided because of lack of record on actual utilization of UNDP
Technical Assistance funds - US$ 0.40 Million.



- 20 -
B. Project Financing
(US$ Million)
Source                   Planned Credit                  Final         Z
Agreement
IDA expenditure
Categories
1. Civil Works and Furniture    1.64                          1.46           89
2. Farm Development                0.76                       0.74           97
3. Vehicles, Equipment             0.68                       0.49           72
and Books
4. Manuals Production              0.35                       0.50          1.3
5. Fellowships and Local
Consultants                     1.19                       0.36           30
6. Expatriate Consultant
Services                      0.58                        -             -
7. Staff Salaries. Stipends
and Operating Costs             2.23                       0.80           36
8. Unallocated                     0.67                        -
Total IDA                       8.iJ                       4.35'          54
Co-financing Institution (UNDP)
1. Expatriate Consultant
Services                        0.4LU                         2
Total UNDP                    0.40
Domestic (GCOB) 3
1. Civil works and Furniture    0.29                          0.18            62
2. Farm Development                0.08                       0.07            88
3. Vehicles, Equipment & Books   -                            0.08             -
4. Staff Salaries, Stipends
and Operating Costs             0.95                       0.51            54
5. Unallocated 4                   0.09                        -
Total Domestic                      1.41                      0.84           60
---------------------------------------------------------------------__---
Total Project Costs                9.91                       5.19           52
---------------------------------------------------------------------__----
A balance of SDR 4,401,409 million (approximately US $ 3.75 million equivalent) was
canceled on March 5, 1990.
2 Data not available (Table SA).
i ncludes US $ 0.42 million for taxes in planned credit agreement.
4Includes physical contingencies only.



- 21 -
6.   Proiect Results
D.  Studies
Purpose as
Study                     Defined at                                   Impact
Appraisal                 Status             of study
1.  In-service training   To develop a             Not conducted 2
programs under the    proposal to
Ministry of Agri-        enable DOT
culture (MOA).           to effectively
coordinate all
in-service
training
programs of the
MOA.
Tables A (Direct Benefits), B (Economic Impact) and C (Financial Impact) were not prepared since no
quantifiable benefits were provided at appraisal.
2   In February, 1985 MOA decided that NOA in-service training would be coordinated by DOT and the
Training Wing of the Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council.



- 22 -
7.        Status of Covenants
DCA Section      Brief Description of Covenants   Compliance                  Remarks
Carry out the Project with due       Partial      ATI Instructor posts were not filled.
3.01(a)          diligence and efficiency, and                       In  April  1986.  IDA  informed  the
provide   funds,   facilities,                     government  that  it  would  consider
services and other resources                      suspension   of   disbursements    if
required for the project.                         vacancies  (602) were not  filled by
April  30,  1986.       As  a  result,
vacancies  improved  but  fluctuated
between    10-202    till    project
completion.
3.02(a)          Employ consultants on terms and       Partial       Planned  consultancy provisions were
conditions satisfactory to the                     not fully utilized.
Association.
3.04(b)          Furnish at regular intervals          No           At Credit negotiations, this covenant
(lii)          information   concerning   the                     was  interpreted  as  submission  of
project its costs, benefits,                       quarterly  progress  reports.    This
and    goods    and    services                    covenant was not complied with by DOT.
provided.
3.04(b)          Conduct a yearly evaluation of        Partial      Only one evaluation was done for the
(iv)           the out-come of the project and                    period July 13a3 to June 1985.
furnish report to IDA not later
than six months after the end
of each fiscal year.
3.04(d)          Provide a project completion         Yes            Part  II  of  the  Project  Completion
report to IDA.                                    Report has been submitted.
3.05             Provide funds for operation and       Partial      Adequate O&M funds were not provided
maintenance (O&M) of physical                      to ATIs and CERDI.
facilities.
3.06             Establish: (a) three additional       Partial       Posts were established but vacancies
posts, two of which shall be of                    in ATI and CERDI instructor posts were
senior  level;  and  (b)  four                     reported by supervision missions.
senior instructors for CERDI.
3.07              Furnish to IDA for comments,         Partial       Curriculum for (a) was finalized in
curricula  for  (a)  training                     March 1986 but not implemented.
middle-level    staff    for                       Curriculum for (b) was not prepared as
promotion to higher positions;                     per advice of Bangladesh Agricultural
and  (b)  for  admission  to                       University.
university.
3.08(a)          Appoint  staff of DOT,  ATIs,        Yes           DOT and CERDI directors, and ATI and
HAITI and CFRDI as counterparts                    HAITI principals vere designated as
of  the  consultants  to  be                       counter-parts.
employed under the project.
3.08(b)          Prepare and implement a five          Partial       Plan was prepared in 1983 and revised
year training plan.                                in  1985.    Training was  not  fully
conducted according to plan.
4.01(c)          Furnish to IDA audited accounts       Partial      Audit   reports   on   Statements   of
within nine months of the end                      Expenditures were submitted within the
of FY (by March 31)                                due date.   Audit reports on annual
accounts were generally submitted
late.



- 23 -
8. Use of Bank Resources
A.  Staff Inout.
(Staff weeks)
Stage of
Project Cycle         Planned           Revised 1       Final
Identification/                  -                 -             58.5
Preparation(LENP)
Appraisal                         -                -             68.8
Negotiations                     -                 -              2.1
Supervision                      -                 -             62.5
PCR                              -                 -              3.2
Total                                                       195.1
Not available



- 24 -
B. Missions
Stage of                 Month/       No. of        Days       Specialization    Performance Rating Types of
Project                  Year          Persons      in Field  Represented               Status             Problems
Cycle
Identification        06/80            2           NA 2         Agr. Educator
Architect
Preparation           09/80            3           21          Agr Train/Ext Spec
Agr Educator
Economist
Appraisal 1           02/81            3           28           Agr. Educator
Economist
Architect
Appraisal 2           12/82            2           18           Agr. Educ.
Agriculturist
Supervision 1         03/84            2            2          Agr. Educator
Architect
Supervision 2         04/84            1            2          Agriculturist                1
Supervision 3         11/84            1            7          Agr. Educator                1
Supervision 4         02/85            1           18 3         Agriculturist                2 4        MT
Supervision 5         11/85            1           NA 2        Agriculturist                2            MFD
Supervision 6         03/86            1           17 3        Agriculturist                4 5          MFD
Supervision 7         04/86            1           12          Agr. Educator                2            MD
Supervision 8         12/86            1           20          Agriculturist                2            MFD
Supervision 9         08/87            1           12          Agr. Educator                2            MD
Supervision 10        06/88            2            8          Agr. Educator                1
Economist
I  H - Managementt S- *chnical; P * Availability of lund.; and D * Dvelopmnt impact.
2  NA - Mot Available
3  Slaultaneous supervision of three related IDA-sealeted projects  Second Agricultur*l Training. Erztenion and Research
II and Agricultural Research II - conducted by *taff of tbh Resident Mission in Bangladeah.
4  Supervisions I to 4 were based on old Form 590 fomat; I-problem free or minor probless. and 2-moderate problems.
Supervision 5 onwerds were based on nw form 590 format; -none or sinor problem  2-moderate problms; -soderrte
problems; 3-major problem which are being addressed adequately. and 4_a3r probles  icb *r not being sddresoed
adequately and which require further action by Borrower/implementing Agency.
S  The rating was 4 becauoe of serious vacancies in ATI instructor posts. IDA recomended suspension of disbursemnts if
the vacant poets were not filled by April 196. An April 30. 1966 supervision mission confirmd that the posts had been
f illed.



