Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICAUL USE ONLY
Repwt No. P-3614-BD
REPORT AND RECODMMATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAI DEVrELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 7.6 MILLION
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR A
SECOND AGRICULTURAL TRAINING PROJECT
June 15, 1983
This document bas a restricted distribufion  d my be wvd by recipients only in the perfaonoce of
their oticial dutis. Its entents may not otherwise be disclosed withot  Word ack anthorztion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The Bangladesh Taka (Tk) is fixed in relation to a basket of
reference currencies, with the US Dollar serving as intervention currency.
On January 11, 1983, the official exchange rate was set at Tk 24.48 buying
and Tk 25.52 selling per US Dollar. Throughout this report the rates shown
below have been used:
US$ = Tk 24.5
Tk 1 = US$ 0.04
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS TUSED
LMDP       - Agricultural Mana'ement Development Program
ATI        - Agricultural Training Institute
BAC        - Bangladesh Agricultural College
BAU        -  Bang!adesh Agricultural University
CERDI      -  Central Extension Resources Development Institute   -
DAE        -  Department of Agricultural Extension
DAEM       -  Directorate of Agriculture (Extension and Management)
DOT        -  Division of Training, DAE
FAO        - Food and Agriculture Organization
GOB        -  Government of Bangladesh
HAITI      - Higher Agricultural In-Service Training Institute
MOA        - Ministry of Agriculture
PIW        - Project Implementation Wing
UNDP       - United Nations Development Programme
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
SECOND AGRICULTURAL TRAINING PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:       People's Republic of Bangladesh
Amount:          SDR 7.6 million (US$8.1 million equivalent)
Terms:          Standard
Project:        The proposed project is the second agricultural training
project and would assist the Government to upgrade the
quality of the extension and research services by (a)
improving the quality of middle level training and higher
level in-service training of the Ministry of Agriculture
(MOA); (b) developing a career development strategy for
extension agents and Cc) extending the ongoing Agriculture
Maxagement Development Program for one year.
Risks:          There is one significant risk associated with the proposed
project. The Government's recent decision not to lengthen
the two-year Agricultural Training Institutes (ATIs) course
to three years and to maintain the present salary level of
ATI graduates may lead to student strikes. If this happens,
the overall impact of the project in improving the quality of
training would be delayed or reduced. However, this risk
should be minimized by the establishment of the H_gher
Agricultural In-Service Training Institute which provides
training for selected ATI graduates in the MOA to qualify
them for entry to university and subsequently afford them
with opportunities for promotion.
Tdocment hbas a nsticted distbutn and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnsme of
thIeof=ia dutie Its contents my not otherwise be ilosd without World Bank authoriation.



-ii-
Estimated Cost: /a
Items                           Local    Foreign    Total
US$ Millions
Middle Level Training
Pre-service and Inrservice              3.0       1.5      4.5
Training
Agricultural Manuals                    0.2       0.2      0.4
Instructor Training                     0.1       0.2      0.3
Higher Agricultural In-Service Training  0.8        0.6       1.4
Institute
Training Management Assistance            0.1       0.7      0.8
Agriculture Management Development        0.1       0.1      0.2
Training
Total Base Costs                        4.3       3.3      7.6
Physical Contingency                      0.4       0.4      0.8
Price Contingency                         1.0       0.5      1.5
Total Project Cost                      5.7       4.2      9.9
/a Includes taxes of US$ 0.4 million equivalent.
Financing Plan:                                      Local    Foreign    Total
US$ Millions
IDA                                       4.3       3.8       8.1
UNDP                                       -        0.4       0.4
Government                                1.4        -         1.4
Total                                     5.7       4.2       9.9
Estimated
Disbursement:
IDA FY         FY84    FY85    FY86    FY87    FY88    FY89
Annual             0.35    1.30    1.55    1.95    2.10    0.85
Cumulative         0.35    1.65    3.20    5.15    7.25    8.10
Economic Rate
of Return:          Not Applicable
Appraisal Report:     BANGLADESH:  Second Agricultural Training Project,
Report No. 3598-BD, dated May 2, 1983.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH FOR A
SECOND AGRICULTURAL TRAINING PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation for a proposed
development credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for SDR 7.6 million
(the equivalent of US$8.1 million), on standard IDA terms to help finance
a Second Agricultural Training Project. Parallel financing in the form of a
grant of about US$0.4 million equivalent would be made by the UNDP.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
Introduction
2.      An economic report entitled "Bangladesh:  Recent Economic Trends and
Medium-Term Development Issues," (Report No. 4277-BD, dated March 4, 1983)
has been distributed to the Executive Directors.
3.      The first years of independence were difficult for Bangladesh.  Its
economy was disrupted and its infrastructure severely damaged by the strugglk
for independence. The country was afflicted by poor harvests and devastating
floods in the early 19709. Agriculture and manufacturing production fell
drastically and only recovered to pre-independence ii:vels in the mid 1970s.
Inflation, declining real wages, rapid population growth, labor unrest and
political instability added to the difficulties. In these early years,
Bangladesh's policy makers were by necessity largely preoccupied with matters
of relief and rehabilitation and the need to shape a national government out
of a provincial administration. The First Five-Year Plan (FY74-78) had to
be scrapped and replaced by a scaled-down and refocussed three-year "Hardcote
Program" (FY76-78) in response to the enormity of the country's difficulties.
4.      Economic progress and increased political stability in the second
half of the past decade provided planners the opportunity to turn their
attention from crisis management to the longer-range objectives of develop-
ment. Between FY75 and FY80, GDP increased by about 5.8% p.a. despite
several setbacks in agricultural production. Output in manufacturing rose by
about 6.3% annually between FY75 and FY80, most of this growth taking place
outside the jute industry. Although shortfalls in domestic foodgrain sup-
plies and increases in international petroleum prices led to a deterioration
1/ Parts I and II of this report are substantially the same as Parts I and
II of the President's Report for the Public Administration (Training,
Personnel and Management) Project (Report No. P-3493-BD), dated
March 24, 1983.



-2-
in the balance of payments in FY80, the concluding years of the decade wit-
nessed a number of encouraging developments and positive policy measures to
attain longer-term development goals. These included a strengthening of
budgetary policies, improvements in agricultural and food distribution
policies and steps to promote a more active role by the private sector in
developing the economy.
Recent Economic Developments
5.      The economic consolidation in the second half of the past decade has
been followed by a period of economic difficulties. Bangladesh experienced
serious budgetary and balance of payments problems in FY81 which continued
into FY82. The external and domestic resource constraints led to some
decline in investment, in real terms, and some loss of momentum in the
development effort. The management of domestic food situation, due to poor
crops, has also posed considerable problems. Although GDP at market prices
increased by 6% in FY81 (as favorable weather and stepped-up provision of
agricultural inputs helped to increase foodgrain production to a record 14.8
million tons), growth of the economy became negligible in FY82 due to
poor crops, lagging rural incomes and consumer demand and the decline in
investment. A recovery in winter crops (wheat and boro rice' due to *mproved
weather and the Government's efforts to expand minor irrigation facilities,
however, is expected to increase value-added in agriculture by 3.4% and
overall growth of the economy by 2.5% in FY83.
6.      The economic difficulties experienced in the last few years is
indicati't7 of major constraints to sustained economic development in
Bangladesh in the near term. These are (a) a severe balance of payments
problem; (b) an extremely tight -)ublic finance situation; and (c) a food
production and management problem.
7.      Bangladesh's balance of payments is characterized by a massive struc-
tural trade deficit and heavy dependence on foreign aid. Export earnings
are currently less than 30% of the import bill and over 50% of these limited
export earnings is derived from raw jute and jute goods. Although export
earnings doubled over the second half of the past decade due to a significant
strengthening of export prices, and remittances from abroad increased
rapidly, the current account deficit over the past decade averaged over 10%
of GNP annually, financed by external aid inflows, provided mainly on conces-
sional terms by external donors. In FY81 and FY82, however, Bangladesh was
adversely affected by (a) a severe deterioration in its terms of trade and
(b) a simultaneous stagnation in external aid inflows. A sharp decline in
export prices of raw jute and jute goods and of major non-traditional exports
(notably leather and fish products), combined with a 14% increase in average
import prices (partly reflecting significantly higher petroleum prices), led
to a 16% deterioration in Bangladesh's terms of trade in FY81.  While import
prices remained relatively stable in FY82, export prices declined by a fur-
ther 16% due to cortinued stagnation of demand for raw jute and jute goods,
and the terms of trade deteriorated further by 17% in FY82. At the same time



-3-
external aid inflows, which rose steadily until FY80, stagnated or declined;
aid disbursements in FY82 were only 4% higher than in FY79 in real terms, and
in FY81 were 7% lower than FY79 levels. During FY81 the Government attempted
to cope with this reduction in the availability of external resources by
resorta.g to short-term commercial borrowing, short-term deposits from and
curren.y swaps with friendly countries, some run-down of reserves and assis-
tance from the IMF under an Extended Financing Facility (EFF) arrangement
concluded in December 1980. However, the EFF arrangement was suspended in
July 1981, as the Government's budgetary problems led to a large
bank-financed budget deficit and to the violation of credit ceilings agreed
with the IMF. In FY82 the Government attempted to slow down the growth of
imports through a variety of measures. Nevertheless further short-term
borrowing of $226 million and a run-down of Bangladesh's meager foreign
exchange reserves te about US$100 million (equivalent to about two weeks'
imports) were necessary to finance the reduced level of imports.
8.      The balance of payments situation in FY83 will benefit from a
significant improvement in the terms of trade, a substantial increase in
workers' remittances to about US$600 million and a 9% increase in total aid
disbursements due to an improved response from donors to Bangladesh's recent
requests for more food and commodity aid. The Government is also drawing
upon assistance from the IMF under a Standby Arrangement in an amount of SDRs
68.4 million covering the period up to August 1983. Rising medium and
long-term debt se-rice payments (from US$98 million in FY82 to US$155 million
in FY83) will, however, claim part of this increase in external resources;
Bangladesh will be also making net payments of about $100 million on out-
standing short-term debts.
9.      The deterioration in the trade and aid climate had a major adverse
impact on public finances during FY81 and FY82. Government's receipts of
local counterpart funds--a principal source of taka resources-were reduced,
as were its receipts from import duties and sales taxes, which account for
nearly 60% of total tax revenues. These budgetary problems were exacerbated
by weak financial planning and inadequate domestic adjustments in the face of
generally reduced availability of resources. The Government's development
programs were predicated on the basis of overly optimistic assumptions
regarding resource availabilities; and the poor financial performance of
public enterprises, due to low levels of efficiency and delays in increasing
their sales prices added a further drain on the budget. A budget deficit of
Tk 5 billion or about 2.5% of GNP emerged in FY81 even though the Annual
Development Program (ADP) was cutback by 12% in the second half of the fiscal
year. In FY82, the cutbacks in imports noted earlier sharply reduced govern-
ment revenues; and this caused serious difficulties in implementing the ADP
which was again initially set at ambitiously high levels. Although the Taka
component of the ADP was cutback by 15% in the third quarter of FY82, it was
possible to avoid a deficit in the overall government budget only because a
sharp run-down in government's food stocks as a result of poor domestic crops
helped to produce a substantial cash surplus on the food account.



-4-
10.     Although considerable progress has been made in the past ten years
in increasing the availability of irrigation and other irnputs and improving
agricultural policies, foodgrain production and supply in Bangladesh remains
heavily dependent on the vagaries of the weather. Prolonged drought since the
summer of 1981 adversely affected the FY82 and FY83 rice crops. The short-
fall in foodgrain production in FY82 (0.4 million tons or 3% below FY81
levels) led to high food prices in FY82, low goverument procurements,
increased demand for foodgrain distributed through the ration system and a
substantial run-down of public sector foodgrain stocks to about 600,000 tons
by end-June 1982, far below the levels considered to be sufficient for food
security purposes. In ordet to replenish stocks the Government made substan-
tial commercial imports, thereby imposing further strain on the balance of
payments.
11.     The Government endeavored to cope with the intensifying problems
facing the economy by placing restrictions on imports, public sector expendi-
tures and bank credit, reducing various subsidies, and allowing the Taka to
depreciate. In FY82 the Taka was depreciated by about 10% in relation to a
basket of currencies to which it is pegged and by about 22% in relation to
the US dollar. 1/ However, the rate of domestic inflation, spurred on by
sharp increases7in foodgrain prices in mid FY82, the adjustments in the
exchange rate and rapid expansion of domestic liquidity in late FY81
accelerated and the consumer price index increased by 15% over the 12 month
period ending June 1982.
12.     Faced with continuing prospects of unfavorable terms of trade and
stagnating resource availabilities, the Government, in the FY83 budget (in
July 1982), introduced a wide range of policy measures designed to adjust the
economy to the country's serious resource constraints. ProJected development
expenditures for FY83 were reduced by nearly 20% in line with resource
availabilities, while the increase in recurrent expenditures was limited to
14%, only slightly above the forecast inflation level. The Government also
introduced new tax measures expected to yield Tk 1.17 billion (about 0.5% of
GDP) in FY83. In addition, a number of substantial subsidy and pricing
adjustments aimed at reducing consumption and protecting investments were
made. Ration prices of wheat and rice were increased by 11% and 8%, respec-
tively and fertilizer prices were increased by 14% on average. The Govern-
ment also recognized the need to improve the financial performance of public
sector enterprises and utilities; and product prices and rates were raised
substantially in the case of petroleum products (41%), electricity tariffs
(40%) and natural gas (13%). These measures are expected tc' channel resour-
ces from private consumption to public investment and, together with a cash
surplus on the food account noted earlier, will help improve the overall
budgetary position, and restore a greater measure of financial stability.
1/ Change from end-June 1981 to early June 1982.



-5-
External Debt
13.     Debt service payments on medium and long term debt totalled US$94
million in FY80 and US$92 million in FY81. Bangladesh's debt service ratio,
about 12.9% in FY80 following some debt relief me=sures undertaken by various
donors, remained at this level in FY81. The debt service ratio might exceed
20% by the mid-19Mns, unless careful debt management policies are pursued and
aid is provided on concessional terms. Bangladesh's total outstanding and
disbursed external public debt amounted to just under US$3.6 billion as of
June 30, 1981 with IDA credits and the single IBRD loan accounting for 30% of
the total. In FY81, the Bank Group accounted for 3% of Bangladesh's total
debt service payments: because assistance is now entirely in the form of IDA
credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly.
Development Planning and Policy Issues
14.     The Second Five-Year Plan (SFYP), issued in draft form in May
1980, accords high priority to four major goals: (i) achievement of
self-sufficiency in foodgrains by FY85, with domestic foodgrain production
targeted to increase to 20 million tons by FY85; (ii) reduction of the
population growth rate with a view to bringing down the net reproduction rate
to unity by 1990; (iii) progress towards mass literacy through free universal
primary education; and (iv) emphasis on energy development, particularly
through accelerated exploitation of known reserves of natural gas.
15.     The potential for increasing foodgrain output in Bangladesh is con-
siderable. Surface and groundwater resources permit a substantial expansion
of irrigation, which in turn would permit increased fertilizer use and shifts
to high yielding varieties of rice. The Government has formulated, with
assistance from IDA, a Medium-Term Foodgrain Production Plan (MTFPP) which
provides an investment portfolio geared towards the attainment of the SFYP
target of 20 million tons of foodgrains. This target is now being scaled
down in view of the country's resource constraints. The achievement of even
this revised target will depend considerably on the allocation of sufficient
resources to provide needed inputs to farmers and to permit the private
sector to play an expanded role in the provision and servicing of modern
agricultural implements and inputs. Other necessary requirements are ade-
quate levels of foreign aid to finance imported inputs, improved extension
services and training, and appropriate producer incentives.
16.     Achievement of the second objective, reduction of the population
growth rate, will require more determined efforts than have been made thus
far, especially with regard to birth control efforts which have generally
suffered from poor implementation and have had only limited success.
Recently, however, birth control activities within the Government have been
coordinated, while training programs for field staff have been revised and
are now, for the first time, considered adequate. GOB is now preparing, with
bank assistance, a medium-terr. implementation plan for the population sector.



-6-
17.     The third major objective of the SFYP is the attainment of general
literacy. The Government recognizes that achievement of the goal will take
longer tnan five years, but it has set itself the ambitious target of intro-
ducing universal primary education and enrolling 90% of all children of
primary-school age by 1985. IDA has assisted GOB in preparing a medium-term
plan for the education sector.
18.     A Plan aimed at effecting significant departures from past trends
will place severe strains on financial resources and managerial skills. A
major challenge which the Government is now facing is to translate the objec-
tives of the SFYP into en operational tiplementation program on an annual
basis. The Government has recently .evised the draft SFYP, and this revised
Plan includes some welcome new initiatives, for example increased emphasis on
rural development, energy development and addressing the problem of rural
unemployment. Some of the targets of the revised Plan and especially its
macro-economic framework are, however, still ambitious and will need to be
adjusted; more work and considerable discipline are also needed to identify
core programs and projects and protect them to the extent possible in a
situation of resource scarcity. A critical factor will also be the extent to
which project implementation capabilities are improved. Although immediate
improvements can be made, it is unlikely that the efforts of public agencies
alone would be adequate to achieve the targeted breakthrough. The Government
recognizes that in certain key areas greater reliance will have to be placed
on the private sector. It also believes that, to a certain extent,
activities such as education and rural development should be carried out in a
decentralized fashion, with greater emphasis on local initiative and
grass-roots participation.
19.     Over the past few years, a series of studies undertaken by IDA, GOB
and other organizations has concluded that exis.ing trade and industrial
policies have distortionary effects on resource allocations within the
industrial sector. The Government is now preparing a program for trade and
industrial policy reform which is expected to lead to a medium-term program
of actions to be pursued across a broad front, including modifications in the
tariff structure, the pattern of domestic indirect taxation, investment
incentives, export policies and the mechanism for industrial promotion and
planning. The Government's New Industrial Policy, announced last -rear, also
provides for a greater role of the private sector in economic development.
Many of the key elements of this policy are already being implemented,
including he divestment of major segments of the jute and textile industries
to the private sector.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
20.     Bangladesh became a member of the Bank and IDA in 1972.  Initially,
Bank Group operations in Bangladesh concentrated on the reactivation of
eleven credits, amounting to US$146.76 million, made originally to Pakistan.



-7-
before 1971; in addition, a consolidation loan of US$54.9 million and credit
of US$31.04 million to cover liabiliAes arising from projects located in
Bangladesh and completed prior to independence was approved in 1974. As of
March 31, 1983, 66 new credits have been approved, totaling US$2,215.70
million; of these, US$867.2 million have been for Import credits (eleven
imports program credits and two fertilizer imports credits). Annex II con-
tains a summary statement of IDA credits and disbursements as of March 31,
1983, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. On June 18, 1976,
Bangladesh became a member of the IFC, and two investments (for a shipbuild-
ing company and an investment promotion company) have been approved.
21.     The FOcus of IDA assistance in recent years has been on agriculture
(20 of the projects approved as o, March 31, 1983, and two fertilizer imports
credits). This is consistent with the country's needs and the Government's
priorities. Particular emphasis continues to be placed on projects that
provide agricultural inputs, including fertiLizer, fertilizer transport,
irrigation, improved seeds, extension, and :redit and storage facilities. In
addition to agricultural projects, emphasis is also being placed upon com-
plementary infrastructural projects in sectors which facilitate agricultural
development or which reduce bottlenecks constraining the economy's overall
performance. In the power sector, for example, IDA is assisting in rural
electrification and elimination of shortages of generation capacity and
distribution facilities which have been a major impediment to utilization of
existing industrial capacity. Assistance for developing telecommunications
is designed to improve the efficiency of a wide-range of economic and social
activities. Recent IDA lending has also emphasized increasing importance to
the early development of the hydrocarbon sector aimed at relieving the burden
of oil imports on the country's balance of payments through substitution of
domestic natural gas for imported oil, as well as assisting Bangladesh to
realize the foreign exchange potential of its substantial resources of domes-
tic natural gas.
22.     Industry has been the main beneficiary of the ten imports program
credits approved to date. Given the need for substantial net transfers of
resources and the persistent structural imbalance and weakness of the
economy, program lending will continue to be an important component of IDA
operations in Bangladesh. The industrial sector has also benefited from two
fertilizer production projects, a Jute industry rehabilitation project, several
Development Finance Companies and small-scale industry aroiects and two IFC loans.
23.     The enormity of Bangladesh's population problem makes this an
extremely high priority sector as well, limited only by its absorptive
capacity. IDA has made two credits available in support of GOB's population
program, which is now making some progress. Improved education and
availability of trained manpower are also crucial, and lending in this field
has emphasized agricultural, technical and vocational training, and primary
education.



-8-
24.     Disbursement of the imports program credits has proceeded satisfac-
torily. Project disbursements have lagged behind expectations, owing largely
to delays in the release of local funds, approval of contracts, employment of
consultants, and appointment of staff. Underlying these delays were serious
constraints that included a shortage of qualified staff, overcentralized
bureaucratic procedures and organizational deficiencies. IDA and GOB have
given increased attention to regular monitoring and supervision in order to
identify and resolve potential problems. IDA is providing assistance both
under specific projects and under technical assistance credits to improve
planning, project preparation and implementation capabilities.
25.     In view of Bangladesh's difficult foreign exchange position and
savings/investment gap, IDA credits should continue to cover all foreign
exchange costs and a portion of local currency expenditures.
PART III - AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING
26.     To meet the objectives of improving the quality of agricultural
extension and research services, a supply of well trained manpower is of
paramount importance. At the professional level, there is an adequate supply
of agricultural graduates from the Bangladesh Agricultural University (BAU)
and the Bangladesh Agricultural College (BAC). At the technician level,
however, only about 50% have adequate training. The current ratio of diploma
level village extension agents 1/ to farming families is about 1:1400. The
Government plans to achieve a ratio of 1:1200 by 1987 and 1:900 by 1990.
With current staff levels at about 6,400, it is estimated that about 15,000
traincd agricultural technicians, of whom 12,200 will be Department of
Agriculture Extension (DAE) employees, would be required to meet the 1990
target. The additional technicians will be met from the output of the
two-year diploma course of the Agricultural Training Institutes (ATIs) and of
the one-year upgrading course which would be established at some ATIs under
the proposed project for selected staff of MOA who are secondary school
graduates.
27.     Professional Level Training.  There are two institutions which
provide pre-service training leading to Bachelor's and Master's degrees in
the agricultural sciences. These are the BAU located at Mymensingh and the
BAC in Dhaka. Both institutions are under the general administration of the
Ministry of Agriculture (MOA). BAU admits holders of the Higher School
Certificate (Grade 12) to the B.Sc. program. Total enrollment is about 3,200
with a teaching staff of about 300. On the average, BAU has a total annual
output of some 350 B.Sc. and M.Sc. graduates, the majority of whom come from
three faculties - Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and Agricultural Economics
and Rural Sociology. BAC only offers a degree in general agriculture. It
1/ The term village extension agent was recently changed in Bangladesh to
Block Supervisor.



-9-
has an enrollment of about 500, a teaching staff of about 55, and an average
yearly output of 60. It is situated within Dhaka's urban area on about 35
acres of land, which is insufficient to maintain livestock for teaching
p--rposes. However, the college has access to the Directorate of Livestock's
poultry and livestock demonstration units and uses these for practical
training.
28.     Middle (Diploma) Level Training.  Pre-service training to the diploma
lcvel for agricultural technicians, the majority of which are e=nloyed as
general extension workers, is conducted at ATIs. The Division of Training
(DOT) in the DAE admiTisters the ATIs. Originally these institutions were
intended to train village extension agents for employment solely by the then
existing Directorate of Agriculture (Extension and Management) (DAEM).1/ Due
to the increasing and varied demand from other government agencies, the
training content will have to be broadened to ensure that ATI graduates can
perform multifunctional tasks in agriculture.
29.     There are 11 ATIs with a total enrollment capacity of about 2,700.
Five of the ATIs have been recently constructed and equipped; one by GOB, one
through a Danish International Development Assistance grant and three by an
ongoing IDA. assisted project (Credit 621-BD). Four existing ATIs were also
renovated and partially equipped under the project. Two other existing ATIs
are located in old and dilapidated premises which will be vacated in 1985
when two new ATIs are completed; one is now under construction by Government
at Barisal, and the other would be built at Joydebpur under a second Danish
grant.
30.     The ATI diploma course lasts two years.  Places at ATIs are offered
to grade ten secondary school leavers on a competitive basis. ThF. current
curriculum covers general agricultural subjects including animal husbandry
and fisheries.  The female students take home economics and home management
courses during the time male students take farm machinery courses. During
the first year, training is conducted entirely on campus. During the second
year, trainees spend about 30% of their time in the field under an appren-
ticeship to serving extension officers.
31.     In-service Training.  Although in-service training at the profes-
sional level is relatively -,ell organized, there is poor co-ordination
between the agencies involved, and programs are not well conceived. The
Bangladesh Rice Research Institute offers regular courses in rice production,
while the Bangladesh Agriculture Research Institute conducts training for
production specialists in various other crops. In addition, the Graduate
Training Institute of BAU conducts courses in extension methodology and
offers an apprenticeship program in agricultural extension activities for
1/ DAEM was replaced by the Department of Agricultural Extension (DAE) in
1982.



-10-
recent agriculture graduates who intend to join the extension service as well
as training in animal husbandry and in rural development strategies. Training
for ATI teachers in agricultural subjects is conducted at the Central Exten-
sion Resources Development Institute (CERDI), one of the traiLLing institutes
under the MOA (see paragraph 48).
32.     In-service training for middle-level technician staff is carried out
by individual agencies and is less well organized. The DAE organizes
specific in-service training courses as and when required but will need to
concentrate for the next few years on a massive program to handle the large
number of partially trained or totally untrained secondary school leavers who
have been appointed as agricultural technicians in various agricultural
directorates, boards and agencies. This in-service program will be carried
out at the ATIs.
Policies and Problems in Agricultural Training.
33.     Government's policies and programs for agricultural education and
training at the professional level have been pursued mainly through the
development of BAU and BAC. Tne Government intends to further improve the
quality of training at the professional level by moving the campus of BAC
from Dhaka to Joydebpur where an agriculture research complex is located and
where adequate farm land is available for practical training.  A new develop-
ment in professional level agricultural training has been the introduction of
short courses provided by consultants financed under the first Agricultural
Training Project (Credit 621-BD). This scheme -- the Agricultural Manage-
ment Development Program (AMDP) - commenced in March 1981 and aims to
improve the management and supervision of some 20 IDA assisted agricultural
development projects whose slow rate of implementation has caused concern to
both the Government and IDA.  It has been generally recognized that the
shortage of trained and experienced project managers was one of the major
causes. After the program, which to date has focussed on training of
agricultural project managers and their staff, has been solidly established
it is to be expanded to include project managers and staff of development
projects in other sectors.
34.     For middle (Diploma) level agricultural education, the Goverrment, in
the past, has adopted policies which adversely affected training at this
level. All ATls were put under the administration of the DAEM. DAEM
appointed all ATI students to the extension service at the time of their
enrollment and bonded them to serve with DAEK for at least five years upon
completion of their training. This had two effects. First, none of the
other agricultural agencies had a chance of hiring ATI graduates and there-
fore suffered from lack of qualified middle-level staff. To overcome this,
these agencies instituted their own often poorly conceived training programs
to meet manpower needs. The second effect was that ATI students did not
devote sufficient time to study as employment at the end of the two-year
course was assured. Recently, however, GOB decided that beginning July 1983,
all students admitted to ATIs would be eligible for employment in all of the



agricultural services and would be employed only after successful completion
of the course. ATI students will no longer be automatically appointed to the
extension service and, therefore, will not receive salaries while in train-
ing. Instead, the students will be given stipends.
35.     Another measure which had a negative effect on middle-level training
was the decision, in October 1978, to downgrade all teaching positions at
ATIs to the junior grade level. Prior to this date all the incumbent
teachers were senior grade agricultural officers with wide experience in both
extension and teaching. As a result of this decision, many transferred to
the extension service in order to retain their status. A group of young and
inexperienced agricultural university graduates with no training or
experience in teaching were recruited to take their place. However, these
new recruits soon realized that there was no career growth in teaching and at
the first opportunity, many transferred to other units of .MOA which has
resulted in a rapid turnover of teachers. Moreover, housing facilities for
staff were insufficient, and private accommodations were, in general,
unavailable. Realizing the effects of the situation, Government decided in
January -981 to restore four teaching posts in each ATI to the senior grade
level. Improved teacher training, combined with the development of a career
ladder for ATI teachers, and provision of incentives will be essential to
improve the quality of instruction at the ATIs.
36.     Substantial changes will be needed in the present ATI curriculum if
it is to serve the needs of various agricultural services. The present ATI
curriculum devotes about 55Z of the time to theory and only 45Z to practice
and a large portion of the practical time is utilized for teacher demonstra-
tions rather than student practical activities. The school farms need to be
considerably improved so as to serve not only as laboratories for training in
practical skills and improved practices but also as models for efficient,
productive and profitable farming. Most of the existing school farms have
poor or no irrigatlion and drainage systems, inconvenient farm layouts and are
easily accessible to stray animals and outsiders resulting in great losses of
farm produce and equipment.
37.     Since 1978 about 10% of all places at the ATIs have been reserved for
females. While this policy is commendable, it has not been supported with
programs relevant to women and their role in the extension service. Inade-
quate provisions have been made in the ATI curriculum to meet their skill
requirements. The Government is now seeking ways to make necessary improve-
ments.
38.     Another serious problem in agriculture training has been repeated
and prolonged strikes by ATI students who have demanded that their training
be lengthened to three years. The purpose of the strikes was to ensure that
the training period was similar to that of middle level technicians in the
engineering field and thus justify a higher saldry level. After about two
years of uncertainty on this issue, GOB has finally decided to retain a



-12-
two-year curriculum at the ATIs. However, as part of GOB's career develop-
ment strategy, it intends to establish a higher agricultural in-service
training program for qualified MOA middle level staff who are: (i) eligible
for promotion and require additional training to prepare them for their new
responsibilities and (ii) ATI graduates to enable them to pursue a unAversity
education.
39.     Lastly, there is a lack of sufficient reading and reference materials
at the ATIs. 'Students are often without textbooks, and the libraries are not
adequately stocked. This situation gives students little opportunity to
develop self-study habits and to more actively participate in the learning
process. Also, because of the lack of reference materials, teachers are
forced to overutilize the lecture method of teaching. Finally, the reference
materials most often found in the ATI libraries are written in English and,
therefore, are of limited value to students whose medium of instruction is
Bengali.
40.     The proposed project seeks to address these problems and to support
the recent policy decisions of GOB through support to the career development
of extensior staff, curriculum improvement, supply of training materials,
provision of additional ATI housing, improvement of the quality of instruc-
tion and training and project management.
IDA Assistance to Agricultural Training
41.     IDA has financed two credits to improve and expand agricultural
education and training in Bangladesh. The First Education Project (Credit
407-BD),1/ which has now been completed, assisted in the development of BAU.
The Second Education Project, the Agricultural and Rural Training Project,
(Credit 621-BD) is expanding and improving agricultural and rural training
through the construction of (a) seven ATIs (three new and four renovated),
Cb) a hostel for the Graduate Training Institute at BAU, (c) the Bogra
Academy of Rural Development, and (d) fifteen Thana Training Units. Implemen-
tation of both of these projects has been subject to delays. The First
Education Project was completed two and one-half years behind schedule
because of (a) difficulties in renegotiating pre-independence contracts for
professional services, (b) shortages of building materials, (c) frequent
changes in project management and (d) shortage of local funds. The Agricul-
ture and Rural Training Project will be completed in June 1983 after a one
year extension. While construction proceeded satisfactorily during the first
four years, due to a shortage of local currency, which affected GOB's entire
development program, little progress was made in the fifth year. Funds have
been made available during the past year and the civil works have been com-
pleted. The coordination and nanagement of the educational aspects of the
1/ The project which took effect in September 1973, replaced two East
Pakistan projects: Credits 49-PAK of March 1964 and 87-PAK of June 1966.



-13-
project were weak due to the lack of a separate training unit with sufficient
staff in MOA. As a result, a new Division of Training (DOT) was recently
created which should improve the management and coordination of agricultural
training for extension technicians under the proposed project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
42.    At the request of GOB, the project was identified by an IDA mission
in June 1980, was prepared by an FAD/World Bank Cooperative Programme mission
in September 1980 and appraised by an IDA mission in February 1981. At about
this time, GOB embarked upon a series of policy changes in agricultural
extension and training, which had previously been the subject of discussions
between IDA and GOB, which directly affected the components of the project
and further processing of the project wa! temporarily stopped. The policy
revisions concerned: (a) organization and staff structure of the extension
service; (b) administration and management of agricultural training; (c)
staffing at the ATIs; (d) student stipends; and (e) allocation of project
funds for expansion of physical facilities. In November/December 1982, an
IDA post appraisal mission went to Bangladesh to discuss with GOB the neces-
sary revisions to the proposed project. A revised staff appraisal report was
prepared based on the results of the post appraisal mission. The revised
Staff Appraisal Report (Report No. 3598-BD d!ated May 2, 1983) is being
distributed separately. Supplementary projecc data are suinm-rized in
Annex III. Negotiations for the proposed credit were held in Washington in
April 1983. The Bangladesh Team was led by Mr. S.A. Mahmoud, Additional
Secretary, MOA.
Project Objectives
43.     The proposed project is designed principally to assist the Government
in improving the quality, management and coordination of agricultural train-
ing programs (except degree training) of the MOA. The project would
(a) upgrade the quality of training at the ATIs through: providing expert
services for curriculum improvement, de-eloping and/or providing agricultural
manuals, books and training materials; providing fellowships and special
training courses to upgrade teaching staff, improving the school farms for
effective practical training; providing additional equipment and school
facilities; and, providing for incremental staff salaries and expenditures
for operation and maintenance of training facilities; (b) 'nprove the manage-
ment and coordination of agricultural training programs by providing consult-
ant services to give advice and guidance to DOT, and fellowships to upgrade
the DOT staff; (c) improve the career development prospects of extension
agents through che establishment of a training program for selected extension
agents to qualify them for admission to university training and promotion;
the project would finance consultant services for curriculum development,
teaching materials, equipment and civil works for constructing a training
center; and, (d) improve the management and supervision of agricultural and



-14-
rural training projects through extending technical assistance for another
year to support the on-.oi!Lg Agricultural Management Development Program
(AMD?) and to prepare local AMDP counterpart staff to continue the program
after termination of the consultant services.
Detailed Features
A. Improving the Quality of Middle Level Training
44.     Middle Level Pre-service and In-service Training Programs.  The ATI
curriculum would be revised to make the curriculum (a) more relevant to meet
the basic knowledge and skills required of extension agents in a multi-crop
extension service and of other middle-level technicians employed in various
agricultural agencies and establishments in the public and private sectors;
and (b) more relevant to the needs of women extension workers and the
activities they undertake with farm women. A curriculum for in-service
training of middle level technicians who were recruited with no pre-service
training in agriculture, would also be developed in order to upgrade them to
the level of ATI graduates. Detailed curricula will be developed with tech-
nical assistance provided under the project. During the period 1983-1989,
DAE intends to utilize seven ATIs for the two-year pre-service diploma level
training; the remaining four ATIs will be used for the one-year upgrading
ccurse.  To improve practical training of ATI students, the farms of all the
ATIs would be developed. The project would assist in this development by
financing the establishment and/or the improvement of irrigation and drainage
systems, improvement of farm layouts and the repair of boundary walls around
the school campus as needed to prevent damage and loss of farm products,
equipment, and school property in general.
45.     To cope effectively with the broadened and multipurpose curricula and
to provide for adequate supervision of the students' on-campus practical
training activities and off-campus field extension apprenticeship training,
three additional teachers for each ATI will be required. Two of these would
be at the senior instructor level and one, at the instructor level. Each ATI
has presently only eight instructors (four of which had been approved by GOB
to be upgraded to senior instructor level) resulting in an unsatisfactory
teacher-student ratio. The addition of three more teachers would improve the
ratio from 1:30 to 1:20. By December 31, 1983, the Government would create
three additional teaching posts for each ATI, two of which would be at the
senior level (Section 3.06(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
46.     The project would finance the additional needs of the ATIs which
would be generated by changes in the ATI training program. These include
training materials and equipment, library books, furniture and staff housing
(for 22 instructors and 44 subordinate staff). The project would also help
finance incremental recurrent expenditures including the salaries of all
additional teachers, the allowances of all ATI students and other trainees,
and the operation and maintenance of the school plants.



-15-
47.     Agricultural Manuals.  To reinforce the efforts of curriculum reform,
agricultural manuals (in about 30 subjects) printed in Bengali would be
developed for both ATI students and serving extension agents. The manuals
would be designed to serve the dual function of student textbooks and easy
reference guides. The DOT would be responsible for coordinating the prepara-
tion, production, and distribution of manuals. Technical guidance would be
provided by the consultants. Development of the manuals is expected to take
about two years, and these will be supplied to students and extension agents
in about the third year of the project. The project would finance the cost
of development, production and distribution of manuals to about 10,000 exten-
sion agents and about 5,000 ATI students, 11 ATI libraries, and three
in-service training center libraries.
48.     Instructor Training - Central Extension Resources Development
Institute (CERDI). The Japanese Government has assisted GOB since 1977 in
establishing CERDI. The Center has concentrated its efforts on preparing and
publishing technical agriculturel bulletins and brochures for the extension
service and conducting demonstru :ions on farm machinery and recommended farm
practices for various crops. 7nh- creation of an agricultural teacher train-
ing capability has been another objective of the Center, but this has not
been fully realized because of the lack of qualified instructors in pedagogy
and the language difficulties of the expatriate staff. To date only techni-
cal agriculture training has been conducted for agricultural teachers. A
reacher training program for agricultural instructors would be established at
CERDI under the proposed project in cooperation with the resident Japanese
team of experts and under the guidance of consultants provided under the
project. All ATI senior Instructors, Instructors and Demonstrators would
be required to undertake about three months of initial training covering such
courses as lesson planning, methods and techniques of teaching agriculture,
course and student achievement evaluation and educational psychology. There-
after, CERDI would continue to provide a teacher in-service training program
for agricultural instructors on subject matter areas where the instructors
may need additional or refresher training. A teacher training plan as a part
of the master training plan of DAE would be developed by GOB. The Government
would create no later than December 31, 1983 four new senior instructor posts
for the CERDI training program (Section 3.06(b) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). Provisions for 48 man-months of fellowships would be made
under the project to enable each of these instructors to undertake one year
of training in agricultural pedagogy at a suitable educational institution
within the region. To support the teacher training program, the project
would finance training equipment and materials and 70% of the salaries of the
four senicr instructors required and the allowances of all the trainees.
49.     Since n0  training program in Bangladesh exists in the subject of
rural home economics and home management, about 132 man-months of fellowship
training in a suitable educational institution within the region, would be
provided. This would enable one female teacher in each of the eleven ATIs
to undertake one year of training in the teaching of home technology and home
management subjects to prospective women extension workers. Upon completion



-16-
of their training, aside from their teaching duties, these teachers would
serve as resource persons for the further development of training and exten-
sion activities in home economics and home management.
B. Higher Agricultural In-service Training Institute (HAITI)
50.     To assist the Government in implementing its career development plan
for middle-level agricultural technicians, the project will finance the
construction and equipping of a 100-place training institute and demonstra-
tion farm on a 40 acre government owned farm in Tajhat (Rangpur). The
institute would offer courses for middle-level MDA staff who are eligible for
promotion to higher positions to prepare them for their new responsibilities
and to provide training to selected middle level staff who are ATI graduates
and who have completed at least three years of satisfactory field service and
demonstated appropriate academic aptitude to qualify them for admission to
the university for higher studies in agriculture. In addition, the project
would provide 12 man-months of fellowships for the training of the teaching
staff in selected pre-university science subjects. As soon as the training
institute becomes operational (estimated about January 1S86) and until the
project closes (December 1988), the project would also assist by financing
70% of incremental recurrent expenditures consisting of trainee allowances
and expenditures for operating the school farm and maintenance of the school
plant. The Government would furnish to the Association for its comment not
later than December 31, 1984, the training curricula for the HAI'CI training
programs and consult in the preparation of the curriculum for university
admission with BAU, and thereafter promptly establish and maintain the train-
ing institute (Section 3.07 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
C. Assistance to the Division of Training (DOT)
51.     The creation of the DOT under the DAE is a major step towards the
improvement of agricultural training in Bangladesh. The DOT's function is to
plan and manage middle-level agricultural training and to coordinate profes-
sional level in-service training programs of the MOA. However, since DOT is
just starting to operate, its staff would need guidance and assistance in
planning, organizing and implementing its work program. To meet this need,
the project would previde 76 man-months of consultant services. In addition,
36 man-months of fellowships would be provided to enable the staff of DOT to
undertake short-te-m training at appropriate institutions in the region in
management and supervision of agricultural training programs. The Government
would prepare a five year plan acceptable to the Association for all training
programs including fellowship trair-ag, to be carried out under the project
(Section 3.08(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The preparation
of such a plan would be a condition of disbursement for fellowships and
trainee stipends (paragraph 4(b) of Schedule 1 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).



-17-
D. Study to Impro,!e Coordination of Training
52.     To assist the Government in planning for effective coordination of
all in-service training programs of HOA, four man-months of consultant serv-
ices would be utilized to conduct an in-depth study of the roles and posi-
tions currently played by all agricultural in-service training centers under
the MOA including those in forestry, fisheries and livestock. The study
would include a proposal, which would be developed in consultation with the
various MCA agencies conducting the training programs, which would enable
DOT to coordinate all the training activities and avoid duplication of
efforts, maintain high training standards and meet the training needs of the
MOA staff.
E. Improving Management and Supervision of Agricultural and Rural Develop-
ment Projects
53.     To support GOB's current efforts in improving the management and
supervision of agricultural and rural development projects, the proposed
project would assist in financing a one-year extension of technical assis-
tance for the on-going AMDP (see paragraph 33). In addition to the basic
course on the practice of management principles which has been offered during
the past two years, the program would conduct courses which would cope with
specific administrative and management problems in extension and research and
in implementation of on-going projects. In carrying out the program, the
con..ultants would gradually delegate more responsibilities to the local
counterpart staff to prepare them to take over the program in June 1984. The
proposed project would provide about 24 man-months of expatriate consultant
services and about 36 man-months local consultant services and would finance
all associated expenditures. The signing of the contract for the consultat
services required for AMDP would be a condition of credit effectiveness
(Section 6.01(d) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Technical Assistance
54.     The technical assistance to be provided under the proposed project
would comprise 100 man-months of foreign consultant assistance at about
US$8,300 per man-month to cover the full cost of consultant services includ-
ing travel and overhead expenses, 36 man-months of local consultant at
US$1,000 equivalent per man-month, and 228 man-months of overseas fellowship
training at US$3,500 per man-month. The assistance to be allocated is as
follows: (a) 72 man-months of foreign consultants (48 of which will be
financed by UNDP) to assist DOT in planning, organizing and implementing its
work program during the project period and to implement the training aspects
of the project (except the AMDP); (b) four man-months of foreign consultant
services to conduct an in-depth study of the roles and positions currently
played by all in-service training centers under the MOA and davelop a
proposal to enable DOT to effectively coordinate all in-service training
programs of MOA; (c) 24 man-months of foreign consultant services and about
36 man-months of local consultant services to carry out the AMDP; (d) 48



-18-
man-months of fellowship training for the teacher training staff of CERDI;
(e) 132 man--months of fellowship training for teaching staff of the ATIs;
(f) 12 man-months of fellowship training for the teaching staff of the HAITI;
and (g) 36 man-months of fellowship training for staff of the DOT.
55.     The Government would appoint staff of DOT, ATIs, the HAITI and CERDI
as counterparts of the consultants to assist DOT before a.ay such consultants
commence their work (Section 3.08(a) of the draft Development Credit Agree-
ment). The Government would employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment would be satisfactory to
the Association and would consult wILh the Association on the terms of
reference of consultants employed by UNDP (see paragraph 59) (Section 3.02 of
the draft Development Credit Agreement). A condition of effectiveness would
be that the contract between GOB and the technical consultants required by
DOT (see paragraphs 51 and 54) would be signed (Section 6.01(c) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
Project Management and Implementation
56.     Overall implementation of the project would be the responsibility of
the DOT with the assistance of the Project Implementation Wing (PIW) of the
MOA. Day-to-day management of project activities would be carried out by DOT
itself for educational and training aspects, and by PIW for physical
implementation, and procurement matters. DOT would conduct an evaluation of
the outcome of the project at the end of each fiscal year during the life of
the project and furnish IDA a copy of the evaluation report no later than six
months after the end of the fiscal year (Section 3.04(b)(iv) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
57.     Building designs would be prepared by local architects.  Existing
design models and bidding documents would be used to the maximum extent
possible. To ensure full use of buildings and equipment, funds for incremer-
tal operating costs have been included in the project for training as well as
for maintenance and repair of physical facilities and ecuipment.  The Govern-
ment would by May 1 of each year furnish to the Association for its comments,
a report on the funds estimated to be required for the implementation of the
proposed project during the following fiscal year and thereafter make such
funds available (Section 3.01(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
The project would be implemented over a period of about five years.
Project Cost
58.     Total project costs are estimated at about US$9.9 million equivalent
including US$0.4 million in taxes. The foreign exchange component is
estimated at US$4.2 million or about 44% of project costs net of taxes.
Physical contingencies are estimated at 10% of the base costs. Estimated
costs are based on price levels prevailing in March 1982 adjusted to December
1982 prices. Price contingencies for foreign exchange costs have been
estimated at 8.0% per annum for FY83, 7.5% for FY84, 7.0% for FY85 and 6.0%



-19-
for FY86-88. Local costs have estimated on the basis of the following domes-
tic inflation rates; 11% in FY84, 10% in FY85, 9% for FY86-88.
Proposed Financing
59.     The proposed IDA credit of US$8.1 million equivalent would cover 85%
of project costs, net of taxes (90% of foreign and 81% of local expendi-
tures). UNDP would finance US$0.4 million equivalent (4% of project costs)
for consultant services. The Government would finance the remaining US$1.4
million including taxes. Two conditions of effectiveness of the proposed
credit would be that: (i) the UNDP Project Document has been signed (Section
6.01(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement) and (ii) the Project
Proforma have been approved by the Government (Section 6.01(a) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). 1/
Procurement
60.     Past experience in Bangladesh has shown that contracts for civil
works and furniture do not attract foreign tidders unless they are con-
sol'dated into large packages. This is not feasible under the proposed
project because of the number of different institutions and the small amount
involved in civil works and furniture. Therefore, contracts for civil works,
building materials and furniture (US$2.8 million) would be awarded on the
basis of local competitive bidding following procedures which are satisfac-
tory to the Association. Contracts for equipment and vehicles (US$0.2 mil-
lion), which cannot be grouped into bid packages of US$100,000 or more
suitable for international competitive bidding (ICB) would be procured in
accordance with local competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the
Association. Contracts for bid packages exceeding US$100,000 for vehicles
and equipment (US$0.6 million) would be awarded on the basis of ICB. Local
manufacturers would receive a margin of preference in bid evaluation of 15Z
of the c.i.f. price of competing imports or the actual customs duty,
whichever is lower.
61.     Since timely delivery of consumable materials (US$0.7 million) is
critical, for those materials which cannot be grouped into packages suitable
for ICB, procuremant will be done by local competitive bidding procedures or
by off-the-shelf shopping. Printing services (US$0.4 million), including
materials, for agricultural manuals would be procured following local com-
petitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the Association. Off-the-shelf
items of building materials, furniture, equipment, textbooks and consumable
training materials, not exceeding US$50,000 for each package and aggregating
to a maximum of US$0.9 million could be purchased on the basis of a minimum
of three price quotations. Books and instructional printed matter would be
1/ Project Proforma are internal government documents which require govern-
ment approval.



-20-
purchased directly from publishers, distributors or book-jobbers at the
lowest prices and on the basis of three price quotations when feasible.
Disbursements
62.     The proceeds of the proposed credit would be disbursed against
(a) 85% of the expenditures for civil works; (b) 90% of the expenditures for
farm development; (c) 100% of foreign expenditures for equipment, materials
(including building and instructional materials), furniture, vehicles and
books; (d) 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory) on items manufactured
locally; (e) 70% of expenditures for other items procured locally; (f) 100%
of expenditures for consultants' services, fellowships and agricultural
manuals' production; and (g) 70% of expenditures for trainee stipends,
incremental operating costs (including consumable goods and training
materials) and incremental staff salaries.
63.     Withdrawal applications would be supported by full documentation,
except for expenditures on salaries and other incremental recurrent expendi-
tures which would be reimbursed against statements of expenditures certified
by the Director of PIW and attested by the Director of DOT. Docurentation
for these statements would be retained by the project unit and be available
for review by the Association during project supervision missions. To the
extent practicable, withdrawal applications would be aggregated in amounts of
US$50,000, or more, prior to submission to the Association. A condition of
disbursement for fellowships and trainee stipends would be that the Associa-
tion had approved the five year training program (see paragraph 51).
Project Accounts and Audits
64.     The PIW would prepare and maintain project accounts in accordance
with sound accounting practices. Separate project accounts would be prepared
and maintained for payments on the basis of statement of expenditures. The
Government would (a) prepare accounts and financlal statements for each
fiscal year and have it audited by independent auditors acceptable to the-
Association; (b) furnish to the Association certified copies of the audited
accounts and financial statements, for each fiscal year, together Tith the
auditor's report which would be furnished to the Association as soon as
available, but not later than nine months after the end of each fiscal year
(Section 4.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Project Benefits
65.     Improving agricultural training in Bangladesh entails a revision of
the present curriculum for diploma level training in agriculture, estab-
lishment of a specialized teacher training program for agricultural teaciers
and of an in-service training program for untrained middle level agricultural
technicians; the supply of student textbook/manuals, training equipment and
materials; and support for administration and management of agricultural



-21-
training. The proposed project would finance the above activities and there-
fore would directly contribute to the improvement of the farmers' skills and
knowledge through better guidance from adequately trained agricultural tech-
nicians and extension agents. Better quality research would also be con-
ducted as a result of better trained agricultural technicians. Although
difficult to estimate, it is expected that the incremental increase in
agricultural outptl which may result from better trained project managers
and technicians wiAl be significant.
Project Risks
66.     There is one significant risk associated with the proposed project.
The Government's recent decision not to lengthen the two-year ATI course to
three years and maintain the present salary level of ATI graduates, may again
lead to student strikes. If this happens, although the implementation of the
intended improvements in ATI training could proceed as planned, the overall
impact of the project on improving the quality of training would be reduced
or delayed. However, the establishment of HAITI would provide opportunities
for selected ATI training MOA staff to pursue university education in
agriculture; this should help minimize this risk.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
67.     The draft Development Credit Agreement between the People's Republic
of Bangladesh and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are
being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
68.     Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III. Additional conditions of effectiveness of the proposed credit would be:
(a) signing of the contract between GOB and the consultants to assist in
ca-rying out the AMDP (Section 6.01(d) of the draft Development Credit Agree-
ment); (b) signing of the contract between GOB and the consultants required
to carry out the technical assistance component for DOT (Section 6.01(c) of
the draft Development Credit Agreement); (c) signing of the UNDP Project
Document (Section 6.01(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement); and (d)
approval of the project proforma (Section 6.01(a) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). The preparation of a 5-year plan for training to be
carried out under the project would be a condition of disbursement for fel-
lowships and trainee stipends (paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
69.     I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



-22-
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
70.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
June 15, 1983
Washibnton, D.C.



-23-                                             Annex I
TAZ 34
U3G1ZWLSOcIAL DDXCAs  DM suzr
u     gAS                           CLOC iPS (WEIED AU5E5
RAMCLCA  S'Q.                                                              u-) - mct zsDun-
MA6L                O                            mm oSCENT                us W JT     ISJ zAN
GRIlCULTURAL    97.3             1960 lb   1970 lb STDIUC=  b   ASIA G PACIC             ASIA & rACIC
GOP PER CAPITA (USS)               40.0       70.0    130.0             261.6                 390.L
ENERG CNUMMPTION PER CAPIrA
(KILOGRAMS OF CDAL EQUIVALENT)    _.        24.9     39.7             448.7                 701.7
PorULATIOs AiD vrIAL SrATISrICS
POPUTATION. KID-YEAt (THOUSANDS) 53491.0    68117.0  U513.0
1335 POPCLATIOr (PERCENr aF TOrAL) 5.1       7.6     11.0              17-3                  32.i
POPULATION PRGOECTIONS
POPUATION 5 EAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                   141.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (NLLIONS)                   321.3
MEAR SaTIONA  POPULATXIO  IS REAwE               2125
POPUlATIOb IENSIrY
PER SQ. 11!                   371.5      473.0    600.7             158.1                 255.9
PER SQ. ot. AGRICULTURAL LAND    51.9    703-0    889.0             355.9                174.0
POPULATION ACE SRUCTURE (PENT)
0-14 YS.                       44.3       46.3     42.8              36.8                  39.9
15-6" Tn.                       52.5       51.0     54.6              59.7                  S6.S
65 URS. AtlD ASOVE               3.2       2L7       2.6              3.5                    3.3
PoPULATIOr Gaawn RATE (FEKN)
TOTAL                           1.9        2.4      2.6               2.0                   2.3
URBAN                           3.6        6.3      6.5               3.3                   3.9
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THONSAND)    53.5     49.2     45.3              29.3                  31.8
CME DEATH RATE (PER TEOSAND)    28.1        22.7     18.2              11.0                   9.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE           3.6        3.4      2.9              2.0                    2.0
FAMILY PLANDI
ACCPTORS. ANNAL (THOUSANDS)      ..      373.0   1607.0
USERS cPERCEsr OF BARRIBED WOgE1)   ..      ..      6.9/c            19.3                  36.3
FOOD AND NUrRTmON
LNDEX OF FOOD PRCOUCION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)      106.0      101.0     97.0             108.1                 115.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIRIENEuS)                87.3       84.7       ..              973                  106.4
PROEINS (CRAM4S PER DAY)       43.9       42.7       ..              56.9                  54.4
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE     9.1        8.7       ..              20.0                  13.9
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MDTALITT RATZ    24.8      23.0     20.0              10.9                   6.7
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH CTEARS)   37.3     41.6     46.3              57.8                  59.8
INFANTr MORTALITY RATE (PEJ
THDUSAND)                       159.0      150.3    136.1              B9.1                  63.7
ACCESS TO F%FAE WATER (PERCErr OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                            -        45.0     53.0d            32.9                  32.0
URBAN                            ..       13.0      5.ORa            70.7                  51.9
RURAL                                    "47.0     5.01             22.2                  20.5
ACCESS 10 En:RETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOrAL                            ..        6.0      5.01.            18.1                  37.7
URINAI                           ..         ..     40.0/             72.7                  65.7
RURAL                            ..         ..       ..               4.7                  24.0
POPULATION PER PYSICIAN            ..     647.2/f 12691.9/c          3297.S                8540.4
POPULATION PER NRSMNG PERSOl       ..    76Mo.3.0489.7re             4929.3                4829.4
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL SED
TOAL                             ..     7021.5/  4499.3/c          1100.4                1047.5
URBA                             ..      al.5i  627.4/e             301.3                 651.6
RURAL                            ..         ..  23362.4r           5815.7                2597.6
AMlSSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED        ..          ..       ..                ..                  27.0
HOUSN
AVERACE SIZE OF HOUSrH ILD
TOTAL                            ..        5.9/b    5.8
URBNA                            ..        6.17K    6.1
RURAL                            ..        5.97K    5.8
AVERAGE NIlBER OF PERSONS mR NOO
TOTAL
URBN                             ..         ..       .
RURAL                            ..         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRCi  (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOM&L                            ..         ..      3.5
URBAN                                               ..              ..
RFaAL                            ..         ..



-24-                                   Annex I
hi. 2
uAuGLW   --SOcIAL   DICATORS DT BMW
DQ.AMIDz                   3331   LsrM  (UZIM           A1wAC
- mm 3W rz
mST R            1rWvumMhcm
1960  /b   1970 /b ESTIMT  lb   ASIA 6 PACIC              ASA & PACIFIC
EDUCATON
JUSTED EiOISIS RATIOS
PfIaT:    TOTAL                 47.0       52.0      65.0              97.4                   96.2
MALE                00.0       68.0      79.0             101.0                   99.8
FDUUSE              26.0       34.0      49.0              37.5                   92.1
SECOSIART:  TOTAL                8.0       19.0      25.0              53.0                   37.6
NALZ                14.0       29.0      38.0              63.8                   41.1
DmUIE                1.0        R.0      11.0              41.3                   34.1
VorXfDAL EZROL. (0t7 SECODART)  1.0           0.8       0.7               1.7                   20.3
RUPIL-TEACE   RAlTIO
MDR*T                                      45.1      43.8              37.7                   35.5
SECONDA                           ..       26.4      24.9              20.2                   25.0
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERcENT)     21.6       23.0/b   26.0/c             52.1                   73.1
comusnrTIom
PAsseDUER CARS PER TOSAND
POPULAION                         ..        0.4       0.4               1.5                    9.5
RADIO IMCEIVERS in THOUSAND
POPULATXON                        ..        6.0       8.2              35.4                  116.5
TV UECE1vES PER TlOOSAND
OPUAT                             ..         ..       0.5               3.2                   37.6
WSiAPER (DAILT CENERAL
IXZumpr) C-RULATIOE N
TmOuSAD POPUZATION                  ..         ..       4.7              16.4                   53.7
CIIES  aSU. AENDA     E  CAPA   ..             ..        ..               3.6                    2.8
ABOR. FORE
**I   -L&R Foa  (TOIuSAS)   19251.6    23611.0  31477.4                                            .i
FUtE  (PERCENT)                 15.2       16.6      17.5              29.5                   33.6
AGRICLTURE PURCEWT)             57.0       86.0      74.0              70.0                   52.2
JDSTT (P11W?)                    3.0        3.0      11.0              15.0                   17.9
PARTICIATION ILATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             36.0       34.7      35.6              40.0                   38.5
ALEZ                              58.7       55.9      56.9              51.6                   50.5
TENALE                            11.4       11.9      12.9              23.8                   26.6
ECgaUIC DEWERU2 RATIO                1.3        1.4       1.3               1.0                    1.1
IncSJ DISTRIUTIIo
PERCEN Of PZXAWf nK
RECEIVD ST
RIIEST 5 PzCzST oF EusUOm    18.311          ..      14.6/k
rICES 20 PERCENT or ROUSEOI    4.57        ".1f    42.2..
Wtsr 20 PERCET OI         LDSI 6 .9t 8     . 6.971  W. . ..
OU&EST 40 PZRCNT OF DIUSEDOLDS  17.97      19.4      18.2..
PGVERTY TARCET GROMS
ES7ULATED A3SOLIE  POVERTI INCOJ
LZVEL (USS PE CAPITA)
..                                           ..    139.0/c            133.8                  194.7
RURAL                             ..         ..    L11.Or             111.1                  155.1
ErSIUATD RZATVE POVZRTY IRCOJ
LEVEL US3 PER CAPITA)
URBAN                             ..         ..        ..                ..                  178.2
RUL                               ..          ..       ..                ..                  164.9
ESTrMAT   POUATION 311W AASOLE
OVER! INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
RBAN                             8..         ..      06.0/c            43.6                   24.4
L                                 .          ..      86.0or            51.7                   41.1
. ot availbl
"Not applicable.
- Th g?op avecage for ecb lSdlcater arte  Pula&tlon-M4hted arithetlse Mans. COunaGe of c0urtrSe.
*enot the IndIcter depea.daon avalabLSty of data and Ise n0t unifOe.
Ib   0.l. otbetwLm noted. data for 1960 refer to any year betueen 1959 and 1961s for 1970, betwee 1969
end l971; and for Mot Recent Totita. bet_*n 1978  d 1980.
/c  1977; /d 1976; /a 1975; /f Uaglger.d. not *al practIc   In the coutry; /j 1972g lb 1973g L 1964g
/,: 1967, 1k 1974M
Mo 1962



-25-                                                                          Annex I
Peg, 3
nnrTO or a0LA Em a
acerat al.4         ared   -   a-   free  ra as   raty Zeiss a.es  atc.  -b& t  adLf                  . S .awti eta hs -u  fti   a,7 ea   a h   e
.,IlaIlyc         ebl-e t            lt  a   taela   sltt            cc       psre   ydfee              tas  . h rattaca  the dAre-  S. fAa           a
Mhls  eslr deesrb. .are .1asc.tdia   t-ds. eed cherttera  tarts. eejr 1 ferere  esee eac-                          e
U. ciereare greep  ar  CU U che         -curt tar; at the s-bjet rarcry ad (fl a o-ccr  SC.e* rich            tblgb.r eteSa  Sar  the  she re-urr  verV
aSte    bjorauyCeep  fc   -BLab irae     011 feperter   gtrap ehec  'Itddla lees  Berth MCtar ad Bi&dl. faac- Ia rbee  be... at arrre
eare-cltea!affaitee~   Krl.refre . dc  data the ceaagt ar   .etre    iXd aLttbsti                - se .s let  eat, eIrea  ad .6     eel,.
eajerly ci ch. ceetrie is.  areep baa dat fc  the. ledrtt. Sir,the t--n   of  -.nrL- sem the tItrL-er  dpeeda - the acailahity ef date
ad 1 ia-   asters,  -tsa aS-  he er Lced Ia retals -at-rfe a  -   asserte  -caehe. Thee ateraMa ar  eay sufe1 he  Wathes the tale at
te  leditae  at a Ci..  -Me the CrCty ad edetre    ews..
aM  ilbemad aq.ha)                                                                       Pccalertleia  Ed"    aa,ea.a    ae   Pealarte  C(ate.
calI - fete  eara- are  caepte  teed are  ead tet1ed  -atrs  till dare                  erbee,  d retai dided hr ha.  .epciw                e  beaf1si had.
Salscrl- reheat. at eaftietca  atI-    -ad  -aeprril  at perecetly                atLI-tah   ta Vhtlt and Prhte re-r   ad apetaliad beeplal ad  e-
fa   sp.paacte. -esthe  -S htohee sardaa-      lte fat1e.; 1979 data.            hablllt-te  teCcer.  BeepIssle -c e-cbtiebss    p-e-Sctip stf.fe
by -  Leer -   phyelri1e.  fattbtlhwet  prartdla  ptlertpaIy   Setr-
ow P   cATA (SS)- Qs per taVIt . erete   trtrc   ete            e.rt                 dIal rar  are set letedd. Bere  heepicl.. berrer lettde health
reLate  by  -r  rearta   -Ched aa  -Itd 1et Art.. (19740-  hastl); 1960.                 ad adra   eeae  a  pr-cly ataf fd by a phyelri1a (bet by a
t9iN, ad 195 4are                                                                       adital elct   ae.  dAtB .t.  -rr) chIa  after I5e"-at.e  ar-
da-c  ad  -reLde a Llaced r-W at -asIt.  fellzie.  r-e etat-
RIME CONIeWTCe P1U CAPIT  - A--Ie teptar atea-rra   -mery (reda                             -Ite  perpcaae  e ba  epirt  Iels" Wsam prterpalJgerl   eiste
ad tlwtsc. petrete. --Ira sa ad hyTs-. -ta-  ad  eacheret da-                           ad rualbeptae  tealt  rea.l heepihle ad adra-l ad  -ate"Ta
c_irIty)1 kIa llct    at r.-I ellsetP., cait;  9. 1910. -ad 1919                        recre    pareLead- hepst  c  leled  ety -Ad.. tare!.
data.-                                                                                 adIsa           arBe -Ital Bd - Trial ear at               Stlttara  diatherfes
I e   epctat drerdad by the eett at bed..
ite.l Ibreathe. Mid-Yea  (tlheeeda) - Ae at icly 1; 1940. 1910. ad-W                lUStSmn
dat.                                                                                Leeac Slee er resehed Craepet- ah                 -tsl webs, adrel
thee Pesaa  (peren at cart.) - tts. i  eh  Ce tot-pI             aac                    A tah-ed retaa -      gcap a  rcL.dirlst the   It si1es qeat..
differet deMftIa-r at dee e-e  war after c e-stly at da a                              en  thesr ate sale    bearda  er Led". ea- cy -      ee c he sertadd L.
ass erstee  1960. 1970. ad t9O date.                                                   the W-heid fC- etasttrtl prpees.
FPeeac-ta Preler Iee                                                                  A-er.  ester at rear  pe pe  - teCal, erhe.ad             -un  - a-rre5
.Pepi-te  is yer  10K00 - Ceree  palcsprejeciu   -e heed -c 190                       her atS _rsepe tee  he al arc ad re    ccpted rewal-e
toalpp- ate  by asWdeca   che-st b.rcaya   ecls   ee                                antems  reptaiwey.    eitegs  -I."ed  aespeeweet arct-ee   ad
tar 21f  eapetre  at birth rer-ets  rith teeety, per *eI-a tar-                    Ares ta tla-Iltt  (recret at fattier  - totat  as. ad runt -
tend    d tf 1e life -wpett-y  tcbtlioac SC fl.5 year. The.e.                      cweia  dea11eg  rice etatcrlt1cy he lleta  q-eCete a prrer-
lfeb ceerry ta chee e.-ald ee ct the  ems ret ise eacatry                       EDClAnS
ad fertility ceate ter prej tiecprpaa                                       MisedChatee  Brr
.h.tlbeCty      L.retarso . - Iaa aa  -C..r raracr  ther  Ia -  rW hae                 rae   tet-crt  t    dft      ee  ra.aea    el
eaThusta. a  sa arbLard eel, arm   htIliry rCes dsrt t- Cc                    prar c-       a-a  prelatta;  -ael.y retede  thildas         d A-li
the rerire-r  treat Ef talc  -e  rerdct          -. at reb reeraLee                   Fear hbr  djrese  ic  dlfferet tearih   t prI-ry ed-tCi-l tar
.E      repIerr  icetf cartl.  The arai-ar  parni-re  cs's   artrerich -I--rwa  ed -eia                                      ets   eey  -d 100 pa-te
=esee  a she bar. of the prejene  thrtsitr   atChe Pe.9.5t5.1 ate                                   pta. at bets -r abet. tEefftta  ebeet a.1.
he heye  2000. adth  rar  ef date  c  fa-CIlIcy rae        pclear-                  tereedr  east-  s!IL. eats a   feet. - CeePace  a awe; e dr
asCat                                                                                ed-at te   eece   ttat tBryeep  rtpeearaysercir
Tsr scarear  pqarr,t  is Teehed - The er  b  atecieatypcsLttc Voeprriee  ewr.  -rets-aeea . Csahar crinegle tteis  fc Wpept
ale rut he reched,                                                                    easily rt LZ -  tY  e-t ef arW-repedecs1ea-                     1ral
- md-year pepeItatto  pet a(c    kstr-ttr 1100 hetta-ta                 eaiea   sets  ; -   _ -Cretcefaredtt-werlCattetiata
trlcel1960. t910 ad 1979 dat.-                                                _atle    tehetoal, ad-.1ri1t -r -rh-  tegra  aith eparar  sadapad-
Per--  e. ccsslcratlea  - Ceeas .a abet fcc asrrlt.1ra  teed                    atly at - dapera-cs rt eac.edaytattr
dy;g tfl, il  adtiSll data.                                                         t%r11.t-csaher rI"- rar    -d-aedrty - Tcca.. a -act scattd he
Peeatc        c-car  (Part) - Oiltdrs 10-14 ya-d. errtasw-ee  Ill-.               rayeteeaytwt dsttded by saa ef t-rbceC he che
Sc  eee)Ia   rccr-   55 yare ad ea)5ptrrae   ciai-er pefe-                             rarspe          lt.-
tarts; 1940, 1910. ad 1two da-c                                                      Malt tHt--ac  rat  (Pere) - LI-           WrIs.edi  ft. cc red ad -rIce)
pagr.ctiae Cre-th Bate (_-Cee) -  -etL - sAt  reh1         asc  tatat eta-..-a P-cee.W at tetaI adlt pee                      Wt    d IS year  -adat
yerpaeaia   a  190-. 190-0.a   1104
PapLtaci  C,-Ch BaeIpaee)- re  - fAstI erb ratac  Ei eae  Ptb-____
ta`cee  fer L950-B. 1900-10. ad twiG-BC.                                            Ieee-er Care frt -heea  seetrleIe   - faaseBa  car 'pate, ete
C.ed. Bit"!Letjm  e tesau) - fast le. bsrth  per ttaea  a! aId-yerrreeeta   a  cbs eta    -e;enld-eeeet    beae   a
preat;1900. 1910, ad IWO dat.et-ryWlia
Irs .eah .ar  (per theserd  - A-1a dsethe Per theaeat   at ea-errdoBretr   prceaadpr4te)-  l  ye   fTcwr  a  e!
pepelate; 5960. I930. ad 1940 dat.                                                     bradee-  te ae-ara  p&aLs  per cheed of Pepetaiae  arld -          -d
Cree Barearle  Bat  - A-eee  se  a   egtr  ac. -nIt hear intc-d re.ter  ic rmir-e aS he ye-r see  -sitai    trdhe
tiiyrces;  -aTl fle-yar, aerae  eadia  he 1960. 1910. ad tiB0.                     etrsreebtiah.Ud Ittssec.
Fatlly rle_clc  - Aretr.  sl chcee  -  -.eust ~                 f.  see   tec.Ccet .W PR-.ce-  tTtVeea   eelts                      ---ease   fat-rdect
at  brt-cscr   d-ctre  adr aepire  ef eat1-ea  tally qLe-Sie  pragree                  .--tL Puli  erteea  pepsirs-; relader at1raced TV ra _la
F.Air PL-sehe  - Ocra(prr    E warned                                                    L.)-Prtesso  ertdI teCrtr  adi. year rA  res-tt- at TiVt   -h ci fart.
rear et rhtd-BaehI.        (t5.64 y-rerul  -ir a   -irth-toarr    L,wrr  Ce         weep=rTCleretas he fe -tara  ser.Lac              - Sase che  -was tIC-
all escrie     e  ae       s greW.                                                    acatca   de117  e-Cral het.re   eaaapr            -dfied at- Peridirs
puhIIcsto- dawccd prt-,Isy ce ra-edle  rec-l aces.I  is renedare
ted  a  Y."Prdris-   Cans  t9iA9-?tttO) - teds  rf per rapit  east                   Car- fatal Ast-d-r  pe Cartc  -  Trer - Bea-d - the ester at
Ia    raawdr per  eeh. Ci_sieta toc-  prsay N.A.e (.sa. a-are                     dstl  sta
Lecced cf east    L   an edible a,d oecsiteela (e.g.- afg  ..aW
te rtscladed). Aere-e.e predai- of -ec  re-urr  it hac d                      LABS PC1
cetacc eeree Iedare  prreesihte  iAt-S.1970. ad t90 dat.                ftal. Later terr  ttheedt)   r   - "uricassy atlt  P---t. irledher
Per  adreeaple a  raatts  (otrea ofrud'lreCete  - ra.t.te4 free            -rdtre  ad setpdbe eldseR Iesws   sdae  i.
ear   qela1n  at ec tad eapplisa aILblet  ta carte  per rapste                    ra ucg P.pat1t1a  efct a21 s.  Bethlti-a he eartoc  tccutlear
par daY. AZaItble aupette  reerar d--sts  priccac   -rn  tre                          -a  epees 1960. 1910 ad tOWS data.
e"cp..a ad rltsaa  1. .t-e. Bet eerrt-  -I."d  -1eLe  f-ad, sede,                     resal  (Psrte     - Pasta 'abe  fare  a prteaea  .e.eI laber fn.
isetItte  treed he tad proceela. ad to-r  La dtattihes1en   Ba3 r-                      rtttr.patL-           Leba farc  ie te-are. fertsr. hetctc ad
euce wer  -cete   by TAO heeed a phyateteglr  eaed  fe taec  eCti                       tiabteg ae P-nsies  cF tctat tabr ten; 1960. 1910 ad 1960 da-e
adasdftiaciere cl;i. epptes Is, ad at1eta 10 p-rea  f. at  Cat et                       ad arrt.-crd  eaeP--eta5  ct  -esa  Iee  ten;
I-I.'l tnl  5t-i). 1910 ad tin7 data.                                              1940. lii  ad  hodea
tar apt. -m.t ef preccIs (eras per dar - Prtaie  scat  at per capita                P-Lcicr-ir  ret (par-ta) - Cara. ale,ad taste - PatCle.tret- 
aCt -Pply at fa.d p   day. arc -rIy a! tad is defiad sa ah-e- Er-                     eciit  tre  ar  .e.ea    Ce at! el. et teals late  tent as
qulrse fer eXt ooetrset  -etbtLahd hr USDA prler. for e.lsa                           feot          t see. eat. aS tent. perenrf alt   ~  rertcwlyl;
atleewete   at SO  erse  tCal  rceLa per day ad 20 era ci cart et                     t9i0. 1970. end 1990 date. Thee er head  - MD'a rartsrsrati  reta
pales Preteh. at cttb 10 W-e eheed he ee1-petst  thee. etad-                          rafteties aee-e  etrerr  ef thepa.  Luitl-. ad baade tread-. A
eras erI-ae thee thre  at 1$ was ci matS1 preLt a   21 era  at                        tee eatlt-  ar  free eetsaae  -ar
aat P-eseh  -  a s-a   tat she ard. rrPeaedby fAD Ia she Thsrd                      Ir-ari  Derdee  Btie - metr rf peea               der IS ad ii adat
erd Peed Se.-ay; 19611.4$. t970 -d 1917 dare.                                         satecra   ae fans.
7crceis  eera-cr1, fre  --a   a         -oue  - PretS  esertpy at fad dt
_iedfesa  .t ad peea  La: era  per day; iflt-il. 1110 ad 1911 data.        ItEtei DtlThIWfli
tSdCs  tb   eth e.-a (prs -ced) . ea l d-ath  Per theae  L.                                                                                   byota   trtas  er   bt  ata  a    i)-Brie       reeee
er5c    -A yar. t thldeI tilta.  ste,fc   r  de4-teps..  rer                         aet  ihe   0pnc   are  20 yanat, ad paa-rn  A0 Partes
cris dte  atled  rs  itetabe;1960. til0 ad t9t0 daa..c   eahle
ALaU emtUft? lt                                                                      P    rTAWK?  C.=PS
Lif Beerase  a  *tch(pea)d - AWra  ceba  nt 7-ara at Ilft recti.U               Tie tel It1teg caret  e-- wer apraa    aa              f Penny Sana,
athth   960. 191  a   IWO 1 er,                                                  e-a alrId ha ceerrs   rc  raeid-raht ca.e-a
W_tee  IbenalirBe  Cma shesa) - heel da-U. at teesader oafea                           -ei-ted Ab-Iter  !_Trc  terr  i...  (US Pe- caia-arce                an-
iare  a  afehaer(eeiet ef raeeia1.aet1re.adrra     ts                               erItslly Seqat  tsar plea  -acaial rc-tad rec-trfeh  -Ct
her at pepte (trial eter a   rur) W-tlb.eeat  erb aa Cc eate                          affodabL.
rea Iat  Cirled.  t.crtd  -E-.a weCer. at atread bet -ee-rCa-ted                      attased  .Usl1-e  F_,tt (era lend (S - a          ie    h- eb  ad re.S1-
-tar ash aa the  tre  prertad herehete. aera. ad csitary wells) as                    raal re.tati  pecrt  Iee lead  he sc-hid at aas par reict
partatega  at their rapetiwe pcpalecac. Ia a efla are  a pebtIa                       peeaI teas ci she tcer.  he  lent La de                   fra  she tare
taste. cc ata.dPae  "acad act  -n cb  200 erar  fre  a hee way he1- ta.!rih cdjeetse  fer  ihiaji                        -C tea   I Mugia  he ftab  a-
asederd -  baIe ritbis -acewble aa at that hece.  La r-a-Isa                        tttae  Pecslre  Bets AbaalraP-wer, Ie   Lan  tr1               r   - t-a
teaeable  -rs e-Id teply cha  the b-uerft ar sabers  Zf the te-e d                    ad r.ar   ft-crrs  at pepalette  (eaaIes!                     ~
de -Cw USS   epeed a dIaprpat tare pert et the day  I. tasrhiag she
perwCia   at thIrtapL.          pepleie     bfrer  dt dal up  etad
ad rersar   by rSer-betee et- er the as ad pit prisla ad e1si-
71Sd"s       ZPit.    - rPapatttie  dsri.d by ta.r e  pra-hera  phyet-                                                   Be-cda ad BeaatBea  Bie-       f
Peouale ct      aacfs   - PePetaCSSe  M-Ldd" by  d-c  Et pratLltialeIg
M"          rsaSas, aisceat  -bSee. pcstiaa  att  ad
-Mb ae-1



-26-                                                 Annex 1
Page 4
ECONCHIC IDSICATORS
Population:      91.5 million (January 1982)
CNP Per Capita: US$120 (FY81)
Amount            Average Annoal Increase (Z)      Share of GDP at Harket Price-s ()
(million US$          (in constant FY75 prices)              (in current prices)
in current prices)
Indlcator                                   FY81             n160-70   FY70-75  n775-81        FY60      FY70      FY75     FY81
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
rrass domstic product Ia                     11,989              4.0      -0.6       6.0         100.0    100.0    100.0   100.0
Agriculture /a                              6,423              3.1      -1.3        4.3         59.9      56.9      62.5     53.6
Industry /I                                 1,680              7.9      -3.2       6.0           7.7       9.6      11.3     14.0
Services 7T                                 3,887              4.9       3.3        8.8         30.1      30.0      26.2    32.4
Caonumption                                  11,701              4.4      -0.7       5.7          92.4      9z.8      99.1    97.6
Gross dometic investment                      2.064             10.9    -10.9       20.2           6.9      11.3       8.1     17.2
Exports of goods & nfs                          859              0.8    -11.7         5.7         10.0       8.3       3.2      7.2
Imports of goods 4 Uf.                        2.635              8.8    -12.0         3.6          9.3      12.5      10.4    22.0
Gross nstional savings                          639             26.5    -17.7       -8.4           0.9       6.1       1.0      5.3
Amount                                             Composition of Merchandise Trade (2)
(million US$                                                  (in current prices)
In current prices)
FY81                                              Fr73    FY75      FY80     FY81
MERCHAUDISE TRADE
Mear cadise exports                             710.8                                            100.0   100.0    100.0   100.0
Primry /b                                     165.2                                             40.4    29.6    24.3       23.2
Manufactures                                  545.6                                             59.6    70.4      75.7     76.8
Merchandise imports                           2.524.0                                            1OO.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Food                                          342.4                                             44.1    41.5    29.1       13.6
Petrolem                                      490.1                                              3.2    11.1      15.7     19.4
Machiuery 4 equlpment                         580.0                                             13.8      9.6     20.0     23.0
Other                                      1111.5                                              38.9    37.8      35.1    44.0
FY74      FY75      FY76      FY77      FY78      FY79      FY80       FYs8
PRICE AND TERMS OF TRADE INDICES (1972/73-100)
Gl FDeflator                                             140.6      240.5     183.1    177.2    203.6    216.8    249.2    264.0
Exchange rate (TkIUSS)                                  7.9661     8.8759   14.8521   15.4667   15.1215   15.2228   15.4777   16.3447
Export price index                                      103.7      123.5     107.1      111.8    127.7      167.5    200.9      178.6
Import prl.e index                                      152.8      194.8    L86.2       183.1     179.4    218.0    250.3       283.9
Term of trade index                                      67.9       63.4       57.5      61.1      71.2      76.8      80.3      62.9
As  of GOP
(at current priceu)
FY73    nF75      FY77   FY8o    FY
PUBLIC FLNAe
Current revenue                                                     5.0      5.4     9.5      10.6    12.0
Current expenditure                                                 6.5      4.5      7.8      7.8      7.6
Current surplus (+) or deficit (-)                                 -1.5     +0.9    +1.7    + 2.8    + 4.4
-.pital expenditure                                                 8.8       3.1     9.5    13.5    12.1
Foreign fin ancing                                                  7.1       2.4     6.0      8.3      7.7
FY60-70    mo70-75    FY75-s0    7Y80-81
OTHER INDICATORS
cGP growth rate (I)                                                    4.2       -0.7        5.8        7.9
GNP per capita growtn rate t)                                          1.5        -3.3       3.0        5.2
Energy consumption growth rate (2)
- not available
- not applic..le
/a At market prices.
71 Raw jute. ten and (in FY81 only) rice.
ASADD
April 15, 1982



-27-
Anex I
Page 5
BALANCE OF 1*11113T. RZIE3RNIL CAPITAL AD DUT
(tillon W5. is currt. prices)
-AANCE OF PAThEENIS
Act"al
FY74      T75      n76       ni"       n78      FY79       n60      Ff6 1      ___          3
Net exports of goods                          -51I  -1.050        -aS       -454     -869      -946   -1.645   -1,613       -1 780   -1.938
Export, of goods                             374       352       381      411       490       610       727       711        640       732
lmport of goods                             -925     1.402   -1.266       -s65   -1.349   -1.556   -2.372   -2.524        -2.420   -2.670
Met exports of servlces                        -21        12       -24      -29       -32       -27         3        11        -70      -120
Workers remittances                             19        34        62        61      113       143       210       377        400       450
Current account bWlance                       -553   -1.004        647      -402     -776      -830   -1,432   -1,425       -1,450   -1.608
Direct privte investment                        -         ..
PLY loans (nec)                                276       496      4*9       236       396        20       561       481        501
Grant A Sr-ot-like floss                       174       382       245       265      393       553       591       616        650   -1.606
Other capital flown (net)                       45       275        52      -20       -38       -19       141      304        1I
Change tn reserves C- - increase)               s8      -151        53       -el       25      -124       119        24        1oo       -
10tornational reser   (end of period)          115       266       213      294       269       393       274      250         150       150
Reerv  am months of [sports of next year      0.98      2.52      2.95     2.62      2.07      1.99      1.30      1.24       0.67      0.63
_71       FY75       176        FY77 At      68      FY79       1M0       F716
GROSS DUSB1iENE3JIS
Official grants                              173.6      382.3      2"4.7     264.8      392.6      551.2      590.8     616.4
Cross disburseuents of NLT loans             287.4      518.9      563.5      268.3     435.3      476.8      631.4     531.0
ConesMional                                201.4      458.4      533.0      244.1     400.6      456.4      601.6      509.6
tulateras                                 150.4     34Z.8      389.9      144.O     261.9      212.6      272.7      255.2
IDA                                       51.0      112.5      IZ7.8       86.1      88.2      152.5      152.1      170.9
Other ultilnteral                          -          3.1       15.3       14.1       50.7      91.3      176.9       83.4
.on-coocesslonsi                            86.0       60.4       30.4       24.1      34.5       20.4       29.6      21.4
Officalt export credlts                   40.6       45.2       16.5        5.6        1.7       3.3       16.8        2.0
1im
Other iulittlteral                         5.4        0.3        1.1        0.5        0.5       0.1        0.3        ).6
Privte                                    40.0       14.9       1Z.6       16.0      32.3       17.0       12.7       L. .6
Easm DE8T
Debt outtaondlog snd disbursed (end of period) 492.8   1.352.6   1.795.9   2,051.5   2,569.2   2,949.2   3,Z15.6   3.584.8
Official                                   363.3   1.232.6   1.689.0   1,939.6   2,435.6   2,808.3   3,068.8   3.462.1
rsRD                                       -         54.9       54.9       54.9      54.9       54.9       54.9      54.9
IDA                                      105.6      255.3      379.6     465.9      554.2      706.7      658.8   1.02865
Other                                     2I2       922.6    1.254.3    1,419.0   1,826.5   2.046.7   2.15S.1   2,378.7
Prtvate                                    109.5      119.6      106.9      111.6     133.6      140.9      146.8      122.7
Undiabursed Debt                             560.8   1.019.4       947.5    1.015.8   1.335.4   1.659.1   1.716.7   2.068.4
DE1T SERVICE
Ttl debt srvie payento                        18.0       31.3       87.4       56.5      69.2       95.1       93.7      92.0
Interest                                     7.3       10.1       21.9       Z8.4      32.1       36.1      43.3       42.0
Payments as  of export earnings                4.6        8.9       22.9       16.2      14.1       15.6       12.9       12.9
Payments as: of CSP                            0.2        0.2        1.2        0.9       0.8        1.0        0.8       0.7
Avrage interest rate on noe  loans CE)         ?-2        2.0        1.7        1.6       1.5        1.4        1.4        1.6
Official                                     2-9        2.0        1.6        1.5        1.3       1.4        1.2        1.5
Private                                      5.1        2.3        7.6        6.4       6.2        6.1        6.9        7.2
Average maturity of n   loans (years)         26.1       35.5       41.6       40.1      37.7       35.9       33.6       35.9
OffIcial                                    28.3       35.8       42.2       40.8      38.6       36.3       34.2       36.2
Private                                     13.3       15.3       11.3       11.0       9.5       14.8       19.3       16.5
SANE GAOUP EXPOStRI (:)
lIRD D3DItotal DOD                             -          4.0       3.0        2.6        2.1        1.8        1.7       1.5
13gD dlab.rsents/tntsl gross dsbursements      -          -         -
ILRD debt service/total debt service           -          -          1.8        5.6       4.8        4.1        3.7       4.0
IDA DOD/total DOD                             Zl.4       16.8      21.1       22.7       21.6       24.0      26.7       Z6.6
IDA dlaborsesarts/tocal gross disbursements    17.7      21.7      22.7       32.1       20.3       3Z.0      24.0       32.1
IDA debt sertvice/total debt service           1.3        3.1        2.5       5.3        5.4        4.6       6.0        7.3
As S of Debt Outstanding
at End of FT81
TEI STUCTURE
taturity structure of debt outstanding f I)
Maturitles due within 5 years                                 13.5
Maturtcies due  tthin 10 years                                36.6
Interest structure of debt outstanding CE)
Interest due within first year                                 1.6
- -ot available.
ASAW
April 15. 196Z



-28-                            ANNEX II
Page  1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS - BANGLADESH
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as at March 31, 1983)
Amount
(less cancellations)
Loan or                                                    US$ Million /a
Cred;.t
Number  Year   Borrower               Purpose           Bank    IDA   Undisbursed
One loan and 25 credits fully disbursed                 54.90   823.70       -
341     1972  Bangladesh  Tubewells (replaces Credit
No. 208-PAK of 1970)          -      14.00     0.55
408     1973  Bangladesh  Highways (replaces Credit
No. 53-PAK of 1964)          -       25.00     0.91
487     1974  Bangladesh  Telecommunications II           -       20.00     3.11
527     1975  Bangladesh  Ashuganj Fertilizer             -       62.00     1.85
533     1975  Bangladesh  Population                      -       15.00     2.23
542     1975  Bangladesh  Barisal Irrigation              -       27.00    10.88
605     1976  Bangladesh  Karnafuli Irrigation            -       22.00     6.80
621     1976  Bangladesh  Agricultural & Rural Training  -        12.00     2.76
631     1976  Bangladesh  Ruiral Development              -       16.00     5.91
632     1976  Bangladesh  Bangladesh Shipla Bank          -       25.00     3.54
724     1977  Bangladesh  Shallow Tubewells               -       16.00     1.92
725     1977  Bangladesh  Muhuri Irrigation               -       21.00    11.43
729     1977  Bangladesh  Extension and Research          -       10.00     1.39
735     1977  Bangladesh  Inland Water Transport II       -        5.00     1.82
765     1978  Bangladesh  Jute                             -      21.00    13.12
787     1978  Bangladesh  Foodgrain Storage II            -       25.00    15.37
825     1978  Bangladesh  Small-Scale Industry II         -        7.00     3.09
828     1978  Bangladesh  Agricultural Research           -        6.00     1.27
864     1978  Bangladesh  Drainage & Flood Control        -       19.00    12.52
872     1978  Bangladesh  Technical Assistance III        -       10.00     2.85
890     1979  Bangladesh  Oxbow Lakes Fisheries           -        6.00     4.54
912     1979  Bangladesh  Vocational Training             -       25.00    19.34
921     1979  Bangladesh  Population & Family Health II  -        32.00    28.63
934     1979  Bangladesh  Greater Khulna Power
Distribution                  -      28.00    27.30
941     1979  Bangladesh  Dacca Water Supply &
Sewerage II                  -       22.00     8.81
955     1979  Bangladesh  Small-Scale Drainage &
Flood Control                -       25.00    21.30
964     1979  Bangladesh  Highways II                      -      10.00     8.55
990     1980  Bangladesh  Low-Lift Pumps                  -       37.00    20.85
1001    1980  Bangladesh  Chittagong Water Supply II      -       20.00    18.70
/a Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
-29-                       Page  2
A. Bank Loans and IDA Credits to Bangladesh (Cont'd)
Amount
(less cancellations)
Loan or                                                     US$ Million /a
Credit
Number  Year   Borrower               Purpose            Bank    IDA   Undisbursed
1023    1980  Bangladesh  Fertilizer Industry
Rehabilitation                -      29.00    26.09
1032    1980  Bangladesh  Jute Industry
Rehabilitation                -      20.00    14.91
1042    1980  Bangladesh  Mangrove Afforestation           -      11.00     7.85
1054    1980  Bangladesh  Education IV (Primary
Education)                    -      40.00    35.06
1065/c  1980 Bangladesh  Small-Scale Industry III         -       35.00    33.26
10917& 1981  Bangladesh  Bakhrabad Gas Development        -       85.00    38.34
1096/c  1981  Bangladesh  Fertilizer Transport Project   -        25.00    18.52
1117/c  1981  Bangladesh  Bangladesh Shilpa Bank II        -      50.00    36.49
1124/c  1981  Bangladesh  Technical Assistance IV          -      16.00    15.87
1140Tw  1981  Bangladesh Hand Tubewells                   -       18.00    15.64
1147/c  1981  Bangladesh  Agricultural Credit              -      40.00    39.68
11847   1982  Bangladesh  Drainage & Flood Control II    -        27.00    26.00
1194/c  1982  Bangladesh  Imports Program X                -     100.00    32.92
1204/c  1982  Bangladesh  Chittagong Urea Fertilizer       -      15.00    15.00
12057/C  1982  Bangladesh  Textile Industry
Rehabilitation                -      30.00    30.00
1215/c  1982  Bangladesh  Extension & Research II          -      27.00    27.00
12477w  1982  Bangladesh  Chittagong Port                  -      60.00    60.00
/b  1254/c  1982  Bangladesh  Ashuganj Thermal Power           -      92.00    92.00
1262/c  1982  Bangladesh  Rural Electrification           -       40.00    40.00
/b  1287/c  1982  Bangladesh  Second Deep Tubewells            -      68.00    68.00
1300/c  1983  Bangladesh  Imports Program XI               -     110.00   110.00
13017   1983  Bangladesh  First Highway Project
. (Supplemental)               -        6.00     6.00
lb  1318/c  1983  Bangladesh  Business Management Education
& Training                    -       7.80     7.80
/b  1321/c  1983  Bangladesh  Telecommunications III           -      35.00    35.00
Total                                               54.90 2,393.50 1,092.77
of which has been repaid                            -        0.40        _
Total now outstanding                               54.90 2,393.10 1,092.;7
Amount sold                                0.00
Total now held by Bank and IDA                       54.90 2,393.10
Total undisbursed                                     -   1,092.77 1,092.77
/a  Prior to exchange adjustments.
/b  Not yet effective.
/c  IDA 6th Replenishment Credits denominated in SDRs.  Amounts of principal
are calculated at the rate of exchange at time of negotiations; amounts
undisbursed are calculated at the rate of exchange on March 31, 1983,
and the US$ equivalent for fully disbursed IDA 6th credits is calculated
at the rate of exchange on the date of disbursements.



-30-                        ANNEX II
Page 3
B. STATEMENT- OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1983)
Fiscal                                                    Amount in US$ Million
Year           Obligor              Type of Business     Loan   Equity   Total
1979    Highspeed Shipbuilding &
Heavy Engineering Co. Ltd.    Shipbuilding        1.20    0.36    1.56
1980    Industrial Promotion and       Development
Development Company of        Finance
Bangladesh Ltd.                Company             -       1.05    1.05
Total gross commitments                                   1.20    1.41    2.61
less cancellations, terminations, repayments and sales  -        -        -
Total now held by IFC                                      1.20    1.41    2.61
Total undisbursed                                          0.65     -      0.65
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION AS OF MARCH 31, 1983 1/
Agricultural Projects
Cr. No. 341     Tubewells Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of November 6, 1972;
Effective Date: January 17, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1982
The Credit was closed on December 31, 1982 and necessary steps are being
taken to cancel the undisbursed balance of the credit account.
Cr. No. 542     Barisal Irrigation Project; US$27.0 Million Credit of
April 29, 1975; Effective Date: September 30, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Barisal irrigation Project I (BIP) was completed on June 30, 1981 and
taken over on maintenance. Barisal extension was taken up with the savings of
BIP 1. Farmers response for the dry season (Boro) cultivation has been much
below expectation due to socio-economic and agro-climatic conditions in the area
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems
which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy them.
They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that they do
not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weaknesses in
project execution.



ANNEX II
Page  4
and probably also due to deficiencies in the agricultural support services.
These factors are currently under study. However, there has been some increase
over previous years cultivationi. Good progress is maintained on civil works
construction in the extension area. Procuremenc preliminaries for the primary
pumps, gates and low lift pumpi' have been completed and deliveries have started.
Agricultural demonstration farns are in operation in the extension area. Due to
insufficient Annual Development: Program (ADP) funding completion of the project
will be delayed until the end of 1984.
Cr. No. 605     Karnafuli Irrigation Project; US$22.0 Million Credit of
January 28, 1976; Effective Date: February 24, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Project implementation which was about 2.5 years behind schedule has
shown good progress in the last two years and except for flood embankments the
project is expected to be completed by the end of 1983. Government of
Bangladesh (GOB) proposes to delete the embankments for technical and social
reasons which IDA is currently examining. The trend on agricultural development
is encouraging and expected benefits would probably be attained.
The fisheries component is completed.
Cr. No. 631     Rural Development Project; US$16.0 Million Credit of June 3,
1976; Effective Date: August 3, 1976; Closing Date: June 30,
1983
Extended credit closing date is June 30, 1983. Project as envisaged
is virtually complete, except for th' provision of 250 Deep Tubewells (DTWs).
Due to GOB-s new standardizaticn requirements, the procurement will not be
completed by credit closing, which is likely to result in about US$3 million
of the credit remaining unutilized at tL   time.
Z:. No. 724     Shallow Tubewells Project; US$16.0 Million Credit of July 1,
1977; Effective Date: December 9, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The Credit was closed cn December 31, 1982. Only payment for commit-
ments in the pipeline will continue.
Cr. No. 725     Muhuri Irrigation Project; US$21.0 Million Credit of July 1,
1977; Effective Date: January 6, 1978; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
Project implementation has been further delayed because of delays in
finalizing the design and tender documents for the closure dam work. Other
consultants have been recruited to assist Bangladesh Water Development Board
(BWDB) with the design and construction of the dam. Construction of the Feni
Regulator is nearing completior. Agricultural and Integrated Rural Development
Program (IRDP) activities are commencing in 1982/83. Farmer's response for
adoption of improved agricultural practice and group formation is expected to be
good. A cost overrun is expected due to a likely increase in the cost of the
closure works. A supplementary credit is being considered.



ANNEX II
-32-                        Page  5
Cr. No. 729     Extension and Research ProJect; US$10.0 Million Credit of
July 1, 1977; Effective Date:  JanuAry 6, 1978; Closing
Date: June 31), 1982
The credit was closed on June 30, 1982. Necessary steps are being taken
to cancel the undisbursed balance of the credit account.
Cr. No. 765     Jute Project; US$21.0 Million Credit of February 8, 1978;
Effective Date: April 14, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The jute intensification program has suffered as a result of the recent
consolidation of extension services, whereby Jute Extension Officers will be
shifted from one location to another and trained for other crops. Credit sanc-
tioned from Sonali Bank has been only 25Z of the requirement and this has
affected crop production. The Government has initiated an evaluation of its
jute intensification program.
Cr. No. 787     Foodgrain Storage II Project; US$25.0 Million Credit of
April 12, 1978; Effective Date: September 29, 1978; Closing
Date:  June 3{, 1984
The project had a slow start due to administrative difficulties,
problems in land acquisition and material shortages. Implementation of the
165,000 MT storage constructicn program has gained momentum and is now sa isfac-
tory. The storage rehabilitation component has been reduced from 25,000 MT to
10,000 MT as a result of implementation delay. Contracts for rehabilitation
have been awarded for 7,750 MT. Quality control equipment has been procured,
but considerable additional efforts are required in the area of grain quality
control and inspection. The project is now anticipated to be completed by
June 30, 1983. The Government has decided to eliminate the project's paddy
drying component.
Cr. No. 828     Agricultural Besearch Project; US$6.0 Million Credit of
June 16, 1978; Effective Date: November 15, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Implementation of the project is progressing satisfactorily. Almost
all research station buildings are now complete and only farm development
remains to be finished at the Jessore and Hathazari stations. Research programs
on research stations and those supported by the research grant scheme are being
vigorously pursued. The technical monitoring scheme is now operating well and a
monitoring and evaluation cell, established at Bangladesh Agricultural Research
Council (BARC) headquarters, will now apply techniques pioneered under the
project to all grant-supported research. The major constraint to project
implementation is the lack of operating funds.
Cr. No. 864     Drainage and flood Control Project; US$19.0 Million Credit of
December 22, 1978; Effective Date: October 19, 1979; Closing
Date: June 3C, 1984
Of the three subprojects financed under the project construction work
in Chenchuri Beel (CCB) and Kc*labashukhali (RBK) will be completed by June 30,
1983. Implementation of Brahmaputra Right Embankment (BRE) is progressing



ANNEX II
-33-                             Page  6
satisfactorily and will be completed before the closing date in June 1984.
Procurement of vehicles and construction of civil works for the agricultural
extension services has been delayed due to procedural problems, however, the
matter has now been resolved and completion is anticipated by June 1983.
Project management during the operation of the completed subprojects requires
now the attention of the Government.
Cr. No. 890     Oxbow Lakes Fishery Project; US$6.0 Million Credit of April 3,
1979; Effective Date: February 13, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
The basic concept is to intensify carp production in a cluster of six
oxbow lakes, currently underexploited, by the introduction of new composite fish
culture techniques and improved lake management technology. Construction of a
central hatchery started in January 1982, some 12 months behind schedule. The
delay was caused primarily by managerial and administrative weaknesses but also
by shortage of counterpart funds. Work at central hatchery complex is now in
full progress and hatchery is expected to become partly operational in first
part of 1983. Land acquisition procedures are proving difficult and are holding
back construction at satellite lakes. Despite delays and problems in project
implementation, the objectives of the project are expected to be fulfilled.
This will, however, require intensive supervision by IDA headquarter-s staff.
Cr. No. 955     Small Scale Drainage and Flood Control Project; US$25.0
Million Credit of October 30, 1979; Effective Date: May 21,
1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
At the end of the second year of implementation, out of a total of 40
subprojects under construction, 15 have been completed, 4 substantially com-
pleted and the progress on the remaining 21 has been retarded due to late
commencement, lack of cement and inadequacy of funds in the revolving fund.
Forty-one new subprojects have been approved for 1982/83 for which adequate
provision has been made in the ADP. Fifteen completed subprojects have been
taken over on operation and maintenance.
Cr. No. 990     Low Lift Pump Project; US$37.0 Million Credit of April 4,
1980; Effective Date: September 8, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Three thousand two-cu sec LLPs and 1,500 one-cusec LLPs under the Phase I
sales program under public aegis have been procured. While all one-cusec units
have been sold, two-cusec punip demand continues slow. Orders have been placed
for the remaining 4,000 Low lift Pumps (LLPs) to be sold by private dealers,
with investment credit provided to purchasers by the Bangladesh Bank. A
mechanics- training program continues well. Compliance with Credit covenants is
satisfactory and Credit disbursements, on schedule.
Cr. No. 1042    Mangrove Affc-restation Project; US$11.0 Million Credit of
June 27, 1980; Effective Date: September 26, 1980; Closing
Date: Decemlber 31, 1985
Overall project performance is good. The establishment of plantations
was carried out according to SAR targets. The current progress indicated that



ANNEX II
34                           Page  7
the 1982/83 target will also be achieved. The procurement of essential equip-
ment and materials has been completed. Staffing remains behind the SAR target.
The implementation of the Plantation Trial Unit Program has been delayed. No
activity on the Public Relations Component has been started. Disbursement is
behind the SAR targets; however, it will improve when the doicuments for launches
and boats imported are received.
Cr. No. 1140    Hand Tubewells Project; US$18.0 Million Credit of July 8,
1981; Effective Date: February 11, 1982; Closing Date:
March 31, 1935
The initial financial and administrative problems regarding procurement
are now over. The project is now building momentum. Raw material for 90 000
Hand Tubewells (HTWs) has been procured. Work order for first lot of 31,00
HTWs has been placed with 14 foundries. Incremental staff has been appointed
and HTW selling price tentatively announced to farmers. Major problem is
shortage of ADP allocation and the Government is looking into the matter.
Cr. No. 1147    Agricultural Credit Project; US$40.0 Million Credit of June 9,
1981; Effective Date: October 6, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
This project is designed to provide long-term credit to farmers for
investments in minor irrigation and other agricultural development, and to
private borrowers for grain storage facilities. Progress in privatization of
shallow tubewells is proceeding satisfactorily. Import licenses had been issued
to authorized private dealers and letters of credit have been opened. Shallow
Tubewell (STW) prices between private and public sectors are now comparahle.
Appointment of consultants to assist Bangladesh Bank, the implementation agency,
is now in process.
Cr. No. 1184    Second Drainage and Flood Control Project; US$27.0 Million
Credit of January 8, 1982; Effective Date: July 14, 1982;
Closing Date: June 30, 1987
Initial progress on construction work is slower than expected due to
reductions in the 1982/83 ADP budget.
Cr. No. 1215    Second Extension and Research Project; US$27.0 Million Credit
of March 16, 1982; Effective Date: October 21, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30, 1988
This credit became effective in October 1982 and progress on project
implementation has so far been slow.
Cr. No. 1287    Second Deep Tubewells Project; US$68.0 Million Credit of
August 10, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
This Credit is not yet effective.



ANNEX II
-35-                           Page  8
Cr. No. 527     Ashuganj Fertilizer Project; US$62.0 Million Credit of
February 11, 1975, as amended by Amending Agreement of
June 18, 1979; Original Credit Effective Date: December 19,
1975; Supplementary Credit Effective Date: August 1, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project was cofinanced by the Asian Development Bank, Federal
Republic of Germany, (KfW), EEC, IFAD, the OPEC Special Fund, and the Govern-
ments of Iran, Switzerland, UK and US, for a total of about TS$190 million
equivalent, in addition to the IDA credit. Because of the additional site
works, the delays and currency fluctuations, supplemental financing was neces-
sary and has been obtained. The project has now been mechanically completed.
Even though production of urea was started in December 1981, about six months
later than anticipated at the time of supplementary financing, the project
continues to face operating problems. Further assistance by donors is required
to enable the plant to achieve production stability and also to provide staff
training and expatriate technical assistance to help in operating the plant.
Total foreign exchange cost of the Fertilizer Plant is likely to be about US$15
million higher than that approved at the time of IDA supplementary financing.
Cr. No. 632     Bangladesh Shilpa Bank Project; US$25.0 Million Credit of
May 20, 1976; Effective Date: November 8, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
Ins,itutional upgrading programs instituted under the credit are still
under implementation, continuing the improvement on BSB-s loan accounting and
staff training. However, because of declining collection BSB-s financial posi-
tion has weakened significantly. This area of operational weakness is receiving
close GOB/IDA attention, and IDA is coordinating closely with ADB and KfW to
implement an action program to restore BSB-s financial viability.
Cr. No. 825     Small Scale Industry II Project; US$7.0 Million Credit of
June 16, 1978; Effective Date: September 15, 1978; Closing
Date: March 30, 1984
Project appraisal and processing capabilities of the implementating
banks developed rapidly, with significant improvement in institutional
capabilities of the commercial banks. Staff of the Bangladesh Small and Cottage
Industries Corporation (BSCIC) completed a number of subsector and area studies
for small industry promotion, and some improvement in BSCIC-s promotion and
extension services were achieved. The project was fully committed by the com-
mercial banks in July 1980; due to some cancellations, the closing date for the
project was extended.
Cr. No. 1023    Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation Project; US$29.0 Million
Credit of June 4, 1980; Effective Date: September 8, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The reorganization of the project entities into three separate fer-
tilizer manufacturing companies have been accomplished, and project financing
agreements have been executed. Consultants for providing engineering services
have been selected and their contracts approved. The project is proceeding
satisfactorily though with- some delay.



ANNEX II
Page  9
-36-
Cr. No. 1032    Jute Industry Rehabilitation Project; US$20.0 Million Credit
of June 4, 1980; Effective Date: July 22, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Project implementation has been mixed. After some initial delay,
procurement of rehabilitation and preventive maintenance spares is proceeding
well. The establishment of the Jute Strategy Cell and work related to policy
and strategy formulation is delayed. Thirty-three of 66 mills which are
beneficiaries of the project are in the process of denationalization. Arrange-
ments for rechanneling US$3.55 million to these (now private) mills are under-
way. One consultancy assignment (production incentive) is now complete, while
the other two (accounting/financial, organization) are being reformulated to
reflect changed circumstances.
Cr. No. 1065    Small Scale Industry III Project; US$35.0 Million Credit of
October 17, 1980; Effective Date: January 15, 1981; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984
The US$30 million zredit component is moving somewhat behind schedule,
with US$12.5 million committed in 317 subprojects, as of December 31, 1982;
major product groups have been food processing, engineering, textiles, ice
plants for the fishing sector and transport. Project eligibility has been
expanded slightly and promotional services by Bangladesh Small and Cottage
Industries Corporation (BSCIC) and coordination with the banks are being
improved. Technical service components -- for handicraft exports, rural
enterprises, and selected organized SSI subsectors were slow in initiation, but
are now proceeding.
Cr. No. 1117    Bangladesh Shilpa Bank II Project; US$50.0 Million Credit of
March 31, 1981; Effective Date: August 12, 1981; Closing
Date: April 30, 1986
As of December 31, 1982, BSB was facing considerable financial difficul-
ties due to the deterioration in its portfolho. This deterioration resulted
from devaluation of the Taka in the late t970--early 1980s, low collection
levels and the impact of the world recession on Bangladesh industry. GOB, with
assistance from ADB and IDA, has initiated a piogram of financial restructuring
of BSB and arrears recovery. The initial restructuring has been completed and
BSBso liquidity/financial position has been improved. The final stages of the
arrears recovery program have been implemanted and a short list of consultants
has been prepared for a UNDP funded institutional review and portfolio audit,
which is expected to be completed in June i984. IDA is coordinating closel,
with KfW and ADB. The latter is the executing agency for the action program..



ANNEX II
Page  10
Cr. No. 1194    Tenth Imports Program US$100.0 Million Credit of
January 26, 1982; Effective Date: February 22, 1982
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
This Credit became effectilve on February 22, 1982. As of March 31, 1983
US$67.08 million had been disbursed.
Cr. No. 1204    Chittagong Urea Fertilizer Project; US$15.0 Million Credit of
February 10, 1982; Effective Date: January 19, 1983
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
This Credit became effective on January 19, 1983. The bids for the
general contracting services are expected to be received by March 31, 1983.
Cr. No. 1205    Textile Industry Rebabilitation Project; nS$30.0 Million
Credit of February 10, 1982; Effective Date: October 27,
1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
After initial delay, the credit became effective on October 27, 1982.
The first set of tender documents related to six mills have been prepared and
approved by IDA. However, nine of the original li3t of 15 mills are being
denationalized. Balancing, Modernization and Replacement (BMR) plans for 17
substitute mill are at an advanced etate of preparation with IDA review planned
for April 1983. The terms of reference for the Industrial Economist have been
prepared and reviewed by IDA. Fielding of consultants is expected by July 1983.
Cr. No. ;300    Eleventh Imports Program; US$110.0 Million Credit of
December 10, 1982; Effective Date: March 4, 1983;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
This Credit became effective on March 4, 1983.
Education Projects
Cr. No. 621     Agricultural and Rural Training Project; US$12.0 Million
Credit of March 25, 1976; Effective Date: June 30, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
All civil works have virtually been completed except for construction
of two new Thana Training Units (70Z complete) which has been slow to complete
due to lack of Taka funds. IDA has asked GOB in December 1982 to provide the
needed funds. The latest estimate (December 1982) for completion of all works
is June 1983. Staffing is adequate and all Agriculture Training Institute (ATI)
instructors have received in-service training under the project. The course to
train project managers and those civil servants directly concerned with
implementation of IDA financed agricultural projects has been successful and an
extension of the course to June 2M3 hbus been recently approved by IDA. At the
request of GOB, extension of the closing date from June 30, 1982 to June 30,
1983 has been granted by IDA to allow enough time to complete all remaining
civil works and project activities.



ANNEX II
-38-                          Page  11
Sr. No. 912     Vocational Training Project; US$25.0 Million Credit of May 31,
1979; Effective Date: November 2, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
Progress continues to be evident in several areas of project activity.
Contracts have been awarded for the five new TTCs and the National Council for
Skill Development and Training (NCSDT) building. Equipment procured by the
International Labor Organization (ILO) has arrived in Bangladesh and is being
installed in existing workshops. Instructor and in-plant training programs are
operational. Most of the technical assistance team (ILO) with the exception of
the evaluation expert are in post. Trade standards and tests in several areas
have been completed and await formal NCSDT approval. Quarterly Progress Reports
are being submitted on time, and the rate of disbursements has improved con-
siderably. The continued failure of GOB to replenish the Revolving Fund has
slowed some project components, however, IDA is now considering advance payments
into the Fund to make it operational. Finally, the second-shift programs have
been sporadic and not well organized. The Government will shortly decide on an
incentive package for instructors which can overcome the major problem with this
p'ogram.
Cr. No. 1054    Fourth Education (Primary) Project; US$40.0 Million Credit of
June 27, 1980; Effective Date: December 1, 1980; Closing
Date: December 31, 1986
With the appointment of a new Project Director in June 1983, project
management has shown considerable improvement. The majority of staff for the
PIU and Regional Project Units Regional Project Units (RPUs) have been
appointed. Civil works is also showing improvement. Contracts for the con-
struction of additional classrooms at 178 schools, 594 latrines, 286 tubewells,
hostel extentions to 6 Primary (Teacher) Training Institutes (PTIs) and improve-
ments to 648 schools have been awarded. Learning ki-s have been distributed to
200 schools. Textbooks already have been distributed to over 443,000 Class I
and Class II students, and requisitions have been finalized for 1983 distribu-
tion to Class I, II, and III. No uniforms were distributed in 1982 in line with
new Government policy, however, two sets will be distributed to all students
(not only girls) in Class II in 1983 and then Class II and Class IV each year
thereafter under the new policy. The Recurrent Teacher Training Program started
in mid-December, slightly behind schedule. The Training of Education
administrators started in June 1982. The Project IMPACT experiment is on
schedule, the opening of a demonstration school and final testing of training
modules. All UNESCO experts are in post, and the four Education Studies under-
taken by British Council consultants have been completed.
Cr. No. 1318    Business Management Education and Training Project; US$7.8
Million Credit of March 28, 1983; Closing Date: June 30, 1988
This Credit is not yet effective.



ANNEX II
-39-                          Page  12
Population Project
Cr. No. 533     Population Project; US$15.0 Million Credit of March 10, 1975;
Effective Date:  September 23, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1982
The credit was closed on September 30, 1982 and payment for commitments
in the pipeline will continue.
Cr. No. 921     Second Population and Family Health Project; US$32.0 Million
Credit of May 31, 1979; Effective Date: April 1, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Project execution, except for the first tranche of the Family Welfare
Center-s component, effectively commenced only in July 1980, about one year
behind schedule. While the Information, Education and Motivation (IEM) and
Research and Evaluation parts of the project are proceeding satisfactorily, the
civil works- components of the service delivery and training parts of the
project are significantly delayed. Their completion within the original four
year implementation period (July 1979-June 1983) is no longer feasible, owing
not only to the initial implementation but also to weak implementation capacity
of responsible agencies. The impact of budget cuts and the Government-s de
facto devaluation of the Taka since appraisal will result in significant
savings. An extension of the project implementation period is currently being
discussed with the Government.
Transport Projects
Cr. No. 408     Highways Project; US$25.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date:  August 7, 1973; Closing Date:  December 31,
1982
The Credit was closed on December 31, 1982. Final disbursement of
US$1.7 million has been made and steps are being taken to cancel the undisbursed
balance remaining under this credit.
Cr. No. 735     Inland Water Transport II Project; US$5.0 Million Credit of
September 30, 1977; Effective Date: March '3, 1978; Closing
Date: August 15, 1983
Spare parts for Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Authority (BIWTA)
vessels, navigation aids, hydrographic and cargo handling have been ordered.
Most spare parts for BIWTC cargo vessels and BIiTh service vessels have been
delivered and are on order. Also, orders have been placed for telecommunication
equipment. Consultants appointed to carry out stue es on Inland Water Transport
(IWT) sector, fleet scheduling of Bangladesh Inland Water Transport Corporation
(BIWTC) and accounting systems for BIWIA and BIWTC have submitted their reports.
Implementation of the recomendations of the accounting studies has been sub-
stantially completed. At the request of the borrower the closing date has been
extended to August 15, 1983.



ANNEX II
-40-                           Page  13
Cr. No. 964     Second Highway Project; US$10.0 Million Credit of December 21,
1979; Effective Date: August 29, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984
Project implementation has been seriously delayed by the borrower's
failure to award construction contracts in reasonable time. This failure has
resulted in increased project cost due to inflation. The problem appears to
result from factors outside the control of Roads and Highways Department (RHD),
e.g., the inability of the -Procurement Committee- to take timely decisions and
standard Goverment procedures which are in conflict with IDA procurement prinr
ciples. However, the earthworks contracts now appear to be progressing well,
although the two bridge and culvert contracts are moving more slowing due to the
financial difficulties and illness of the contractor.
Cr. No. 1096    Fertilizer Transport Project; US$25.0 Million Credit of
February 13, 1981; Effective Date: July 24, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
Trial dredging at Chittagong Port has been completed and the results of
the survey are encouraging in that less lighterage is taking place resulting in
lower transport costs. Also dredging work at the inland river port of Baghabari
has been completed and pontoons are in place. Contracts for procurement of
railway material have been issued. Progress on other project components has
been slow, but regular supervision missions are providing assistance to speed up
implementation. Disbursement of funds, consequently are lagging behind.
Cr. No. 1247    Chittagong Port Project; US$60.0 Million Credit of May 21,
1982; Effective Date: November 17, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1987
Bids for the civil works contract for multipurpose berths have been
issued to prequalified bidders and are due March 31, 1983.
Cr. No. 1301    First Highway Project (Supplemental); US$6.0 Million Credit
of December 10, 1982; Effective Date: March 17, 1983;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
This Credit became effective on March 17, 1983. However, the contract
for repair work is expected to be signed shortly, as is the contract with Valen-
tine, Laurie and Davies to supervise the repair work. The contract with the
local consultant is still pending.
Cr. No. 487     Second Telecommunications Project; US$20.0 Million Credit of
June '26, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
The project execution is largely behind schedule due to previous delays
in procurement, civil works and reduced output of the domestic telephone cables
and switching equipment factories. Difficulties were also experienced in comr
pleting the local construction and installation of the systems. Telegraph &
Telephone Board (TTB), a Government board since April 1979, is making sig-
nificant progress in organizing its finances and accounts, and in managing its
operations and development. TTB funds had until recently all been deposited



ANNEX II
-41-                           Page  14
in an overall Government account. Since July 1981, TTB has a designated bank
account to which all funds are deposited and withdrawn and the accounting func-
tions have been transferred from Controller-s Auditor General to TTB. The
overhaul of accounting functions, staff and methodology is proceeding very well.
Recruitment of staff has been completed and TTB now has an established and
trained cadre of financial staff. Commercial accounts will be prepared from
FY82/83 onward. In general, financial performance of TTB is reasonably good.
Thus, TTB is gradually achieving a level of financial autonomy that will permit
it to adjust its development program within the overall framework of the agreed
budget. Covenants under the project are now being complied with. Since May
1981, TTB has taken final procurement action to commit the funds remaining under
the project. Works related to last procurement, including national trunk and
international electronic telephone exchanges, will be completed by June 1983.
Actions as required to further improve TTB-s management, operations and develop-
ment capability, were considered and have been included in the third telecom-
munications project.
Cr. No. 1321    Third Telecommunications Project; US$35.0 Million Credit of
March 28, 1983; Closing Date: June 30, 1988
This Credit is not yet effective.
Technical Assistance Credits
Cr. No. 872     Third Technical Assistance Project; US$10.0 Million Credit of
December 22, 1978; Effective Date: January 19, 1979; Closing
Date: June 30, 1983
Thirty-nine subprojects, totalling about US$12.6 million have been
approved. The credit is about half disbursed. Twenty subprojects have been
completed. The remaining subprojects are proceeding smoothly. In several
instances, however, consultant contracts have not been finalized.
Cr. No. 1124    Fourth Technical Assistance Project; US$16.0 Million Credit
of March 31, 1981; Effective Date: June 10, 1981; Closing
Date: April 30, 1985
Eleven subprojects, amounting to 91Z of Credit have been committed. A
number of proposed subprojects have been agreed in principle and steps are being
taken to secure consultant services.
Power Projects
Cr. No. 934     Greater Khulna Power Distribution Project; US$28.0 Million
Credit of June 18, 1979; Effective Date: November 20, 1979;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Foreign consultants (Motor Columbus - Switzerland) have been appointed
as scheduled and have begun design work. Project execution is about one year
behind schedule due to administrative difficulties in preparing maps for the
project areas and to the inability of the beneficiary (Power Development Board)
to provide adequate local staff for project implementation. To improve the
situation, local consultants have beeppointed in September 1981 and conditions
have been created to recuperate part of the delay.



ANNEX II
-42-                            Page  15
Cr. No. 1091    Bakhrabad Gas Development Project; US$85.0 Million Credit of
February 13, 1981; Effective Date: June 16, 1981; Closing
Date: December 31, 1984
The well drilling program has been successfully completed with all five
wells testing as excellent producers. Work on the pipeline project was started
in aid-October when the right-of-way became accessible after the monsoon. After
a slow start, good progress is now being made by the pipelaying contractor.
Chances appear good that the pipeline can be completed before the monsoon rains,
assuming a normal monsoon. The main distribution ring is scheduled for comple-
tion by December 31, 1983.
Cr. No. 1254   Ashuganj Thermal Power Project; US$92.0 Million Credit of
June 30, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1987
This Credit is not yet effective.
Cr. No. 1262    Rural Electrification Project; US$40.0 Million Credit of
June 30, 1982; Effective Date: November 30, 1982; Closing
Date: June 30, 1989
This Credit became effective in November 1982.
Water Supply and Sewerage Projects
Cr. No. 941     Second Dacca Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$22.0
Million Credit of June 29, 1979; Effective Date:  November 30,
1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
DACCA WASA-s consulting engineers have completed design and it is
expected that procurement will be completed by early 1983. Physical works are
expected to be completed by December 1983, about a year behind schedule. Early
delays resulted from slow startup and sluggish procurement but are currently due
to land acquisition problems, which have recently been mostly overcome, and
shortage of local currency with which to pay civil works contractors.
Cr. No. 1001    Second Chittagong Water Supply Project; US$20.0 Million
Credit of April 4, 1980; Effective Date: April 9, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
After early delays in selecting consultants for the project a firm is in
place and design is now almost complete. Selection of a second consultant for a
sewerage/sanitation study has been made. An expatriate financial adviser has
proved effective. Procurement is now progressing iell but implementation will
be about 1-1/2 years behind schedule. Recent tariff increase is not sufficient
and another increase by July 1, 1983 is expected. While there has been improve-
ment in the collection of arrears from Government departments, further improve-
ment is still necessary.



-43-                          ANNEX III
Page 1
BANGLADESH
SECOND AGRICULTURAL TRAINING PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:
3 years
(b) Agencies preparing the project:
FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme
(c) Date of first preparation mission by IDA and
date of first mission to consider the project:
June 1980
Cd) Date of departure of appraisal mission:
February 1981 (Post appraisal in December 1982)
{e) Date of completion of negotiations:
April 1983
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:
90 days after signature
Section II:     Special IDA Implementation Action:
None
Section III:    Special Conditions of Effectiveness would be:
(a) signing of contract between GOB and the consultants to
assist in carrying out the AMDP (paragraphs 53 and 68);



-   _44-                      ANNEX III
Page 2
(b)  signing of a contract between GOB and consultants
required by DOT (paragraphs 55 and 68);
(c)  signing of the UNDP Project Document (paragraphs 59 and
68); and
(d)  approval of the Project Proforma (paragraphs 59 and 68).
Other
Conditions:     The Government would:
(a)  create no later than December 31, 1983, three additional
teaching posts for each ATI, two of which would be at
the of senior level (paragraph 45);
(b)  create no later than December 31, 1983 four new senior
instructor posts for CERDT (paragraph 48);
(c)  prepare the training curricula for HAITI no later than
December 31, 1984 and thereafter establish and maintain
the training institute (paragraph 50); and
(d)  prepare a five-year plan of all training programs to
be carried out under the project, including fellowship
training, as a condition of disbursement for fellowships
and trainee stipends (paragraph 51).



BANGLADESH
SECOND AGRICULTURAL TRAINING PROJECT
I                       tkl"w  -1.                       -w,                                                                                    I. OPLP
Vo                                                                                                                tjqjr q
I.- A. "I
N                                                                                                           i
OINUPUP                                                                                                                                        Aq
A8
JO d E-
At
PA_111
L,L_
A4                                                                           S, lp          % ".
[30GRA                                                                                                                                     IA'
kvv
Is,
al wi.
IC044
I. Is_  .1  Nw,            A    I.i At 0                L                               ""s 'I.                                                                                                     IISYLHET
L:7                                                                                                                                                 N.
4w.-
<1
A. w,
'is
tlmo;.,                                                                                                                                                                ......
b gro 1
1614..-ass,       "Imp's"
TAIIIIII-11    Ml
Li.
-AA6                                                                                                                                   -orp
'I.F A,
Npa~,
as
p"L,                                                                                     f,;.
5w.
' I                                  EKASA VITUXILITA  OLA
Au 0                                                                                      I                                     I S_.-.       'SVA ...
K "5'HT.
a .4 -       -a W
L . _. v .. II C.* .
""A
L.11,
Al
C V LL.
J
E
rl.                                                       IN,



-'I 13
-.0                                                        'un
.41
L' A A
Y, -                                                                                                   :'V Li A
P.                                                 01'rm  sir'.                             M., .4 6.1 b,  W                                                               fol
w-aft,                                                                                                                                      31 t -.6
V-,                                               o w,
V, -.-%
s:m
V.                                                                                                              PA
1-4116
IC, h
ci
V.
A                       A
A
'%I A,
AL.                                                V"IA
A,                K.I;LJ L NA
y
'V'
A
ru AK HALF-
CHITYAGO'1'6
Al
2'
%\
A
-AI        a j. K -.11,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 RACTS
PAI, TAN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 B..,
INTER%ATIONAL BOU%DARil$
CAMAL                                      E.", SIAM                      %I
DISTRICT 14EADOUARTEFkS
4       SUBDIVISIOI,  fA"UARTERS
THANA HEADQUARTERS
lp       IF         41o      J                                                                               Tw                                  211
4p          op         alo
KILOYETERS
SAILAPIKA
SO                                                             920
I                                                               I



