Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3598-BD
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BANGLADE SH
SECOND AGRICULTURAL TRAINING PROJECT
May 2, 1983
South Asia Projects Department
Education and Manpower Development Unit
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autborization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1.00   =  Taka 24.5
Taka 1.00  =  US$ 0.04
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 through June 30
ABBREVIATIONS
AiS              -  Agricultural Information Service
AMDP             -  Agricultural Management Development Program
ATI              -  Agricultural Training Institute
BAC              -  Bangladesh Agricultural College
BADC             -  Bangladesh Agricultural Development Corporation
BARI             -  Bangladesh Agricultural Research Institute
BAU              -  Bangladesli Agricultural University
BRRI             -  Bangladesh Rice Research Institute
BSFIC            -  Bangladesh Sugar and Food Industries Corporation
BS               -  Block Supervisor
BWDB             -  Bangladesh Water Development Board
CERDI            -  Central Extension Resources Development Institute
DAE              -  Department of Agricultural Extension
DAEM             -  Directorate of Agriculture (Extension aiid Management)
DANIDA           -  Danish International Development Asslstance
ECNEC            -  Executive Committee of the National Economic Council
FAO              -  Food and Agriculture Organization
GOB              -  Government of Bangladesh
GTI              -  Graduate Training Institlite (Mymensingh)
HAITI            -  Higher Agricultural Tn-service Training Institute
HYV              -  High-Yielding Variety
IJCS             -  Intensive Jute Cultivation Scheme
IRDP             -  Integrated Rural Development Program
MOA              -  Ministry of Agriculture
MTFPP            -  Medium-Tena Food Grain Production Plan
PIW              -  Project Implementation Wing
PP               -  Project Proforma
PPA              -  Plant Protection Agency
SCA              -  Seed Certiiication Agency
SFYP             -  Second Five-Year Plan
T &V             -  Training and Visit
iJAA             -  Union Agricultural Assistant
UNDP - OPE/DTCP -  UNDP Office for Projects Execution, Asia and Pacific Program
for Development Training and Communication Planning
VEA              -  Village Extension Agent



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
SECOND AGRICULTURAL TRAINING PROJECT
Table of Contents                       Page No.
*     I.    AGRICULTURE IN BANGLADESH              ................               1
Socio-Economic Background                                        1
Sectoral Context                     .........1.0* 
Development Pattern and Strategy                                 2
Agricultural Extension and Research                              3
Manpower Supply and Demand                                        4
II.   AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING .........
The Training System               .............*7
Policies and Problems in Agricultural Training                   9
External Financing of Agricultural Education and
Training .......  00.......   .......11
Bank Group Participation in Education and Training ....... 12
III.  THE PROJECT .............16
Project Formulation ....                                        16
Project Objectives                                              17
Project Components                                              17
IV.   PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND DISBURSEMENTS                          23
Project Cost ....23
Financing                                                       25
Disbursements ................. ............ .                  27
V.    MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION  ..... ..........                     29
Project Management ...4.o.. ..... ........                      29
Project Implementation                                          30
Procurement Procedures  ................................. . 31
Project Accounts and Audits                                     32
VI.   BENEFITS AND RISKS 33 ........ **    ................. ....    33'
Benefits                                                        33
Risks   ..........S********S**.33
VII.  RECiMsDTIs .......... o............. ....*...................... 34
VTII.  RECOMMENDATIONS .......                              .... 0e*X@X***@@*.**.** 34
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
Table of Contents                      Page No.
LIST OF TABLES:
1.1  Diploma Technician - Supply and Demand ..............     6
4.1  Summary of Costs by Project Component                    23
4.2  Price Escalation Estimates              ......           25
4.3  Project Financing Plan    ............................... 26
ANNE-XE-S:I
1. Organizational Chart: Department of Agricultural Extension (DAE)
2. ATI Output of Diploma Graduates and of Upgrading Course
3. Organizational Chart of the Division of Training, Department of
Agricultural Extension
4.  Suggested Terms of Reference of Expert Services Team
5.  Summary of Estimated Project Costs
Table 1 - Project Component by Time
Table 2 - Summary Account by Project Component
Table 3 - Summary Account by Time
Table 4 - Project Costs by Category of Expenditure
6. Schedule of Projected Disbursements
7. Implementation Schedule
8.  Selected Documents Available in the Project File
MAP:
Map of Bangladesh Showing Project Institutions



-1-
I. AGRICULTURE IN BANGLADESH
Socio-Economic Background
1.01    Bangladesh's population of about 93 million is growing at an annual
rate of approximately 2.9% and its density surpasses 600 per square km. The
population is poor (average per capita income being about US$ 120) and,
unemployment and illiteracy are high (about 74%). The natural resource base
is limited and the physical and social infrastructure underdeveloped. These
stark demographic and economic facts have dominated all considerations of
socio-economic development and have required successive governments to focus
on two recurrent themes of concern: the need to curb population growth and to
increase the country's food supply through agricultural development.
Sectoral Context
1.02    Agriculture dominates the Bangladesh economy, accounting for about
50% of GDP, 75% of all employment, and directly or indirectly for 90% of
merchandise exports. Within agriculture, crop production is the most impor-
tant sub-sector. Out of 16 million ha., about 10 million ha. are under
cultivation at a cropping intensity of slightly over 140%. Rice is by far
the most important crop and accounts for 80% of the cultivated area. Despite
increasing use of modern inputs, rice yields remain low at about 1.1 tons per
ha. Jute, the principal export and industrial crop, accounts for about 6% of
cultivated area, and provides considerable employment and income oppor-
tunities for the rural landless. Other crops such as wheat, which is becom-
ing increasingly important, pulses, oilseeds, sugarcane, tobacco, potatoes,
spices and vegetables account for the balance of the cultivated acreage.
1.03    There is considerable potential for increasing agricultural produc-
tion in Bangladesh as soils are fertile, the climate suitable for year-round
cropping, and there are abundant, but under-exploited, groundwater resources.
However, there are also constraints to agricultural development such as
scarcity of new cultivable land, problem soils on part of the cultivated
area, perennial danger of hurricanes and floods, lack of drainage facilities,
and a deficient transportation system for moving farm inputs and produce. A
further constraint is the heavy pressure of population on land. Most land
holdings in Bangladesh are small and fragmented; a typical holding is under
one hectare and split into six scattered plots. This constitutes an obstacle
to efficient farm management and makes the organization of cooperative
irrigation systems difficult. An additional constraint is the wide
prevalence of land tenancy: about 30% of Bangladesh farmers operate at least
part of their small farm under some form of tenancy (usually share-cropping).
Under the most customary rental arrangements, the tenant is normally expected
to provide all farm inputs, but receives only half of the crop. Under such
an arrangement and with no long term occupancy rights, there is reduced
incentive to develop the land for irrigation or to adopt improved farming
practices.
1.04    Nevertheless, farmers in Bangladesh are receptive to improved hus-
bandry methods. Their efforts are, however, handicapped by limited
availability of inputs such as seeds, fertilizers and pesticides on the one



-2-
hand, and inadequate technical advice on the other. GOB is addressing these
problems by encouraging the private sector to take a much greater part in
input supply and distribution, expanding storage and seed production; 1/ and
by its efforts to improve extension and research services. 2/
Development Pattern and Strategy
1.05    Self-sufficiency in foodgrains has been the main, but elusive,
government objective since pre-independence days and remains the cornerstone
of GOB's agricultural policy today. Annual foodgrain imports have averaged
1.3 million tons over the last five years while production has fluctuated
(with varying weather conditions) between 11.3 million tons in 1969/70 and a
record of about 14 million tons in 1980/81. GOB has appropriately chosen to
again emphasize, in its Second Five-Year Plan (SFYP) (FY80-FY85), a develop-
ment strategy whose central objective is to attain foodgrain
self-sufficiency. Its achievement combined with increased and more equitably
distributed incomes and purchasing power, would eliminate the need for mas-
sive foodgrain imports and go far towards eliminating the single most impor-
tant manifestation of widespread poverty, i.e., severe and chronic malnutri-
tion. Other sectoral objectives of the SFYP are to improve the availability
and distribution of agricultural products essential to satisfy basic needs,
to provide adequate raw materials (especially cotton and jute) to the
manufacturing sector, to diversify agriculture with a view to producing a
wider range of crops for export and import substitution, and to achieve more
equitable distribution of income, output and employment among small and
marginal farmers and the landless,
1.06    For the foodgrain sector, GOB has prepared a detailed action
program--the Medium-Term Food Grains Production Plan--with a portfolio of
projects designed to meet the annual target of producing 20 million
tons of foodgrains.  Wheat and High Yielding Varieties (HYV) of aman paddy 3/
would be the two crops contributing most to increased production. The
greatest stimulus to increased production is expected to stem from the provi-
sion of additional irrigation facilities (on 1.4 million ha.) and of sup-
plementary irrigation for rainfed areas (on 1 million ha.). The bulk of
these increases would be attributable to minor irrigation schemes, consisting
of pumps and tubewells. Increased capacity utilization of existing irriga-
tion facilities is projected to account for some 500,000 tons of additional
foodgrain production.
1/ Supported by Credit 410-BD.
2/ Supported by Credits 729-BD, 1215-BD and 621-BD.
3/ Aman - Paddy planted before or during the monsoon (which begins in June)
and harvested during November and December.



-3-
1.07    The switch to HYV for rainfed aus 1/ and aman paddy crops is a
central feature of the food grain production plan. The success of this
switch will be critically dependent on the supply of suitable varieties, the
maintenance of adequate farmgate prices, and provision of additional drainage
and flood control facilities on the 0.7 million ha. where HYV would be grown.
Even more sizeable benefits (a million tons of additional foodgrains annually
by FY85) are expected to accrue from the widespread adoption of improved
cultivation practices, including expanded fertilizer use, better land
preparation, sowing, weeding, nursery care, and pest control.
1.08    To complement the investments needed to reach production goals and
central to all the above plans, will be provision of more effective extension
services, better adaptive research, easier access to credit, and reducing and
streamlining the plethora of organizations and institutions operating at the
village level (para 1.09) and whose activities have been insufficiently
coordinated.
Agricultural Extension and Research
Extension
1.09    Until early 1982, a number of agencies competed simultaneously for
the attention of the farmer in the areas where they operated, and offered a
variety of benefits, arid often contradictory advice on the same general
subject matter. Similar services were also to be found in the Livestock,
Fisheries, Water and Credit sectors. Thus, it was common for an individual
farmer to find himself being advised by separate extension agents, each of
whom specialized in any of following: jute; tobacco; horticulture; water
management; plant protection; credit; sugar cane; and livestock. The above
was in addition to other advisers from The Bangladesh Agricultural Develop-
ment Corporation (BADC), the Integrated Rural Development Program (IRDP) as
well as from the private sector, especially from enterprises dealing in
fertilizer and insecticide. Although some of the services were geographi-
cally self-contained, each offered the farmer advice on what, when, and how
to plant; some offered these services together in different combinations.
Compounding the difficulty, was the fact that many of these institutionalized
packages were created at the urging of external funding agencies, not all of
whose activities were well coordinated.
1/ Aus - Paddy planted during March and April and harvested during July and
August.



-4-
Research
1.10    Seven major institutions are presently involved in agricultural
research. These are: Bangladesh Agricultural Research Institute (BARI),
Bangladesh Rice Research Institute (BRRI), Bangladesh Jute Research Institute
(BJRI), Bangladesh Sugar Research Institute (BSRI), Bangladesh Tea Research
Institute (BTRI), Forest Research Institute (FRI) and the Institute of
Nuclear Agriculture (INA). BARI is by far the largest research institution
in the country, and currently employs about 450 middle-level technicians.
The remaining institutes employ only about 180. These middle-level tech-
nicians assist the senior research staff in carrying out field and laboratory
activities. However, of these technicians only about 100 have had diploma
level training in agriculture.
1.11    To consolidate streamline and improve the nature of services (exten-
sion and research) to the farmer, GOB in 1982 promulgated the following
policies: (a) banks and the private sector would progressively assume
greater responsiblity for the supply of inputs to the farmer, such as credit,
fertilizer, insecticides and irrigation equipment; (b) the Department of
Forestry, Livestock and Fisheries would be brought under the control of the
Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), together with the Bangladesh Agricultural
Development Corporation (BADC) and the Bangladesh Water Development Board
(BWDB); (c) the Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council (BARC) will assume a
coordinating role over the seven autonomous research institutions (para
1.10); and (d) farmer extension agencies would be merged progressively into
one multi-purpose department.
1.12    In line with this last decision, and effective from July 1, 1982, six
Directorates and agencies were merged into the newly created Department of
Agricultural Extension (DAE). The merged agencies are: the Directorate of
Agriculture, Extension and Management (DAEM); the Directorate of Agriculture,
Jute Production (DOAJ), the Directorate of Plant Protection, the Horticul-
tural Development Board, the Tobacco Development Board, and the Central
Extension Resources Development Institute (CERDI). The extension services of
the Bangladesh Water Development Board will be merged into DAE in 1983 and
the Cotton Development Board in 1985. No plans have been made so far to
merge the extension services of the Departments of Forestry, Fishery, Live-
stock nor those farmer services currently provided by BADC and Bangladesh
Sugar and Food Industries Corporation (BSFIC) into DAE.  The DAE is headed by
a Director General and assisted by seven Directors, one each for Cash Crops,
Food Crops, Plant Protection, Field Services, Training, Planning/Evaluation
and Administration/Personnel (see organization chart, Annex 1).
Manpower Supply and Demand
1.13    To meet the objectives of improving the quality of the extension and
research services, and also to meet the increasing demands of the private
sector, a supply of well trained manpower is of paramount importance. At the



-5-
professional level, there is an adequate supply from the Bangladesh Agricul-
tural University (BAU) and the Bangladesh Agricultural College (BAC). At the
technician level, however, there are deficiencies. The merging of the six
extension services and a recent assessment of manpower stocks in other agen-
cies and within the research and private sectors, has shown that although the
manpower exists, only about 50% have adequate training to meet the projected
demand in 1990. This assessment suggests that the bulk of middle-level
agricultural technicians in all sub-sectors would be diploma holders.
1.14    The current national ratio of diplomate multipurpose agricultural
technicians, employed by DAE as Block Supervisors (BS) 1/ to farming families
is about 1:1400. The Government plans to achieve a ratio of 1:1200 by 1987
and 1:900 by 1990. It is estimated that about 15,000 trained agricultural
technicians, of which 12,200 will be DAE employees, would be required to meet
the 1990 target. Table 1 shows the stock of trained agricultural technicians
employed by various agencies in 1982, and the projected demand and supply in
1990. The additional diploma level agricultural technicians required up to
1990 can be met from the output of the two-year diploma course of the
Agricultural Training Institutes (ATIs) and of the one-year upgrading course.
The latter will be offered, starting in July 1983, in four ATIs for selected
staff of MOA who are secondary school graduates serving as agricultural
technicians but without any formal training in agriculture (see Annex 2).
.
1/ Before July 1982, Block Supervisors were called Village Extension Agents
(VEA).



-6-
Table 1: Diploma Technician - Supply and Demand
A. Demand
1982             1990
Agency                              Stock           Demand
Department of Agricultural Extension         6,300           12,200
Research Institutes                            100            1,000
Private Sector                                 -              1,000
Other Agencies                                 -                800
TOTAL                               6,400           15,000
B. Supply 1/
1982 Stocks in 1990                                          -  4,940
Cumulative output /2 in 1990 from 11 ATIs
(Regular Course) (see Annex 2)                             -  4,550
Cumulative output in 1990 from upgrading course for
existing untrained agricultural technicians                -  5,540
TOTAL                                                  15,030
1/ Attrition rate estimated at 3% p.a.
2/ Dropout rate estimated at 5% p.a.



-7-
II. AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING
The Training System
2.01    Pre-service agricultural education in Bangladesh is carried out at
the professional and middle levels. University level agricultural education
trains prospective agricultural scientists, researchers and subject matter
and production specialists. Middle-level agricultural training prepares
multipurpose agricultural technicians to serve as Block Supervisors (BS) and
as general assistants in various agricultural establishments and agencies.
In-service training is carried out by the various agencies to meet the spe-
cialized training needs of their staff.
Professional Level Training
2.02    There are two institutions which provide pre-service training leading
to Bachelor's and Master's degrees in the agricultural sciences. These are
the Bangladesh Agricultural University (BAU) located at Mymensingh and the
Bangladesh Agricultural College (BAC) in Dhaka. Both institutions are under
the general administration of the Ministry of Agriculture. BAU has six
faculties, viz: Agriculture, Animal Husbandry, Veterinary Science, Agricul-
tural Engineering and Technology, Agricultural Economics and Rural Sociology
and Fisheries. It admits holders of the Higher School Certificate (Grade 125
to the BSc. program. Total enrollment is about 3,200 with a teaching staff
of about 300. On the average, BAU has a total annual output of some 350
B.Sc. and M.Sc. graduates, the majority of whom come from three faculties -
Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and Agricultural Economics and Rural Sociology.
BAC only offers a degree in general agriculture, and its academic program is
affiliated with BAU from which it obtains its authority to award degrees. It
has an enrollment of about 500, a teaching staff of about 55, and an average
yearly output of 60. It is situated within Dhaka's urban area on about 35
acres of land, which is insufficient to maintain livestock for teaching
purposes. However, the college has access to the Directorate of Livestock's
poultry and livestock demonstration units and uses these for practical train-
ing.
Middle (Diploma) Level Training
2.03    Pre-service training to the diploma level for agricultural tech-
nicians, of which majority are employed as general extension workers (BSs),
is conducted at Agricultural Training Institutes (ATIs).  The Division of
Training (DOT) in the newly formed DAE administers the ATIs. Originally
these institutions were intended to train Block Supervisors for employment
solely by the Directorate of Agriculture-Extension and Management (DAEM).
Since DAEM has now been abolished and merged with other agencies and due to
the increasing and varied demand from other government agencies and from the
private sector, training content will have to be broadened to ensure that ATI



-8-
graduates can perform multifunctional tasks, both in the public and private
sectors.
2.04    There are 11 ATIs with a total enrollment capacity of 2,720.  Cur-
rently 1,027 trainees are enrolled and undergoing first year training leading
to a two-year diploma; there are at present no second year trainees due to
student unrest two years ago. Five of the ATIs have been recently con-
structed and equipped; one by GOB, one through a Danish International
Development Assistance (DANIDA) grant and three by an ongoing IDA assisted
project (The Agricultural & Rural Training Project: Credit 621-BD). Four
existing ATIs were also renovated and partially equipped under this project.
One other existing ATI is located in old and dilapidated premises which will
be vacated in 1985 when a further two new ATIs are completed; one is now
under construction by Government at Barisal, and the other would be built
at Joydebpur under a second DANIDA grant.
2.05    The ATI diploma course lasts two years.  Places at ATIs are offered
to grade ten leavers on a competitive basis. The current curriculum, adopted
in 1979, covers general agricultural subjects including animal husbandry and
fisheries. The female students take home economics and home management
courses during the time male students take farm machinery courses. During
the first year, training is conducted entirely on campus. During the second
year, however, trainees spend about 30% of their time in the field under an
apprenticeship to serving extension officers.
In-service Training
2.06    Although in-service training at the professional level is relatively
well organized, there is poor co-ordination between the agencies involved.
There are gaps and overlaps, and programs are not well conceived. Institutes
such as BRRI offer regular courses in rice production, while BARI conducts
training for production specialists in various other crops such as wheat,
maize, pulses, tobacco, cotton and horticultural crops. In addition, the
Graduate Training Institute (GTI) of BAU conducts courses in extension
methodology and carries out apprenticeship in agricultural extension
activities for fresh professional level graduates who intend to join the
extension service. The GTI also conducts in-service training in animal
husbandry and in rural development strategies. Training for ATI teachers in
agricultural subjects is conducted at CERDI.
2.07    In-service training for middle-level technician staff is carried out
by individual agencies and is less well organized. The newly created DAE
will continue organizing specific in-service training courses as and when
required but will need to concentrate for the next few years on a massive
program to cope with the large numiber of partially trained or totally
untrained secondary school leavers who have been appointed as agricultural
technicians in various agricultural Directorates, Boards and Agencies. This
program will be carried out at the ATIs.



-9-
Policies and Problems in Agricultural Training
2.08    Government policies and plans for agricultural education and training
at the professional level have been pursued mainly through the development of
BAU and BAC and are designed to meet increased manpower needs and improve the
quality and relevance of training. The success of these policies can be seen
in the recently completed IDA financed Credit 407-BD which assisted the
development of BAU, and the FAO conducted Agriculture Manpower Study (com-
pleted in December, 1980). Under Credit 407-BD, the quality of instruction
at BAU had improved considerably from earlier periods although much still
needs to be done.  The FAO study indicated that the supply of higher level
agriculture manpower is now sufficient to meet anticipated needs until 1990.
The Government intends to further improve the quality of training at this
level by moving the campus of BAC from Dhaka to Joydebpur where an agricul-
ture research complex is located and where adequate farm land is available
for practical training. The government also intends to conduct a study aimed
at making its training, research and extension programs more relevant to the
agricultural development needs of the country. A new development in profes-
sional level agricultural training has been the introduction of the Agricul-
tural Management Development Program (AMDP), in March 1981. The scheme was
introduced as an attempt to improve the implementation of some 20 IDA
agricultural development projects. Both GOB and IDA have been concerned
about the slow rate of implementation of these projects and it was generally
recognized that a shortage of trained and experienced project managers and
project staff at different levels has been one of the major causes. The
training scheme is being financed under the Credit 621-BD and conducted by
consultants under a contract with GOB, which terminates on June 30, 1983. A
local counterpart AMDP staff assists the consultants in carrying out the
training program. Evaluation reports from Bank staff, a management expert
hired by GOB to evaluate the program and from AMDP staff (responses on a
course evaluation questionnaire by about 200 AMDP trainees) point out that
the program has been worthwhile and helpful to the project managers par-
ticularily in analyzing bottlenecks in project implementation and in iden-
tifying and utilizing resources within their units to solve problems.
2.09    At the middle (Diploma) level of agricultural education, Government
policies in the past have been less clearly articulated. The Government
adopted several policies which seriously affected training at this level.
First, all middle-level institutional training (ATIs) was put under the
administration of DAEM. The result was that DAEM appointed all ATI students
into the extension service at the time of their enrollment and bonded them to
serve with DAEM for at least five years upon completion of their training.
This had two effects. First, all the other agricultural agencies had no
chance of hiring ATI graduates and therefore suffered from lack of qualified
middle-level staff. To overcome this, these agencies instituted their own
often poorly conceived training programs to meet manpower needs. The second
effect was that ATI students did not devote much time to study as employment



-10-
at the end of the two-year course was generally assured. Under the new MOA
organization (para 1.12), however, all training activities are centralized
under the Division of Training of the Department of Agricultural Extension
(Annex 3). Moreover, in July 1983 all students admitted to ATIs will be
eligible for employment in any one of the agricultural services and employed
only after successful completion of the course. ATI students will no longer
be automatically appointed to the extension service and, therefore, will not
receive salaries. Instead, the students will be given stipends.
2.10    A second policy of the Government which had a negative effect on
middle-level training was the decision, in October 1978, to downgrade all
teaching positions at ATIs to the junior grade level. Prior to this date
all the incumbent teachers were senior grade agricultural officers with wide
experience in both extension and teaching. As a result of this decision,
they all transferred to the extension service in order to retain their status
and perquisites. To take their place, a group of young and inexperienced
agricultural university graduates with no training or experience in teaching
was recruited. This problem was compounded by the fact that these new
recruits realized that there was no career growth in teaching, and they
transferred to other units of MOA at the first opportunity, resulting in a
rapid turnover of teachers. Moreover, provision of housing facilities for
staff was inadequate, and private accommodations were, in general, not avail-
able. Realizing the effects of thie situation, Government decided in January
1981 to restore four teaching posts in each ATI to the senior grade level and
now plans to provide additional staff housing. Teacher training, combined
with the development of a career ladder for ATI teachers, and provision of
necesary incentives are essential for improving the quality of instruction at
the ATIs.
2.11    Because of the recent unification of the extension services, the
present ATI curriculum will have to be revised. The old curriculum was
designed primarily to meet the training needs of DAEM. Substantial changes
will be needed to meet the needs of various other agricultural services.  The
curriculum will need to include such subjects as on-farm water management,
social forestry, agricultural credit, cooperatives, backyard fisheries, etc.,
in order to produce an all purpose type of agricultural technician. Further-
more, the present ATI curriculum devotes more time to theory (55%) than to
practice (45%) and a large portion of the practical time is utilized for
teacher demonstrations rather than student practical activities. To be able
to carry out meaningful practical training for the students, the school farms
need to be considerably improved. The school farm should serve not only as a
laboratory for training in practical skills and improved practices but also
as a model for efficient, productive and profitable farming. Most of the
existing school farms have poor or no irrigation and drainage systems, incon-
venient farm layouts and are easily accessible to stray animals and outsiders
resulting in great losses of farm produce and equipment. Another policy
decision which will necessitate changes in the ATI curriculum concerns the
enrollment of females. Since 1978 about 10% of all places at the ATIs have



-11-
been reserved for females. While this policy is commendable, it has not been
supported with programs relevant to women and their role in the extension
service. Inadequate provisions have been made in the ATI curriculum to meet
their skill requirements. The Government is now seeking ways to make neces-
sary improvements.
2.12    Over the years 1978-80, ATI students staged repeated and prolonged
strikes demanding that their training be lengthened to three years. This
action was to ensure that the training period and comensurate salary level
were similar to that of middle level technicians in the engineering field.
On this issue, IDA has made it clear to GOB that in terms of time needed to
train middle level technicians, two years of combined course work and practi-
cal training were sufficient. After about two years of uncertainty on this
issue, GOB has finally decided to retain a two-year curriculum at the ATIs.
However, as part of GOB's career development strategy, it has decided to
establish a Higher Agricultural In-service Training Institute (HAITI) to
train qualified and deserving MOA middle level staff who are eligible for
promotion to prepare them for their new roles and for selected ATI graduates
to enable them to pursue university education.
2.13    Lastly, there is a lack of sufficient reading and reference materials
at the ATIs. Students are often without textbooks, and the libraries are not
adequately stocked. This situation gives students little opportunity to
develop self-study habits and to participate more actively in the learning
process. Because of the lack of reference materials, teachers are forced to
overutilize the lecture method of teaching. Besides limited availability of
reading materials, their content tends to be of little relevance to actual
Bangladesh conditions. The reference materials most often found in the ATI
libraries are written in English and therefore, are of limited value to
students whose medium of instruction is Bengali. Clearly, not only must the
supply of reading and reference materials be increased, but the content and
language must be made more appropriate to Bangladesh.
2.14    The proposed project seeks to address these problems and to support
the decisions of GOB in respect of the employment and career development of
Block Supervisors, curriculum improvement, supply of training materials,
provision of additional ATI staff housing, improvement of the quality of
instruction and training and projects management.
r
External Financing of Agricultural Education and Training
2.15    The major source of external financing of agricultural education and
training in Bangladesh has been IDA. This assistance has been aimed at both
professional and middle-level training (para 2.18). Other assistance to
agricultural education has been from the Japanese Government, UNDP/FAO and
DANIDA. The Japanese Government has assisted GOB since 1977 in establishing
CERDI and has provided facilities, equipment and expert services. The
institute has concentrated its efforts on preparing and publishing technical



-12-
agricultural bulletins and brochuces for the extension service and conducting
demonstrations on farm machinery and recommended farm practices for various
crops. The creation of an agricu:Ltural teacher training capability has been
another objective of the institute, but this has not been fully realized
because of the lack of qualified instructors in pedagogy and the language
difficulties of the expatriate staff. To date only technical agriculture
training has been conducted for agricultural teachers.
2.16    An UNDP/FAO project (Strengthening the Agricultural Extension Serv-
ices) has been underway for more than five years. The project provided
mainly expert services, equipment and fellowships designed to assist the
Government in curriculum development at the ATIs, staff training, and the
development of training materials for both pre-service and in-service train-
ing programs. Experts were attached to DAEM and the Agricultural Information
Service (AIS). To date, the project has conducted a number of training
programs for ATI instructors, developed a few course materials and agricul-
tural booklets and assisted the Government in designing plans for a revamped
agricultural education system. More specifically, experts have assisted
local counterparts in preparing lesson plans and are also completing an
inventory of existing teaching materials, brochures, manuals, etc., as a
preparatory exercise to the development of agricultural manuals for BSs and
ATI students. The foregoing activities will complement inputs under the
proposed project.
2.17    DANIDA has assisted GOB in constructing a new ATI at Noakhali which
is similar in design to those built with IDA assistance and has finalized
agreements with GOB to assist in constructing another ATI in Joydebpur.
Bank Group Participation in Education and Training
2.18    Six IDA Credits totalling US$ 118.3 million have been made to the
education sector in Bangladesh. These Credits are mainly directed to assist-
ing the development of basic and non-formal education and to improving
agricultural and technical/vocational education and improving administrative
and management training. The First Education Project (Credit 407-BD) has now
been completed. It consolidated the incomplete portions of the first and
second East Pakistan Projects (Credits 49-PAK and 87-PAK) and provided US$
21.0 million to complete the development of the Bangladesh Agricultural
University (BAU) at Mymensingh, construct five new polytechnics and provide
equipment for eight others. The project completion report is under prepara-
tion. The Second Education Project (Credit 621-BD) (US$ 12.0 million) is
expanding and improving agricultural and rural training through the construc-
tion of (a) seven Agriculture Training Institutes (three new and four
renovated), (b) hostels for the Graduate Training Institute at BAU, (c) the
Bogra Academy of Rural Development, and (d) fifteen Thana Training Units.
The Third Education Project (Creditl 912-BD for US$ 25.0 million) is pursuing
three objectives; (a) increasing the capability of the Government to plan,
manage and evaluate skill (vocational) training; (b) accelerating the output



-13-
from skill training institutions to meet acute manpower shortages; and (c)
improving the productivity of employed workers. These objectives are being
realized through assistance to the National Council for Skill Development and
Training (NCSDT), the expansion of training capacity (five new Technical
Training Centers) and the introduction of in-plant upgrading programs for
employees of state enterprises. The Fourth Education Project (Credit 1054-BD
for US$ 40.0 million) is assisting the government in increasing access to
primary schools, especially for girls and rural poverty groups, reducing
school dropout, repetition, and the costs of primary education, and improving
the quality of instruction. The Fifth Project is expanding and improving
business management training and education for the benefit of public sector
corporations. Under this project, the faculties of Commerce of the Dhaka,
Rajshahi and Chittagong Universities, the Institute of Business Administra-
tion and the Management Development Center would be strengthened through
upgrading staff, curriculum and research. The Sixth Project is aimed at
strengthening the administrative and management training of the public ser-
vants who manage the agencies of the different ministries of the Government.
This would be achieved by upgrading the quality of training being imparted at
the Public Administration Training Center (PATC). The project would also
attempt to improve the environment in which the civil servants work. The
project would strengthen the Establishment Division (Central Personnel Agency
of Government) by evolving a modernized Personnel Management System and a
Management Service Wing which would revise and restructure the procedures,
rules and regulations which dictate the organization, staffing and management
practices in government.
2.19    The Government and IDA have shared three objectives in their joint
ventures, namely: meeting agricultural and industrial manpower needs, improv-
ing quality of training, and increasing educational equity (particularly for
rural people and females). The first objective has been pursued under the
First, Second and Third Education Projects. Preliminary indications are that
BAU has now become the main source of trained higher level agricultural
manpower in the country. The introduction of new programs designed to
improve the practical skills of students and to increase their involvement in
extension and research, has improved the quality of training and made the
university's program more relevant. Under the Second Education Project the
supply of middle-level agricultural technicians has been increased. However,
only the DAEM which administered and managed the ATIs has benefited.
Moreover, the quality of teaching and the content of training programs need
considerable improvement. These problems are a direct consequence of par-
ticular Government policies (paras 2.08-2.10) which appointed ATI students to
the extension service upon their admittance to the ATIs causing students to
be lax in their studies, and which adversely affected incentives offered to
those in agricultural teaching in Bangladesh. It is still too early to
determine the extent to which objectives are being met in the Third, Fourth,
Fifth and Sixth Education Projects.



-14-
Implementation of On-going Education Sector Projects
2.20    Performance in implementation of the first three projects has been
generally marked by delays especially with the first project. Since then,
however, the situation has improved steadily, despite the fact that sub-
sequent projects have become larger and more complex in design and objective.
The following summary of progress of each project describes the experiences
and measures taken to overcome problems. The First Education Project (Credit
407-BD) 1/ was completed two and one-half years behind schedule.  The main
factors causing delays were (a) difficulties in renegotiating pre-war con-
tracts for professional services, (b) shortages of building materials, (c)
frequent changes in project manageiment, and (d) shortage of local funds. The
Second Education Project (Credit 621-BD) was due for completion in June 1982,
after a one-year extension. However, an additional year was needed to com-
plete the project and at the request of GOB, the closing date has been
extended to June 30, 1983. During the first four years of the project, the
implementaton of the physical aspects had been relatively satisfactory and
had reached about 90 to 95% completion. During the fifth year, however, very
little progress was made.  Some renovation contracts were abandoned, long
standing defects in the construction of some buildings were not remedied and
furniture in some buildings was totally inadequate. These problems occurred
largely because of inadequate Taka funding. To ensure the completion of the
physical aspects of the project on the expected completion date, GOB had
agreed to provide adequate funds to satisfactorily complete the project
(Credit 621-BD) as a condition for IDA's granting an extension of the Project
Closing Date. The coordination and management of the educational aspects of
the project have been weak due to the absence of a separate unit with suffi-
cient staff, in MOA's organizational structure, to carry out coordination and
management functions. To fill this gap, a National Committee on Rural Train-
ing (NCRT) was established under the project (Credit 621-BD) to plan, super-
vise, coordinate and evaluate agricultural and rural training programs.
However, since this committee was composed of high level officials (i.e.,
Chief of the Agriculture and the Rural Division of the Planning Commission;
and Secretaries of the Ministries of Agriculture, Local Government, Rural
Development and Cooperatives, Education, Fisheries and Livestock; and the
Vice Shancellor of the Bangladesh Agricultural University) who had very
little time to attend to the committee's responsibilities, NCRT has not
1/  The project which took effect in September 1973 replaced two East Pakis-
tan projects: Credits 49-PAKI of March 1964 and 87-PAK of June 1966 (para
2.18). The Performance Audit Report dated April 5, 1974 for Credit
49-PAK indicates that the implementation of this project was about four
years behind schedule based on appraisal estimate. The delay was caused
mainly by belated appointment of the project directors and later by
shortages of local funds and building materials.



-15-
functioned as expected. As a consequence, although the output of the ATIs
has increased significantly as the new ATIs have started to operate, the
achievement of planned improvements in operations and in quality of instruc-
tion have been slow. The curriculum continues to give disproportionate
emphasis to theoretical training, while technical assistance which was
provided for training of ATI teachers either by CERDI or the UNDP/FAO project
(para 2.16) was not delivered on schedule. Fellowship provision for ATI
teaching staff development have also not been utilized for more than three
years since all of the teachers left teaching at the first opportunity owing
to the lack of career prospects. The selection of qualified teachers for
additional training abroad has only been initiated recently when GOB decided
to restore four teaching posts in each ATI to the senior level (para 2.10).
2.21    Under the Third Education Project (Credit 921-BD), in order to
strengthen implementation capacity and to avoid repetition of earlier delays,
special arrangements were made which included (a) approval of the PP, and
signing of the Technical Assistance Contract as conditions of credit effec-
tiveness, (b) establishing a revolving fund to avoid delays caused by taka
shortages, (c) hiring a Project Manager with wide experience in project
management/implementation, (d) training of PIU staff, (e) hiring a local
consultant to design a project accounting system which would integrate IDA
and GOB's financial requirements, and (f) appointing local counterparts to
expatriate consultants as a condition of disbursement. There is every
indication that the above measures have prevented problems experienced under
the first two projects, but not completely overcome them. The internal
weakness of the sponsoring Directorate has made it difficult for the PIU to
operate fully and independently. The device of a Revolving Fund has also not
worked as well as envisaged, and delays still occur which affects implementa-
tion. In the Fourth Education Project (Credit 1054-BD), further attempts
have been made to strengthen administrative arrangements and implementation
capacity. Special efforts have been made to see that the central PIU is
adequately staffed in all functional areas, and that seven smaller Regional
Project Units were established at the local level. All project staff under-
went a training program during the first year of the project to familiarize
them with project concepts and objectives. Progress has been steady since it
was declared effective in December 1980. Actions taken to ensure efficent
implementation under the Fifth and the Sixth Projects relate more to the
level of preparation before credit effectiveness, and are expected to over-
come the problems encountered in the Third Project. It is still too early,
however, to assess fully their effectiveness. These experiences have been
taken into consideration in designing the implementation organization neces-
sary to carry out the proposed project successfully.
2.22    In addition to project activities, the Bank has completed two sector
studies in education and training: The Education and Training Sector
Memoranda of July 1979 (Report No. 2037-BD) and August 1981 (Report No.
3548-BD). IDA has also assisted the Government in preparing a
Medium-Term Education Plan (MTEP) in order to facilitate the implementation
of a core of high priority education and training projects in the Second Five
Year Plan (1980-85).



-16-
III. THE PROJECT
Project Formulation
3.01    In 1979, prior to launching the SFYP (1980-85) and in particular,
the Medium Term Food Production Plan (para 1.06), the Government decided to
obtain a clearer picture of the rural agricultural manpower requirements of
the country. Assistance was obtained from the World Bank/FAO Cooperative
Programme in conducting a study, and it was completed in December 1980. The
study revealed that the supply of higher level manpower would be sufficient
to meet anticipated needs, but showed some discrepancies between the present
and projected (up to 1990) supply of and demand for trained middle-level
manpower.
3.02    In order to determine the adequacy of the qualitative aspects of its
agricultural education and training programs in meeting its development
objectives, the Government requested, and IDA agreed, to send a mission to
Bangladesh in June 1980 to make an assessment of the current position. The
mission focussed on middle level education and training since activities were
already taking place for the improvement of Bangladesh Agricultural Univer-
sity (para 2.08). The mission ana:Lyzed the problems of the training system
and identified the components of a possible project which were discussed with
the Government. Among the objectives of the project was the creation of a
permanent and full-time training uniit under the Ministry of Agriculture to
take over the functions of the NCRT and the modification of admission
policies of the ATIs and policies on employment of the ATI graduates (para
2.09). Tentative agreement was also reached on the preparation of a possible
IDA financed project.
3.03    In September 1980 with assistance from the World Bank/FAO Cooperative
Program, GOB prepared a project and the proposal was submitted to IDA in
December 1980. This proposal formed the basis for the appraisal of the
project in February 1981 by an IDA mission. I/ After appraisal, MOA started
planning the reorganization of the extension service (para 1.09 and 1.12) and
the modification of its policies on agricultural training. Because of this
development, it was decided to postpone further processing of the proposed
project until GOB had made firm decisions on the reorganization of the exten-
sion service and on the administration and management of agricultural train-
ing.   Policy decisions were promulgated in mid 1982, which effected changes
in a number of agricultural services (para 1.11), including establishment of
a Department of Agricultural Extension (DAE), and the creation of a Division
of Training (DOT) under it, in student admission practices at the ATIs and in
1/ The appraisal mission was composed of Messrs. S.R. Santos (Agricultural
Educator and Mission Leader), R. Cambridge (Economist), and V. Demetriou
(Architect).



-17-
the employment of ATI graduates (para 2.09). In November/December 1982, an
IDA mission visited Bangladesh to discuss with GOB, the needed changes in the
proposed project based on the above new developments. The proposed project
as described below includes the needed changes, and it focusses principally
on the improvement of the qualitative aspects of middle-level agricultural
training.
Project Objectives
3.04    The proposed project is the second agricultural training project in
Bangladesh and is designed principally to assist the Government, (a) in
improving the quality of middle level agricultural training. However, it
would also assist (b) in improving the planning, management and coordination
of all middle level training programs and of higher level in-service training
programs of the Ministry of Agriculture in conjunction with the creation of
the Division of Training (DOT) under the Department of Agricultural Extension
(DAE) (para 1.12). In addition, the project would support (c) Government's
career development strategy for Block Supervisors (BSs) of the extension
service, and (d) the extension of the on-going Agricultural Management
Development Program (ANDP) for another year (para 2.08).
Project Components
A.  Improving the Quality of Middle Level Training
3.05    Middle Level Pre-service and In-service Training Programs (Proposed
Outlay US$ 4.61 million I/ ). With the introduction of integrated extension
services, the ATI curriculum would have to be revised. The revisions would
focus on making the curriculum (a) more diversified to meet the basic
knowledge and skills required of BSs in a multi-crop extension service and of
other middle-level technicians employed in various agricultural agencies and
establishments in the public and private sectors; (b) more relevant to the
needs of women extension workers and the activities they undertake with farm
women; and (c) more practically oriented. A curriculum for in-service train-
ing of about 6,500 middle level technicians who were recruited with no
pre-service training in agriculture, would also be developed in order to
upgrade them to the level of ATI graduates. A draft curriculum revision of
the pre-service diploma course and the one-year in-service upgrading course
which had been prepared by FAO/UNDP resident experts, will be reviewed and
improved by DOT with assistance of consultants provided under the project
(para 3.12). During the period 1983-1989, DAE intends to utilize seven ATIs
for the two-year pre-service diploma level training; the remaining four ATIs
1/ This and subsequent statements of proposed outlays are base cost
estimates.



-18-
will be used for the one-year upgrading course. To improve practical train-
ing of ATI students, the farms of the all the ATIs would be upgraded. The
project would assist in this development by financing the establishment
and/or the improvement of irrigation and drainage systems, improvement of
farm layouts and the repair of boundary walls around the school campus as
needed to prevent damage and loss of farm products, equipment, and school
property in general.
3.06    To be able to effectively cope with the envisioned broadened and
multipurpose curricula and to provide for adequate supervision of the stu-
dents' on-campus practical training activities and off-campus field extension
apprenticeship training, three additional teachers for each ATI will be
required. Two of these would be of Senior Instructor grade. Each ATI has
presently only eight instructors (four of which had been approved by GOB to
be upgraded to senior instructor level) resulting in an unsatisfactory
teacher-student ratio of 1:30. The addition of three more teachers would
improve the ratio to about 1:20. During negotiations, the Government
provided an assurance that the three additional teaching posts would be
created.
3.07    The project would finance t'he additional needs of the ATIs which
would be generated by changes in the ATI training program. These include
training materials and equipment, library books, furniture and staff housing
(for 22 instructors and 44 subordinate staff). The project would also help
finance 70% of incremental recurrent expenditures including the salaries of
the additional teachers (para 3.06), allowances of the ATI trainees, and the
operation and maintenance of the sclhool plants.
3.08    Agricultural Manuals (Proposed Outlay US$ 0.39 million).  To rein-
force the efforts of curriculum reform, agricultural manuals (in about 30
subjects) printed in Bengali would be developed for both ATI students and
serving BSs. The manuals would be dlesigned to serve the dual function of
student textbook and easy reference guide for BSs. The DOT would be respon-
sible for coordinating the preparation, production, and distribution of
manuals. Technical guidance would be provided by the consultants (para
3.12). Selected authors, who have considerable subject matter experience,
using locally available materials and more recent and tested research find-
ings, would be commissioned to prepare the draft of the manuals in English.
The drafts would then be translated into Bengali by local textbook writing
experts to ensure that the manuals are written in simple language and are
within the comprehension level of the ATI students. Final compilation and
art work needed for the manuals wou:Ld be carried out under contract by the
Agricultural Information Service (A:[S) and the printing/binding of manuals by
private sector printers. Development of the manuals is expected to take
about two years, and these will be r,upplied to students and BSs in about the
third project year. The project would finance the cost of development,
production and distribution of manuals to about 10,000 BSs and about 5,000
ATI students, 11 ATI libraries, and 3 in-service training center libraries.



-19-
3.09    Instructor Training (Proposed Outlay US$ 0.25 million).  A teacher
training program for agricultural instructors would be established at CERDI
in cooperation with the resident Japanese team of experts and under the
guidance of consultants provided under the project (para 3.12). All ATI
Senior Instructors, Instructors and Demonstrators would be required to under-
take about three months of initial training covering such courses as lesson
planning, methods and techniques of teaching agriculture, course and student
achievement evaluation and educational psychology. Thereafter, CERDI would
continue to provide a teacher in-service training program for agricultural
instructors on subject matter areas where the instructors may need additional
or refresher training. A teacher training plan as a part of the master
training plan of DAE (para 3.12) would be developed by GOB. Four senior
instructors will be required to carry out the teacher training program at
CERDI. During negotiations, the Government provided an assurance that the
needed Senior Instructor posts for the CERDI training program would be sanc-
tioned no later than December 31, 1983. Provisions for 48 man-months of
fellowships would be made under the project to enable each of these instruc-
tors to undertake one year of training in agricultural pedagogy at a suitable
educational institution within the region. To support the teacher training
program, the project would finance the procurement of essential training
equipment and training materials. Seventy percent of incremental recurrent
expenditure consisting of the salaries of the four senior instructors
required, and the allowances of all the trainees during the project period
would also be financed.
3.10    Since no training program in Bangladesh exists in the subject of
rural home science and home management, about 132 man-months of fellowship
training in a suitable educational institution within the region, would be
provided. This would enable one female teacher in each of the eleven ATIs
to undertake one year of training in the teaching of home science and home
management subjects to prospective women extension workers. Upon completion
of their training, aside from their teaching duties, these teachers would
serve as resource persons for the further development of training and exten-
sion activities in home technology and home management.
B. Higher Agricultural In-service Training Institute (HAITI)(Proposed Outlay
US$ 1.35 million).
3.11    To assist the Government in implementing its career development plan
for middle-level agricultural technicians (para 2.12), the project will
finance the construction and equipping of a 100-place training center on a 40
acre government owned farm in Tajhat (Rangpur). The project would also
provide for farm development. The institute would be utilized to offer
courses for middle-level MOA staff who are eligible for promotion to higher
positions to prepare them for their new tasks and responsibilities and to
provide training to selected middle level staff who are ATI graduates and who
have rendered at least three years of satisfactory service and demonstrated



-20-
appropriate academic aptitude, to qualify them for admission to the univer-
sity for higher studies in agriculture0 In addition, the project would
provide 12 man-months of fellowship training to upgrade the teaching staff.
As soon as the institute becomes operational (estimated about January 1986)
and until the project closes (Deceniber 1988), the project would also assist
in financing 70% of incremental recurrent expenditure, consisting of trainee
allowances and expenditures for operating the school farm and maintenance of
the school plant. During negotiations, assurances were obtained from the
Government that by December 1984, the curricula for the HAITI would have been
developed by DOT with expert assistance to be provided under the project
(para 3.12) and that BAU would be consulted in the preparation of the cur-
riculum to meet requirements for university admission.
C. Assistance to Planning, Management and Coordination of Training (Proposed
Outlay US$ 0.78 million)
3.12    Technical Assistance.  The creation of the DOT (see Annex 3) under
the Department of Agricultural Extension is a major step towards the improve-
ment of agricultural training in Bangladesh.  The DOT's function is to plan
and manage middle-level agricultural training and to coordinate professional
level in-service training programs of the MOA. However, since DOT is just
starting to operate, its staff would need guidance and assistance in plan-
ning, organizing and implementing its work program. To meet this need, the
project would provide 76 man-months of consultant services, 28 man-months of
which would be financed by IDA and 48 man-months by UNDP to be executed by
FAO through its on-going project in Bangladesh (para 2.16). Agreements have
already been reached with UNDP, and the signing of the consultant services
contract between UNDP and the Government would be a condition of credit
effectiveness. In addition, 36 man-months of fellowships would be provided
to enable the staff of DOT to undertake short-term training at appropriate
institutions in the region in management and supervision of agricultural
training programs. Essential office equipment would also be provided.
During negotiations, the Government agreed to prepare a five year plan
acceptable to the Association, of all pre-service and in-service training
programs, including fellowship trairing, which would be assisted by the
project, as a condition of disbursement of these items.
3.13    Overall coordination of the activities of the technical assistance
experts would be the responsibility of DOT.  The consultant services financed
by UNDP (48 man-months) would assist DOT in curriculum development, teacher
training, training in home science and home management extension work and
in the development of agricultural manuals.  Tentative agreements have been
reached by GOB and with FAO which will act as executing agency for the tech-
nical assistance financed by UNDP, that the UNDP office for Project Execu-
tion, Asia and Pacific Programme for Development Training and Communication
Planning (UNDP - OPE/DTCP) would provide the consultant services required.
During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that (i) qualified
counterpart staff for DOT, the Teacher Training Program at CERDI, ATIs and



-21-
the HAITI, which would be selected from the staff of these institutions,
would be appointed prior to the arrival of the consultants; and (ii) the
fellowship program would be carried out in accordance with a training plan 1/
'acceptable to the Association. Of the 28 man-months financed by IDA, 24
would be utilized to assist DOT in planning and management of agricultural
training programs and in coordinating the activities of the consultants. A
suggested terms of reference of the consultants, which was developed in
consultation with GOB, is shown in Annex 4. The signing of the contract(s)
for the required consultant services would be a condition of credit effec-
tiveness. To assist the Government in planning for effective coordination of
all in-service training programs of MOA (e.g., CERDI, GTI, BRRI, BARI), the
remaining consultant services allocation of four man-months would be utilized
to conduct an in-depth study of the roles and positions currently played by
all agricultural in-service training centers under the MOA including those in
forestry, fisheries and livestock. The study would include a proposal, to be
developed in consultation with the various MOA agencies conducting the train-
ing programs, which would enable DOT to coordinate all the training
activities and avoid duplication of efforts, maintain high training standards
and meet the training needs of the MOA staff.
D. Improving Management and Supervision of Agricultural and Rural Develop-
ment Projects (Proposed Outlay US$ 0.24 million)
3.14    To support GOB's current efforts in improving the management and
supervision of agricultural and rural development projects to accelerate the
implementation and thus reduce the operational expenditures of on-going and
planned projects, the proposed project would assist in financing the exten-
sion of the services of technical assistance experts of the on-going Agricul-
tural Management Development Program (AMDP) for another year, starting in
July 1983. In addition to the basic course on the practice of management
principles which has been offered during the past two years, the program
would conduct courses which would cope with specific administrative and
management problems in extension and research and in implementation of
on-going projects. In carrying out the program the technical assistance
experts-would gradually delegate more responsibilities to the local counter-
part staff to prepare them to fully take charge of the program when the
experts services terminate. The proposed project would provide about 24
man-months of expatriate consultant services and about 36 man-months of local
consultant services and would finance all associated expenditures. The
signing of the contract for the required consultant services would be a
condition of credit effectiveness. Local AMDP staff are expected to fully
take over the management of AMDP after the consultants' services terminate.
1/ Incorporated in the five-year training plan which Government will prepare
(para 3.12).



-22-
Technical Assistance Summary
3.15    The technical assistance to be provided under the proposed project
would comprise 136 man-months of comsultant services and 228 man-months of
fellowship training. The assistance to be allocated is as follows:
(a) 72 man-months of consultant services to assist DOT in planning,
organizing and implementing its work program during the project
period and to implement the training aspects of the project
(except the AMDP);
(b) 4 man-months of consultant services to conduct an in-depth study
of the roles and positions currently played by all in-service
training centers under the MOA and develop a proposal to enable
DOT to effectively coordinate all in-service training programs
of MOA;
(c) 24 man-months of expatriate consultant services and about 36
man-months of local consultant services for the Agricultural
Management Development Program;
(d) 48 man-months of fellowship training for the teacher training
staff of CERDI;
(e) 132 man-months of fellowship training in home science and home
management for female teaching staff of the ATIs;
(f) 12 man-months of fellowship training for the teaching staff of
the HAITI; and
(g) 36 man-months of fellowship training for staff of the DOT.
Project Proforma (PP)
3.16    To ensure that sufficient funds are allocated by the Government for
the project, the Government has pre!pared a draft PP prior to negotiations
and its approval by the Executive Committee of the National Economic Council
(ECNEC) is a condition of credit effectiveness.



-23-
IV. PROJECT COST, FINANCING AND DISBURSEMENTS
Project Cost
4.01    The total cost of the project is estimated at Taka 242.80 million or
US$ 9.91 million equivalent. Detailed costs by component and time are given
in Annex 5. The estimated costs by project component are summarized below in
Tables 4.1.
Table 4.1: Summary of Costs by Project Component
% of
Total
For-                   For-            Base-
Project Component               Local   eign   Total   Local  eign   Total   line
-- (Taka million) --   -- (US$ million) --   Costs
1. Improving Quality of Middle Level Training
a) Pre-service and In-service   76.70   36.18  112.88   3.13   1.48   4.61    60.5
Training Programs
b) Agricultural Manuals            4.99    4.56    9.55   0.20   0.19   0.39         5.1
c) Instructor Training             1.47    4.58    6.05   0.06   0.19   0.25         3.2
Sub-Total                     83.16   45.32  128.48   3.39   1.85   5.24    68.8
2. Higher Agricultural In-service
Training Institute              18.59   14.56   33.15   0.76   0.59   1.35    17.7
3. Training Management Assistance   1.81   17.34   19.15   0.07   0.71   0.78    10.3
4. Agricultural Management
Development Training             1.47    4.41    5.88   0.06   0.18   0.24        3.2
TOTAL BASE COSTS                    105.03   81.63  186.66   4.29   3.33   7.62   100.0
5. Contingencies
a) Unforeseen                     10.50    8.16   18.67   0.43   0.33   0.76    10.0
b) Price Escalation               24.94   12.53   37.47   1.02   0.51   1.53    20.0
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                 140.47  102.32  242.80   5.73   4.18   9.91   130.0



-24-
4.02    Basis of Cost Estimates.  Base costs refer to March 1982 estimates
adjusted to December 1982 prices and were calculated on the following basis:
(a) Construction Costs - on facilities of similar nature recently
completed in Bangladesh. The average cost per sq.ft. was
estimated at about US$ 15 (excluding site development, contin-
gencies and professional fees);
(b) Equipment and Furniture - on lists prepared with assistance from
FAO/UNDP which is providing technical assistance under an ongo-
ing project for Strengthening of Agricultural Extension Services
(para 2.16);
(c)  Consumable Materials and Operating Costs - on detailed breakdown
costs of salaries of additional staff, and on relevant other
operating and maintenance costs in similar institutions in
Bangladesh;
(d) Architectural Design anid Supervision Services - on acceptable
national practice, of about 8% of construction costs (5% for
design and 3% for supervision).
(e) Consultant Services - on past Bank experience, adjusted to 1982
prices, at a man-month cost of about US$ 8,300 for expatriate
consultants and about 1JS$ 1,000 for local consultants which
includes all associated costs such as administrative costs,
international and local travel and subsistence, and the monthly
salary or fee of consultants;
(f) Overseas Fellowships - on past Bank experience, adjusted to 1982
prices, at US$ 3,500 per man-month;
(g) Salaries - on COB pay scales plus medical and housing allowan-
ces, where applicable; and
(h) Trainee Stipends at Taka 220 per month.
4.03    Custom Duties and Taxes.  All imported goods are subject to custom
duties and taxes. In the cost estimates of the project, only civil works,
farm development and furniture include a tax component, and this is estimated
at about US$ 0.42 million.



-25-
4.04    Contingency Allowances.  Estimated project costs include physical
contingencies (US$ 0.76 million), estimated at 10% of base cost for
unforeseen factors, and price contingencies (US$ 1.53 million) to cover
expected price escalation as shown in Table 4.2 below:
Table 4.2: Price Escalation Estimates
Annual Percentages of Price
Increases
Category                                Year         Local      Foreign
Civil works, building materials )
equipment, consumable            )       1984         11.0         8.0
training materials, and          )       1985         10.0         7.5
furniture                        )       1986          9.0         7.0
)     1987-88         9.0        6.0
)
Professional Services, Salaries )      1984-88         9.0         8.0
Experts/Consultants,Fellowships,)
Student Stipends and Training   )
Allowances                       )
4.05    Foreign Exchange Component.  Based on detailed analysis of expendi-
tures in similar projects in Bangladesh, the foreign exchange component has
been estimated as follows: (a) farm development 25%; (b) buildings 40%; (c)
furniture 45%; (d) equipment 90%; (e) local consultant assistance and profes-
sional services 0%; (f) expatriate consultant services and fellowships 90%;
(g) agricultural manuals production 60%; (h) trainee stipends and allowances
0%; (i) staff salaries and allowances 0%; and (j) consumable goods and train-
ing materials 25%. The foreign exchange component, including contingencies,
is estimated at US$ 4.2 million, or about 42.0% of the total project cost.
Financing
4.06    Financing Plan.  The total project cost of US$ 9.91 million equiv-
alent would be financed as follows:
(a) a proposed IDA credit of US$ 8.1 million equivalent would cover
85% of total project costs, net of taxes;
(b) UNDP would finance US$ 0.4 million equivalent for expert services
(4% of total net project costs);



-26-
(c) the Government would finance the remaining net costs of US$ 0.99
million (11% of total net project costs) and all taxes.
4.07    The financing plan and IDA credit allocations by category of expendi-
ture is presented in Table 4.3 below:
Table 4.3: Project Financing Plan
Estimated
Govt. of                             average IDA
Category of Expenditure        Bangladesh   UNDP    IDA    Total  financing
---(US$ Million)----------                %
1.  Civil Works 1/ and Furniture        0.29        -       1.64    1.93      85
2. *Farm Development                    0.08        -       0.76    0.84      90
3.  Vehicles, Equipment and Books        -          -       0.68    0.68    100
4. Agricultural Manuals
Production                           -          -      0.35    0.35    100
5. Fellowships, Local Consultant
Services, and Engineering
and Architectural Services           -          -      1.19    1.19    100
6.  Expatriate Consultant Services       -         0.40    0.58    0.98       60
7. Staff Salaries and Allowances,
Trainee Stipends and Allowances,
and Other Operating Costs 2/        0.95        -      2.23    3.18      70
8.  Unallocated 3/                      0.09        -       0.67    0.76      88
Total Project Cost                  1.41       0.40    8.10    9.91        -
Less Taxes                          0.42        -       -       0.42       -
Total Project Cost Net
of Taxes                            0.99       0.40    8.10    9.49       85
1/  Includes Site Development; excludes professional fees.
2/  Includes consumable goods and materials.
3/  Includes physical contingencies only.



-27-
4.08    Recurrent Cost. To assist Government in operating the project
institutions, the project would include financing of 70% of incremental
recurrent expenditures consisting of: (a) salaries and allowances of addi-
tional teachers of the 11 ATIs and CERDI; (b) all trainees' stipends, and
other incremental operating and maintenance costs during the project period
from July 1983 to December 1988.
4.09    Recurrent Cost Implications.  The additional recurrent costs (mainly
salaries, stipends and consumable materials) generated by this project when
fully operational would amount to Taka 12 million per annum in 1981-82 prices
which is equivalent to about 4% of the total recurrent expenditures of the
Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry in fiscal year 1981 (Taka 291 million).
These additional expenditures could be accommodated without undue financial
difficulty to the Government and would significantly increase the percentage
of funds allocated to agricultural training.
4.10    Local Budget Requirements.  Budget allocations would be made avail-
able to the project on an annual basis, in accordance with the Forecast of
Expenditures and Disbursements shown in Annex 6. In addition, funds required
for expenditures not eligible for IDA financing, such as taxes and duties,
would also be provided in the budget. The Project Implementation Schedule
(Annex 7) would be reviewed and revised annually and the financial require-
ments of the project would be adjusted as necessary by the Project Implemen-
tation Wing (PIW) in consultation with DOT to ensure that project implementa-
tion is not delayed, and operation of the project institutions does not
suffer because of lack of funds. During negotiations, the Government gave
assurances that it would:
(a) furnish to the Association by May 1 each year, a revised project
implementation schedule, and estimates of the required project
funds for the following fiscal year; and
(b) make the necessary funds available so as to ensure prompt project
implementation during the life of the project.
Disbursements
4.11    Disbursement Percentages. The proposed credit of US$ 8.1 million
would finance 85% of total project costs, net of taxes.  Disbursements from
the proceeds of the credit would finance the various categories (Annex 5,
Table 4) in the following manner:
(a) Civil Works
85% of local project expenditures;
(b) Farm development
90% of local project expenditures;



-28-
(c) Equipment, materials (including building and instructional
materials), furniture, vehicles and books
100% of foreign expenditures,
100% of local expenditures (exfactory), and
70% of local expenditure for other items procured locally
(off the shelf purchase);
(d) Professional services for architectural design and supervision,
expatriate and local consultant services for technical assistance
and fellowship training abroad
100% of total expendiitures;
(e) Fellowship Training
100% of total expenditures;
(f) Agricultural manuals
100% of total expenditures;
(g) Trainee stipends
70% of total expenditures; and
(h)  Incremental staff salaries and operatin  and maintenance costs
including consumable goods and materials
70% of total expenditures.
A forecast of disbursement based on1 an average of the disbursement profile of
all IDA projects in Bangladesh during the period 1971 to 1981 is shown in
Annex 6.
4.12    Documentation of Expenditures.  Withdrawal applications would be
supported by full documentation, except for expenditures on salaries and
other recurrent expenditures which would be reimbursed against statements of
expenditures certified by the Director of PIW and attested by the Director of
DOT. Documentation for these statements would be retained by the project
unit and be available for review by the Association during project supervi-
sion missions. To the extent practicable, withdrawal applications would be
aggregated in amounts of US$ 50,000, or more, prior to submission to the
Association.



-29-
V. MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
Project Management
5.01    Overall implementation of the project would be the responsibility of
the Division of Training (DOT) under the Department of Agricultural Extension
with the assistance of the Project Implementation Wing (PIW) of the Ministry
of Agriculture.
5.02    Day-to-day management of project activities would be conducted by DOT
for educational and training aspects, and by PIW for physical implementation,
and procurement matters.
5.03    Division of Training (DOT).  DOT's functions would include:
(i) supervising the development of new curricula;
(ii) development and production of agricultural manuals;
(iii) staff development and administration of fellowship programs; and
(iv) review and approval of preliminary building designs and equipment
lists to ensure relevance of these to the instructional program
of project institutions.
In addition to the above functions, DOT would be responsible for monitoring
the progress of project implementation and for evaluating the outcomes of
the project. During negotiation, assurances were obtained from the Govern-
ment that it would cause the DOT to conduct an evaluation of the outcomes of
the project based on the project objectives, at the end of each fiscal year
during the life of the project and furnish IDA a copy of the evaluation
report no later than six months after the end of the fiscal year. It was
also agreed during negotiations that DOT would prepare quarterly progress
reports on project implementation in consultation with PIW during the life of
the project, for submission to IDA no later than 30 days after the end of
each quarter and the Project Completion Report for IDA review no later than
six months after the Closing Date.
5.04    Consultant services provided under the project would assist and
provide guidance to the DOT in performing the above functions.
5.05    Project Implementation Wing (PIW).  The physical aspects of the
project would be implemented by the existing PIW. This unit, which is
presently headed by a Director of Joint Secretary rank, is the implementing
arm of MOA particularly for physical aspects (e.g., civil works and equipment
procurement) of MOA projects. It has demonstrated satisfactory performance
in the implementation of the physical aspects of MOA's extension and training
projects. Its overall functions would include:



-30-
(i)  preparation and invitation of tenders for civil works and
purchase of equipment:;
(ii)  management and supervision of equipment procurement and building
construction;
(iii)  procurement of printing services for the agricultural manuals;
(iv)  synchronization of equipment procurement with building progress;
(v)  record keeping and accounting of project expenditures; and
(vi)  operation of project accounts, payment of bills and submission of
withdrawal applications to IDA.
5.06    Professional Services.  Building designs are being prepared by local
architects. Existing design models and bidding documents are being used to
the maximum extent possible in order to save time, thus making it possible to
prepare draft building designs by credit negotiations.
5.07    Maintenance of Physical Facilities.  To ensure full use of buildings
and equipment, funds for operational costs have been included in the project
for training as well as for maintenance and repair of physical facilities and
equipment. During credit negotiations, the Government provided an assurance
that sufficient funds would be provided annually thereafter for this purpose.
Project Implementation
5.08    Implementation Schedule.  The project would be implemented over a
period of about five years. To assist in effective and timely project execu-
tion, a detailed implementation schedule, acceptable to the Government, has
been prepared (Annex 7). This schedule would also serve as a basis for
monitoring project implementation and would be updated regularly by project
staff of the PIW in consultation wiith DOT.
5.09    Status of Preparation.  Considerable experience has been gained
through the implementation of the first Agricultural and Rural Training
Project (Credit 621-BD), thus key preparation activities for various project
components such as designs for civil works, equipment lists and bidding
documents are well advanced.
5.10    IDA Review and Approval oif Project Activities.  IDA would review and
approve all master equipment and Eurniture lists, building materials
schedules, equipment specifications, fellowship programs, terms of reference
of experts, site layout plans and preliminary designs for civil works, draft
tender and contract documents, packaging of civil works/equipment contracts,



-31-
and all related cost estimates. Models developed under the First Agricul-
tural and Rural Training Project (Credit 621-BD) would be used to the maximum
extent possible, with necessary modifications to reflect new project require-
ments.
Procurement Procedures
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) (US$ 0.60 million)
5.11   Equipment and Vehicles (US$ 0.60 million).  Contracts for bid pakages
exceeding US$ 100,000 equivalent for equipment including vehicles would be
awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with
Bank Group guidelines. Local manufacturers would receive a margin of
preference in bid evaluation of 15% of the c.i.f. price of competing imports
or the actual customs duty, whichever is lower.
Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) (US$ 4.10 million) 1/
5.12    Civil Works including Farm Development, Building Materials and Furni-
ture US$ 2.76 million).  Past experience in Bangladesh has shown that con-
tracts for civil works and furniture do not attract foreign bidders unless
they are consolidated into large packages. This is not feasible under this
project because of the dispersed nature of the project and the small amount
involved in civil works and furniture. Therefore, contracts for civil works,
farm development, building materials and furniture would be awarded on the
basis of local competitive bidding following procedures which are satisfac-
tory to the Association and do not exclude foreign bidders. It is expected
that construction of the civil works component would be undertaken by local
contractors. Only prequalified contractors would be allowed to bid for civil
works contracts under this project.
5.13    Locally Available Equipment (US$ 0.20 million).  It is anticipated
that contracts for equipment (including vehicles) estimated at about US$ 0.20
million would be procured locally. Such purchases would be items locally
available that cannot be grouped into bid packages suitable for 1CB (below
US$ 100,000). Therefore, they would be procured locally in accordance with
local competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the Association.
5.14    Consumable Materials (US$ 0.74 million).  Since timely delivery of
consumable materials is critical, about 60% of total materials would be
procured locally followitg local competitive bidding procedures and about 40%
by off-the-shelf shopping (as described in para 5.16).
11 This and subsequent statements are estiraates, includinig contingenctes.



-32-
5.15   Agricultural Manuals Production (US$ 0.40 million).  Printing services
(including materials) for agricultural inanuals would he procured locally
following normal competitive bidding procedures.
Off-the-shelf Shopping (US$ 0.85 million)
5.16    Off-the-shelf items of building materials, furniture, equipment,
textbooks and consumable training materials, not exceeding US$ 50,000 equiv-
alent for each package and aggregating to a maximum of US$ 0.85 million
(equivalent to about 10% of the estimated total cost of equipment, books and
furniture; 15% of building materials and 40% of consumable training
materials), could be purchased on the basis of a minimum of three competitive
price quotations. Books and instructional printed matter would be purchased
directly from publishers, distributors or book-jobbers at the lowest possible
prices and again on the basis of three competitive price quotations, when
feasible.
5.17    IDA Review and Approval of Procurement Decisions.  Prior approval of
the Association would be required for the award of any civil works contract
exceeding US$ 200,000 equivalent and for contracts for the purchase of any
equipment, books, furniture, building materials, and consumable training
materials exceeding US$ 100,000 equivalent resulting in a coverage of about
90% of works contracts and about 50% of goods contracts. The PIW has been
advised to forward bid evaluations and recommendation for contract awards,
allowing sufficient time (at least one month) for the Association-s review
and approval. In addition, bid validity dates should be established to allow
the PIW or the evaluating body involved, sufficient time to process bids
received, prepare an evaluation and reach agreement on award recommendations.
Project Accounts and Audits
5.18    PIW would prepare and maintain project accounts in accordance with
sound accounting practices. Separate project accounts would be prepared and
maintained for payments on the basis of Statement of Expenditures (para
4.12). -During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that: (a)
accounts and financial statements for each fiscal year would be prepared and
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Association, with separate
accounts and audit for payments on the basis of Statement of Expenditures;
(b) certified copies of the audited accounts and financial statements, for
each fiscal year, together with the auditor's report would be furnished to
the Association as soon as available, but not later than nine months after
the end of each fiscal year.



-33-
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
6.01    In Bangladesh, where there is relatively little additional land that
can be brought under cultivation, an integral part of the modernization of
the agricultural economy is an improvement in human skills and knowledge.
In agriculture, farmers incentives and associated opportunities to augment
the effective supply of land by means of improving agricultural training is
of vital importance. Improving agricultural training in Bangladesh entails
the revision of the present curriculum for diploma level training in agricul-
ture, establishment of a specialized teacher training program for agricul-
tural teachers and of an in-service training program for untrained middle
level agricultural technicians; the supply of student textbooks/manuals,
training equipment and materials; and support for improved administration and
management of agricultural training. The project will finance the above
activities and therefore would directly contribute to the improvement of the
farmers' skills and knowledge through better guidance from adequately trained
agricultural technicians and extension agents. Better quality research would
also be conducted as a result of better trained agricultural technicians.
These outcomes would be the major benefits from the project.
6.02    In addition, the project would provide a mechanism which would ade-
quately supply suitably trained project managers and supervisors to all
agricultural agencies. The incremental grain output and the gross foreign
exchange value directly attributable to the activities of agricultural
project managers and technicians are not calculable but clearly would be
significant.
Risks
6.03    There is one significant risk associated with the proposed project.
The Government's recent decision not to lengthen the two-year ATI course to
three years and maintain the present salary level of ATI graduates, may again
lead to student strikes (para 2.12). If this happens although the implemen-
tation of the intended improvements in ATI training could proceed as planned,
the overall impact of project inputs on improving the quality of training
would be reduced. As a means of reducing the risk of strikes, however, the
establishment of a college preparatory training program is being proposed
(para 3.11) to provide opportunities for selected ATI trained MOA staff to
pursue university education in agriculture. This will enhance the career
prospects of ATI graduates by providing an opportunity for the most able of
them to pursue higher studies and obtain promotion to the professional cadre
of agriculturists.



-34-
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01    During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that it
would:
(a) create three additional teacher posts at each ATI, two of which
would be Senior Instructors and one Instructor (para 3.06);
(b)  sanction four senior instructor posts at CERDI no later than
December 31, 1983 (para 3.09);
(c)  cause DOT and BAU to develop a training curriculum for the HAITI
by December 31, 1984 and that BAU would be consulted in prepar-
ing the curriculum to meet requirements for university admission
(para 3.11);
(d) select from the staff of project institutions qualified counter-
parts of the technical assistance experts, and appoint them
before the experts arrive (para 3.13);
(e) carry out the fellowship program under the project in accordance
with training plan acceptable to the Association (para 3.12);
(f) furnish to the Association by May 1 each year, a revised
implementation schedule and estimates of required project funds
for the following fiscal year and make the funds available to
ensure timely implemenltation of the project (para 4.10);
(g) conduct a yearly evaluation of the outcomes of the project based
on project objectives and furnish IDA a copy of the evaluation
report no later than six months after the end of the fiscal year
(para 5.03);
(h)  provide sufficient funds annually for maintenance and repair of
physical facilities and equipment after project completion (para
5.07);
(i) submit to IDA as soon as available, but not later than nine
months after the end of each fiscal year, certified copies of
the audited accounts and financial statements for each fiscal
year together with the audit report of of independent auditors
acceptable to the Association  with separate audit and financial
statements for payments under "Statement of Expenditure" Proce-
dure (para 5.18).



-35-
7.02    The following action by the Government is a condition of disburse-
ment: preparation of a five-year plan acceptable to the Association, of all
pre-service and in-service training programs including fellowship training
which would be assisted by the project (para 3.12).
7.03    In addition to the above assurances and condition, the following are
conditions of credit effectiveness:
(a)  signing of the contract between UNDP and the Government for the
financing of 48 man-months of consultant services by UNDP (para
3.12);
(b) signing of the technical assistance contract(s) between the
Government and technical assistance consultants required by DOT
(para 3.13);
(c) signing of the contract between the Government and the technical
assistance consultants to assist in carrying out the Agricul-
tural Management Development Program (para 3.14);
(d) approval of the Project Proforma by the Executive Committee of
the National Economic Council (ECNEC) (para 3.16); and
7.04    Subject to the above conditions and assurances, the proposed project
constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA credit of US$ 8.1 million to the
People's Republic of Bangladesh for a term of 50 years including a 10-year
grace period.



I



ANNEX I
BANGLADESR
SECOND AGRICULTURAL TRAINING PROJECT
ORGANIZATIONAL CHART: DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION (DAE)
NIRETORG                       AAREGNERAL
AND REPORTING  OPERA. SECTION       SECTION~NISRATIO
_   CASH CROPS      _        FOOD CROPS                  TRAINING                   FIELD SERVICES                   PLANT                   PLANNING AND                    PERSONNL
DIVISION                     DIVISION                   DIPESERIV ISION                                           PROTECTION                 BUDGET WING                    WING
JUTE                                                               EXTENSION                   FRESTICIDE ADWTER NOT
RICE                                                                                   Q  ERIE ll OUALITY CONT.  hP|ASECIONG                    PE|RSETONNEL
SECTOPACON                                              CERDT                        SESE   TINI                                SECTION
OTHER                   FRUITS AND                    MAIN-SERVICE                 SOING                      AERTEBRATE
CASH CROPS   ITVEGETABLES                 |              TRAINING     |                 RECTIN                  OPEST    CTION  |
SECTION    l          |    SECTION                      SECTION
TOBACOARE-ERVE                                              IT                     E         N AINPUTS AND  |  |DIAGNOSTIC SUE-  R
SECTIO                   SECTION                        SECTION                     SECTIOASTINGIOECTIONIO
OTHER  FRUITS AND                IN-SERVICE                     SOIL~~~~~~~~~~ FA MGECo.    VETBRT
C     1!7ARXETING    |
| INTEL. SECTION  |
SPECIAL
PEOGRAMMES
SECTION



I



-37-
ANNEX 2
ATI Output of Diploma Graduates 1/  and of Upgrading Course
IType  of   |          I      I       I -                  I       I
I   ATI      ICapacitylTraining| 1983 | 1984 | 1985 | 1986 |1987 | 1988 | 1989 | 1990 i Total I
I   _   _ _ _   I 2/ 1   1    1       1      1  _     _      _       I _
- Dinajpur            I DIP   1        1 108r        1  -    -      - I  -  I  -      -  1   108|
I            i 240   | UG    | 120 1 120 | 120 1 240 1 240 1 240 1 240 1  240 1 1,680 |
|Gaibanda             [DIP   1   -        1081  108    1081  108       08 10811081| 1081   756 1
1 240   1 UG    I-  I  -  I  -  I  -                                            -   I
|Ishurdhi   I            DIP       -      108 1108    108 1108 1 108 1  108 1  108 1   756|
240   | UG                                      -  I  -  I  -  I  -  I   - __
| Sherpur             I DIP   1   -  1 108    108    108    108    108    108    108         756|
1240   | UG                         -                 I __
|Sylhet      |        |DIP   1          -  f     108 o  108-1  108    108    108    108      756|
240   |UG       I  _                     - _                   -             -
|Faridpur   |         | DIP   1  -( 1081    -  |  -  |             I   -       -      -|     108|
1240   1UG          1120120    240    240    240    240 1 240 | IS  1 1,440 1
|Daulatpur  |         I DIP               --  I  -  I                                        -
I  280   ! UG    | 280    280    280 !  280    280    280    IS  I IS  1 1,680 1
|Noakhali   1         T  DIP   1  -  r  108    108 1 1081  1081  108    108 1 108 1   756 1
I ____________ _ I 240  !  UG  !   _   I   _  I   _  I   _  I    -  I  _   I   _  I   _  I    -
Hlatazari   IIDIP 1                       -1-           -1-I -I-1 -I- I
|__________I |280   | UG    I 280 1 280 | 280 1 280 | 280 | 280 I IS  | IS  | 1,680 |
ITejgaon              I [DIP   1   -|1081            |TO       BE     CLOSED      1      1  108!
1   _ _ _ _ _ _ _  160  l   U G   - I    i _    _ I _  _ I _  _ I  _ _ I  _ _    _  _I      - I
lJoydebpur 37r1           DIP   1   -r  -  I  -  I  -|108 1 108    1081  108 1  432!
_    I 240   1 UG    I  _-                               - _    -  I  - _      -  I  -  I  -   I
IBarisal   3/1        1 DIP   I        I                       108 1  108 1 108 1  108 1  432 I
1 240   lUG    I         I -                          I I    I -     I    _I    - _ _
1-   -       I1I               I       I      IT                    I      I      I      I       I
|  TOTAL    |         |DIP          -1  864    540    540 1  756    756 1756 1  756   5,018|
______I lUG    18001  800   1040   1040   1040 10401  480    240 16,480|
ICumulative  I        I DIP   I  -  | 864 1 1378 | 1877 1 2577 | 3225 | 3914 | 4552 | 4,552 |
|Total At 3% 1        I UG 0      800 1 1576 1 2569 | 3531 1 4225 | 5139 | 5465 | 5540 | 5,540 1
lattrition pal        I        I      I                     I      I       I
/1  Dropout rate = 5% p.a.
/_ No new enrollment in 1981 due to student strikes.
/3 Still to be constructed, first year enrollment expected in 1985.
Note: DIP - Two-year diploma course.
UG - One-year upgrading course for ATI graduates.



-38-                                                            ANNEX 3
BANGLADESH
SECOND ACRICULTITRAL TRAINING PROJECT
Organizational Chart of the Division of Training, Department of Agricultural Extension
| Secretary of Agriculture |
Director General,
Dpartment of Agricultural
Extenksiou
lAministrative Staff                               Director                        Project Imeplemntation
Division of Training                         Wing (PIW)  a/
Joint Director
Central Extension            Preservice Training             Inservice Training              Agricultural Manpower                Farmer Training
Resources Development               SectiDn                         Section                        Development                          Section
Institute (CERDI)                                                                                  Section
1 Deputy Director             I  Deputy Director             1  Deputy    ector                  1  Deputy Director
1 Add'l Director and          1 Asst. Director               2  Training Special-          1  Asst. Director                    1  Asst. Director
all existing posts            1 Training Specialist               ists                     3  Manpower and Placement
1 Training Officer            I  Training Officer               Service Specialists
a/ Relationship with DOT will exist only during the life of project.



ANNEX 4
BANGLADESH
SECOND AGRICULTURAL TRAINING PROJECT
Suggested Terms of Reference of the Technical Team of Consultants
To Assist the Division of Training (DOT) in its Functions
1.      A total of 72 man-months of technical consultant services will be
provided to assist DOT in performing its functions under the project. IDA
will finance 24 man-months to be utilized principally to assist DOT in plan-
ning of its work program and in the management of its agricultural training
programs; UNDP will provide 48 man-months to assist DOT in curriculum
development, teacher training, home science and home management extension
training, and in the development of agricultural manuals. FAO, through the
team leader of the on-going FAO/UNDP extension project in Bangladesh
(strengthening of Agricultural Extension Services) will act as executing
agency for the consultants provided by UNDP.
2.      All the consultants would work as a team with the Director General of
the Department of Agriculture Extension (DAE) through the Director of DOT, as
overall coordinator of their activities. In general, the team will provide
guidance and assist DOT in organizing, planning and performing its immediate
and future functions, tasks and responsibilities, including project implemen-
tation particularly in regard to pre-service middle level agricultural train-
ing at the ATIs and to all in-service training programs and fellowship train-
ing conducted under the project.
3.      Specifically, the team of consultants would assist and provide
guidance to DOT in:
(a) finalizing the ATI two-year Diploma curriculum to meet the
knowledge and skill requirements of Block Supervisors (formerly
Village Extension Agents) in a multi-crop agricultural extension
service and of middle level technicians required in general
agriculture and agricultural research activities in both Govern-
ment and private sectors;
(b) finalizing the one-year upgrading course for selected DAE
officers serving as Block Supervisors who have not taken the ATI
Diploma course, the in-service training courses which may be
needed to improve the skills of DAE staff and the college
preparatory training course for deserving Block Supervisors who
may be selected to pursue studies towards the bachelor's level,
in accordance with the Government's career development program;



ANNEX 4
Page 2
-40-
(c) planning and developing an extension program for farm women and
the corresponding pre-service and in-service training programs
for women extension workers;
(d) developing a system for regular supervision and evaluation of ATI
training activities including field extension practice;
(e) developing the ATI farms into an efficient and effective facility
for training in farming skills and agriculture related practical
activities;
(f) establishing in each ATI a tracer system to obtain regular feed-
back from graduates of the ATIs;
(g) planning and implementing the fellowship training provisions
under the project;
(h) establishing a teacher training program at CERDI, developing the
teacher training curriculum and preparing a five year plan for
the training and re-training of all the ATI teachers;
(i) planning and managing the preparation, publication and distribu-
tion of agricultural manuals, and workbooks (about 30 titles)
in Bengali for use of ATI students and teachers and as easy
reference for Block Supervisors;
(j) organizing and developing a system for monitoring the implementa-
tion of the project, the preparation of quarterly progress
reports on the progress of project implementation and in conduct-
ing an annual evaluation of the project based on the project
objectives;
(k) formulating and establishing a system to efficiently link the
functions and activities of research, extension and training.
To ensure that the above tasks would be satisfactorily completed during the
project period, a five-year plan of technical experts' activities would be
jointly prepared by DOT and FAO indicating the consultants' schedule of
visits, purpose and duration of their visits and their expected achievements.
The plan duly reviewed and accepted by the Director General of DAE should be
completed by July 31, 1983, a copy of which would be provided to IDA for
review.



ANNEX 5
-41-                                   Table 1
BANGLADESH
SECOND AGRICULTURAL TRAINING PROJECT
Project Cosponent bu Time
(Taka Million)
Total
Base Costs           ---------------
(US$
1984  1985  1986  1987  1988   Taka   Million)
A. IMPROVING QUALITY OF MIDDLE LEVEL TRAINING
PRE-SERVICE AND IN-SERVICE TRAINING                    18.78 35.62 30.31 16,41 11.77  112.88     4.61
AGRICULTURAL MANUALS                                    2,14  7.41     -     -     -    9.55     0.39
INSTRUCTOR TRAINING                                    2.73  2.73  0.20  0.20  0.20    6.05      0.25
Sub-Total IMPROVING QUALITY OF MIDDLE LEVEL TRAINING      23.65 45.76 30,51 16.61 11.97  128.49     5.24
B. HIGHER AGRICULTURAL IN-SERVICE TRAINING INSTITUTE      14.54 13.31  4.60  0.35  0.35   33.15     1.35
C. TRAINING MANAGEMENT ASSISTANCE                         5.10  4.29  4.29  3.04  2.44   19.15      0.78
D'. ABRICULTURAL MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT TRAINING           5,88     -     -     -     -    5.8B     0,24
Total BASELINE COSTS                                       49.17 63.35 39.39 20.00 14.76  186.66      7.62
Phusical Contingencies                                    4.92  6.33  3.94  2.00  1.48   18.67     0.76
Price Contingencies                                       2.45  9.57 10.18  7.70  7.56   37.47     1.53
Total PROJECT COSTS                                        56.53 79,25 53,51 29.71 23.79  242.80      9.91
Taxes                                                     3.18  3.93  2.53  0.69     -   10,33     0.42
Foreign Exchange                                         25.36 41.23 23.63  7.13  4.97  102.32     4.18
--- --- -- --- --- -- --- --- -- --- --- -- --- --- -- --- --- -- ---__-  --__-  --- -- --- --- -- --- - -



-42-                                          ANNEX 5
Table 2
BANGLADESH
SECOND AGRICULTURAL TRAINING PROJECT
Suumari Account bu Project Coaronent
(Taka Million)
HIGHER
IMPROVING QUALITY OF MIDDLE LEVEL TRAINING AGRICULTURAL          AGRICULTURAL            Physical
PRE-SERVICE                            IN-SERVICE   TRAINING   MANAGEMENT           Continencies
AND IN-SERVICE AGRICULTURAL INSTRUCTOR   TRAINING   MANAGEMENT DEVELPENT             -------------
TRAINING      MANUALS     TRAINING   INSTITUTE   ASSISTANCE   TRAINING   Total      I    Amount
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
CIVIL WORKS                                   13.75            -           -        28.17          -            -   41.92  10,0    4,19
FARM DEVELOPMENT                              15.46            -           -         0:94          -            -   16,39  10.0    1.64
VEHICLES , EQUIPMENT AND BOOKS                11.20            -       0.97          1.70       0.64            -   14.51  10.0    1.45
FURNITURE                                      2.38            -           -         0.26          -            -    2.63  10.0    0.26
AGRICULTURAL MANUALS PRODUCTION                   -         7.41           -            -          -            -    7,41  10.0    0.74
FELLOWSHIPS,                                  11.25            -       4.09          1.02       3.09            -   19.45  10.0    1.95
LOCAL CONSULTANT SERVICES                         -         2.14          -             -          -         1.01    3.15  10.0    0.32
EXPATRIATE CONSULTANT SERVICES                    -            -          -             -      15.42         4.87   20,29  10,0    2.03
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                           54.03         9.55       5.06         32.09      19.15         5.88  125.76  10,0   12.58
Phvsical Contingencies                         5.40         0.95       0.51          3,21       1.91         0.59   12.58   0.0    0,00
Price Contingencies                           10.47         1,23       0,46          3.93       4.01         0.27   20.36   9.1    1.85
Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                    69.90        11.73       6.03         39.23      25.07         26.74  158.70   9.1   14.43
Taxes                                          5,04            -          -          5,29          -            -   10.33   9.1    0.94
Foreign Exchange                              39.30         5.62       5.46         17,51      22.65         5,05   95.58  9,1    8.69
II. RECURRENT COSTS
STAFF SALARIES AND ALLOWANCES                 4.42            -       0.54             -          -            -    4.96  10.0    0.50
TRAINEE STIPENDS AND ALLOWANCES              35.27            -       0.45          0,75          -            -   36.47  10.0   3.65
OTHER EXPENDITURES                           19.17            -          -         0.30           -            -   19.47  10.0    1.95
Total RECURRENT COSTS                            58.85            -       0,99          1.05          -            -   60.90  10.0   6.09
Phvsical Contingencies                         5.89            -       0.10          0.11          -            -    6.09   0.0    0.00
Price Contingencies                           16.42            -       0,27          0,42          -            -   17.11   9.1    1.56
Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                    81.16            -       1.36          1.58          -            -   84.10   9.1    7.65
Foreign Exchange                               6.63            -          -          0.11          -            -    6.74   9.1    0,61
Total BASELINE COSTS                             112.88         9.55       6.05         33.15      19,15         5.88  186,66  10.0   18.67
Physical Contingencies                         11.29         0.95       0.61         3.31        1.91         0.59   18.67   0.0    0,00
Price Contingencies                            26,89         1.23       0.73          4.34       4.01         0.27   37,47   9,1    3.41
Total PROJECT COSTS                              151.06        11.73       7.39         40,80      25.07         6.74  242,80   9,1   22.07
Taxes                                           5,04            -          -         5.29           -            -   10.33   9,1    0.94
Foreign Exchange                               45.93         5.62       5.46         17.62      22.65         5.05  102.32  9.1    9.30
________    - -- -- -- -  - __ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ --- - __- __-- -_ --__ -_ -- ----__-- --_--_-__- --- ----_--- -- --_-_ -____ ____ ____ ____ ____ _____ ____ ____ ____ ____ ____



-43-
ANNEX 5
PANBLADESH                                 Table 3
SECOND AGRICULTURAL TRAINING PROJECT
Sumari Account bs Time
(Taka Million)
Base
Costs +
Price
Cont. on
Base
Base Costs                Costs   Foreign Exchane
No. o  ------------- - ----------------------  (US
Unit Unit Cost Units  1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  Total   Million)    Z       Amount
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
CIVIL ORKS                                                - 16.83 16.77  8.32       -    -   419?2      1.92   41.3      17,33
FAR DEVELOPMENT                                            -  1.83  5.01  4.92  4.64      -   16.39     0.82   26.2       4.29
VEHICLES  EQUIPNENT AND  MOOKS                             -  3.11  6.81  4.59     -      -   14.51     0.67   90.6      13.14
FURNITURE                                                 -  0.48  1,08  1.08      -      -    2.63     0,13   46.4       1.22
AGRICULTURAL MANUALS PRODUCIION                           -      -  7.41     -     -      -    7.41     0.34   61.5       4.56
FELLOVSHIPS                                0.09-0.09    228  3.07 11.26  5.12      -      -   19.45     0.90   90.6      17.61
LOCAL CONSULTANT SERVICES                                 -  3.15      -     -     -     -    3,15      0.13    0.0       0.00
EXPATRIATE CONSULTANT SERVICES               0.2-0.2     76  8,73  3,04  3.04  3.04  2.44   20.29       0,97   90.6      18.38
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                                          37.20 51.38 27.07  7.68  2.44  125,76      5.89   60.9      76.53
Physical Contingencies                                    - 3.72  5.14  2.71  0.77  0,24   12.58           -   60.9       7.65
Price Contingencies                                       -  1.83  7,68  6,84  2,88  1,13   20.36          -   56.0      11.40
Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                   42.75 64.19 36.62 11.33  3.81  158.70      5.B9   60.2      95.58
Taxes                                                     -  3.18  3.93  2.53  0,69      -   10.33         -    0.0       0,00
Foreign Exchanse                                          - 24.21 39.99 22.27  5.68  3.43   95.58          -    0.0       0.00
II. RECURRENT COSTS
STAFF SALARIES AND ALLONANCES                            -  O."9  0.9    .   0.99  0.99    4.96        0.25    0.0       0.00
TRAINEE STIPEND  AND ALLOVANCES                          -  7.14  7.14  7,39  7.39  7.39   36.47       1.87    0.0       0.00
OTHER EXPENDITURES                                       -  3.83  3,83  3.94  3.94  3.94   19.47       1.00   26.2       5.10
Total RECURRENT COSTS                                           11.97 11.97 12,32 12.32 12.32   60.90      3.12    8.4       5.10
Phusical Contingencies                                    -  1.20  1.20  1.23  1.23  1.23    6.09          -    8.4       0.51
Price Contingencies                                       - 0.62  1.89  3.34  4.82  6.43   17.11           -    6.6       1.13
Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                   13.78 15,06 16.89 18.38 19.99   84.10      3.12    8.0       6.74
Foreign Exchange                                          -  1.15  1.24  1.36  1.45  1.54    6.74          -     0.0      00OO
Total BASELINE COSTS                                             49.17 63.35 39.39 20.00 14.76  186.66      9,01   43.7      81.63
Phnical Contingencies                                      -  4.92  6.33  3.94  2.00  1.48   18.67          -   43.7       8.16
Price Contingencies                                        -  2.45  9.57 10.18  7.70  7.56   37.47          -   33.4      12.53
Total MJECT COSTS                                                56.53 79.25 53.51 29.71 23.79  242.80      9.01   42.1    102.32
Taxes                                                       -  3.18  3.93  2.53  0.69      -   10.33        -    0.0       0.00
Foreign Exchange                                            - 25.36 41.23 23.63  7.13  4.97  102.32         -    0.0       0.00



ANNEX 5
-44 -~                                 Table 4
BANGLADESH
SECOND AGRICULTURAL TRAINING PROJECT
Projlect Costs by Category of Expenditure
Taka (million)            US$ (million)         % of
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Total
I. Investment Costs
1. Civil Works /a            21.47   17.33   38.80    0.88    0.70    1.58   21.0
2. Professional Serv. /b    3.12        -       3.12    0.13       -       0.13    2.0
3. Farm Development          12.10    4.29   16.39    0.49    0.18    0.67    8.0
4. Furniture                   1.41    1.22    2.63    0.06    0.05    0.11    1.0
5. Equipment, Vehicles,
and Books                1.37   13.14   14.51    0.06    0.54    0.59    8.0
6. Agricultural Manuals
Production               2.85    4.56    7.41    0.11    0.19    0.30    4.0
7. Local Consultant Serv.   3.15        -       3.15    0.13       -       0.13    2.0
8. Expatriate Consultant
Service                  1.91   18.38   20.29    0.08    0.75    0.83   11,0
9. Fellowships                1.84   17.61   19.45    0.08    0.71    0.79   10.0
Total Investment Costs       49.23   76.53  125.76    2.01    3.12    5.13   67.0
II. Recurrent Costs
10  Trainee Stipends        36.47      _      36.47    1.49       -       1.49   20.0
11. Staff Salaries            4.96      -       4.96    0.20       -       0.20    3.0
12. Other Operating
Costs /c               14.37    5.10   19.47    0.59    0.21    0.80   10.0
Total Recurrent Costs        55.80    5.10   60.90    2.28    0.21    2.49   33.0
Total Baseline Costs        105.03   81.63  186.66    4.29    3.33    7.62  100.0
Contingencies
Unforeseen               10.51    8.16   18.67    0.43    0.33    0.76   10.0
Price Escalation         24.94   12.53   37.47    1.02    0.51    1.53   20.0
Total ProLiect Costs        140.48  102.32  242.80    5.73    4.18    9.91
Taxes                    10.33      -      10.33    0.42       -       0.42
Net Project Costs           130.15  102.32  232.47    5.31    4.18    9.49
a/ Includes construction materials.
b/ Architectural design and supervision.
c/ Includes consumable goods and training materials.



-45-
ANNEX 6
BANGLADESH
SECOND AGRICULTURAL TRAINING PROJECT
Schedule of Projected Disbursements
Expenditures                  Disbursement
IDA FY &                Semester   Cumulative         Semester   Cumulative
Semester             ----(US$ Million)---           ----(US$ Million)------
FY84
1. (Jul 83 - Dec 83)          0.46         0.46               -            -
2. (Jan 84 - Jun 84)          1.84         2.30              0.35         0.35
FY85
1. (Jul 84 - Dec 84)          1.53         3.83              0.50         0.85
2. (Jan 85 - Jun 85)          1.70         5.53              0.80         1.65
FY86
1. (Jul 85 - Dec 85)          1.10         6.63              0.80         2.45
2. (Jan 86 - Jun 86)          1.10         7.73              0.75         3.20
FY87
1. (Jul 86 - Dec 86)          0.60         8.33              0.80         4.00
2. (Jan,87 - Jun 87)          0.61         8.94              1.15         5.15
FY88
1. (Jul 87 - Dec 87)          0.44         9.38              1.15         6.30
2. (Jan 88 - Jun 88)          0.53         9.91              0.95         7.25
Y8-9
1. (Jul 88 - Dec 88)                                         0.85         8.10
Closing Date: December 31, 1988.



-46-
AHEE 7
R4NGLADESS
SECOND AGRICULTURAL TRAINING PROJECT
I2lmolnataticun tSchedule
FISCAL YEARai          I     F84         I     FY83        r      Y n86      I      n87                           I     na y 9
CALENDAR YEAR:I       CY83               GYM 8415Y85                         CY186       1     CY587       1      CY588             1CY89
-     -                             I~---...-...-- ---i......----.   - ----- I --------------  -
QUARTKRj! 1 I 2_ I3 1  4 i 1I2I            1 2l                     I 12 I 3 i 4 I 1 I 2 1 3   4      1 I 2 I 3 1 4 1 1 I 2 I 3 I 4
INM     I -,:-                          I   I I - - - -I- I-  - - -- -   ---   I-- I-   --    --    --  I - -    --   I--   I--  - -I - -
1.CD8SITTANT ARCHITIECTE:---0---0--------- 1I
a)SELECTIONE                   -------c-c-----------
b) APPOINTMENT                  ---------------- c-c0*        II                                                    I                  I,j
2. PROJECT DESIGN:                ------------I- ------          I                                                       
a)SCHEMATIC DESIGN                     I----------- 1---co c0*I                                                      
b) DESIGN DEIVELOPMENT               --I c-i---------
c) CONDTRUJCTION DOCUMENTS----------           0-----                              I                                   II
A) BID DOCUMENTS-------------      -------I----c                                    III0
B . BIDDING ANDS CONSTRUCTION: -- --------I               -----   as*01000       "00 J0b000100f  000  "Ooe 0000000         I 
R)EVIEW INAPT BID DOCUMENTS---------- --------                                                                                         I
b) RILD ARHSUNCMEnNT-------------               ---------                                                                               I 
I I       I  I        I    I   I      I    I   I    I      I   I    I      I   I    I   I      I    ~    I     I
c)BIDDING----------------  ------------cc                                        I                 I
A) CONTRACT AWARD AND APPROVALSO -----I----------  0000..*                                                       OPERATION OP THE NEW CENTERSI
I   I   I   I       I I I   I   I   I   I   I   IEXXIIXxl  XXIExIxxIEXEIXXIXXEIEIxIExlxXIXEXIEEEI    I   I I
a)CONSTRUCTION---------------                   --- I          I-----c   O.cc   0O. 000        ...cccccc   cc         
5) DIEPICTS LIABILITY PERIOD ----- --           -----------  - ----------------- - ----
PROCUREMENT:        -------------------- ------                 O"W   "On  "OIOn 000 000 "O0I 000 "On On  9 CO"I  ~~*f               I "
a)PRELIMINARY LISTS AND LAYOUTS-----       I  c-------ococoo c.c              I)I                                                                      I
4) FINAL LISTS (SPECS AND) COSTS)-------------------.....  .0                                                                                     
c)REVIEW DRAFT BID DOICUMENTSD------   -------------- --- ~                  0I                  I                           
A) BID ASNOUNCEMENT        ------------     --- ---                        c-o----------
c)BISSING       ------------ -------------                    --        I---- ----cccccc 
f) CONTRACT AWARD AND APPROVALS------I--- --------- j-----                        -c------ o cIc. c              I                 I
g) MANUIFACTURING ASS  -N--P-NG------                       -            -          ---------- --  -----c -c -    cc-- 
h) DELIVERY/INSTALLATION/TESTING--------                                  - --------- I      ------------ I---cc   400
I )WARRANTY PE---------------------                                                     -      --- ----------  I--
5.AGRICtOLTURA  MANUAL PRSCAlN-----I----Ol   NO    On  "O "o"IO   "On                                    
a)RECRGITMENT OF LOCAL EXPERTS--    -  -- ---c- ----                                                               I 
b) WRITING OP MANUSCRIPT DRAFT IN INGLISN-I--- -------I-I                                                              I                 I
a)REVIEW ANS FINALIZATION OP GRAFT------- I---- ------- --c- --I                                                      I
A) TRANSLATION INTO BENGALI ------------ I --- -----I ----             ccc                                                                 
c)PREPARATION OP ART 18)5  AND LAYING OD -----------                        o0 ccII                                                       
5) PRINTING AND BIND-ING-- -      ---I------I---------- -cc  cc 
6. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE: If--                - - - -- - ---- 0  "On On On  "OIO" On On"                 eo 0001"     "O    OnION  On On  "elOn  "On
I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I  I    I  I  I  I  I   I   I    I    I   I    I   I           I    I   I
A.  ERXPRTS SERVICE                                                                                    
a)SIGNING OP AGREEMRNTSIII)II
i) WITH AGENCIES------- --- -------I- ---c                   IIIII
b4)EXPERT SERVICES PERIOD---------------- -c                 ocloc.. O.. ccc .cclcoc ... ... ocolcoc ccc ccc occloco ccc ccc cc001c  O..
B. ELLLOWSHIPS                                 I                                                                         
a)SELECTION OFl CAHDIDATTS O--------j- ----- ----- - --loc    0*0                I                                                       
b) TRAINING PEID-----I------ --- c                                                 c ..ic .. .c oco c.ocicc  O..      I 
I JMAN) M?I JAS IONDIJSF)AM4J]IJASIN IOS)JFMIAMJ IJASIONDI JPM)ABSJI JAB IOHS rc   u  a   OSIJFMIANJ JSODIFIWJASIN lDDJFM)ASTI JABSIONSI
APPRAISAL DATE                 (MA19)* ISA REVIEW AND APPROVAL
PS-APPRAISAL DATE        -     5/SE   1982
NEGOTEATIGH.-  -------- FEB 198                                                                           -DEFECTS LIAILITIES AND IWARRANTY PERIODS
BOARD DATE (RSTIMATE)--S4-AY 1983 ~
EFFECTIVE  M.TR (ESTGMATE)-JSL 1995-
CLOSING SATE                     SEXC 1981



ANNEX 8
Page -r
-47-
BANGLADESH
SECOND AGRICULTURAL TRAINING PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A.  General Reports, Studies and Data Collections
A-1   The Existing Situation of Rural Training Institutes in Agriculture
in Bangladesh - National Council or Rural Training. Government
of Bangladesh (Dacca - November 1980).
A-2   The Project of Human Resource Development and Employment Generation
- A.K.G. Daul, ILO/UNDP (Dacca - January 1981).
A-3   Employment Performance of the Bangladesh Economy with regard to
Educated Manpower during the First Five-Year Plan Period (1973-78)
Manpower Section - Planning Commission - Government of Bangladesh.
(Dacca - June 1980).
A-4   A study on Professional and other services:  General Economics and
Evaluation Division - Planning Commission Government of Bangladesh
(Dacca - May 1979).
A-5   Bangladesh : Current Economic Situation and Review of the Second
Plan. Volumes I and II World Bank - February 1981.
A-6   Bangladesh : Medium-Term Foodgrain Production Plan.  Volumes I and
II. Government of Bangladesh - February 2, 1981.
A-7   Bangladesh   The Second Five-Year Plan 1980-85.  Government of
Bangladesh - May 1980.
B.  Reports and Studies Related to the Project
B-1   Bangladesh : Trained Agriculture Manpower Study 1979.  FAO/World
Bank Cooperative Program.  Rome - February 1980.
B-2   Bangladesh : Second Agricultural Training Project Preparation
Mission Report. FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program. Rome - Decem-
ber 1980.



ANNEX 8
-48-                                Page 2
B-3   Bangladesh : Second Extension and Research Project.  Preparation
Mission Report. FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program. Rome - April
1981.
B-4   Labor Migration from Bangladesh to the Middle East World Bank Staff
Working Paper - April 1981.
B-5   Bangladesh : First Agriculture Training Project (Credit 621-BD)
Appraisal Report. World Bank - 1976.
B-6   Bangladesh : Agriculture Credit Project.  Appraisal Report.  World
Bank - April 1981.
C. Working Papers and Tables
C-1   Set of Working Papers.



BANGLADESH
SECOND AGRICULTURAL TRAINING PROJECT
ILVAL FAMi, 116117UJ'
Ab l,h,,d
F- d,r
DI\Aj'R                                                                                                 Aq N-F"
R A 1\1
_E111-- TANN_, =JER
51     -1 E-3-1                        1-I.- -J,d,h-
2
41                                  "'md.
Iwyr
j
i!                                                                                        4.
f CjS"TO
C7<
V_
ILI IC
L 'J,,"
... ........
41
T-    SCN-                                 '-FRAG-1 S
tv,



