Report No. PID9251
Project Name                     Algeria-Housing Finance Ta Project @
Region                           Middle East and North Africa Region
Sector                           Urban Housing
Project ID                       DZPE64983
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Directorate of the Treasury
Address: Ministry of Finance, Algiers,
Algeria
Contact Person: Mr, Mustapha Tamalghaghet,
Director
Tel: 213-21-73 40 19
Fax: 213-21- 73 56 16
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                November 30, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date           February 16, 2002
Projected Board Date             May 16, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
Sector IssuesAlgeria suffers from a severe housing shortage, particularly
in urban areas, where housing programs are still dominated by public
sector social rental housing. It is estimated that 175,000 new housing
units would need to be built in each of the next 10 years, in order to
absorb the current deficit of units (550,000 units) and satisfy the
increase in demand in order to prevent any further deterioration of the
situation.   The housing sector has not responded well    in terms of
meeting either economic growth or social shelter objectives, producing
only an average 85,000 units per year in urban areas. This situation is
due to a combination of malfunctioning housing markets and policy
constraints impacting housing supply and demand. On the demand side,
effective demand for housing is suppressed by lack of access to finance
due, in particular, to the undeveloped mortgage market and the difficulty
of obtaining long-term affordable mortgage loans. The current stock of
mortgage loans represents only 1 of GDP, which is particularly low even
in an emerging economy context, and the value of housing loans to
individuals remain less than that of loans to developers (mostly
public-owned). As a result, most owner occupied units are self-financed,
which implies less affordability and delayed access to home ownership.
The situation was, until 1999, aggravated by the inefficient housing
finance monopoly of the Caisse Nationale d'Epargne et de Prevoyance (CNEP)
which still has the lion's share of the mortgage market. The main issues
are:(a) the major banks - all public-owned - are inexperienced and poorly
equipped to develop and administer housing loans;(b) a difficult legal and
regulatory environment, particularly with regard to issues of access to
titled land, compromises effective mortgage collateral and ability to
foreclose on unpaid mortgages. (c) high housing prices in relation to



limited incomes make for uncertain credit risks;(d) the fledging mortgage
refinance institution (SRH) needs increased capacity, governance
improvements and access to long term funding;(e) the lack of long-term
securities in Algeria's undeveloped capital markets, exacerbates the
difficulty for Algerian banks in managing transformation risks; On the
supply side, there are also constraints to the production of sufficient
affordable housing units, particularly with regard to:(a) the availability
of land, with legal title; (b) the availability of infrastructure, the
shortage of which is partly attributable to lack of financing.GOA has
started to cut back on its production of some 60,000 public sector rental
units per year, recognizing the high cost and unsustainability of this
program   The continuation of this program had, until recently, been a
hindrance to the development of a strong private ownership market, with
which it directly competed on subsidized terms. Recent restrictions on
access to subsidized rental housing, coupled with increases in rents and
provision of home-ownership grants, have increased the relative
attractiveness of private ownership. A study to review the supply
constraints in the housing market has been agreed with Government and is
under way, financed with French Assistance. Its initial findings will be
available in January, 2002.Government StrategyGOA's strategy is to shift
from the public provision of subsidized rental units to the encouragement
of privately owned housing, financed through affordable long term mortgage
loans. To this end, Government has begun over the past few years to
undertake some key housing finance reforms to respond, at least in part,
to the main demand side constraints. In parallel, actions are also being
taken to tighten terms of access to public sector social rental housing,
through the introduction of short term renewable leases, means tests and
through rent increases. Supply side reforms have included the
privatization of the construction industry, which has significantly
reduced delays in implementation and construction costs, and some
improvements in availability of land. However much remains to be done in
terms of availability of serviced land and registration of property
titles.As part of its strategy to develop alternative solutions for
financing housing and to increase the supply of homes to the population,
the Government has set up a series of interelated new institutions and
products. However, these institutions are not yet functioning effectively
and do not achieve the overall objective of supporting the long term
development of a mortgage market: (i) The Societe de Refinancement
Hypothecaire (SRH), established late in 1997, provides banks with
long-term refinancing in exchange for the collateralization of their
refinanced mortgage loans. Primary lenders are thus assisted to manage
their related liquidity, interest rate and prepayment risks. SRH is a
non-banking financial company, whose activities are supervised by the
Banque d'Algerie. It has been well capitalized - DZD 3.3 billion - in
November 1997 by 5 public banks (with 54t of the equity), 3 public
insurance companies, and the Treasury (with 30t of the equity).
Furthermore, SRH has received a loan from the Arab Fund for Economic and
Social Development (FADES, Fonds Arabe de Developpement Economique et
Social) for an amount of USD 30 million, to support its refinancing
activities.    In the long term , SRH expects to fund its needs through
issuance of its own securities.SRH's pioneer product - a recourse
refinancing line to lenders - is operational. However, only limited
amounts of refinancing have been undertaken by two banks (CPA for an
amount of DZD 158 million, and BDL for an amount of DZD 32 million).
SRH has so far not concluded a refinancing agreement with CNEP (the most
- 2-



important potential client for SRH, due to its relatively high volume of
mortgage lending) (ii) The Societe de Garantie des Credits Immobiliers
(SGCI), established in 1998, provides banks with mortgage credit risk
insurance, covering risks of death, full invalidity, temporary or
permanent insolvency of the borrower, up to 90t of the outstanding debt.
However, the proposed premiums (4t to 5%) and its format (up-front full
payment) may prove to be an obstacle to the development of the loan
market. (iii) The Fonds de Garantie de Caution Mutuelle (FGCM) was
created in 1999 by the Ministry of Housing and provides guarantees to
cover the advances paid by households to developers when units are
purchased from plans. This intermediary function provides a key link
between developers and households by protecting consumers while providing
advance funding to developers. (iv) The Caisse Nationale du Logement (CNL)
has, since 1998, become the central conduit for subsidies (AAP - Aide a
l'Accession a la Propriete) to first-time owners of newly-built units for
households disposing of less than 5 times the minimum wage (5*DZD 8,000 =
DZD 40,000). Grants ranging between DZD 300,000 to 400,000 are awarded
progressively, according to income levels. These grants represent a key
contribution to the down-payment of complementary market-oriented loans,
helping to catalyze the growth of the mortgage industry. It is estimated
that availability of AAP could result in a three to four fold increase in
the number of new mortgage loans and a slightly lesser increase in the
value of new mortgages. CNL had entered into agreements with two major
banks (CNEP and Credit Populaire d'Algerie) to have a one-stop-shop
process (applications for loans and subsidies together), but cancelled
this arrangement due to the banks' inability to process
applications.Primary LendersHousing finance used to be entirely channeled
through Caisse Nationale d'Epargne et de Prevoyance (CNEP), which collects
households' savings (with the support of the postal savings network,
deposits increase by DZD 11-15 billion per year) and makes housing loans
to developers and households. Long-term housing loans to households
correspond to a modest DZD 33 billion stock (of which only the more recent
part is mortgaged). Since the financial liberalization, interest rates
are no longer controlled and CNEP has been transformed into a commercial
bank. Although CNEP still faces major strategic challenges, it plans to
produce 11,000 mortgages each year (DZD 4 billion or only 0.1% of GDP)
giving priority to its long-time savers. CNEP has finalized the
preparation of more prudential standardized mortgage loans, but that
cannot be implemented until their servicing is fully computerized within
an integrated system.Mortgage lending is expected to diversify and grow as
more banks enter the market. The entrance of Credit Populaire d'Algerie
(CPA) to the housing market in 1999, through mortgages and developer
loans, has introduced a decisive element of competition to CNEP; CPA now
represents a benchmark for other candidates. Banque de Developpement
Local (BDL) has also started to issue mortgage loans and the other main
public sector banks are developing their housing finance products.
Motivations for banks entering the mortgage loan market vary between (i)
providing a complementary product to their loans to developers; (ii) as a
component of a retail strategy (as part of consumer loans); (iii) as a
prudential asset diversification from their past loans to state
enterprises; and (iv) to provide a fuller service to existing clients.
Most banks are also interested in obtaining the type of long-term external
funding that SRH can provide, given the short-term nature of their
deposits.Private banks have also entered the mortgage finance market.
Most private banks are new and active in short-term trade finance. Their
- 3 -



comparative advantage may initially come from their lighter and
specialized structure. Their participation would facilitate a competitive
innovation process versus a possible cartel of public banks (which are the
existing shareholders of SRH), and their potential interest in refinancing
with SRH has been confirmed.Legal environmentThe Government has made some
steps towards greater transparency in the pricing and availability of
land, mostly by trying to reform its disposal of domainial land (State
owned land). Several issues were targeted:(a) Reforming the selling of
domainial land: In order to introduce transparency in the valuation of
public land and its accessibility, the MOF has decided to sell its
properties through public auction (previously sold at fixed price).
However this initiative has had a limited effect as most of the urban land
previously owned by the State has been transferred to sub-national
authorities (communes and Wilayates) that are not subject to any reform
and still apply the fixed price procedure. (b) Clarifying legal status of
a large part of urban land: A large part of parcels in urban areas do not
have a clear title. The World Bank funded Cadastre project started dealing
with this issue, mostly by providing mapping of the land. The emphasis
should now be on closer cooperation between the Cadastre administration
(Agence Nationale du Cadastre) and the Conservation FonciOre (titling
administration), in order (i) to reduce titling issuance delay, and (ii)
to provide a coherent and updated database.
2. Objectives
To help establish the enabling environment for an affordable mortgage
loan market through: (i) legal and administrative improvements regarding
the registration, titling, and mortgage system; (ii) specific technical
assistance to financial institutions; and (iii) training in mortgage
loans.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank's involvement would offer a unique opportunity to kick start a
moribund mortgage market at a critical time as frustration has been
growing due to the lack of accessible mortgage loans despite housing
finance reforms. The obvious lack of knowledge of the banks in mortgage
financing is a paramount bottleneck in the development of the mortgage
market.By providing the opportunity to the Banking sector and to the
related public authorities of accessing highly qualified training and
assistance in the area of mortgage financing, the Bank will help in
developing a more fluid and active mortgage market. Such initiative could
pave the way for future development and strengthening of the banking
sector, and consequently give access to credit to an increased portion of
households.Unlike other donors, the Bank can provide expert assistance to
prepare a comprehensive package of reforms necessary for sustainable
development of housing finance, including key legal reforms, a proper
integration within financial markets, and a specific focus on the housing
accessibility of lower-income households.
4. Description
The project will consist of three main components,plus a project unit 1.
LEGAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE IMPROVEMENTSThis component will address the
property titling and registration reforms needed for the registration of
subsequent transactions (including mortgages). It will also address
specific needs of the legal profession in the area of mortgage training.
It will have three sub-components: Sub-component 1.1, Legal Reform:To
- 4 -



provide technical assistance to the Government to reform the legal
framework (in particular modernizing the Civil Code in regard to the law
on Money and Credit) for mortgage and foreclosure procedures, deeds and
titles (transfers, lien, certificates of conformity, subrogation),
auctioning of properties.Sub-component 1.2, Administrative reform and
Organizational strengthening.To provide technical assistance to the Agence
Nationale du Cadastre (ANC) and the Conservation FonciOre (CF) to speed up
the titling of land and properties specifically in urban areas. Under
this component, the computerization of CF's land registration data base
and the Direction Generale du Domaine National (DGDN, for public lands and
properties) will be provided, as well as related technical assistance and
training, in order to set up a reliable recording system. Sub-component
1.3, Training:To provide training and technical assistance to legal and
administrative agencies and other related entities to solve specific
bottlenecks in the process of issuing, managing and developing mortgage
loans. In particular, part of the program will focus on (i) training of
notaries publics on mortgage loan registration, and (ii) assisting in-line
Ministries to validate legal mortgages (hypothOques legales) and to set up
reliable and rapid foreclosure procedures.2. SPECIFIC ASSISTANCEUnder this
component, the project will provide technical assistance tailored to the
needs of targeted banks, SRH and other related institutions.Subcomponent
2.1, Selected Banks: The sub-component will provide assistance to targeted
banks (i.e. CNEP, CPA, BDL, BNA, BADR and BEA, three private banks) to
define and implement programs of services and financial products. They
will be applied in pilot branch offices, in order to replicate the
experience in other offices.Subcomponent 2.2, CNL: The sub-component will
provide assistance to the CNL (i) in developing financial saving product
for household oriented on home purchase (epargne logement), and (ii) in
improving the implementation, distribution and control of Aide Frontale
(direct governmental subsidy for housing purchase).Subcomponent 2.3, SRH:
The sub-component will provide assistance to the SRH (i) in reforming its
policies and refinancing products, (ii) in significantly developing and
managing its mortgage refinancing activity, and (iii) in issuing
bonds.Subcomponent 2.4, SGCIThe sub-component will provide assistance to
SGCI to strengthen its credit insurance products.3.MORTGAGE LOAN
TRAININGThis component will provide training to interested financial
institutions on all aspects of mortgage lending, from origination to
marketing and management of mortgages loans. The component will
contribute to the development of the mortgage loan market at the
operational level of the banks, by increasing their capacity to handle
new concepts and products.In order to ensure the long term objective of
programmatic and financial sustainability of such a training program, the
component will be developed in conjunction with the local training centers
ESB (Ecole Superieure de Banque, linked to the Banque d'Algerie) and the
SIBF (linked to the Association des Banques et Etablissements
Financiers). The capacity of these centers to handle such a program will
be gradually built-up, possibly in cooperation with the implementing unit
of the MEDA program. 4.PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT This component is centered
on project management needs and is intended to ensure that the project's
Financial Management System (FMS) complies with the Bank's requirements
for administration , reporting, and transaction recording. A quarterly
Project Management Report (PMR) will be submitted based on reliable and
timely recorded information. A consultant will be hired to set up the FMS
and develop appropriate software. Costs shown relate to its services and
to incremental expenses incurred in the PMU.
- 5 -



1. LEGAL AND ADMINIS- TRATIVE IMPROVEMENT: Supports reform and capacity
building of the legal and administrative framework of property rights and
the mortgage system.
2. SPECIFIC ASSISTANCE: Provides capacity building to selected key
financial entities. This will help them develop and implement financial
products for mortgage loans market.
3. MORTGAGE LOAN TRAINING: Building on the findings of the Specific
Assistance Component and on needs expressed by the beneficiaries,
improves the human resource capacity of private and public banks for the
better handling of home mortgage financing products.
4. PROJECT UNIT
5. Financing
Total                                    ( US$m)
IBRD                                     5.64
Total Project Cost                       6.41
6. Implementation
The project will be implemented by an adequately staffed Project
Management Unit (PMU) located within the Ministry of Finance. The PMU
will be headed by a staff at director's level who will coordinate overall
project activities. The director will be assisted by a financial manager
and an administrative officer who will be respectively in charge of the
financial management and the procurement activities. PMU staff will be
accountable for establishing an adequate FMS, including interaction with
MOF other directorates and entities it controls.For obvious reasons of
synergy and coherence between the two projects, the PMU will coordinate
the implementation of the Project with the UGP (Unite de Gestion de
Projet) of the MEDA-I program of the European Commission on Assistance to
the modernization of the financial sector in Algeria. Financial
management: (to be completed)Project Management Reports will be produced
by the PU on a quarterly basis in conformity with the Bank's standard
PMRs, but they will not be used as a basis for disbursements. The Project
Financial Statements will be audited by independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank on the basis of terms of reference acceptable to the Bank (draft
terms of reference to be included in the financial management manual).
The costs of the audit will be born by [to be agreed at negotiations].
The auditor would be appointed by effectiveness. Audited accounts should
be submitted to the Bank within 6 (six) months of the end of the
financial year.Disbursement will be through a special account to be opened
in the Banque d'Algerie. Monitoring and evaluation: In order to steer
project implementation towards meeting its goals and to monitor the work
done by the PMU, a Management and Monitoring Committee will be set up by
effectiveness and headed by the Secretary General of the Ministry of
Finance. It will include representatives from the Ministry of Housing,
Ministry of Justice, Banque d'Algerie, major banks involved in the
project, including at least one private bank, the CNL, the SRH, SGCI, ABEF
- 6 -



and the ESB.Monitoring Indicators: to be determined.
7. Sustainability
The Project will build capacity (i) in mortgage loan development and
management by banks, and (ii) in legal and regulatory improvement. The TA
and training is designed to ensure knowledge transfers and improvement of
skills. Key factors built in the framework of the project will contribute
to the sustainability of the objectives:(a) Preliminary assessment of
issues, priorities and needs of selected banks lead to the definition of a
training program suited to the demand of the beneficiaries.(b) EBF and
SIBF will be involved in the whole process of definition and
implementation of the training program, in order for those two institutes
to be able to further develop and manage the program. Furthermore, the
financial contribution to the costs of the training by banks will be
adjusted to help such program to be financially sustainable.(c) Technical
assistance to related institutions based on a precise identification of
the issues will solve major bottlenecks that are an impediment to a fully
functioning mortgage market.(d) Benefits gained through the project will
(i) increase accessibility to new mortgage loan to a significantly
broader range of perspective homeowners, and (ii) alleviate the State
budget burden on previously allocated funds to the financing of
inefficient public social housing , and therefore to increase availability
of public funds to other strategic governmental priorities.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The following experience from previous projects and country involvement is
reflected in the project design:n A high level of Government commitment to
project objectives and establishment of an effective coordination
mechanism when more than one agency is involved are essential for
successful project implementation.n Close cooperation among donors helps
to provide coherence and efficiency in the overall foreign assistance to
the country.n The project should disburse funds over a short period of
time and should start disbursing immediately upon effectiveness.n Proper
primary market infrastructure and bank training is required before tapping
capital markets; SRH bond issues will be carefully prepared after
technical assistance programs.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues    :   It is not anticipated that the project will have
any direct environmental impact.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Douglas I. Graham
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202 473-2611
Fax: 202 477-1993
Email: dgrahaml@worldbank.org
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
-7 -



The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending Dec. 14, 2001
Lucy Njuguna
M:\InfoShop - Tonya's weekly directories\Dec.14,2001\pO64983.txt
December 11, 2001 10:52 AM
-8-



