Report No. 23322
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Updated)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 12/10/2001
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: ALGERIA         Project ID: P064983
Project: HOUSING FINANCE TA PROJECT       Task Team Leader: Douglas I. Graham
Appraisal Date: February 16, 2002         IBRD Amount ($m): 5.64
Board Date: May 16, 2002          IDA Amount ($m):
Managing Unit: MNSIF     Sector: UH - Urban Housing
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan (TAL)        Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
To help establish the enabling environment for an affordable mortgage
loan market through: (i) legal and administrative improvements regarding
the registration, titling, and mortgage system; (ii) specific technical
assistance to financial institutions; and (iii) training in mortgage
loans.
I.A.3. Project Description:
The project will consist of three main components,plus a project unit
1. LEGAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE IMPROVEMENTS
This component will address the property titling and registration reforms
needed for the registration of subsequent transactions (including
mortgages). It will also address specific needs of the legal profession
in the area of mortgage training. It will have three sub-components:
Sub-component 1.1, Legal Reform:
To provide technical assistance to the Government to reform the legal
framework (in particular modernizing the Civil Code in regard to the law
on Money and Credit) for mortgage and foreclosure procedures, deeds and
titles (transfers, lien, certificates of conformity, subrogation),
auctioning of properties.
Sub-component 1.2, Administrative reform and Organizational strengthening.
To provide technical assistance to the Agence Nationale du Cadastre (ANC)
and the Conservation FonciOre (CF) to speed up the titling of land and
properties specifically in urban areas. Under this component, the
computerization of CF's land registration data base and the Direction
Generale du Domaine National (DGDN, for public lands and properties) will
be provided, as well as related technical assistance and training, in
order to set up a reliable recording system.
Sub-component 1.3, Training:
To provide training and technical assistance to legal and administrative
agencies and other related entities to solve specific bottlenecks in the
process of issuing, managing and developing mortgage loans. In
particular, part of the program will focus on (i) training of notaries
publics on mortgage loan registration, and (ii) assisting in-line
Ministries to validate legal mortgages (hypothOques legales) and to set up
reliable and rapid foreclosure procedures.



2. SPECIFIC ASSISTANCE
Under this component, the project will provide technical assistance
tailored to the needs of targeted banks, SRH and other related
institutions.
Subcomponent 2.1, Selected Banks:
The sub-component will provide assistance to targeted banks (i.e. CNEP,
CPA, BDL, BNA, BADR and BEA, three private banks) to define and implement
programs of services and financial products. They will be applied in
pilot branch offices, in order to replicate the experience in other
offices.
Subcomponent 2.2, CNL:
The sub-component will provide assistance to the CNL (i) in developing
financial saving product for household oriented on home purchase (epargne
logement), and (ii) in improving the implementation, distribution and
control of Aide Frontale (direct governmental subsidy for housing
purchase).
Subcomponent 2.3, SRH:
The sub-component will provide assistance to the SRH (i) in reforming its
policies and refinancing products, (ii) in significantly developing and
managing its mortgage refinancing activity, and (iii) in issuing bonds.
Subcomponent 2.4, SGCI
The sub-component will provide assistance to SGCI to strengthen its credit
insurance products.
3.MORTGAGE LOAN TRAINING
This component will provide training to interested financial institutions
on all aspects of mortgage lending, from origination to marketing and
management of mortgages loans. The component will contribute to the
development of the mortgage loan market at the operational level of the
banks, by increasing their capacity to handle new concepts and products.
In order to ensure the long term objective of programmatic and financial
sustainability of such a training program, the component will be developed
in conjunction with the local training centers ESB (Ecole Superieure de
Banque, linked to the Banque d'Algerie) and the SIBF (linked to the
Association des Banques et Etablissements Financiers). The capacity of
these centers to handle such a program will be gradually built-up,
possibly in cooperation with the implementing unit of the MEDA program.
4.PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT
This component is centered on project management needs and is intended to
ensure that the project's Financial Management System (FMS) complies with
the Bank's requirements for administration , reporting, and transaction
recording. A quarterly Project Management Report (PMR) will be submitted
based on reliable and timely recorded information. A consultant will be
hired to set up the FMS and develop appropriate software. Costs shown
relate to its services and to incremental expenses incurred in the PMU.
-2 -



Components:
1. LEGAL AND ADMINIS- TRATIVE IMPROVEMENT: Supports reform and capacity
building of the legal and administrative framework of property rights and
the mortgage system.
2. SPECIFIC ASSISTANCE: Provides capacity building to selected key
financial entities. This will help them develop and implement financial
products for mortgage loans market.
3. MORTGAGE LOAN TRAINING: Building on the findings of the Specific
Assistance Component and on needs expressed by the beneficiaries,
improves the human resource capacity of private and public banks for the
better handling of home mortgage financing products.
4. PROJECT UNIT
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
B. Check Environmental Classification: C (Not Required)
Comments:
C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)          No
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)     No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)       No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)         No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)        No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)       No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*          No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)        No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
-3 -



the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
none
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
none
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
none
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
n.a.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I Si. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
I S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
[XI S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)       Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
- 4 -



Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:        Douglas I. Graham        11/30/2001
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:        Allan Rotman/Person/World Bank
12/05/2001
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:        John Keith Rennie-MNS/Person/World Bank
12/05/2001
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         Sherif Kamel F. Arif     12/05/2001
Sector Manager/Director:         Hedi Larbi      12/07/2001
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
- 5-



