                                    Document of
                                 The World Bank




                                                      Report No:ICR0000417




           IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                              (IBRD-71310 JPN-26124)




                                       ON A

                                       LOAN

                       IN THE AMOUNT OF US$5.5 MILLION
                                      TO THE

                PEOPLE'S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA

                                      FOR A

          MORTGAGE FINANCE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT




                                    June 17, 2007




Finance, Private Sector Development Department
MNCO1 ­ Maghreb Countries Department
Middle East & North Africa Region

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange Rate Effective March 19, 2007)

                        Currency Unit = Algerian Dinar (DZD)
                                 DZD 1.00 = US$ 0.010
                                 Euro 1.00 = US$ 1.32
                                 US$ 1.00 = Euro 0.76

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1st ­ December 31

                       ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AAP          Aide d l'Accession de la Propriete (Housing Ownership Assistance)
ANC          Agence Nationale du Cadastre (Land-mapping National Agency)
APC          Assemblee Populaire Communale (local government)
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy (Strategie d 'Assistance au Pays)
CF           Conservation Fonciere (Title Administration)
CNEP         Caisse Nationale d'Epargne et de Prevoyance (Savings & Housing Bank)
CNL          Caisse Nationale du Logement (National Housing Agency)
DGDN         Direction Generale du Domaine National (State-owned Land Directorate)
FONAL        Fonds National d'Aide du Logement (National Housing Fund)
GOA          Gouvernement d 'Algerie (Government of Algeria)
ICB          International Competitive Bidding (Appel d'offres international)
LDU          Directions de l 'Urbanisme (Local Directorates of Urban Planning, MoH local
offices)
LG           Local governments (collectivites locales)
MOF          Ministere des Finances (Ministry of Finance)
MOH          Ministere de l'Habitat (Ministry of Housing)
NCB          National Competitive Bidding (Appel d'offres national)
NGO          Non governmental Organisation (Organisation Non Gouvernementale)
NPV          Net Present Value (Valeur Nette Actuelle)
OD           Operational Directive (Directive Operationnelle de la Banque)
OPGI         Office de Promotion et de Gestion Immobiliere (Public Housing and
Development Agency)
PMU          Project Management Unit (Unite de Gestion du Projet)
SGCI         Societe de Garantie des Credits Immobiliers (Mortgage Credit Guarantee
Company)
SNMG         Salaire National Minimum Garanti (National Minimum-Guaranteed Salary)
SRH          Societe de Refinancement Hypothecaire (Mortgage Refinance Company)
TA           Technical Assistance (Assistance Technique, AT)



                              Vice President: Daniela Gressani
                           Country Director: Theodore O. Ahlers
                            Sector Manager: Zoubida Allaoua
                       Project Team Leader: Didier Debals
                          ICR Team Leader: Catherine H. Burtonboy

                                        ALGERIA
                        Mortgage Finance Technical Assistance




                                       CONTENTS




Data Sheet
   A. Basic Information
   B. Key Dates
   C. Ratings Summary
   D. Sector and Theme Codes
   E. Bank Staff
   F. Results Framework Analysis
   G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
   H. Restructuring
   I. Disbursement Graph

 1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 5
 3. Assessment of Outcomes............................................................................................ 9
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 11
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 12
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 16
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 18
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 19
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis................................................................. 21
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 22
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 23
 Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results................................................... 24
 Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR..................... 25
 Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders....................... 26
 Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 27
 Annex 10. Monitoring and Evaluation framework (French)........................................ 28
 MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                     MORTGAGE
                                                                     FINANCE
Country:                Algeria               Project Name:          TECHNICAL
                                                                     ASSISTANCE
                                                                     PROJECT
                                                                     IBRD-71310,JPN-
Project ID:             P064983               L/C/TF Number(s):
                                                                     26124
ICR Date:               07/31/2007            ICR Type:              Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     TAL                   Borrower:              GOVERNMENT
Original Total
                        USD 5.5M              Disbursed Amount:      USD 4.4M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: C
Implementing Agencies:
Ministry of Finance (PIU)
Societe de Refinancement Hypothecaire
Societe de Garantie du Credit Immobilier
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process             Date             Process         Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                Date(s)
Concept Review:        03/13/2000    Effectiveness:       03/17/2003          03/17/2003
Appraisal:             04/06/2002    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              06/27/2002    Mid-term Review:                         12/08/2004
                                     Closing:             12/31/2005          01/31/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                     Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                  Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                             Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                         Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings              Borrower                Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Satisfactory          Government:            Moderately Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory          Implementing
                                              Agency/Agencies:       Highly Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                  Overall Borrower
Performance:            Satisfactory          Performance:           Satisfactory



                                              i

C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                              QAG Assessments
      Performance               Indicators            (if any)                Rating

Potential Problem Project No                   Quality at Entry
                                                                     None
at any time (Yes/No):                          (QEA):
Problem Project at any                         Quality of
                          No                                         Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):                                 Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                              Original            Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Capital markets                                                 30                  30
Central government administration                               10                  30
Housing finance and real estate markets                         50                  25
Information technology                                          10                  15


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Other economic management                                      Primary            Primary
Other financial and private sector development                Secondary          Secondary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:           Daniela Gressani                  Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:         Theodore O. Ahlers                Christian Delvoie
Sector Manager:           Zoubida Allaoua                   Emmanuel Forestier
Project Team Leader:      Didier Debals                     Douglas I. Graham
ICR Team Leader:          Catherine H. Burtonboy
ICR Primary Author:       Catherine H. Burtonboy



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The main objective is to help strengthen the enabling environment for a well-functioning
mortgage loan market. Project components include: (i) legal and administrative measures
to improve property rights, mortgage lien efficiency, and property titling and registration
system; (ii) strategic assistance to financial institutions; and (iii) training of operational
staff in mortgage lending.


                                              ii

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)




(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target      Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value          Values (from          Revised        Achieved at
                                              approval            Target        Completion or
                                             documents)           Values        Target Years
               Increased housing loan [update yearly]
Indicator 1 :

Value
quantitative or14,000                     35,000                              22,900
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2002                  12/31/2005                          01/31/2007
Comments       Percentage of achievement: 65% albeit with a delay of one year. This ratio can be
(incl. %       considered as satisfactory given the fact that the shortage in housing supply
achievement)   considerably hindered the potential increase in housing loans.
               Increased construction of new housing and renovation of existing housing
Indicator 2 :  [update yearly]

Value
quantitative or55,000                     80,000                              93,550
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2002                  12/31/2005                          01/31/2007
Comments       Percentage achieved: 117%. This ratio is satisfactory as it surpasses the target
(incl. %       amount, but the number of housing available is still in great shortage, hindering
achievement)   the potential developpement of PDO indicator 1.
Indicator 3 :  Increased loan refinancing by SRH
Value
quantitative orDZD 400 Million            DZD 10 Billion                      DZD 11 Billion
Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2002                  12/31/2005                          01/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %       Percentage achieved 2750%. A remarkable achievement given the fact that SRH

achievement)   had to go through a complete reorganization during project implementation.


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target       Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value          Values (from                         Achieved at
                                              approval            Revised       Completion or
                                             documents)       Target Values     Target Years

Indicator 1 :  Legal measures taken to harmonize and clarify provisions governing property
               and mortgage rights



                                              iii

                                                                               Draft law (loi
Value           Unclear provisions         Clear provisions                    unique)completed
(quantitative   governing property and     governing property                  but not yet
or Qualitative) mortgage rights            and mortgage
                                           rights                              presented to the
                                                                               General Assembly
Date achieved 06/30/2002                   01/31/2007                          01/31/2007

Comments        The draft legal measures were prepared but the GoA opted to include them all

(incl. %        under one draft law. This is taking a lot more time than initially planned, but

achievement)    should ultimately simplify legal provisions governing property and mortgage
                rights.

Indicator 2 :   Training of legal staff

Value
(quantitative   0                          200                                 1650
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2002                   12/31/2005                          01/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %        The training is now part of the official curriculum for law students therefore a lot

achievement)    more people have received the training than initially planned.

                Banks that received TA demonstrate use of business plan for mortgage loan
Indicator 3 :   products

Value
(quantitative   2                          6                                   6
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2002                   12/31/2005                          01/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %        100% achieved.
achievement)

Indicator 4 :   New collateralization arrangements for each institution

Value
(quantitative   0                          6                                   6
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2002                   12/31/2005                          01/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %        100% achieved.
achievement)

Indicator 5 :   Number and proportion of banks' staff trained

Value
(quantitative   0                          2000                                1580
or Qualitative)
Date achieved 06/30/2002                   12/31/2005                          01/31/2007
Comments        The objective was substantially met, but the lack of funding, compounded by
(incl. %        some logistical complications, prevented the targeted number from being
achievement)    trained.




                                                iv

G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                             Actual
No.    Date ISR
       Archived            DO                  IP         Disbursements
                                                          (USD millions)
  1   06/28/2002        Satisfactory       Satisfactory             0.00
  2   12/30/2002        Satisfactory       Satisfactory             0.00
  3   04/15/2003        Satisfactory       Satisfactory             0.36
  4   07/22/2003        Satisfactory       Satisfactory             0.95
  5   12/18/2003        Satisfactory       Satisfactory             0.95
  6   06/29/2004        Satisfactory       Satisfactory             1.99
  7   12/20/2004        Satisfactory       Satisfactory             3.09
  8   05/11/2005        Satisfactory       Satisfactory             3.29
  9   06/24/2005        Satisfactory       Satisfactory             3.38
  10  12/23/2005        Satisfactory       Satisfactory             3.58
  11  06/23/2006        Satisfactory       Satisfactory             3.98
  12  12/28/2006        Satisfactory       Satisfactory             4.34



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                                      v

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)

1.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance)

Country and Sector background:

The Algeria Mortgage finance project was a direct result of the policy dialogue going on in 2000
during the preparation of the new Algeria Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). At the time, the
Government of Algeria communicated that further developing the housing market was one of its
top priorities. Bank assistance in this area fell within the objectives of the CAS, particularly with
respect to the priorities given to accelerating sustainable economic growth through the pursuit of
financial sector reforms. These objectives included the strengthening of the operational
environment of the financial sector, the efficiency of basic bank services and the pursuit of
private sector development. The technical assistance project was therefore consistent with the
objectives of the CAS under preparation and became part of the low case lending scenario for
Algeria. The project intended to improve the country's housing finance system, a critical part of a
well-functioning housing market within a private sector-led economy.

During the first twenty years after the Country's independence in 1962, public investment was
concentrated in the industrial sector, and little attention was paid to the housing sector. Private
construction was minimal because of tight government regulation and difficult access to
landownership. In Algiers in particular, the government sought to discourage the flood of
migration by almost freezing the housing sector and confining itself to improving sanitation and
public utility service.

The consequence of those policies was a severe housing shortage starting at the end of the 1970s.
By the early 1980s, the occupancy rate per three-room housing unit stood at seven persons, and
the shortfall in public housing was placed at 1 million units. In 1992 the shortage had become
critical and had risen to 2 million housing units. The shortage had resulted in an average
occupancy rate of 8.8 persons per unit, comparatively one of the highest in the world. By the year
2000, this problem had been exacerbated by a decade of civil war.

The issues constraining the availability of housing supply were:
·       Difficult release of land, especially by the government
·       Construction bottlenecks (weak construction industry, high import content)
·       High price to income ratio making housing little affordable

The issues constraining the access to housing finance were:
·       Inefficient macro environment which encourages short term horizon
·       Lack of access to LT funds by retail lenders (including capital markets)
·       Residual problems from a history of state dominated financial systems (i.e. preferential
        treatment of state housing banks, direct provision of housing with non transparent,
        regressive subsidies)
·       Inadequate legal and regulatory infrastructure to support housing finance
·       Inefficient property registration systems
·       Inability to enforce housing collateral for social/political reasons.



                                                  1

Rationale for Bank assistance:
In some respects, this project was a follow-up to the Housing completion and Sector Development
project. The Bank had the expertise to prepare a comprehensive package of reforms necessary for
a sustainable development of housing finance, including key legal reforms, a proper integration
within financial markets, and a specific focus on the housing accessibility of lower-income
households. The main value added by the Bank comes from its widespread experience in housing
finance development and land titling and registration. The Bank's involvement offered a unique
opportunity to kick start a moribund mortgage market at a critical time.

Borrower Commitment: Resolution of the unsatisfactory conditions in the housing sector was
and remains a top political social and economic priority for Government of Algeria (GoA). As
such, the government has shown its commitment to reform through a series of actions already
taken and further policy changes underway. The State's basic strategy was to shift from its role of
housing landlord, producer, and financier to a role of enabling agent or "regulator" of the housing
market. Promoting the market-based finance proposed by the bank for owner-occupied housing
was palatable to the government. It contributed to the same goal, in particular, if associated with
the up-front grants program1, a far less costly method for the government than the leasing
scheme.

In order to ensure the positive outcome of the project, the GoA opted for a participatory approach
during the design and implementation of the project. The banks, direct beneficiaries of the
project, also showed a strong interest. The main characteristics of the strategic assistance and the
operational training components were designed in close cooperation with the banks. Letters of
understanding were signed between all participating banks and the Ministry of Finance. The
Direction Generale du Domaine National (DGDN) was extremely interested in receiving more
resources to accelerate the process of clearing up property titles in parallel to the extension of the
cadastre.


1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)

Project Development Objective (PDO)

The main objective of the project is to help strengthen the enabling environment for a well-
functioning mortgage loan market. Project components include: (i) legal and administrative
measures to improve the registration of properties, mortgage lien efficiency, and property titling
and registration system; (ii) strategic assistance to financial institutions; and (iii) training of
operational staff in mortgage lending.



1 A subsidy scheme for housing and infrastructure works, with the objective of achieving more
transparency and ease of implementation. The amount of the housing subsidy varies from DA
250,000 to DA 350,000 (US$4,300 to US$6,000) according to household income. Priority is
given to low-income households through a set of criteria which includes the living conditions of
the households, as well as basic indicators. The subsidy is distributed to the developer in charge
of the construction works.




                                                   2

The progress made on the PDO was measured against the following outcome indicators: i)
Increased housing loans, ii) Increased construction of new housing and renovation of existing
housing, iii) Increased loan refinancing on the secondary market.

1.3 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification

Project development objective and key indicators as laid out in the Loan Agreement remained
unchanged.

1.4 Main Beneficiaries,
(original and revised, briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD
and as captured in the PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected
to benefit from the project)

Primary target group:

The Algerian population: This project aimed at serving households with monthly incomes
greater than DZD 15,000 (USD 190), estimated to be about 70% of households, suffering from
lack of access to affordable housing.

The groups listed below are the direct beneficiaries of components 2 and 3 of the project ­
STRATEGIC ASSISTANCE & TRAINING

Magistrates and auxiliaries of justice: the mortgage market could not develop and be sustainable
without having a solid foothold in the Country's regulations and legal system. The project
therefore needed to grant a specific assistance to the legal sector in the form of training designed
to provide the notaries, ushers, magistrates and other auxiliaries of justice with a uniform
knowledge in real-estate and mortgage laws as well as land rights
Direction Générale du Domaine National (DGDN): A tailored assistance was designed in order
to provide the agents of the Direction Générale du Domaine National with the capacity to
implement the new laws on titling of land and properties and to help create the profession of real
estate appraiser, non existent in Algeria.
Public Banks: Technical assistance provided to the banks enhanced their operational capacity;
the general knowledge level and administrative schemes were upgraded and harmonized. The
Banks' top management acquired a strategic understanding of the mortgage industry.

Secondary target group:

Société de Garantie du Crédit Immobilier (SGCI): The SGCI benefited from TA regarding
financial and HR management techniques. The TA covered the diagnostic of the company and its
external relations, an urgently needed restructuring plan, management training on the new and
improved product of the company: insolvency insurance, and finally the marketing of the
company.
Société de refinancement hypothécaire (SRH): The SRH benefited from TA on the
implementation of the new law on mortgage finance and is the agency specialized in the
refinancing of mortgage loans.        The TA centered mainly on recommendations for the
reorganization of the SRH and the creation of a new deprtment in charge of auditing and risk
management.



                                                 3

1.5 Original Components (as approved)
The project consisted of three components and provided funding for project management.

         1. LEGAL AND LAND TITLING IMPROVEMENTS

This component addressed the deficiencies in the legal framework for mortgage finance and in
the property titling and registration systems, which hampered the use of real estate properties as
collateral for bank loans. The component included three sub-components: One on legal reform,
providing the Government with technical assistance to reform the legal framework mainly for
clarification purposes as far as property rights are concerned, but also to improve its effectiveness
in the field of mortgage rights. Another on accelerating the issuance of regular property titles to
respond to a pressing demand from the land owners to provide the Direction Générale du
Domaine National, the Agence Nationale du Cadastre (ANC) and the Conservation Foncière
(CF) with the required technical assistance to speed up the titling of land and properties in urban
areas. And finally, a sub-component to provide the legal professions and land administration staff
with the needed training and technical assistance on registration and transfer of property rights, or
in the creation, registration and enforcement of mortgage rights by public notaries, judges, and
bailiffs.

         2. STRATEGIC ASSISTANCE
Under this component, the project provided technical assistance tailored to the needs of targeted
banks and other related institutions. It included assistance to the top management of targeted
banks (i.e. CNEP, CPA, BDL, BNA, BADR and BEA) to help them define a development
strategy for mortgage finance, specific advisory assistance to participating banks (see above) in
the form of advisers who carried out diagnoses of their capacities in setting up or expanding the
mortgage line of business and recommended adjustments to their organization, procedures and
information systems. It also included a sub-component on the improvement of the linkages
between primary lenders and supporting institutions. And a credit information sharing system.

         3. OPERATIONAL TRAINING

The component provided the operational staff of the banks with the professional skills necessary
to properly carry out all the tasks involved in the mortgage line of business, from marketing and
origination of loans to their servicing, recovery and funding. The component was critical in
providing the banks with the adequate expertise to develop the mortgage loan market.

         4. PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT

This component was centered on project management needs and was intended to ensure that the
project's Financial Management Information System (FMIS) complied with the Bank's
requirements for administration, reporting, and transaction recording. The PIU ensured that a
quarterly Financial Monitoring Report (FMR) was submitted based on reliable and timely
recorded information.

1.6 Revised Components

The project components as stated in the Loan Agreement remained unchanged.




                                                  4

1.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)
The design, scope and scale of the project were not modified during project implementation. The
changes listed below describe the amendments made regarding project effectiveness, project
closing date and changes in disbursement percentage.

· The effectiveness date was extended from January 27, 2003 to March 27, 2003 to allow for
    the completion of two of the main conditions for project effectiveness: i) the completion of
    the final version of the Project Implementation Manual and ii) the activation of the Financial
    Management system, including software and manual.
· On April 25, 2003, the Bank agreed to the borrower's request of an amendment to the Loan
    Agreement, to increase the disbursement percentage for foreign consultants from 62% to 76%.
· On August 8, 2005, a request for the extension of the closing date was submitted to the Bank
    by the Ministry of Finance. The request proposed to move the closing date from December 31,
    2005 to January 31, 2007 (13 months). The request was granted based on the three positive
    arguments listed below, all of which required an extension of approximately one year:

             1. The Government of Algeria had established an inter-ministerial committee to
                 deepen the dialogue, build consensus and help ensure that the reforms would be
                 implemented in a strategically sound manner. The committee needed additional
                 time in order to promote a well-structured and coordinated approach to the
                 adoption of the many recommendations for policy, legal and institutional reforms
                 in order to ensure the achievement of the project's performance indicators.
             2. Procurement problems led to unanticipated delays in the implementation of two
                 contracts related to the computerization of property titling systems.
             3. The selected candidate for the study on the profession of real estate appraisers
                 defaulted unexpectedly. The PIU had to negotiate a new contract with a different
                 company.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)

The project design and preparation took into account the lessons learned from previous Bank-
assisted projects in Algeria and other countries. During the design stage of the new project, the
team examined the way to resolve or avoid issues encountered in previous operations. One
example was the Cadastre project: one of the objectives of that project was to implement
property regulations procedures. Unfortunately the lack of participatory approach and poor
communication among the different ministries involved made the administrative process of the
project so slow that it froze all other procedures, particularly that of property regulations. In
response, a component of the new mortgage finance project was designed to add a demand driven
alternative procedure aiming at eliminating the backlog in recording valid property rights. With
hindsight however, as detailed below, the risk evaluation could have been improved by a more
realistic and candid evaluation of the Country's situation.




                                                 5

Past projects taken into consideration during the design stage

                   Sector Issue                           Past Projects used in the design

Shelter for low income groups                       Low Income Housing Project
Land registration                                   Cadastre Project
Earthquake damage repair                            Ain Temouchent
                                                    Emergency Earthquake Recovery Project
Banking Infrastructure                              Financial Systems Infrastructure Modernization
                                                    TA

Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The following experiences from previous projects and country involvement were reflected in the
project design:
    ·         A high level Government commitment to project objectives and establishment of an
              effective coordination mechanism is essential when more than one agency are
              involved. To ensure a successful implementation of the project, a steering committee
              was appointed and a Project Director nominated to determine the overall direction of
              the project.
    ·         Lack of capacity for implementation can lead to the failure of a project, no matter
              how well designed. In order to avoid unnecessary problems and delays due to lack of
              know-how or training, the project was implemented by an adequately staffed Project
              Management Unit (PMU) in the Directorate of the Treasury in the Ministry of
              Finance.
    ·         Proper primary market infrastructure and bank training are required before tapping
              capital markets. For this reason, a comprehensive training component was developed
              in agreement with the Government.

Quality at entry:
The project was and remains relevant and an essential element of the Algerian Government
strategy for the housing sector: to shift from the public provision of subsidized rental units to the
promotion of owner-occupied housing, financed through market based resources.
While the components of the project were designed with careful consideration to previous
projects and lessons learned, the PDO was too broad, making it very difficult to assess its
outcomes. The ICR team is aware that the project was quite complex and that the country
situation made things even more difficult, but insists on the importance of defining a measurable
PDO. Given the importance of the housing sector in the GoA's agenda, the definition of a
pertinent and monitorable PDO was even more essential.

Assessment of risks:
The assessment of risks as well as their mitigation was an important element of the project design.
The risks identified centered mainly on the lack of capacity and the possible lack of commitment
on the part of the different stakeholders. With hindsight, while the risks and their mitigation was
appropriately identified, the ICR team feels that more importance could have been placed on the
risk of non-cooperation between the different ministries involved. As noted by the QAG team that
evaluated project supervision, the overall risk rating was probably overly optimistic given the
country situation (a decade of civil war and the move from a socialist to a more liberal economy).
During implementation, some delays in reaching consensus were caused by numerous
disagreements between the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Housing as well as the lack of
responsiveness from the latter.




                                                   6

Adequacy of the participatory process: A participatory approach was adopted from the outset.
The Ministry of Finance, the banks, the magistrature, the Direction Générale du Domaine
National (DGDN), the Société de Garantie du Crédit immobilier (SGCI) and the Société
deRefinancement Hypothécaire (SRH) were actively involved in the project design. The training
curricula were designed with the participation of the beneficiaries. The project team encountered
some problems with the lack of responsiveness from the Ministry of Housing, but the continuous
dialogue with all other parties involved contributed without a doubt to the positive outcome of the
project.

2.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions
taken, as applicable)

The structure of the project and the participants' commitment ensured the efficiency of the
project implementation despite some organizational deficiencies. The Project management
Unit comprised skilled staff that ran the project very professionally. The project had a multiplicity
of components despite its relatively small size, but the implementation structure proved to be
adequately designed to handle this diversity. Each of the agencies involved in the implementation
demonstrated a high degree of commitment. SRH and SGCI, the two leading agencies, had been
working for the development of the mortgage market before and in parallel of the project. The
Ecole Superieure de Banques and the Ecole Superieure de la Magistrature fully adhered to the
training objectives and allocated the necessary resources to develop new programs designed to be
sustainable beyond the project life. The training programs initially designed were intended for the
people involved in each of the components. The initial project design did not include cross-
training, but during implementation it became clear that this component of the project needed to
be taken one step further to include cross-training Therefore the bank managers trained at the
Ecole Superieure de Banque benefited from a legal training at the Ecole Superieure de la
Magistrature in order to insure continuity and harmonization among those involved in mortgage
credit.

Two weaknesses had however some limitative effects: First, the steering Committee that would
have allowed different relevant government branches ­ Ministry of Finance, Central bank,
Ministry of Justice, Ministry of Housing- to be involved in the project in a coordinated way was
established very late in the implementation and did not play the pivotal role expected. Second, the
data needed for the quantitative monitoring framework that had been designed to follow the
impact of the project proved very difficult to obtain from the project beneficiaries and participants.
While this weakness did not directly slow down the implementation of the project, the ICR team
certainly feels that an important lesson can be learned from this experience. If one expects to
measure the impact of a project through quantitative data, it is important to ensure that the said
data can and will be made available during project implementation.

Two external factors created delays that limited the potential for the full outcome of the
project. First, the legislative process associated with the project, which included two sets of legal
reforms, was slow. Soon after the project became effective in 2003, the consultants had delivered
detailed propositions to rationalize and clarify the mortgage legal framework, including the
wording of new provisions. Unfortunately, at project closing, the legal changes had not yet been
presented to the Parliament. These changes addressed a large variety of legal sources but were
gathered in a unique draft bill, with the view of creating a synthetic mortgage law. This triggered
some hesitations from the ministries involved due to the larger political visibility of such a law
(as opposed to the option of a series of scattered amendments to existing laws).



                                                  7

The other piece of legislative reform related to the new procedure of title regularization, an
innovation of potentially high impact took nearly 2 years to be adopted, and was finally adopted
by the Parliament at the very end of the project.
Second, in the midst of its course, the project was affected by the financial failure of the mortgage
insurance company, SGCI. The company had invested all its capital with two banks that went
bankrupt, and was consequently unable to carry out its business. The project provided for an
improvement of SGCI's products and activity but resulting actions were delayed. At project
closing, important steps had nevertheless been taken, the financial and operational restructuring
plan of the SGCI was completed, adopted by its Board and had been presented to the staff and
partners (banks, insurance companies, Bank of Algeria and public entities in charge of housing).

The project proved to be flexible enough to adjust to unplanned circumstances and needs.
Another event of importance, beside SGCI's difficulties, was the passing of a "securitization" law
that gave SRH an eminent role in the new instrument. Thanks to the reduction of some budgeted
expenses and to the unallocated reserve, the project could fund a technical assistance to SGCI's
recovery and strategic reorientation, as well as a capacity building action aimed at helping SRH to
adjust to its new function in the financial landscape. Furthermore, the project could also fund a
study on the setting up of an organized appraiser industry, including the definition of technical
and ethical rules. This led to the creation of a new profession: real estate appraisers. The official
creation of the new profession: real estate appraisers, was not included in the initial design of the
project, however it soon became obvious that the development of the housing and mortgage
sector could not go on without an official profession submitted to set rules of regulations rather
than left to the individual appreciation and interpretation of the individuals acting as appraisers.
The exercise of this profession will be subjected to obtaining a professional license and to the
respect of the new technical and ethical code.

Finally, while training was intended for the people involved in each of the components, the initial
project design did not include cross-training. The importance of harmonizing the understanding
and implementation of the new laws and of mortgage finance in general led the Project team and
the borrower to carry the training part of the project beyond its initial design during
implementation.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

M&E design: The project was to be carried out by the PIU in accordance with a detailed Project
Implementation Plan (PIP) that included target dates of actions to be taken and monitorable
performance indicators. A very detailed final version of the PIP and the procurement plan were
delivered to the Bank on March 9, 2003.

M&E implementation and Utilization:
Significant efforts were undertaken during project preparation to ensure that detailed monitoring
and evaluation framework was developed (adopted in June 2003) in order to complement the PIP
(see annex 10 ­french only).
The Project Director submitted an M&E report every three months. These reports included the
following elements:
    1. Evaluation of the results of legal measures and reforms against M&E indicators.
    2. Evaluation of the results of the administrative measures and reforms adopted against the
        M&E indicators.
    3. Evaluation of the results on training and technical assistance for banks and other partner
        institutions against M&E indicators.
    4. Evaluation of the results on the follow-up of bank staff training against M&E indicators.


                                                  8

These reports also included the problems encountered during implementation and the measures
adopted to resolve them. In the opinion of all parties involved, the indicators and the regular
reports prepared by the PIU proved essential in managing the implementation risks of the project.
Unfortunately, as stated earlier, it is important to note that while the reports provided adequate
qualitative evaluations of the project, it proved difficult and at times impossible to collect from
the beneficiaries and participants the data and information needed for the quantitative monitoring
framework that had been designed to measure the impact of the project.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(Focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

From its onset, this project did not present any potential safeguard or fiduciary compliance issue.
The implementation process took place without any significant deviations or request for waivers
from the Bank safeguards and fiduciary policies and procedures.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(Including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

The different components of the project aimed at enabling a sound mortgage finance environment
through reforms and capacity building. As for most operations focusing on capacity building, one
cannot really speak of "post completion operations", the transition takes place as the training
occurs and the instruction received can be applied immediately. The learning and development
provided throughout this project were very successful and in the case of the legal and
administrative sector, the materials taught have become an integrant part of the curriculum for
student magistrates. The bank staff trained during project implementation indicated that they are
impatiently waiting for the housing market to improve in order to implement what they have
learned.
The sustainability of the progress made was further helped by the considerable legislative
improvements achieved in the area of Land titling and title regularization. Further progress will
be made with the adoption of the "Loi unique" on the provisions of governing property and
mortgage rights. A harmonized version of complicated and at times contradictory rules will
certainly have a positive effect on the development of the mortgage loans market.

Next phase/Follow-up operations:
Discussions are underway with the Government of Algeria regarding the possibilities of follow-
up operations focusing among other things on credit risk rating, and the development of the
housing market and market access to the low income groups.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

Satisfactory: The objective of the project was and is still extremely relevant to the country's
priorities. The intent was not to solve Algeria's housing crisis but to provide support in removing
obstacles to the development of the mortgage market. It was vital to first ensure that the legal,
administrative and banking structures were in place and the staff properly trained to respond to a



                                                  9

demand for mortgage loans that will no doubt continue to increase following the Government of
Algeria's transition from public social rental housing to an owner occupying system. Except for a
weak PDO, this complex project was properly designed and implemented. The focus put on
project supervision proved to be an asset demonstrating the Bank's value added.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(Including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 2)

Moderately Satisfactory: The project closed on January 2007, having mostly reached its intended
outcomes. However the ICR team is rating the achievement of the PDO as moderately
satisfactory due to the fact that the objective was poorly defined from the onset of the project and
therefore quite difficult to evaluate. While clearly progress has been made and the elements have
been put in place to strengthen the enabling environment of the mortgage loan market, some of
the key actions, particularly on the legislative side, took place so late that their effect cannot yet
be measured. The outcome indicators were clearly relevant, but were also tributary of factors
outside of the scope of the project (i.e. housing supply) therefore reaching the intended goal was
not necessarily linked to the successful implementation of the project. The number of housing
loans has increased from 14,000 to 22,900. A 65% increase that is quite positive given the fact
that the increase in the number of loans was clearly hindered by the lack of new housing offered
to the public. The PDO indicator related to the increase of new or renovated construction from
55,000 to 80,000 was reached and even surpassed (93,550) representing an improvement worth
noting, but the number of available housing is still in great shortage, giving the households with
higher revenues a considerable advantage. The number of loans refinanced by SRH has improved
considerably, from DZD 400 at the beginning of the project to DZD 11 billion at project close.
This is a considerable achievement for a company that had to undertake a complete
reorganization and set in place number of internal policies regarding auditing and risk
management.

3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)
No project cost recovery was expected; therefore no financial analysis was warranted.
Regarding cost effectiveness, the budget of this project was above average, but as noted by the
Quality of Supervision Assessment team, "it was effectively used to demonstrate to a graduating
borrower how the Bank can add value, since tackling housing finance required attention to
broader financial sector issues. The budget was used to transfer know-how and for components
added to broaden the project to the overall financial system of which mortgage finance was one
part".

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(Combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
Based on the explanations given in sections 3.1, 3.2 and 3.3, the overall outcome is rated
moderately satisfactory.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)

(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development



                                                 10

As such, the project does not have an immediately visible impact on poverty reduction, social
development or gender. However, the part played by the project in helping resolve Algeria's
housing crisis will certainly have a positive effect on social development, and in the longer run on
poverty reduction as mortgage loans become accessible to lower income population.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)
The entire scope of the project was the strengthening and capacity building in all institutions
involved with the mortgage finance market. The team estimates that it has been successful in
realizing the tasks it had set up to accomplish and rates this section satisfactory.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)
Other than the creation of the new profession of real estate appraisers and the harmonization of
the understanding and dealings of the mortgage finance business, positive outcomes described
above, the project did not have any unintended positive or negative outcomes/impact.

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)
N/A

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Negligible to Low
As described earlier in the document, the resolution of the housing crisis is a priority for the GoA.
The importance of the housing issue in maintaining and improving the Country's stability is
essential in keeping the risks to the development outcome to a low level.
        · The risk to development outcome cannot be rated against the technology and systems
             involved, but the training and technical assistance provided were designed around the
             latest best practice norms and procedure generally used and applied.
        · It is very difficult at this point to rate the risk to development outcome against
             financial and economic criteria. The "remaining useful life" of the project cannot be
             calculated therefore there is always a slight risk that catastrophic incidents would
             change the financial and/or economic landscape of a country, particularly when it
             relies so much on oil revenues, however in the case of this project, we would weigh
             this factor as negligible.
        · One can hardly imagine that this project could have anything but a positive social
             impact even if not immediate; therefore the team rates this factor as negligible.
        · The political and government ownership criteria are probably the most important to
             consider when weighing the risk to development outcome of this project. On the one
             hand, the remaining volatility of the region and the country's great reliance on oil
             revenue represent a risk that should not be ignored, on the other hand, the political
             will to improve the housing situation is so strong that in the short run at least, the
             team feels it very much outweighs the risk.
        · The other stake holders ownership criteria is evaluated as negligible as their
             involvement can only have a positive effect on the development outcomes.
        · This project did not have any environmental components that could affect the
             development outcome of the project one way or another.
        · The institutional support aspect is rated negligible as in this case the legal framework
             is adapting to conform to the requirements of the project.




                                                 11

         · It was one of the project's objectives to improve the structural environment and
             governance of the entities involved in the mortgage finance market. The team feels
             that the project was successful and therefore rates this criterium as negligible.
         · Natural disasters could affect the development of the mortgage finance market in an
             indirect way if an important number of houses were destroyed and the supply side of
             the housing market constrained even further. Recent earthquakes have in fact
             destroyed a number of properties, but the team feels that while this is a reality of the
             housing market, the risk it represents against the improvements made on the
             mortgage finance sector during project implementation is to be considered as very
             low.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Satisfactory
The ICR team rates the Bank performance in ensuring quality at Entry as satisfactory. The project
was initially designed as a complex adjustment loan including more than one WB department.
One year after the onset of the project design, the GoA decided to reduce the project to a
$5million TA. The scope of the project had to be completely revised which explains why the
preparation period took longer than usual. The project was complex but its design was realistic
and supported the Governments activities to improve the very difficult housing situation in
Algeria. Except for the poorly defined PDO (probably due in part to the change in the scope of
the project), the project team did well in preparing the project, taking into account criteria such
as technical, financial, institutional, environmental and social. An assessment of the different
entities involved in the land, properties and mortgage sectors was carried out in order to carefully
assess their needs.

Institutional and implementation arrangements, including M&E arrangements were clearly
defined and laid out. Project components were designed to reflect best international practices as
well as local Algerian realities. Stakeholders needs were identified and reflected during the
project design.

Particular attention was given to the fiduciary aspect of the project to ensure compliance with
every fiduciary requirements of the project. This led to the fourth component of the project: the
creation of the PIU and its consultant fully dedicated to these issues.

Institutional and implementation arrangements as well as M&E arrangements were clearly
defined and laid out. The project adopted an extensive participatory aproach; all stakeholders
were involved in the project preparation. The M&E implementation arrangements were quite
thorough as illustrated by the quality of the Project implementation plan and the implementation
monitoring documents developed by the implementing agencies (see annex 10). The team sent a
specialist consultant to help complete the M&E framework, and adjusted 3 output indicators in
the course of the supervision (during MTR).

The assessment of risks described in section 2 of this document was moderately satisfactory. The
risk element was rated as moderate in the PAD. While the assessment included risk factors and
lessons learned from previous similar operations in Algeria and Bank wide, the potential risk of



                                                 12

inter ministerial dissentions in a country still emerging from a long conflict was underestimated.
The QAG team that evaluated the project supervision found this risk rating to be "over
optimistic" given the country situation. The ICR team agrees with this evaluation.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Satisfactory
One of the main issues in implementing this project had to deal with the immediate capacity of
the implementing agency to deal with the project requirements in a difficult political and
economic environment. The project team and the stakeholders immediately recognized the
problem and, with the help of specialist consultants, worked together on resolving the issues. The
second issue was more complex as it dealt with internal disagreement and slow response within
the Algerian ministries and, in particular with the lack of responsiveness from the Ministry of
Housing and the many changes in the Ministry of Finance. The project team ensured that repeated
contacts and meetings took place in order to resolve some of the issues and keep at least some
level of communication between the parties involved. The ICR team believes that the pro-activity
of the team on the different problems arising played an important role in the ultimate outcome of
the project.

Supervision of Fiduciary and Safeguard Aspects: As evaluated by the QAG team, "the team was
quick in its responses and sent specialists on mission to resolve problems as soon as they surfaced,
for example on safeguard issues and the procurement of the consultant for land titling". FM and
procurement supervision missions took place at an adequate rate during implementation. The
final supervision mission included an FM and a procurement specialist who completed their final
evaluation of the project in December 2006. Regarding the legal, environment and social aspects
of the project, in an environment where transparency and distributional issues are difficult and
even explosive, the Bank team did well, building ownership, confidence and momentum with all
involved. However it is important to note that QAG rated this aspect of the supervision as
moderately satisfactory. The team evaluating the project supervision felt that there was a missed
opportunity when after the MTR, the project team did not raise the question whether, "once
greater efficiency was achieved, a subsequent issue would be to broaden the customer base
downward to include those of more modest income for whom access to market finance remains
an issue".

Adequacy of Supervision Inputs and Processes: The overall supervision budget of the project was
above average, but was justified by the lack of specialized staff in the Country office and the
great need to transfer know how which necessitated costly visits from consultants and HQ staff.
The relationship with the borrowers was good but, as stated above, the team might have benefited
from broadening its outreach to stakeholders beyond the government. Regarding management
input, the budget was on the high end, but justified and "effectively used to demonstrate to a
graduating borrower how the Bank can add value, since dealing with housing finance required
attention to broader financial sector issues."

Candor and Quality of Performance Reporting: The "satisfactory" rating of the ISRs appears a
bit optimistic, particularly during the first few years of the project implementation. However at
the time, the "moderately satisfactory" rating was not an option. While things were certainly not
fully satisfactory, they did not warrant an "unsatisfactory" rating. The project team compensated
this issue by being very forthcoming in describing candidly in the ISRs, aide memoire and letters
all issues as they arose, and flagging actual and potential problems for the government and the
Bank. This ensured management's attention to the issues even though the IP rating was positive.
While giving this overall segment of the evaluation a satisfactory rating, the QAG panel felt that


                                                  13

the section "Extent to which ratings for DO and IP reflect actual conditions" only deserved a MS,
due to the delays in getting the "Loi Unique" (legal framework for the housing market) adopted.
While this law is not an actual objective of the project but rather an "add on" decided by the
Government of Algeria, the panel felt that the overall sustainability of the entire project was
somewhat dependent on its adoption.
The role in ensuring adequate transition arrangements has already been described in the document
(ref. 3.1) and is considered satisfactory by the ICR team.




(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
In accordance with the QAG panel that evaluated the supervision of the project as satisfactory
and based on the performance during lending and supervision phases as described in section 5.1
above, the ICR team rates the overall bank performance as satisfactory.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

 The authorities have evidenced their commitment through a series of reforms and policy
changes, already implemented or underway, the adoption of the law on land titling, and the work
done to harmonize property laws to create the "loi unique". However the ICR team is rating the
Government's performance as moderately satisfactory for two reasons: First the delays caused by
a lack of communication and consensus among the different Ministries and second, the fact that
the "loi unique" was not adopted before project closing. This "loi unique" was not a DO of the
project's initial design but rather an initiative of the GoA who opted, rather than amending a
series of sometimes contradictory laws, to produce one law encompassing all elements related to
property laws in order to harmonize the information and simplify all procedures. The text was
written with the help of a Bank provided consultant, but the document still has to be put before
Parliament and the closing of the project removed a momentum to get things moving ahead.
While the ICR team is confident that this law will eventually be adopted, an opportunity was
missed for the Government to conclude an important step in the resolution of the present crisis.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Highly Satisfactory
PIU
The PIU set up under the Ministry of Finance performed in a highly satisfactory manner, ensuring
that progress was made at a steady pace and that all the covenants of the loan agreements were
respected. The PIU Director was committed to achieving the development objective as
demonstrated by the work accomplished and the results obtained by the entire PIU team. The
relationship and coordination between donors, partners and stakeholders has remained open
throughout the life of the project, an essential element of its positive outcome. The Direction
Générale du Domaine National was a top notch organizer of the sub-components it was entrusted
with (new, demand-based title regularization procedure), and prepared very precise
implementation documents in a fully integrated approach ­ draft law, draft regulation, IT
providers terms of reference, training programs. The TA and training components were designed
in complete collaboration with the stakeholders/beneficiaries in response to direct request and to
the capacity evaluation done during project evaluation.



                                                  14

The staffing of the PIU took a little longer than expected due to the search for the right
consultants, but once on board, the team members hired by the PIU director (1 FM/procurement
consultant and 1 Assistant), proved extremely competent and the implementation of the project
moved at a steady pace from then on. The FM/procurement consultant ensured due diligence on
all fiduciary requirements.
The PIU director proved very competent at preempting and/or resolving implementing issues,
through constant dialogue and monitoring (see report on annex 10).
As discussed previously, the transition arrangements were "built-in" the design of the project, in
the sense that the focus placed on TA and training were in response to a need determined during
evaluation, and that their benefit would be immediately integrated in the day to day activities of
the beneficiaries.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory
The ICR team evaluated the overall borrower performance as satisfactory. While it regrets the
missed opportunities to adopt the "Loi unique" and feels that some of the delays caused by inter
ministerial dissentions could have been avoided, the excellent performance of the PIU needs to be
underlined. The diligence and professionalism of its staff is to be commended for the successful
completion of a sensitive project in sometimes difficult conditions.

6. Lessons Learned (both project-specific and of wide general application)

         The lack of responsiveness from the Ministry of Housing slowed considerably the project
implementation. Teams designing and implementing a project should make sure that all
Ministries involved in the project are committed and actively participate in the implementation. It
is not enough to have the "buy in" of the main executing agency; discordance and lack of
cooperation can cause serious delays in the project implementation. (General application)

         The inter-ministerial steering committee put in place to ensure participation and
cooperation between the different ministries was only adopted at the end of the project and
therefore did not have the intended catalyzing effect intended. The creation of this committee had
been included in the design of the project to avoid the delays experienced from earlier projects
and caused by dissentions between ministries. While the risk was correctly identified and the
mitigating measure appeared appropriate, things did not work as intended. The important lesson
here is that during the risk evaluation of a project, the team should also anticipate the possible
break-down of the mitigating measure and revise them in order to make them as full-proof as
possible. (General application)

         The quantitative data required for the impact evaluation of the project was extremely
difficult to obtain. As a result, the impact evaluation can only be qualitative, therefore at times
subjective. When designing a project requiring quantitative data in its evaluation, it is important
to ensure that the data is or will be available. If not, it might be helpful to include a component
related to the collection of accurate quantitative data. There might be cases where data collection
would represent an issue too large to be resolved under a project component, it then becomes the
responsibility of the design team to find other ways to measure the impact of the project until the
accessibility of data improves. (General application)

         The supervision budget of the project was above average for the region. However it
proved justified and as described by the QAG team that evaluated the project supervision, "The
budget was used to transfer know how and for components added to broaden the project to



                                                 15

beyond the overall financial system of which housing was a part. The approach of using
supervision resources to demonstrate Bank value added makes sense for the larger cohort of
graduating countries as incentive to a transition to RTA." (QAG ­Quality of Supervision
Assessment QSA7). It is important for project teams to remember that while controlling spending
is very important, it is equally important to respond to the needs of the borrower and provide
know-how and assistance where and when required. (General application)

        The two agencies created to deal with credit insurance and refinancing in Algeria, SRH
(refinancing agency) and SGCI (credit insurer) were probably created too early for an industry
barely in its infancy. While the mortgage finance industry would have required these agencies at
some point, they were set up at a time when the rest of the elements were not in place (legal,
administrative, capacity). As a result, these two agencies were neither prepared nor able to
accomplish what they were set up to do and required a component of the present project to help
them in their restructuring. Project teams should keep in mind that if all the blocks are important
in the building of a structure, the sequence in which they are laid is also vital to ensure the
soundness of the construction. (Project specific/ General application)

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies
        All parties involved in the implementation of the project regretted that the bank's
information systems and their capacity to create appropriate credit risk scoring system remains
weak and that the scoring system adapted to Algerian specificities was not completed in the scope
of this project. On a positive note, the suggestion to develop a credit registry on households
(Centrale des risques des ménages) has been approved by the Central Bank of Algeria and the
preparation work for an RTA operation is already underway.

(b) Co-financiers
        N/A

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)

During the last supervision mission, the project team organized a round table that included all
partners and beneficiaries of the project. Outside of the concern described above, the participants
had no issues but rather expressed their satisfaction in the implementation of the project and in
the training and TA they received. "Now, everyone speaks the same language, we understand
each other better and save a lot of time" was a remark that was heard repeatedly through out the
session.

The private banks that participated in the round table expressed their satisfaction with the
outcomes of the project. The new law on land titling, the creation of the new profession of real
estate appraiser, the different trainings provided are all factors that will help them in their
evaluation of the risk involved in the mortgage loan sector and will have an important impact on
their development of mortgage loan products. Prior to the project, the risk factor on mortgage
loans caused by the absence of harmonized regulations and the difficulty to obtain land titles and
their "mortgageability" was extremely high, therefore the banks usually opted not to carry this
type of product. Thanks to the current improvements, private banks are now opening themselves
to this potentially very profitable market. This should encourage the development of a
competitive market on loan prices.



                                                16

17

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

                                 Appraisal Estimate    Actual/Latest
          Components                                                      Percentage of
                                    (USD millions)    Estimate (USD
                                                         millions)         Appraisal

LEGAL AND LAND TITLING
IMPROVEMENT                               1.60                1.50            94%

STRATEGIC ASSISTANCE                      1.25                1.10            88%
OPERATIONAL TRAINING                      2.50                2.25            90%
PROJECT MANAGEMENT                        0.09                0.12           130%
FRONT-END FEE                             0.06                0.06           100%


            Total Baseline Cost           5.50                5.10           93%

Physical Contingencies                    0.00                0.00            0.00

Price Contingencies                       0.00                0.00            0.00
             Total Project Costs          5.50                5.10           93%
Project Preparation Fund                  0.27                0.27           100%
Front-end fee IBRD                        0.00                0.00            .00
      Total Financing Required            5.77                5.37           93%




(b) Financing
                                                    Appraisal Actual/Latest

          Source of Funds              Type of      Estimate      Estimate  Percentage of
                                     Cofinancing      (USD         (USD       Appraisal
                                                    millions)     millions)
Borrower                                          2.70         2.70         100%
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development                                   5.77         5.37         93%




                                            18

Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Hierachy of               Key performance            Critical                   Results at project
Objectives                indicators                 Assumptions                closing
Output from each          Output Indicators:         (from Outputs to
component:                                           Objectives)
1.Acceleration of the     1.1 Legal measures        (a) Easing of the policy    1.1 The law was written
  production of clear         taken to harmonize        and procedural              and adopted
  property titles,            and clarify               constraint in public
  followed by                 provisions                land management
  permanently improved        governing property    (b) Commitment by all
  property rights             and mortgage rights.      the public entities
  systems.                1.2 (a) Number of             involved, in            1.2 Titles not recorded
  Reinforcement of the        recorded regular          particular local            yet as the law was
  efficiency of               titles in urban areas     Authorities, in the         adopted only in late
  mortgage liens,             (b) Share of public       acknowledgement             December 2006
  reduction of                land legally ready to     and approval of the
  uncertainties and           be sold.                  suggested legal and
  inconsistencies in the  1.3 (a) Decrease in the       administrative          1.3 The data is not yet
  interpretation and          overall delays and        recommendations              available to
  implementation of           costs of the              regarding registration       measure whether or
  legal provisions.           foreclosure process       of property                  not the delays have
  Improvement of asset        (b) Valuation in      (c) Mobilization of              decreased.
  valuation skill             Government                DGDN and
                              budgetary document        Conservation
                              of subsidies vested       Fonciere for a quick
                              in land prices.           production of titles in
                              Increase of sales of      anticipation of the
                              public land through       cadastre completion.
                              auction.              (d) The trained legal
                                                        professions will
                                                        effectively adjust
                                                        their behavior and
                                                        decisions after the
                                                        training
2.  Improved capacity     2.1 (a) All banks that    (a) The target Banks stay   2.1 (a) Three out of the
    of financial entities     received technical        mobilized regarding     6 banks targeted have
    to handle concepts        assistance                business                developed a procedural
    and to implement          demonstrate use of a      development             business plan for
    mortgage finance          business plan for     (b) Government policy       mortgage loan products.
    business plans            mortgage loan             maintains assistance
    while also                products.                 to new homeowners.
    developing                (b) All banks that                                (b) All targeted banks
    appropriate               receive advisory                                  (6) have developed and
    mortgage products.        services demonstrate                              demonstrate the use of
                              use of an adjustment                              an adjustment plan.
    Harmonization of          plan.
    the relationship
    between banks and     2.2 (a) New                SGCI and SRH will not      2.2
    support institutions.     collateralization      take strategic routes
                              arrangements for       incompatible with their
                              each institution       purpose of being service



                                                   19

                               (b) Number of AAP     providers to the lenders.
                               distributed through
                               bank channels.
                               Number of loans
                               insured by SGCI.
                               Creation of a new
                               credit information
                               structure either by
                               regulation or on a
                               private basis.


3. Providing bank staff   3.1 Number and             The dissemination          1580 bank staff were
with advanced             proportion of banks'       method of expertise is     trained out of the 2000
professional standards.   staff trained              efficient and sustainable. initially planned.




1. Legal and Land Titling Improvements
One of the major problems in the development of the mortgage market lied in difficulty to
interpret the different laws on property and mortgage rights and the quasi impossibility to obtain
land titling documents. Given the fact that the "loi unique" has not yet been adopted and that the
text on land titling was only adopted in December 2006, numerical data on the improvement of
the context is not yet available, but from many parties involved, the work done to streamline the
existing laws and avoid fragmentation (the loi unique), the new laws on land titling and title
regularization along with the training provided have made the situation a lot clearer for all
involved and will no doubt have a very positive effect on the mortgage market.

2. Strategic Assistance
The financial entities involved in mortgage finance and loan refinancing needed some assistance
to develop strategies and new mortgage finance products. This assistance was provided under the
project's second component. The targeted output was a harmonization of the relationship between
the banks, the legal system and the administration. It also aimed at improving the capacity of the
financial entities to handle and evaluate mortgage finance business plans. Today, half of the
banks have developed a procedural plan for mortgage loan products and all banks have developed
and demonstrated the use of an adjustment plan to include this new line of business. The outcome
is a much clearer vision of the market, an easier communication with all involved and a more
sustainable structure for the institutions that benefited from the technical assistance.

3. Operational training
The mortgage market was and still is underdeveloped in Algeria, therefore most bank staffs did
not receive any training in the areas of marketing, origination of loans, credit risk evaluation, etc.
The banks needed to be provided with the training required to develop the adequate expertise in
the mortgage loan market. Almost 1600 bank staff received the training out of the projected 2000.
The management of the different banks decided to wait for the market to further develop before
sending additional staff to be trained. One major consequence of the training provided is the fact
that all concerned now "speak the same language" which simplifies the communication between
all involved in providing mortgage services.




                                                  20

Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

N/A




                                        21

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes


(a) Task Team members

           Names                         Title                Unit     Responsibility/
                                                                         Specialty
Lending

Supervision/ICR
Zoubida Allaoua          Sector Manager                     MNSED

Didier Debals            Senior Financial Management
                         Specialist                         MNSED

Radia Benamghar-Lalouani Procurement Analyst                MNAPR
Catherine H. Burtonboy   Consultant                         MNSED
Olivier Hassler          Senior Housing Finance Specialist   FPDSN
Fatouma Toure Ibrahima
Wane                     Special Asst. to Vice President     SECVP



(b) Staff Time and Cost
                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
Stage of Project Cycle
                                    No. of staff weeks      USD Thousands (including
                                                            travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY99                                                                   2.18
  FY00                                       17                         85.27
  FY01                                       22                        123.52
  FY02                                       33                        240.07
  FY03                                                                   0.00
  FY04                                                                   0.00
  FY05                                                                   0.00
  FY06                                                                   0.00
  FY07                                                                   0.00
                        Total:               72                        451.04
Supervision/ICR
  FY99                                                                   0.00
  FY00                                                                   0.00
  FY01                                                                   0.00
  FY02                                                                   0.75
  FY03                                       27                        152.52
  FY04                                       11                         70.05
  FY05                                       26                        108.34
  FY06                                       26                        107.83
  FY07                                       11                         69.50
                        Total:             101                         508.99



                                          22

 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results
(if any)
During the last supervision mission, the project team organized a round table that included all
partners and beneficiaries of the project. Outside of the concern described above, the participants
had no issues but rather expressed their satisfaction in the implementation of the project and in
the training and TA they received. "Now, everyone speaks the same language, we understand
each other better and save a lot of time" was a remark that was heard repeatedly through out the
session.

The private banks that participated in the round table expressed their satisfaction with the
outcomes of the project. The new law on land titling, the creation of the new profession of real
estate appraiser, the different trainings provided are all factors that will help them in their
evaluation of the risk involved in the mortgage loan sector and will have an important impact on
their development of mortgage loan products. Prior to the project, the risk factor on mortgage
loans caused by the absence of harmonized regulations and the difficulty to obtain land titles and
their "mortgageability" was extremely high, therefore the banks usually opted not to carry this
type of product. Thanks to the current improvements, private banks are now opening themselves
to this potentially very profitable market. This should encourage the development of a
competitive market on loan prices.




                                                23

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
(if any)N/A




                                  24

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR




                                   25

Annex 8. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

N/A




                                    26

Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents
·    Project Appraisal Document
·    Conformed copy of the project Loan Agreement Dated October 29, 2002
·    Aide Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports, and PSRs and ISRs.
·    Project Progress reports provided by the borrower
·    Consultant Study reports financed under the project
·    Borrower's Report dated January 2007




                                        27

Annex 10. Monitoring and Evaluation framework (French)




                                     28

29

30

31

32

33

34

35

36

37

38

39

40

41

