Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
LOAN NUMBER 7131-AL 
 
Loan Agreement 
 
(Mortgage Finance Technical Assistance Project) 
 
between 
 
PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
Dated October 29, 2002 
 
Page  2
LOAN NUMBER 7131-AL 
 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated October 29, 2002 between PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC 
REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and  
 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia,
 of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
General Conditions; Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. The General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Fixed-Spread Loans of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Banque d'Algérie” means the Borrower’s central bank, operating 
pursuant to the Borrower’s Law No. 90-10, dated April 14, 1990, as the same may be 
amended from time to time; 
 
(b) 
“CF” means the Borrower’s 
Conservation Foncière
;
(c) 
“CNL” means 
Caisse Nationale du Logement
,
a
national housing agency; 
 
(d) “DGT” 
means 
Direction Générale du Trésor
 within the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Finance;  
 
Page  3
-
2
-
(e) 
“DGDN” means the Borrower’s
 Direction Générale du Domaine 
National
;
(f) 
“ESB” means 
Ecole Supérieure de Banque
,
a
school for higher banking 
studies; 
 
(g) 
FGCMPI” means 
Fonds de Garantie et de Caution Mutuelle de la 
Promotion Immobilière
,
a
real estate development guarantee fund; 
 
(h) 
“Financial Monitoring Report” or “FMR” means each report prepared in 
accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;  
 
(i) 
“Midterm Review” means the review to be carried out pursuant to Part C 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
 
(j) 
“PMU” means the Project Management Unit referred to in paragraph 1 
of Part B of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
 
(k) 
“Project Implementation Manual” means the manual referred to in Part A 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
 
(l) “SGCI” 
means
 Société de Garantie de Crédits Immobiliers
,
a
mortgage 
credit guarantee company; 
 
(m) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement; 
 
(n) “SRH” 
means 
Société de Refinancement Hypothécaire
,
a
mortgage 
refinance company;  
 
(o) 
“Steering Committee” means the  Steering Committee referred to in 
paragraph 1 of Part B of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and 
 
(p) 
The symbol “$”means the dollar of the United States of America. 
 
ARTICLE II 
 
The Loan 
 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to five million five 
hundred thousand dollars ($5,500,000), as such amount may be converted from time to 
time through a Currency Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of 
this Agreement. 
Page  4
-
3
-
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan and in respect of the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement. 
 
(b) 
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in the Banque d'Algérie on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2005, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.  
 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount 
equal to fifty five thousand Dollars ($55,000). The Borrower agrees that on or promptly 
after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and pay to itself the amount of such fee. 
 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the 
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to:            
(i) eighty five one-hundredths of one percent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which 
such charge commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of 
the General Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and       
(ii) seventy five one-hundredths of one percent (0.75%) per annum thereafter. 
 
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at 
the Variable Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on 
such amount in accordance with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears 
on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
 
Section 2.08. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall repay each Disbursed Amount of the Loan in semiannual installments 
payable on each April 15 and October 15, the first such installment to be payable on the 
tenth (10th) Interest Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for said Disbursed 
Amount and the last such installment to be payable on the twenty-fourth (24th) Interest 
Payment Date following the Maturity Fixing Date for said Disbursed Amount. Each 
installment except for the last one shall be equal to one-fifteenth (1/15th) of said 
Page  5
-
4
-
Disbursed Amount. The last installment shall be equal to the remaining outstanding 
amount of said Disbursed Amount. 
 
(b) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, if any 
one or more installments of principal of any Disbursed Amount would, pursuant to the 
provisions of such paragraph (a), be payable after April 15, 2018, the Borrower shall also 
pay on such date the aggregate amount of all such installments. 
 
(c) 
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of the amortization schedule for each 
Disbursed Amount promptly after the Maturity Fixing Date for said Disbursed Amount. 
 
(d) 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (a) through (c) of this 
Section, in the event of a Currency Conversion of all or any portion of a Disbursed 
Amount to an Approved Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency 
that shall be repayable on any Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion 
Period, shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying such amount in its currency of 
denomination immediately prior to said Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that 
reflects the amounts of principal in said Approved Currency payable by the Bank under 
the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so 
determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the exchange rate component 
of the Screen Rate. 
 
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management: 
 
(i) 
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the 
principal amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an 
Approved Currency; and 
 
(ii) 
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion 
of the principal amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a 
Fixed Rate, or vice versa. 
 
(b) 
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that 
is accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01(7) 
of the General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of 
Article IV of the General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower and the Bank hereby agree that unless otherwise notified by the Borrower 
in accordance with the provisions of the Conversion Guidelines, the interest rate basis 
applicable to the aggregate principal amount of the Loan withdrawn during each Interest 
Period shall be changed from the initial Variable Rate to a Fixed Rate for the full 
maturity of such amount in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
Page  6
-
5
-
ARTICLE III 
 
Execution of the Project 
 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and 
in conformity with appropriate financial, technical, administrative, mortgage finance, 
environmental and social practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement and the provisions of the Project Implementation Plan. 
 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
 
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to 
the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the 
Project. 
 
Page  7
-
6
-
(b)  
The Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on 
such statements, records and accounts and report of such audit, 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank 
shall have reasonably requested; and 
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c)  
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such expenditures; 
 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
 
(iii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during 
such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals. 
 
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a financial 
monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, which: 
Page  8
-
7
-
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Loan, and explains 
variances between the actual and planned uses of  such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual
 
and planned Project 
implementation; and 
 
(iii)  
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than forty five (45) 
days after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the 
period from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of 
such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later 
than forty five (45) days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such 
calendar quarter.  
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
 
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely that the Borrower has established a financial management 
system, satisfactory to the Bank, as referred to in Section 4.01 (a) of this Agreement, 
including, 
inter alia
,
the appointment of financial management experts in adequate 
number. 
 
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE VI 
 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
Section  6.02.  The  following  addresses  are  specified  for  the  purposes  of       
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
 
For the Borrower: 
 
Ministry of Finance 
Immeuble Maurétania 
Place de Pérou 
Algiers 16000 
People’s Democratic Republic 
of Algeria 
 
Cable address:   
 
Telex:    
 
Facsimile: 
 
FINPLAN 
 
  67073 
 
  (213) 
21-736440 
Algiers 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
 
Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address:   
 
Telex:    
 
Facsimile:  
 
INTBAFRAD    
 
248423 (MCI)    
(202) 477-6391 
Washington, D.C.  
 
64145 (MCI) 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Algiers, Algeria, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
PEOPLE’S DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF ALGERIA 
 
By /s/ Abdelhak Bedjaoui  
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR  
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
By /s/ Theodore Ahlers 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Middle East and North Africa 
Page  11
-
10
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
 
1.  
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the 
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category: 
 
Amount of the 
 
Loan Allocated 
% of 
 
(Expressed in 
Expenditures 
 Category
Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)      Goods                                          
600,000                     80%  
 
(2) 
Consultants’ 
4,600,000    
76% of local expen- 
 
services, 
-ditures for services 
 
training and  
 
of consultants 
 
study tours 
domiciled within the 
territory of the 
Borrower and  62% of 
foreign expenditures 
for services of other 
consultants 
 
(3) 
Fee 
 55,000    
Amounts due under  
Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement 
 
(4)      Unallocated 
245,000 
 
__________ 
 TOTAL 
 
5,500,000
2. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$550,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1) and (2) set forth in the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures before that 
date but after April 1, 2002. 
 
3. 
 The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the 
basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) services under contracts 
costing less than: (A) $100,000 equivalent each for consulting firms, and (B) $50,000 
equivalent each for individual consultants; (ii) goods under contracts costing less than 
Page  12
-
11
-
$200,000 equivalent each; and (iii) training and study tours, all under such terms and 
conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Page  13
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Description of the Project 
 
The objectives of the Project are to support the efforts being made by the 
Borrower to promote, in the housing sector, the enabling environment for the 
development of the mortgage loan market, including: (i) legal and administrative 
measures to improve property rights, increase mortgage lien efficiency and streamline the 
property titling and registration system; (ii) strategic assistance to financial institutions; 
and (iii) training of operational staff in mortgage lending.  
 
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives: 
 
Part A
:
Legal and Administrative Improvements
1. 
Consolidation and revision of the laws and regulations governing 
property  and mortgage rights, including, 
inter alia
,
the harmonization of the Civil Code 
and banking law provisions. 
 
2. 
Facilitating the issuance of property titles acceptable for mortgage 
lending institutions through a rigorous and transparent procedure, including: (a) the 
development of procedures for the regularization of titles of private owners, 
independently and in view of the generalization of the 
cadastre; 
and (b) computerization 
and issuance of 
livrets fonciers
.
3. 
Training of legal and paralegal staff in the new legal and regulatory 
provisions governing mortgages rights and procedures, and development of expertise in 
real estate appraisal within DGDN, to facilitate valuation of public land and to provide a 
better measure of the amount of State subsidies.  
 
Part B
:
Strategic Assistance
1. 
Provision of strategic training for top management officials of banks and 
other credit institutions.  
 
2. 
Provision of specific management advisory services to mortgage 
institutions to assist them in the development of mortgage finance. 
 
3. 
Improvement of legal and operational arrangements and relationships 
between lending institutions and supporting institutions, including SRH, SGCI, CNL and 
FGCMPI.  
 
Page  14
-
13
-
4. 
Designing a credit information sharing system, including the carrying out 
of an in-depth study of credit risks and implementation of a system capable of offering a 
proper basis for credit risk assessment in a sustainable manner. 
 
Part C
:
Operational Training
Improvement of professional skills of operational staff of banks engaged in 
mortgage finance business.  
 
Part D
:
Project Management
Support to the functioning of the Project Management Unit. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2005. 
Page  15
-
14
-
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Procurement 
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods 
Part A
:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank 
in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and      
January 1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines 
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
 
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more each. 
 
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.  
 
2. 
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 equivalent may, in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines, be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures, if available locally, or if not 
available locally, on the basis of international shopping procedures. 
 
Page  16
-
15
-
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of 
said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply with respect to: (i) each contract for goods estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $200,000 or more; (ii) each of the first three contract for goods estimated to 
cost less than $200,000 equivalent to be procured under national competitive bidding 
procedures; and (iii) each of the first three contract for goods estimated to cost less than 
$50,000 equivalent to be procured under shopping procedures. 
 
(b) 
With respect to the first two contracts for goods to be procured in 
accordance with the shopping procedures referred to in paragraph 2 of Part C above, the 
following procedures shall apply: 
 
(i) 
prior to the execution of any contract under shopping procedures, 
the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a report on the 
comparison and evaluation of quotations received; 
 
(ii) 
prior to the selection of a supply or execution of any contract 
procured under shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide 
to the Bank a copy of the specifications and the draft contract; 
and 
 
(iii) 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Page  17
-
16
-
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and 
revised in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section II of this Schedule. 
 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1. 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-
based selection of consultants. 
 
2. 
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
 
2. Individual 
Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
Page  18
-
17
-
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for 
its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 
to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in 
accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with 
the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
 
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply with respect to: (i) each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more; (ii) each contract for the employment of 
individual 
consultants 
estimated 
to 
cost 
the 
equivalent 
of 
$50,000 
or 
more;                   
(iii) amendments to any contract for the employment of a consulting firm raising the 
value of the contract to the equivalent of $100,000 or more; (iv) amendments to any 
contract for the employment of an individual consultant raising the value of the contract 
to the equivalent of $50,000 or more; (v) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank; and (vi) all sole source contracts. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of $200,000, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall apply. 
 
(c) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded 
only after the said approval shall have been given. 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines  
shall apply.  
Page  19
-
18
-
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Implementation Program 
A. General
1. 
The Borrower shall, for purposes of the Project, maintain a Project 
Implementation Manual in  form and substance  satisfactory to the Bank setting out 
details of all procedures, guidelines, timetables and criteria required for the Project,  
including the procedures for accounting, financial management and reporting, as well as 
the internal control mechanisms specific to the Project. 
 
2. 
 The Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Project 
Implementation Manual and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
not amend or waive any provision of the Project Implementation Manual if, in the 
opinion of the Bank, such amendment or waiver may materially and adversely affect the 
carrying out of the Project or the achievement of the objectives thereof. 
 
B. Project 
Implementation
1. 
The Borrower shall maintain, for the purposes of the Project, a Steering 
Committee and a  Project Management Unit each in a form and with functions staffing 
and resources satisfactory to the Bank. PMU shall have overall responsibility for Project 
implementation and shall act in accordance with the directives of the Steering Committee 
and the requirements of the Project Implementation Manual. The Steering Committee 
shall comprise the Project Director, a representative of  DGT and of Banque d’Algérie, as 
well as representatives of other institutions as necessary. 
 
2. 
PMU shall be headed by a Project Director with qualifications and experience 
satisfactory to the Bank. The Project Director shall coordinate all Project activities and 
maintain Project accounts with the assistance of a financial management specialist 
satisfactory to the Bank. The Project Director shall also be responsible for the preparation 
of annual Project financial statements and the quarterly FMRs to be submitted to the 
Bank.  
 
3. 
(a) The Borrower shall assign responsibility to: (i) SGCI for the general 
organization of activities under Part A of the Project; (ii) SRH for activities related to 
banks under Part B of the Project and, in collaboration with ESB, for activities under    
Part C of the Project. In addition SGCI and SRH shall assist with procurement under the 
Project and shall, in particular, be responsible for: (i) the advertisement of projects;        
(ii) the preparation of RFPs/bidding documents; (iii) evaluation of bidding proposals and 
bids; (iv) negotiating and signing of contracts; and (v) assurance of quality in the 
execution of their respective components of the Project. 
 
Page  20
-
19
-
(b) 
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, cause SGCI and 
SRH to be maintained each in a form and with functions staffing and resources 
satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
C. 
Monitoring and Review
The Borrower shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 6 to 
this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof; and 
 
(b)  
no later than March 31, 2004, carry out jointly with the Bank a midterm 
review of the progress made in carrying out the Project. The Midterm Review shall 
cover: (i)  an assessment of: (A) progress made in carrying out work programs prepared 
for the Project, (B) training provided under the Project, (C) procurement under the 
Project, (D) the extent to which actions described in the indicators set out in Schedule 6 
to this Agreement have been carried out, and (E) plans made or proposed for updating 
said indicators; and (ii) such other matters relating to the carrying out of the Project as the 
Borrower or the Bank shall reasonably request. 
Page  21
-
20
-
SCHEDULE 5 
 
Special Account 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
 
(a) 
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
 
(c) 
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent 
to $300,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to 
Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of 
$1,000,000. 
 
2. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule. 
 
3. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested. 
 
(b) 
(i) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
 
(ii) 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
Page  22
-
21
-
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by 
the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
 
4. 
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures. 
 
5. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
 
(a) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) 
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the 
records and accounts for the Special Account; 
 
(c) 
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention 
to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the 
Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or 
 
(d) 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, the Special Account, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. 
 
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized 
in making payments for eligible expenditures. 
 
Page  23
-
22
-
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the 
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, 
if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the 
case may be. 
 
(b) 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to 
the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions. 
Page  24
-
23
-
SCHEDULE 6 
 
Performance Indicators 
 
The performance indicators for the Project shall include the following, said 
indicators being subject to modifications by agreement between the Borrower and the 
Bank: 
 
A. Sector 
Indicators
1. 
Increase in private and public investment in urban residential real estate. 
 
2. 
Increase in economic growth of the construction sector. 
 
B. Outcome/Impact 
Indicators
1. 
Increased housing loans. 
 
2. 
Increased construction of new housing and renovation of existing housing . 
 
3. 
Increased loan refinancing on the secondary market. 
 
C. Output 
Indicators
1. 
(a) 
Legal measures taken to harmonize and clarify provisions governing 
property and mortgage rights. 
 
(b) 
Number of recorded regular titles in urban areas. 
 
(c) 
Decrease in the overall delays and costs of the foreclosure process;  
valuation by the Government budgetary documents of subsidies vested in land prices; and 
increase of sales of public land through auction. 
 
2. 
(a) 
All banks that received strategic assistance have developed a business 
plan for mortgage loan products; and all banks that receive strategic advisory services 
have developed an adjustment plan. 
 
(b) 
Increase of refinancing agreements, in the volume of up-front grants and 
guarantees. 
 
3. 
Improve the information dissemination mechanisms on private credit risk. 
 
4. 
Number and proportion of banks’ staff trained, in total and by local experts 
specifically.
Page  25
-
24
-
