Docuwent Of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Repowt N. 5767
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN TENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
CREDIT 684-PAK AND LOAN 1372-PAR
June 28, 1985
South Asia Regional Office
Tms doumet  s _  mlicu dlubulm xmd my be u_d by redpas only In The pesfomae of
tbdr  aiEW dut.. as coutee"  my net 0hew1s be Msdidel -ih   Wodi Bumkl



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN TENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
CREDIT 684-PAK AND WAN 1372-PAN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface               ...................................... w*..0 .......*......
Basic Data Sheet ........*.....*9........ . .........                     ii
Rigblights ...............................    , iV
I.   INTRODUCTION ......................................... o...*... ... *...  I
II.   PROJECT PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL          3..................   3
III.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION-AND COST           ....................   8
IV.   TRAFFIC AND OPERATIONS ............. .........      .. o        19
V.   FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE ........... .......................       24
VI.   INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE ... ........ o... ............. .     28
VII.   ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION ........................... o...         29
VIII.   BANK PERFORMANCE ................... .................          31
IX.   rONCLUSION  .a...................................  .......      32
ANNEXES
1.   Fifth Year Plan (197.6-1981) and  oadifications
Made to the Plan .....................          .             35
2.   Sumary of PR Performance on Covenants .... .....                39
3.   Actual and Expected Physical Completion ...............         44
4.   Modifications Made to the Telecommnication Sckeme ....          45
'.   Status of the Telecommunication and Related
Signalling Subproject ..    . .4-0-0. ...                    47
6.   Actual and Appraisal Estimates of Project Costs ....8..         49
7.   Estimated and Actual Disbursement Schedule  ..........          50
8.   Estimated and Actual Freight Traffic 1976/81 ..........         51
9.   Actual and Forecasts of Passenger Traffic 1976/81 .....         52
10.   Plan of Action:  Operating Indicators 1976181 .........         53
11.   Revenue and Expenditures Accounts 1976/82 .............         54
12.   Source and Application of Funds 1976/82 ...Z.........           55
13.   Balance Sheets 1976/82 o .............. o ....... a......       56
14.   Statement of Cost and Earnings Per Passenger-Km
for Each Class of Traffic 1981/83 ................ .         57
15.   Statement of PR's Earnings and Costs 1979/82 ...... ..         58
16.   Pakistan Railway's Former Organization Chart .........          59
17.   Pakistan Railway's Actual Organization Chart ..........         60
18.   Ex-Post Economic Rate of Return Calculation           ...       61
19.   Economic Rate of Return with Freight Given Priority ...         62
IXiT document bas a resticted distbution and may be used by recpients only in the performance of
thei oficile duties. Its contents may not oterwise be discsed wihout World 3ankc autbo   i



- i. -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN TENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
CREDIT 684-PAK AND LOAN 1372-PAK
PREFACE
This is a completion report for the Pakistan Tenth Railway Project
for which a Loan/Credit in the aSount of US$60 million was approved in May
1977. The LoanlCredit was closed on December 31, 1982, i.e., 6 months behind
the original closing date. The disbursements under the Credit were completed
in December 1980, and the final disbursement from the Loan was made in
March 1983, i.e., nine (9) months behld the appraisal estimates.
The Project Completion Report is based on Bank supervision reports,
transport sector memoranda, and data and information contained in the project
files and provided by the borrower during the appraisal of the Eleventh
Railway Project. A PCR mission was undertaken in May 1983 in connection with
the first supervision mission of the Eleventh Railway Project to obtain more
detailed information on the actual costs of the project. The PCR was written
by Ms. Sylla assisted by Messrs. Till-an and Sabeti.
In accordance with the revised procesuires for project performance audit
reporting, this Project Completion Report was read by the Operations Evaluation
Department COED), but the project was not audited by OED staff. A copy of the
draft report was sent to the Borrower for its comnents; however, no cOmments
were received.



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN TENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
CREDIT 684-PAK AND LOAN 1372-PAK
t
BASIC DATA SEEET
Appraisal
Key Project Data                                  Estimate          Actual
Total project cost (Rs Million)                     2,423          3,011.1
Overrun (Z)                                                           24.3
Loan amount (MSS Million)                           60.0              60.0
Disbursed                                                             60.0
Date physical components completed                30/06/81         30/12/83
Economic rate of return X                           24
Operating performance                                             not reached
Financial performance                                             zot reached
Institutional performance                                         adequate
Other Project-Data                            Original Plan          Actual
Goverment's application                                            12/74
Negotiations                                                       0318/77
Board approval                                                     02/22/77
Effectiveness                                   09/05/77           09/05/77
Closing date                                    30/06/82           30/12/82
Borrower executing agency                                            PR
Fiscal year of borrower                                            01107-30/06
No. of    No. of      man-     Date of
Mission Data       MonthlYear       Weeks      Persens    Weeks    Reports
Pre-Appraisal 1/    20/10/75         1.0         5         5.0      13/11/75
Appraisal            04/06/76        3.0         5        15.0      10/02/77
Sub-Total
1/ Preparation work was also carried during the supervision missions of
the Nin:h Railway Project.



- iff -
BASIC   A  S
No. of     No. of       Kan-      Date of
Mission rData         Month  'r         Weeks      Persons      Week3      Peports
Supervisio; T        24/04/78           2.0          3           6.0      23/05/78
Supervision II        07/09/78           2.0          2           &.0      02/10/78
Supervision II:       01/02/79           2.4          4           9.6      20/03/79
Supervision IV        24/08/79           3.7           3         11.1      01/10/75
Supervision V         30/04/80           1.2           1          2.4      12/06/8C
Supervision VI        26/08/80           2.0          4           U.0      31/10!80
Supervision VTI       15/02/81           0.2          2           '3.6     10/03/81
Supervision VIII      06/06/81           1.3          4           5.2      31/07/81
Supervision ix        01/11/81           2.8          5          14.0      12/01/82
Supervsion x          28/02/82           1.7          5            _5S     09/04/82
Superviion xi         11/06/82 1/         -           1                     1'
Supervision XII       12/02183 1/        0.6          1          .0.6       ,
:or 1
Coat.rC  :.xchange Rates
Year            Average Zxchange Rate
Appraisal Average                          1976                    9.80
Interventig years                         1977-1982               10.23
Completlon yenr                            1983                   12.66
1/ T4mited to che supervision of the TelecoJunicac4on Sub-Pre3ject, undertaken
by I?D Telecom Engineer in conjunction with other operations. A-Ide %emo4-es
vere left with borrower.



- iv -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN TENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
CREDIT 684-PAK AND LOAN 1372-PAK
HIGHLIGHTS
(i)       The objectives of the Tenth Railway Project were to assist in
upgrading the railway main facilities and equipment and to improve its oper-
ating performance and financial position thus ensuring that Pakistan Railways
(PR) can play its full economic role in the transport system. The Bank
Group's contribution to the project amounted to US$60 million and consisted
of a Bank loan (1372-PAR) of US$35 million and an IDA credit (684-PAK) of
US$25 million. The proceeds of the Loan/Credit were onlent to PR by the
Government of Pakistan (GOP), at 8.5% interest rate for a period of 20 years
including a grace period of 4-1/2 years. The US$60 million was to support a
two-year slice (1977/78 and 1978/79) of PR's Fifth Five Year Plan (1976/1981)
as well as the improvement of its telecommunication network included in the
plan. The Tenth Railway Project was appraised in June 1976, and the
Loan/Credit became effective on May 9, 1977.
(ii)      The components of the Project to be originally financed under the
Bank's Loan/Credit consisted of track rehabilitation, manufacture of pas-
senger coaches, conversion of freight wagons from four wheeler to bogie
wagons, marshalling yard equipment (4 diesel shunters and 6 wagon movers),
plant and machinery for Mogalpura and Rawalpindi workshops, diesel locomotive
spare parts, and telecommunications and related signalling equipment (para.
7.07). The project also included (a) staff training, (b) the needed tech-
nical assistance to study PR's locomotive requirements and to help improve
PR's accounting procedures, and (c) a plan of action to introduce operating
improvements (para. 7.07).
lii)      Starting FY1978, several problems developed resulting in modifica-
tions to the project scope, and restructuring of the Loan/Credit allocations
(para. 3.02). In 1978, the Bank decided, in agreement with PR, to drop the
procurement of the six (6) wagon movers from the project as it was found that
they were mostly needed for Karachi Port operations and not by PR (para.
3.03). Similarly, in FY1980, the conversion of 4-wheeler wagons into Bogie
Wagons was suspended since freight traffic had not increased in line with the
Bank's expectations. Because of difficulties experienced in carrying out the
track rehabilitation program, the provision set under the project for this
component was reduced. Similarly the provision set for the workshop improve-
ment program was enough to cover only 27% of the program due to cost overrun
(para. 3.17). Due to the multiple modifications made to the telecommunica-
tion and its related signalling scheme and resulting delay in procurement,
the foreign exchange requirement for this sub-project increased by about 107%
above the appraisal estimates (para. 3.23). On PR's and the GOP's request,
the Bank agreed to spend 53% of the total Loan/Credit amount on the telecom-
munication scheme by reallocating 88% of the provision set for contingencies



- v -
as well as 95% of all uncommitted funds from the track rehabilitation pro-
gram, the deletion of the wagon conversion component, and savings made under
the manufacture of passenger coaches, and the procurement of locomotive spare
parts. At the disbursement closing date (March 1983), an undisbursed balance
of US$0.52 million of the Loan/Credit was cancelled (para. 3.05).
(iv)      At the expected completion date (December 1983) of the project, its
total cost was 22% above the appraisal's estimates mainly due to price in-
creases (8.3%) and the increase in the physical components of the telecommu-
nication scheme (16%) (para. 3.38). The cost overruns were financed through
GOP's own resources and bilateral credits, which helped PR to procure the
remaining plant and machinery for workshops and to complete its track rehabi-
litation program (para. 3.42). Except for spare parts which were purchased
from original manufacturers of existing equipment, all the goods financed
under the Loan/Credit were procured through ICB.
(v)       Except for the telecommunication scheme (para. 3.07), which is
still ongoing, all the components financed under the project were completed
in December 1983, i.e., 2-1/2 years behind the original completion date.
Delays in project implementation were mainly due to (a) delays experienced in
the implementation of the telecommunication scheme (para. 3.14), (b) delays
in the delivery of Plan and Machinery for the improvement of workshops (para.
3.17) and spare parts for diesel locomotives (para. 3.18) and (c) difficul-
ties experienced in procuring wooden sleepers for the track rehabilitation
program (para. 3.19). As a result, during the project period, PR was not
able to implement the improvements in its internal information system, or
improve its maintenance facilities, and the availability of its locomotive
fleet.
(vi)      Because of the low availability of motive power, the priority still
given by GOP to passenger traffic over freight traffic, PR's own operational
and managerial inefficiency (para. 4.04) and the competition from National
Logistic Cell (NLC) trucking operations (para. 4.05), the railway freight
traffic, in terms of tons and ton-miles, failed to develop in line with tne
appraisal estimates (Annex 8), but the average lead was above the appraisal
estimates during the whole project period, which reflect rather the results
of the changes in traffic pattern than a deliberate policy on the part of PR
(para. 4.03). During the project period the passenger traffic (Annex 9) was
substantially above the appraisal estimates in terms of passenger-miles but
below the appraisal estimates in terms of passenger numbers due to the suc-
cessive fare increases which occurred in FY1977, FY1979 and FY1980. The
unreliability of the main line diesel locomotives and rail cars, added to
PR's own inefficiency and the Government's pressure to increase the number of
station stops for passenger trains, did not allow PR to achieve the opera-
tional performance expected under the Plan of Action (Annex 10).
(vii)     Despite the above increases in fares and rates (para. 4.08), the
financial objectives of the project were also not achieved mainly due to
GOP's reluctance to mee. the two main financial covenants by adjusting ade-
quately railway tariffs to fully compensate for inflationary cost increases,
and passenger fares to cover at least their variable costs (para. 5.03). Ir.
addition, PR still requires some assistance to improve the presentation of
its financial statements.



- vi -
(viii)    The economic beneftis of the project were negative for each year
and no rate of return can be calculated (para. 7.04). Had the appraisal
target for freight traffic been met and passenger services provided only with
residual capacity, the economic rate of return would have been about 30%
(para. 7.05).
(ix)      Although all the main objectives of the Tenth Railway Project have
not been fully achieved, the Bank was able, through its financing, (a) to in-
troduce some changes in the railways' institutional and organizational system
(para. 6.02), (b) to improve the coordination within the sector (para. 6.01),
and (c) to convince PR to carry out a depth review of its own maintenance
deficiencies. The training program and the costing study carried out under
the project were both satisfactorily completed (Dara. 6.05); however, PR
still requires some assistance to train staff in costing exercises since
those trained under the project have left the railway or beer. feassigned.
The Bank support is also still needed to convince the Goverrmenz to take
actions for the implementation of the key recommendations of the expert com-
mittee aimed at removing the unnecessary burdens on PR's finances (para. 5.06
and 5.07).
(x)       In 1982 under the Bank recommendations, PR's management and organi-
zation have been restructured and its operations placed under a single
authority (the General Manager) accountable to the Railway Board for all
aspects of day-to-day operations (para. 6.02). PR and its main competitor
_the National Logistics Cell (NLC)Y, are also now under the same Ministry and
steps are being taken to better coordinate their activities which should
improve in the future the volume of public freight traffic allocated to the
Railways. Most of PR's key needs revealed through its own maintenance study
have been the basis for selecting the main components of the Eleventh Railway
Project.



-1-
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN TENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
CREDIT 68&-PAK AN7D LOAN 1372-PAK
I. INTRODUCTION
Background
1.01    Pakistan has a population of about 83 mliSon and covers a land of
about 800,000 square kilometers. The development of the transport system and
traffic patterns in Pakistan have followed the long (1000 miles) South to
North axis of thce country extending from Karachi, the country's main port and
industrial center, to the populous and administrative centers of Lahore and
Rawalpindi/Islamabad. Since fairly long transport distances are involved for
many freight traffic flows, especially for import and export traffic,
Pakistan Railways (PR) should be in an advantageous position to carry such
traffic economically.
1.02    During the past five (5) years Pakistan's economy has significantly
improved. From FY1977 to F1Y981, GDP grew at an average rate of 6Z p.a.1/
reaching the level of USS30 billion, and a per capita income of USS300 at the
end of FY1980/81. This growth was aided by several factors including (a) an
increase in agricultural and industrial production of about 4.2% p.a. and
8.1% p.a. respectively, (b) a rapid growth in exports by 11' p.a. in real
terms, and Cc) the increase in workers' remittances from Middle East
countries. Besides, favourable developments such as the conclusion of an
Extended Fund Facilicy arrangement with the txM, a short-term debt reschedul-
ing arrangement with bilateral creditors of the Pakistan Consortium and
improved external aids iaflows, have all contributed to maintaining Balance
of Payments deficits under reasonable control and to improV4ng the economic
outlook.
1.03    Pakistan's transport system consists of the Pakistan Railways (PR),
the semi-public Pakistan International Alrlines, the National Shipping
Corporation (NSC), the recently denationalized Pan Zslamlc Steamship Company,
four provincially-owned bus companies, rwo governmenc-controlled gas dis-
tribution companies, numerous private road transporters, the National Logis-
tics Cell (NLC), the new Karachi-Multan Pipeline for petroleum products and
two major ports, Karachi and Qasim. Virtually all imports and exports of
the country pass through these two ports.
1.04    PR has been in existence (previously under different names) since
1861. It is government-owned and operated and constitures one of the largest
and most important public sector organizations in the country. For many
years it provided the main means of mechanized transport but because of PR's
inability to provide prompc and reliable service, an increasing propor:ton of
the country's rail su.table long distance tralfic is being diver:ed to road;
1/ Compared to au increase of 42 per aonum during the previous five (5)
yesrs (1972-76).



-2-
The objectives of the Tenth Railway Project were to reverse this trend by
rehabilitating the railways' facilities and equipment, and improving its
operational and financial performance, thus, allowing PR to carry a projected
traffic growth of 6X in terms of ton-miles and 2 .7% in terms of
passenger-miles.
1.05    Between 1952 to 1981 the Bank Group lent a total of US$460 million
to the transport sector with the objective of assisting to rehabilitate its
existing facilities, improve its operations and strengthen its institutions.
The Bank contributed to the financing of seven (7) 1/ railway projects and
the railway subsector benfited from 40.7% (US$187.2 million) of the Bank's
total assistance to the transport sector.
1.06    At the time of appraisal of the Tenth Railway Project (June 1976)
PR had already received six loans and credits amounting to US$127.2 million
with the same objectives of rehabilitating the railway infrastructure, and
improving of its planning capacities, accounting procedures, management and
operations. The first loan to PR (formerly Pakistan Western Railway) was
made in 1952 and the latest (621-PAR) in 1969. All the six loans/credits
were fully disbursed and the performance of the projects was satisfactory.
However under the Eighth and Ninth projects (496-PAK and 621-PAK) progress in
physical implementation was slow and during the projects' period (1965-1979)
PR experienced significant declines in its overall performance. Because of
political disturbances in the early 1970's and the severe flood damage in
1973 and in 1976, the Ninth Project (621-PAX) required nine years instead of
the estimated three years to be completed.
1.07    Besides upgrading Pakistan's transport sector, the main concerns of
the Bank during the implementation period of the Tenth Railway Project were
to (a) avoid over-ambitious and uneconomic investments through better
inter-agency coordination; and (b) introduce an appropriate pricing policy
thus reducing the recourse to cross subsidizat'on which has become common
within all the transport subsectors.
1.08    In this context, the Bank was able to convince PR and the Government
(a) to reduce the scope of PR's fifth five-year plan (1976-81) and the
project under review, and (b) to carry out a feasibility study of electrify-
ing the entire 920 km Kaneval-Karachi section before deciding upon the elec-
trification of the Khanewal-Samasata section, which from the Bank's point of
view could be uneconomic. During the project implementation period, the Bank
also stressed its concern about the uneconomic and unjustifiable expansion of
Government's trucking operations under NLC and the need of better coordina-
tion between NLC and PR. In an effort to improve the pricing policy, the
Tenth Railway Project also included a provision for a costing and tariff
study to determine the extent to which passenger traffic is being
cross-subsidized by f:eight traffic.
1/ The number of railway loans/credits exceeds the number of projects
financed in Pakistan because the loan/credits include the financing of
railway operations in the former East Pakistan.



-3-
1.09    Despite the Bank' s f iancial and technical assistance to upgrade the
railway system, most of the operational and financial targets set under the
Tenth Railway Project have not been achieved, and the project toolk 7-1/2
years to be completed instead of five (5) years.
II . PROJECT PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
2.01    In December 1974, the Government of Pakistan (GOP) and Pakistan
Railways (PR) sent the Bank a loan application requesting it to fliaace part
of the foreign exchange requirements for the first two years of its five year
investment plan covering the period F7l975 through FY1980.
2.02    Based on a targetted annual growth rate of 9% in GDP, the proposed
plan projected that PR's freight traffic would grow at an annual rate of 1'%
which would imply that PR would carry out about 9.4 billion ron-mile by
1980/81 (as compared to 5.7 billion ton-mile in 1975) and 9.9 passanger-miles;
and consequently included the acquisition of a large  mber of locomotives,
diesel rail cars and freight wagons, and the construction of a number of new
lines.
2.03    In lighr of PR's past trends and its implemeating capacity, the
Bank's preappraisal ms3iton found the proposed investment plan too optimistic
and suggested that during the first two years of its Plan, PR focus its
priorities on (a) the long overdue operational improvements; (b) the comple-
tiou of its ongoing high priority works, such as the completion of the Kocri
bridge, and the Pipri marshalling yard to eliminate physical bottlenecks on
the main Karachi-Rawalpindi line; (c) the rehabilitation and renueal of high
prior±tcy items (such as track renewals); (d) the removal of train speed
restrictions; and (e) the withdrawal of uneconomic services.
2.04    Under the Bank's recommendations, based on the preappraisal estimates
and proposals, PR and the Planning Commission (PC) agreed to revise downward
the freight traffic growth rate to a reasonable level of 6%, as well as the
size of the investment plan (Annex 1); and to draw up a new five (5) year
investment plan for the per±od FY1976 through FY198L.  However, at GOP's
request, the Bank accepted that it would reconsider ics assiscance for a
larger investment program if the traffic 'ncreased in lines with the PC's
projectiions.
2.05    Following a more detailed review the revised Plan was subdivided into
two groups. Grout One (list A) included priority items and schemes which in
the Bank's opinion constituted the minimum required invescment for the
rehabilitation of plant and equipment as -well as the principal sections of
the railway network, leading to operational improvement. Groun two (list B)
consisted of schemes vnich required further scrurcny In regards to their
technical, financial and economic Justifications and the appropriate timing
for their implementation.
2.06    nhe Bank proposed, in agreement with PR and GOP, that Group one (list
A) be considered as PR's investment plan for the period 1976-1981, and the
basis for determining the main components of th. proposed Tench Railway
Project. The Plan (list A) was estimated, on the basis of December 1975



-4-
prices, at about Rs 3,840 million (US$391) including a foreign exchange
component of Rs 1,504 million (US$153 million) (Annex 1, pages 3 & 4).
2.07    The proposed Tenth Railway Project was based on a two year time slice
(1977/78 - 1978/79 of the Plan (list A), except for the telecommunication
scheme which was expected to be completed by FY1980/81. The project was
estimated to cost about US$247 million (RU 2,432 million) vith a foreign
exchange component of US$109 million, and included the following components
(ref to Schedule 2 of the Credit Agreement):
(a) new line construction (including 5 miles on the Islamabad spur);
(b) the renewal and rehabilitation of 185 miles of track to remove
speed restrictions imposed on the main Karachi-Lahore Line;
(c) bridge works and civil engineering works;
(d) line capacity works including the completion of the second
railway bridge at Kotri and terminal facilities;
(e) improvement of the motive power and rolling stock including:
equipment for the Pipri marshalling yard (6 wagon movers and
4 special shunters), re-engineering of 20 locomotives, manu-
facture of 220 second and third class passenger coaches, and
conversion of 1600 four-wheeler wagons into 800 bogie-wagons;
(f) provision of plant and machinery for the Moghalpura workshop,
the Rawalpindi Diesel workshop and diesel spares workshop,
and other workshops, sheds and depots;
(g) research and development work on the change-over of the present
vacuum brake and screw coupler system to air brake and central
coupler;
(h) provision of spare parts for diesel electric locomotives
required during FY1977/78 through FY1979/80;
(i) telecommunication and related signalling scheme; and
(j) technical assistance to help PR to carry out a locomotive
requirement study and a costing/tariff study and a staff train-
ing program for its new telecommunication related scheme and
to improve train operations, locomotive naincenance, and its
accounting system.
2.08    As the additional traffic was expected to be absorbed mainly through
operational improvements, the project also included a zlan of action with the
primary objectives of:
(a) completing on time major ongoing works (Kocri bridge, Pipri
marshalling yard) and the track renewal program designed to
increase line capacity;



-5-
(b) isproving freight train operations through increased speeds if
up to 45 m.p.h., improved maintenance procedures, staff train-
ing and the introduction of more unit block trains for the
movement of coodities;
(c) consolidating passenger train services to release the needed
train paths and motive power for additional freight train runs;
(d) completing the telecoamunication and related signalling scheme
in a timely and efficient manner through adequate collaboration
with PTT department and staff training; and
(e) reducing non-professional staff through attrition.
2.09    As described above (paras 2.05 to 2.08), the objectives of the
Investment Plan, as vell as the project, (including the action plan) were
designed to complete importanr ongoing works and to undertake some new works
which were required to meet projected increases in demand for freight and
passenger services and to improve operational performance, thus reducing
operating costs.
2.10    Since PR had the necessary facilities and competence to carry out the
project, it was made responsible for the project implementation. However,
because of the new technology involved in the telecommunication and related
signalling scheme, PR would have to collaborate with Pakistan Telegraph and
Telephone (PTT), which owns and maintains PR's communication network. A Bank
telecoz=unication engineer participated in the appraisal mission to discuss
the extent and type of cooperation required between PTT and PR to facilitate
the implementation of the telecommunication scheme. For the preparation of
the detailed engineering of the Telecom Scheme, a provision (US$0.271 mil-
lion) for the consultancy fees was made under the Ninth Project (621-PkK).
2.11    During negotiations, (in Janar7 1977) although a general consensus
was reached on PR's basic investment plan (list A) and on the operational
targets set in the plan of action, the following issues were discussed and
the Bank had to compromise on a few acceptable exceptions:
(a) Construction of New Lines
2.12    As expected, the Bank was not able to persuade the Pakistan nego-
tlators to reconsider the GOP decision co proceed with the construction of
three new lilnes and one gauge conversion which the Bank considered
uneconomic.  The decision was irreversible as it had been made by the Prime
Minister himsel', in order to provide basic infrastructure to back-ward
regions.  The Bank noted chat che concerned regions would have benefited more
from these expenditures if these had been better planned for their high
priority needs. The Bank offered to provide technical assistance to study
the justification of these new lines as well as the needs of these regions,
but the delegations showed that they were working under strict instructiocs.
However, the delegation agreed to provide in a supplementary letter (side
letter No. 3) assurance that the execution of these new lines, estimated to
cost about USS50 million would not interfere with the implementation of ?R's
invesctent plan and that any additional new lines would be subject to proper
analysis and submitted to the 3ark for approval. GOP also agreed that PR



maintain separate accounts for these three new lines and would not be
expected to pay a return on these investments unless and until they showed a
cumulative profit.
Cb) Acquisition of Additional Diesel Locomotives
2.13    GOP agreed with Bank recommendations to postpone the acquisition of
additional diesel electric loqomotives until the need for such locomotives
was determined by an expert study to be provided by the Bank. However, the
procurement of 30 badly ne2ded shunters was agreed by the Bank on condition
that financing for all priority items included in the investment had been
secured (ref to side letter No. 3).
(c) Financing of Spare Parts
2.14    To secure a continuous supply of spare parts for a period of three
years (1978/1980), the Loan included a provision of US$5 million. GOP gave
assurances that it would provide PR with at least US$10 million in foreign
exchange to cover the remaining requirement.
Cd) Implementation of the Plan of Action
2.15    The Bank underlined the importance of the implementation of the
action plan for the successful realization of the Project, and again pointed
out the detrimental effects on PR's operating and financial results of both
the maintenance of uneconomic lines and services and the priority given to
passenger services over freight services.
2.16    Although the Government's negotiators agreed in principle to most of
the targets under the Plan of Action, they stated that the objective of
consolidating passenger train services would be difficult to achieve in view
of its political and social implications. However, PR indicated that in
November 1976, passenger trains had been substantially reduced from 90 to 74,
and that a study was under way to indicate to what extent further reduction
should be made in relation to the expected traffic increase during the plan.
It also pointed out that the Bank proposal to add more coaches to popular
trains, in order to reduce the requirement for dining cars and air condi-
tioned coaches, would be kept in view and gradually introduced.
2.17    For the improvement in freight train operations, PR indicated that
the speed of POL trains with bogie tanks had already been increased up to
40 miles per hour, and will be raised to 45 miles per hour as soon as
improvements to brake gear are carried out and that the speed of other goods
train would also be raised from 35 miles up to 40/45 miles per hour as soon
as conditions permit.  PR also mentioned that block trains were already used
for POL and for some other ma4or commodities (wheat, fertilizer) and that
efforts would be made to gradually extend the system to other commodiites.
2.18.   However, the delegations restated that mileages per day per locomo-
tive would improve only when the sections Khaneval-Samasata and
Lahore-Rawalpindi are put on electric traction. The Bank agreed to review
PR's proposals regarding these schemes when additional economic and technical
justifications are provided.



(e) Increase in Fares and Rates
2.19    During negotiations, the Bank did not propose any general freight
race increase, as substantial increases had already been made in the past.
The Bank and GOP reached agreement, however, that with the completion of the
costing study, as indicated in the covenants (Annex 2), the rates and fares
structure would be modified to reflect costs, and the required upward adjust-
ments in fares and rates would be made so that by FY1980 revenues from each
service would cover at least its variable costs.
2.20    Hovever, as passenger fares had declined significantly in real terms
during several years and in forthcoming years, a shortfall in meeting the
above financial targets could be expected, an increase of 202 in third class
passenger fares 1/ was set as a condition of loan/credit effectiveness. The
Pakistani delegat±on indicated that in view of the prevailing economic and
political climate (an election was forthcoming), an increase in passenger
fares could mot be made immediately. But assurance recorded in a supplemen-
tal letter (side letter No. 2) was provided by them to implement the proposed
fare increase by July 1, 1977, i.e., six months after negotiations. Accord-
ingly, in July 1977, PR's fares were increased by 20:.
2.21    At the end of negotiations, the components of the Plan and the
project as described respectively in Annex I and para 2.07 to 2.08 were
agreed upon. Out of the foreign exchange component of US$109 million of the
proposed project, the Bank Group agreed to provide US$60 million co GOP. The
Bank loan/credit in the amount of US$60 million was designated to cover the
foreign exchange requirement of all the items included in the project, except
for new line construction, bridge works and civil engineering works,
marshalling yard, line capacity works and terminal facilities, re-eng±ning of
diesel locomatives and change-over to airbrake and central coupler. It was
also agreed that the portion of the loan/credit used for investment in capi-
tal additions would be added to ?R's capital-at-charge and would not be
subject to amortization. The GOP agreed co secure from its own resources or
bilateral sources che remaining foreign exchange requirement of US$49 million
as well as a substantial portion of local costs since PR would not be able to
generate suf!icient funds to finance its investments.
2.22    As various works included in the project were closely inter-related,
the expected economic rate of return of 24% to be generaced from the project
was linked to the timely implementation of each physical component -f che
project, and the plan of action with a particular emphasis on the improve-
ments in freight train operations which was expected to slow down the diver-
sion of rail tRaff4c co the road transport system.
Covenants
2.23    Since PR had failed ro meet ear=ings covenants in :he past (under
Loan 621-?A7.) and drastic changes in the near fucure could not be expected in
this area, the mission requested that at least specific measures should be
set:
1/ The third class passengers represent about 80% of ?R's passenger traffic.



-8-
(a) to help achieve the operational targets included in the plan
of action;
(b) to introduce improvements in PR's accounting methods and pre-
sentation of its accounts so that clearer financial information
could be drawn from them; and
{c) to bring the GOP to increase tariff progressively to improve
PR's financial position.
2.24    Major undertakings as set out in the Credit Agreement are shown in
Annex 2.
2.25    Although PR was not able to comply with the timing set in covenants,
appreciable efforts were made to comply with most of them except for those
designated to improve PR's financial position and the presentation of its
accounts.
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND COST
Project Start-Up
3.01     As expected in the SAR, the Tenth Railway Project became effective
on May 9, 1977. All consultants were appointed on time except for those for
the detailed engineering study of the Telecommunication Scheme as PR was
reluctant to select the originally proposed consultants on an individual
contract basis. By December 1977 procurements were initiated for all project
components except for the Telecommunication Schemes for which tenders were
issued only in August 1979. Disbursement started at a later date than
anticipated and lagged far behind the appraisal estimates during the entire
implementation period. This was due mainly to delays experienced in the
procurement of the telecommunication equipment and difficulties in delivering
wooden sleepers for the track renewal component, and in procuring spare parts
for diesel locomotives.
Proiect Modification and Reallocation of the Loan/Credit Proceeds
(a) Conversion of &-Wheeler Wagons into Bogie-Wagons
3.02    From October 1977 to May 1978, PR converted eight 4-wheeler wagons
into four prototype bogie tank wagons which were placed into service and
successfully tested. However, because of the stagnation of the freight
traffic and the commissioning of the Karachi Xultan Pipeline in 1981 which
was expected to result in a progressive loss of POL traffic, the need for
tank wagons and other similar bogie equipment diminished.  As a result, in
FY1980, Bank suggested, in agreement with ?R, suspension of the component
"conversion of 4-wheeler wagons into bogie wagons" and the diversion of the
funds to the telecommunication and related signalling component.



-.9-
(b) Procurement of the Six Wagon Movers
3.03    These wagons were mostly needed by Karachi Port Trust (KPT) and not
by PR.  But since upto 1978 KPT had still not agreed on the use of these
vehicles, the Bank suggested in agreement with PR, to drop this component
fros the project, and to reallocate the available funds to the procurement of
the four special diesel shunters for Pipri Yard which were experieuing a cost
overrun.
(c) Change Over to Airbrake and Central Couoler
3.04    As indicated in the side letter no. 5, PR was to increase freight
train speed from 35 to 40 mph by December 1978 and from 40 to 45 mph by
December 1980. In July 1977, PR tentatively inrroduced a 40 mph speed for
three through freight trains (one 4-wheeler wagon train and two bogle
trains). Various data collected showed that because of inadequate braking
power on the existing wagon fleet, the target of 40/45 mph could not easily
be achieved. Therefore, the Bank agreed to PR's request to replace "he
project item "change of the vacuum brake and screw coupler to airbrake and
central coupler" with an item "improvements of the existing vacuum brake
system and the present screw couplers" which were urgently needed; this was
conditional on PR preparing a program of actions aiming at I.proving its
existing vacuum brakes and ultimately changing to airbrakes.
(d) Reallocation of Funds
3.05    Except for (a) the provision for the six wagon movers which was
reallocated for the procuremect of the four diesel shunters for the Pipri
Marshalling Yard, (b) US$1.0 million drawn from the contingencies to increase
the provisions for the same 4 diesel shunters and for the plant and machinery
for Moghalpura and Rawalpindi workshops, and (c) the undisbursed balance of
US$0.52 million under the Loan/Credit, all the remaining uncom-icted funds of
USS18.2 million were reallocated to the telecommunication component, at the
borrower's request, to meet the increase in its foreign exchange requirement.
Consequently, the provision set for the telecommunication scheme under the
project was raised from USS13.8 million to US$32.0 million, i.e., by 132%
(para 3.42).  The USS18.1 million consisted of contIngencies (US$7.5 million)
and uncommitted funds from (1) the crack rehabilitation component (USS5.7
million), (ii) the deletion of the wagon conversion component from the
project (USS3.2 mlllion), (iii) savings under the procurement of Plant and
Machinery for the manufacturing of passenger coaches (USSI.3 million), and
(iv) from spare parts component (US$0.5 million). The table below shows the
original (:p;zaisal estimates) and che actual allocation of Funds between the
prc. jee ' s components.



-10-
Reduction or
Increase Over
Original     Actual           Original Allo-
Project Components                All..cation   Allocation       cation
(Million)    (Million)        (Million)
-  Track Rehabilitation                13.90         8.15           -  5.75
- Motive Power & Rolling Stock
a) Marhsalling Equipment                2.10         2.63           +  0.53
b) Passenger Coaches                    8.80         7.53           -  1.27
c) Conversion of 4 wheeler
wagons into bogies                 3.20        dropped         -  3.20
- Telecommunication and Signal-
ling Scheme                       13.80       32.03            +  18.23
-  Plant, Machinery for Workshops       3.70         4.19           +   0.49
- Technical Assistance and Staff
Training                           1.00        0.54            -   0.46
-  Spare Parts                          5.00         4.41            -   0.59
-  Contingencies                        8.50          -
-  Undisbursed Balance                    -          0.52
Total        60.00        60.00
Implementation Schedule
3.06    At the original expected completion date (June 30, 1981) all the
components financed under the Bank's Loan/Credit were still ongoing except
for the motive power and rolling stock component which experienced only minor
delays in their implementation. Due to inadequate preparation and follow-up
of the procurement process, most of the project's components suffered one to
three years delay in their implementation.
3.07    The telcommunication sub-project, for example, which is already
behind its completion schedule by 3 years is still not yet completed. This
resulted mainly from (a) the delay in hiring the consultants, (b) the multi-
ple changes in the sub-project's scope following the results of the engineer-
ing study, (c) Lhe lack of consensus and collaboration between PR and ?TT
during the preparation of the sub-project, and (d) the last moment delays
and difficulties experienced in the shipxaRnt of coaxial cables and microwave
equipment. As a result, the original clos:'ng date of the Loan/Credit was
extended by 6 months (from June 1982 to Dec. 1982) to allow the maximum
utilization of the funds.
3.08    Because of the difficulties occured in procuring wooden sleepers and
spare parts and the significant delay experienced in the deli ery and erec-
tion of parts and machinery for workshops the completion of the track
rehabilitation program was delayed by 3 years and PR received its spare parts
and workshop machinery with 3-1/2 years delay.
3.09    The implementation of the training program was also delayed by onetl)
year because of the necessity to revise downward the training program, to
allow the selection of host institutions and to get the GOP to raise the
subsistance allowance of the railway trainees to an appropriate level. Under
the telecotmnunication sub-project, seven (7) officers still remain to be
trained and PR is still awaiting their training program from the contractor.



-ll-
3.lO    In regards to the implementation of the PLan of Action, the comple-
tion of the Pipri Marshalling Yard (April 1980) was delayed by 16 months due
to difficulties in the procurement of wooden sleepers.  This delay could have
been further extended, if PR had not decided to use concrete sleepers in the
departure yard. The Kotri Bridge also experienced two years delay in its
completlon schedule due to the 1976 flooding effects on the construction of
piers in the river, the need to change, in 1978, the type of foundati-n of
the deep water piers, and the shortage of funds to procure special equipment
and material for larger diameter bore piles. The timely completion of works
on the Pipri F-arshalling Yard and Kotri Bridge was one of the critical
elements for a successful implemuntation of PR's operational improvement
measures.
3.11    In 1979, PR was able to improve the maintenance of its braking equip-
ment and to increase the speed of freight trains of 4-vheelers and mixed
stock to 40 mph. However the speed trial up to 45 mph on 4-wheeler fieight
trains which was expected to be implemented by December 1980, still remains
in an experimental phase as further improvements in the existing braking
system are still required.
3.12    As an retrospecive analysis, most of the physical implementation
schedules set in the project appeared optimistic in regards to PR's slow
decision making process in procurement matters and the experience drawn from
the six previous railway projects. The delays and shortfall experienced in
the implementation of the crucial components of the project (i.e., Telecom-
munIcatioa Scheme, Pipri Yard, Kotr± Bridge, shortfall ia track renewal
prosram and improvement of its workshops (paras 3.19 and 3.17) preveuted PR
!rom improving its line capacity and t'- draw the full operational benefits
expected under this project in the time set for ic.
Reporting
3.13    As agreed during appraisal, PR has made a sustained effort to provide
the Bank with a cimely quarterly progress report on ics traffic, operations
and ;hysical execution of the project. The quality of the reports were
sactsfactory and the Last supervision mission congratulated PR for the good
work doue.
Procurement and ?hvsical imnLementation
3.1.4    Apart from difficulties experienced bv PR in the procuremenc of (a)
wooden sleepers and rail clips due to defaulted suppl'ies from contractors,
leading to cancellations of contracts (para 3.19); (b) the usual constraints
in spare parts procurement (para 3.18); and tc) the di4ficultces exrerienced
by the celecocmunication coat=ac:or in sending the coaxial cables and zest
equipment, no partIcular procurement matter arose during project implementa-
tion, as PR 1s already well coaversant with the 3ank's procurement guideli=e.
Except for spare parts for diesel locomotives, all items financed under the
Loan/Credit were procured through IC3, which enabled PR to purchase a: very
coMpetitive prices. At the actual physical complection date of the project,
expected in December 1983, only bridges and cIvIl  oriks, the Karachi pas-
senger terminal, and the installation and co-=pssioning of teleco-unicarion



-12-
network were not completed. Bridges and civil works and the Karachi pas-
senger terminal were not included among the items financed under the Bank
Loan/Credit.
A. Marshalling Yard Equipment
3.15    In December 1977, PR procured four 1000 H.P. diesel shunters for the
Pipri Marshalling Yard at a cost amounting to US$2.7 million. Among the
three alternative options of engines (caterpillar, GIX Detroit and ALco 251)
offered by the supplier, ALco 251 engine was chosen in order to maintain a
certain standardization in the present fleet. The amount originally allo-
cated for this component was US$1.6 million. On PR's request the Bank agreed
to reallocate to this component the provision of USS0.5 million originally
set for the procurement of six wagon movers and to draw US$0.6 million from
the project contingencies.
3. Materials for Manufacturing 220 Second/Third Class Passenger Coaches
3.16    PR manufactured the 600 passenger coaches as targeted in its five
year investment plan. The Loan/Credit included financing for the manufacture
of only 220 Second/Third class passenger coaches with a seating capacity of
88 each. PR obtained from U.K. and West Germany financing for procuring
material for the remaining 380 coaches.
C. Plant and Machinery for :Jorkshops
3.17    Although an additional amount of US$0.5 million (drawn from contin-
gencies) was added to the original provision of USS3.7 million for the
procurement of plant and machinery to improve the Moghalpura workshops, the
Rawalpindi diesel workshop and its diesel spares workshop, only 27% (62 nos.)
of the total plant and machinery (229 nos.) included in the project was
procured with Bank Group financing due to pricelincreases. As the Bank had
already agreed to divert all ionallocated funds and unused funds under the
other categories to the telecommunication component, most of the remaining
workshop machinery was procured under West German financing.
D. Snare Parts
3.18    In the project USS5 million -was included to alleviate the chronic
shortage of spare parts for diesel locomotives. Most of the spares were
purchased from established spare part suppliers or from the original manufac-
turers. Recognizing the acute necessity of a continuous supply of spare
parts, GOP provided PR with additional total foreign exchange of USS13 mil-
lion which was above the USS10 million agreed during negotiations. However,
the result was disappointing, as the expected improvement in the availability
of locomotives did not materialize, mainly due to delays and difficulties
experienced by PR in processing spare parts procurements. This is the result
of (a) the GOP's eratic allocation of foreign exchange; (b) the increase ia
size, age and variety of PR's locomotive .leet; (c) the slowness of Banking
procedures for the processing of financial documents in both Pakistan and the
supplying countries; and (d) the lack of appropriate follow-up at the manage-
aent level. During supervision missions, these deficiencies were discussed
several times with the mechanical and procurement department officers, and PR
agreed to Bank suggestions to initiate the necessary actions to remove these



-13-
bottlenecks and improve the organization of its inventories stores. Under
the Bank's recomendations, a senior officer was sent abroad to visit PR's
major suppliers in order to improve PR's purchasing function. Hovever, there
is still room for improvement to ensure PR of an adequate supply of spares
and the Bank is aware of this requirement. Under the Eleventh Railway
Project, 37% (US$18.5 milliou) of the total US$50 million Bank Loan will be
used to build up a unit exchange maintenance system including a pool of spare
parts; and during negotiations agreements were reached with GOP and PR aiming
at removing the institutional and financial obstacles (as mentioned above) to
improve spare part procurements.
E. Track Renewal Program
3.19    By mid-1983 PR achieved its complete track renewal program of 450
miles (400 miles on the Karachi Lahore section and 50 miles on the
Lalamusa-Peshawar section) as targeted in its fifth five-year plan (1976-81),
leading to the removal of speed restriction on 110 miles against a target of
140 miles on the Karachi Lahore Section. By the project original completion
date, PR had completed 121 miles (70%) of the targetted 185 miles under the
project. The Bank financed only rails for 110 ziles against a target of
financing complete track renewal material for 128 miles (see para 3.05 for
reallocation of funds data). The shortfall in the project track rehabilita-
tion program was due to the shortage of sleepers as PR has been repeatedly
unsuccesful in procuring wooden sleepers 1/ and contractors have been
defaulting in supplying elastic rail clips. Consequently, the track renewal
program under the project was curtailed and the unused fund of USS5.7 willion
has been reallocated to the telecommunicacion sub-component. Under the
project, the Bank contributed also to the financing of four (4) concrete
sleeper factories, all of which are now commissioned. Although the supply of
concrete sleepers will increase, wooden sleepers will still have to be
imported for specific purposes (such as for points, crossings and bridges).
F.   elecom=unication and Related Signalling Network
3.20    As the telecommunication and related signalling scheme represented
the main component of the Tenth Railway Project, controversies arising from
the definition of its scope and delays experienced in the procurement of its
components have been one of the main issues of the project.
3.21    The detailed engineering study of the telecommunication's sub-project
was financed under Loan 621-PAK, (ITSS0.271 million) and completed in June
1978.  In July 1978, substantial changes were made to the original scheme
developed dur4ng appraisal as a result of the detailed engineering study,
changes suggested by PR and modifications in the frequency allocaction made by
?T. and che Pakistan Wireless 3oard Secrecariat 2/. (.Annex 4)
1/ The latest supplier (Brazil) was unable to provide the type of sleepers
contracted for and consequently offered an unacceptable subscitute.
21 Reference: Mr. Eolcer's memo dated February 1, 1979.



-14-
3.22    All additional items proposed by PR that were not included in the
original network, such as the 450 additional hand-held VHF sets in guard
break vans, a telegraph (Morse Omnibus), HF radio equipment, were considered,
under the Bank's suggestions, A.s optional items in the tender documents at
PR's own cost. Also, as a result of all modifications, the consultants had
to perform additional work for about two-man months to prepare an entirely
new engineering study to verify the locations of the new microwave sites, to
develop a frequency plan and review the tower requirements.
3.23    In August 1979, international tenders were issued on a turn-key basis
and the bids were opened in December 1979. The bid evaluation was completed
in April 1980, showing a new cost estimate of US$72.7 million (including a
foreign exchange component of USS37.7 million), i.e., 93% higher than the
appraisal estimates (at 1975 prices) excluding contingencies. On May 26,
1980, the bid evaluation was approved by the Bank and the GOP. On May 30,
1980, the contract was awarded to Kentron-Pakistan (a subsidiary of
Kentron-USA).
3.24    Following the completion of the detailed route survey in April 1981,
a revised list of goods and services were agreed upon with the contractor as
the sub-proJect cost had gone up to US$79 million 1/. In order to maintain
the cost of the sub-project at the revised PC-1 approved level (USS72.7
million), PR decided to delete the data network (US$1.1 million) ,2/ as well
as a number of optional items 3/ whLch could not be procurei locaily as
expected during appraisal. Despite these efforts to maintain the cost of the
sub-project at the revised PC-1 approved level, the final actual cost of the
sub-project in December 1983 reached US$80.6 millicn showing an excess of
US$7.9 million (11%) above the revised PC-1 ,evel and USS43.0 million (114%)
over the appraisal estimates (excluding contingencies).
3.25    At the expected completion date (December 1983) of the whole prolect,
though almost 95% of the materia'l procured under the loan/credit were effec-
tively received, works in the different phases of this subprolect were cor-
nleted only at the level of 70% to 90%. However, since October 1983, works
on the pro4ect have been interrupted (Annex 5) because of dispute on cost
overrun and responsibilities of various parties to the contract. This dis-
pute Ls now subiect of litigation lr. Pakistan and USA.  Since the facts
surrounding the law suit may take some time to be sorted out, there is an
urgent need for actions to complete the proiect to protect PR's investment.
The completion of this subproJect in the near future would depend both upon
the original contractor's or the GOP's will.ngness to provide the remaintng
1/  After the detailed route survey, the number of microwave towers were
increased by 2; their height as well as entenna sizes went up; and .C8
UHF towers were added.
2/  The data network was mainlv essential to the implementatior. of the
Management Information Svstem (MIS) a sub-component of the Eleventh
Railwav PxoJect.
3/  Such as 24 UHF radios on branch lines, stand-by rectifiers, diesel gener-
ators, some HF radio equipment and telegraph (morse omnibus)



-15-
required financing. Efforts to initiate dialogue among the concerned parties
so far have not been contstructive.
G. Purchase of 30 D.E. Locomotives
3.26    As agreed in side letter no. 3, additional locomotives were not
allowed to be procured be:ore financing for all items included in the invest-
ment plan was secured by GOP. Since this condition was met by the GOP in
July 1977, the Bank confirmed that it had no objection to PR proceeding with
the purchase of 30 BG diesel electric locomotives to replace over-aged steam
locomotives. The financing for these locomotives was provided by GOP and
bilateral aid from CIDA (Canadian $10 million) in 1979. The thirty (30)
locomotives have been received and put lnto service and the locomotives thus
released are now utilized on shunting services.
Studies and Train-ing
3.27    As part of the continued technical assistance to FR, the ASPTR Divi-
sion financed from Its own budget a locomotive expert to help PR to (a)
develop an adequate methodology and the TOR for a study aiming at preparing
an economically justified motive power modernization program for replacing
the over-aged steam locomotives, and (b) study the possibilities of using
"oslug units" and the recommendations made by the Sofrail Consultant for
improving operations on the Bolan Pass section. Funds were also provided
under the Loan/Credit for the modernization of the accounting procedures
through a costing and tariff study, and for staff training to introduce
overall operational improvements.
E. Studies
Locomotive Recuirement r!-udy
3.28    The study was carried out in April 1978 and its main findings high-
lighted the need for improving (a) the availability of PR's motive power
which depends mainly upon the improvement of workshops and running sheds and
the availabillty of spare parts; and (b) the utilization of the present
Locomocive fleet by coordinating train running time tables with their main-
tenance and repalr schedules and linking them with changes of locomotives
and crews.
3.29    It is the results of these proposed operating and maintenance systems
on operating units which should be considered as the basis for assessing the
need for new diesel electric locomotives to replace steam traction. The
recommendations of the report and particularly their implication for PR's
workshops and running sheds were fully discussed with ?R which agreed to take
actions to reorganize its operating units and to introduce a more consistent
maintenance and material control system.
3.30    Under the Bank recommendations and in view of the preparation of the
Eleventh Rail-way Project, PR prepared a study on the modernization of its
maintenance workshops in which the introduction of a unit exchange and maiz-
tenance system was considered to reduce costs and time spent for maintenance.



-16-
The study was forwarded to the Bank In June 1980 and its main recommendations
were included in the Eleventh Railway Project.
3.31    Taking Lnto account the expected improvements from their proposed
operating and maintenance system, the consultants drew up for FY1979 through
FY1985 a strategic program for acquisition of new additional locomotives.
Based on thic program, and prior to the implementation of the consultants'
proposed maintenance program, PR signed with Japan, in December 1980, a
contract for the procurement of 38 diesel locomotives, despite the Bank
disagreement. Since t:e disbursement for this investment was to occur during
FY1982 and FY1983, i.e. one to two years beyond the plan period (FY1981) for
which a covenant for Bank prior agreement for such investment existed, the
Bank did not have sufficient authority to enforce its view. By February
1983, all the 38 locomotives have been received and put into services.
However, since ten (10) of the thirty eight (38) locomotives are fitted with
Piel stick engines instead of the already well known Alco 251 model engines,
one could foresee that PR would be experiencing additional maintenance
problems in forthcoming years.
Improvement of the Bolan Pass Operations
3.32    The locomotive requirement's study also indicated that the Bolan Pass
operation could be improved considerably through the use of "slug" or "mate"
units. The Bank retained the services of General Electric Co. PA to carry
out simulation studies on the Bolan Pass operations the results of which were
made available to PR. During his visit to USA in 1979, PR's Chief Mechanical
Engineer visited General Electric Co. to see the operations of D.E. locomo-
tives with slug units; in June 1979, the Bank prepared for PR a report on the
possible application of the slug unit to the Bolan Pass operations, underlin-
ing all the potential operational improvements and savings in fuel and main-
tenance costs that PR could draw from this system and suggested that PR set a
'mate unit" on a condemned D.E.  locomotive or procure one 2,000 HP locomo-
tive with a "Mate Unit" for trial. Unfortunately, in October 1980 the
General Electric Co. was not able to honor PR's request for a quotation and
the trial has been postponed up to now.
Costing/Tariff Studv
3.33    In December 1977, PR did a rough costing and tariff study which was
not approved by its own management. Subsequently, PR employed the services
of consultants to study its cost structure, identify and quantify avoidable
losses on uneconomic lines and make recommendations for the implementation of
a new tariff structure and level. The consultants were also to provide
training to PR staff in the new costing techniques and to strengthen PR's
marketing capability.
3.34    The study was based on a detailed analysis of FY1974/75 accounts
which were used to estimate revenues for FY1979/80, and the related tariff
bpsis. In May 1979, the study was satisfactorily completed providing PR with
detailed information on (a) a new depreciation system for its rolling stock
and facilities, (b) the costs and revenues for hauling the main commodIties,
(c) fixed and variable costs and revenues for passenger and freight traffic,
(d) the costs and revenues of services provided on the Peshawar-Landi Kotak



-17-
line (selected for the study because of its simplicity), and (e) the proce-
dures to investigate road costs and to keep up with its competition. At the
end of the study a Costing Cell was established In che traffic department
and the staff of the Cell were adequately trained and fully familiarized with
the new costing methods.
3.35    However, the Costing Cell has not been strengthened as recommended by
the consultants and the staff trained under the consultants have now left PR
or been assigned to other duties. Presently, the costing exercises are being
carried out by one senior Accounts Officer detached from the Accounts Depart-
ment and the works are now limited to the computation of unit costs and fixed
and variable costs and revenues for passengers and freight traffic. PR's
Costing Cell badly needs to be strengthened by qualified staff to allow it to
play its appropriate role and tully utilize the new telecoumunication system
which, once fully operational, will provide PR with accurate and up-to-date
data.
I. Training
3.36    As envisaged under the Credit Agreement, PR sent to the Bank a train-
ing program in July 1977, covering the various areas (including telecom-
munication) of railway activities 1/ with a view to improve its overall
efficiency. At the Bank's suggestion, the program was reduced in scope in
view of the limited funds available and a senior officer was appointed to
speed up the selection process and facilitate the coordination with the two
selected foreign training institutions, i.e., Canadian Pacific Railways and
British Railways. Successively in December 1978 and in May 1980, a training
senior consultant from the Canadian Pacific Consulting Services (CPCS)
visited Pakistan to assess the specific requirement areas and adiust the
program to the needs. Out of a total proposal of 30 officers, only 11
officers were sent in 1979/80 in the first batch to CPCS (8 officers) and
British Railways (3 offlcers) for a training period of two to six months and
8 officers to CQCS in the second batch for a training period of four months.
Although the training program for the second batch was readied in April 1980,
its implementation was postponed until June 1981 pending the agreement of the
Ministry of Finance to adequately increase the trainees subsistence
allowance, which was the Bank's condition for continuing to support PR's
training program. In June 1982, the whole training program carried out by
the two training institutions was satisfactorily completed.
1/  Motive power and mechanical engineering, transportation, signalization
and telecommunication, civil enginee-ing, etc.



-18-
3.37    Under the telecommunications and related sigralling component, 28
engineers/supervisors were locally trained by the contractor for a period
of 4 to 28 weeks. During FY1982 (February to August 1982) 21 of them 1/ were
sent abroad for complementary training programs from 3 to 28 weeks.  The
training program for the remaining 7 officers is still awaited from the
contractor.
Project Cost
3.38    Taking into account the costs of the items (paras 3.02 and 3.03)
which were dropped, the total cost of the project was estimated at about
US$300.7 million including a foreign exchange component of about US$129.5
million (Annex 6). The total cost was 22X above the appraisal estimates due
to increases in prices (8.3%) and in physical components (16%). About 60% of
the increase in the project cost was related to the telecommunication scheme
as the result of increases in its local costs (customs and duties) and physi-
cal components, and the fluctuations of the Rupee against foreign currencies.
3.39    At the time of appraisal (June 1976) the cost ectimates 2/ of the
telecommunication component (US$37.6 millLon with a US$16 million foreign
exchange component) was based only on the Bank's and PR's best estimates, as
the precise cost figure as well as the time-phased schedule for this
sub-project could not be determined precisely before its detailed engineering
study. At that time, the GOP anticipated the commencement of local manufac-
ture of modern telecommunication equipment and was confident that local
manufacturers of switching gear and other ancillary products could provide
some of the equipment as well as some Lmported raw materials from their
foreign suppliers. Therefore Bank Group's contribution to the financing of
the foreign exchange component was reduced from US$16 million to US$13.8
million, and did not include the cost of the so called "direct import of
components from local manufacturer's suppliers" which GOP agreed to finance
as well as the local cost of the telecommunication sub-project.
3.40    Following the results of the detailed engineering study, the Path
Survey and the modifications in frequency allocacions, the tender called for
more systems and equipment than envisaged during appraisal; this, added to
inflation in price, increased the foreign exchange requirement to US$42.5
million which was 107% above the Bank's estimates.  At PR's request, the Bank
agreed to raise its provision from US$13.8 million to US$32.0 million by
reallocating to the telecommunication component all the uncommitced funds
available under the Loan/Credit (ref.  para 3.05).  The Bank's agreement on
this reallocation of funds was based on the fact that the possibility of
dividing the network into sub-systems was very limited and would make its
execution difficult.
1/ 4 to GTE HEERENTALS, Belgium (for switching), 12 to General Electric,
Florence, S.C., U.S.A. (for VRF); 4 to MODCOHP Dalls, Texas,U.S.A. (for
signalling) and 1 to Daultz, Inc/Earley Industry in Houston, U.S.A. (for
diesel electric)
2/ Without contingencies.



-19-
3.41    The remaining foreign exchange cost overruns of US$10.5 million for
the telecommunication scheme was covered by GOP. Although the preparation of
detailed engineering prior to appraisal might have reduced the gap between
estimated and actual costs, it is difficult to ascertain to which extend the
costs estimates would have been refined since several changes were made to
the protect's scope and content and the project's implementation period was
longer than expected.
Financial Sources and Disbursement
3.42    Out of the total project cost of US$300.7 million, the Bank
Loan/Credit of USS60 million covered 20%. The remaining cost of USS240.7
million was provided by the GOP (US$178.1 million) through ADP loans to PR,
PR's own resources and by bilaterial sources (USS62.6 million).
3.43    Disbursement started in July 1978 i.e. 10 months behind the original
schedule. 2/ Due to delays in procurement processing in all the project's
components, particularly in the telecommunication component, disbursement
lagged behind appraisal estimates and had to be rescheduled in 1979
(Annex 7).  However in February 1982 as disbursement (74%) was still Detn'!
the Bank estimates (95%), the original closing date (June 30, 1982) was
extended to Decezber 31, 1982 then to March 31, 1983 to allow time for reten-
tion payments for the remaining telecommunication equipment.
3.44    Since most of the delays in the disbursement schedule were due to
delays in the implementation of the telecommunication scheme, the physical
progress of the other components of the project was not affected. By the
original closing date (June 1982) although procurements were completed for
all other components financed under the Loan/Credit only 77% of the
Loan/Credit was disbursed. The extension of the disbursement closing date by
9 months, has allowed PR to ensure almost full utilization of the Bank's
USS60 million Loan/Credit.
Performance of Consultants. Contractors, Suppliers and Borrower
3.45    The quality of the costing and tariff study carried- out by the
Consultants, as well as the training provided to PR's staff in costing tech-
niques were satisfactory. However, to draw the full benefit of the costing
manuals prepared by the consultants allowing PR in forthcoming years to
exercise a better control on its operating costs, renewed efforts are
required to Lrain and staff adequately the Costing Cell (Para 3.36). The
quality of the training provided by the Canadian Pacific Railway and the
British Railways in the main railway activities was highly appreciated by
PR's staff and satisfactory to the Rank.
3.46    Because of the latest difficulties experienced by the suppliers in
sending to Pakistan test equipment and coaxial cables for the telecommunica-
tion scheme, the contractor has not been able to comply with the completion
schedule (December 1982) as originally indicated in his contract.
2/ September 30, 1977



-20-
3.47    Apart from rails and wooden sleeper suppliers who were not able to
provide the required material, major delays experienced in the procurement
start-up and Its processing were due mainly to the slow decision making
process within PR, and the lack of adequate follow-up of the procurement
phases.
IV. TRAFFIC AND OPERATIONS
4.01    Although historically the railways had handled the bulk Pakistan's
freight traffic, (especially long haul movements) the proportion has
decreased steadily over the past decade. Whereas the transport sector's
freight traffic in term of ton-miles grew by an average of 7% per annum
during the 1970's, the rail freight traffic stagnated with its share of total
freight traffic declining from about 50% in 1971/72 to about 30% in 1980/81.
This stagnation resulted mainly from PR's inability to provide prompt and
reliable services faced with highly competitive road transporters. In con-
trast the rail's passenger-miles grew by about 70% during the same period,
and PR was able to maintain its share in the sector's total passenger miles
at about 20%. 1/
Freight Traffic
4.02    Based upon the expected increases in the production and distribution
of wheat, fertilizer, cement and POL, and the increases In railway capacities
arising from the implementation of the Plan (1976/77-1980/81), PR's freight
traffic was expected to grow at an average annual rate of 7.3% in tons and 6%
in ton-miles reaching 20 million tons and 7.3 billion ton-miles in 1980/81.
4.03    As indicated in Annex 8, the actual figures show that PR failed to
carry amounts of freight traffic expected during the project period.
Although appraisal's estimates appeared admittedly opcimistic, actual traffic
levels were disappointing even when compared against conservative expecta-
tions. From FY1976/77 through FY1980/81, the volume of PR's freight traffic
decreased on average by 4.5% per annum in tons (from 14.1 million tons to
11.2 million tons) remained virtually stagnant in ton-miles at about 4.8
billion with ar. average haul increasing from 340 to 433 miles. As a result,
the traffic carried by PR In 1980/81 was below the appraisal estimates by 44%
in term of tons and by 33% in term of ton-miles.  From FY1978 to FY1981 the
substantial increase in average hauls above the appraisal estimates, indi-
cated that more short haul than long haul traffic switched away from rail
during this period. However, this did not result from a deliberate policy on
the part of PR, but simply reflect the recent changas in traffic pattern with
an increasing Lnternal distribution of bulk commodities over long distance.
4.04    A Bank-financed study carried out in August 1981 on the future
road-rail modal split confirmed again that, the railway still remains an
economical means of transportation particularly in view of increasing energy
1/   Ref study on national transport plan in Pakistan Japan International
Cooperation Agency, 1983 (ref tables 2-2-1,2-2-3).



-21-
costs and that PR stagnant traffic resulted from its own inefficient opera-
tions and not from the lack of suitable raLl traffic. Factors which affected
PR's operations or contributed to the shift of an important portion of the
sector total freight traffic to road traffic and thus at PR's expense,
resulted mainly besides the creation of the National Logistic Cell (NLC)
trucking operation, and the Multan pipeline (ref para 4.05-4.06) from (a) the
GOP's continued policy that PR should give preference to passenger over
freight traffic; (b) shortfalls and delays in carrying out some of the cru-
cial operational and physical improvements (track renewal program, workshops,
telecommunication scheme, etc.) included in the Tenth Railway Project; Cc)
PR"s own managerial and institutional deficiencies; (d) the fact that 75% of
PR's traffic is controlled by GOP; and (e) the change in the traffic pattern
with more internal distribution as Pakistan reached almost self-sufficiency
in the production of several important bulk commodities (wheat, cement,
fertilizer).
4.05    One of the secondary factors which affected PR's freight traffic the
most was the creation of the National Logistic Cell (NLC) trucking operations
by the Government in 1978. In that year, faced with (a) an urgent need to
import and distribute substantial volumes of wheat and fertilizer throughout
the country due to a poor wheat crop and (b) the limited reliable carrying
capacity of PR, the GOP created NLC within the army, and entrusted it with a
fleet of 500 new 20-ton trucks to carry out this emergency shipment
throughout the country and to coordinate port and rail traffic wich Its own
operations. NLC efficiently handled the crisis situation. When the crisis
subsided, GOP decided that NLC should remain in existence and increased its
carrying capacity to 750 20-ton trucks during FY1979/80; thus making NIC a
major cor.petitior to the railways.  From 1978 through 1981, NLC was assigned
most of the profitable long and medium distance traffic which could have been
more economicaly transported by rail, thus leaving to PR the task of carrving
less profitable and operationally more complex cargoes in mountainous areas.
During this period PR lost -hout I million tons of bulk co-mmdities traffic
to NIC. However, regarding PR's limited carrying capacity and its poor
efficiency in providing qutck and reliable services, one cannoe ascertain
that this traffic wculd hna7e not been diverted to che road sector if NLC did
not exist. Since the end of 198i, NLC and PR have been placed under the same
Minister, resulting in better coordination between the two agencies. Since
then, NLC has modified its t=:'fic allocation policies, and PR has been
carrying larger volumes of long-haul traffic. During the negotiations of the
Eleventh Railway Project, agreement was reached with GOP that the allocation
oi public sector freight traffic will be based upon the relative economic
advantages and capacities of the modes of transport.
4.06    Another factor which has started affecting PR freight traffic is the
commissioning of the Karach4-Multan pipeline in 1981. Although che pipeline
has not affected the volume of POL carried by PR, the ton-miles and average
distance travelled by ?R decreased both by about 11% in FY1981-82 due to the
loss of the POL traffic between Karachi and Mahmoud-Kat.  In consequence, the
future growth of PR's freight traffic and its earning per ton-miles will
depend upon PR's ability to attract more private freight traffic and provide
reliable services through improved operations and and management efficiency,
and the GOP's willingness to entrust PR with a larger volume of long-haul
traffic.



-22-
Passenger Traffic
4.07    The passenger traffic was expected to grow at an average rate of 2.2Z
per annum in number and by 2.7% in passenger miles, resulting in 178 millon
passengers and 9.1 billion passenger-miles in 1980/81.
4.08    Although the Bank expected during the project Implementation period a
substantial increase in passengers' fare to cover at least their variable
costs, it appears that the declining effect of this on passenger numbers had
not been taken into account in the Bank's estimates. This is highlighted by
the substantial gap between actual figures and the appraisal estimates which
are shown in Annex 9. Apart from 1977/78, where the number of passengers
increased by 1% above its 1975176 level (147 million) reaching its highest
number of 149 million passengers (against an appraisal target of 178 million
passengers), the number of PR's passengers decreased steadily on average by
2.9% per annum reaching 123 million in FY1980/81 (against a target of 178
million passengers). This resulted mainly from the successive increases in
fares in 1977 (20%), 1979 (20%) and 1980 (30%) and the switch away from rail
of a substantial number of short distance travelers. In FY1980/81, about
ninety-seven percent (97%) of PR's total passengers represented second-class
passengers, 2/3 of whom travelled less than 63 miles and 1/5 less than 9.4
miles on commuter services in the Karachi and Lahore areas. During the past
five (5) years, the number of second-class passengers decreased by 21.5
million (consisting mostly of short-distance passengers). However, during
this period, PR's passenger-miles grew steadily by 3.9% per annum reaching
10.1 billion-miles in 1980/81 with an average haul distance of 82.5 miles
(against target of 51 miles).
4.09    The failure to achieve the expected growth in terms of passenger
number, while exceeding the expected growth in term of passenger-kas by 11Z
in FY1980/81, indicates the results of the change in traffic pattern with
more passengers using PR for long distance travel and GOP's continuous pres-
sure to give priority to passenger services (para 4.12).
Operating Performance
4.10    PR's operating indicators have not been in line with the targets set
in the plan of action (Annex 10) due to its faLlure (a) to increase the
availability of its motive power for freight traffic as a result of inap-
propriate maintenance facilities and procedures and the priority still given
to passenger traffic; (b) to avoid delays experienced in the procurement of
the needed spare parts, and the re-engining of old D.E. locomotives, and (c)
to improve and coordinate transit time and terminal operations.
&.11    During the project period, PR's fleet has continued to suffer from
high on line failure rates, poor availability and reduced tractive effort.
Despite the fact that PR had received, in addition to parts and machinery
financed under the project, a substantial number of machinery and tools under
KFW financing in order to replace overaged equipment and set up manufacturing
capacity for selected small parts, the maintenance capability of its
workshops are still lagging behind the maintenance requirements of its
present fleet. The existing locomotive fleet represents a mixture of models
from 8 different manufacturers in 6 countries which creates a cumbersome
maintenance situation in addition to problems associated with the imports of



-23-
the needed spare parts. Under the Bank's recommendations, the Chief Mechani-
cal Officer was sent to USA and Canada in May 1979 to explore additional ways
for improving maintenance practices. Advice was also provided by Bank super-
vision mlssions on how to improve PR's workshop activities and reduce the
wasted time on fueling activities. Under the Eleventh Railway Project, the
Bank agreed to support PR's efforts in the modernization of its maintenance
facilities. To this end, provisions were made to expand PR's remanufacturing
capacity (Rawalpindi CDL), to set up a unit exchange maintenane system
(including a pool of required spare parts) and to provide the required tech-
nical assistance and training.
4.12    Another factor contributing to PR's operational deficiencies was the
GOP's policy and PR to allocate in preference most of the more reliable
locomotives to passenger traffic. Under the project, some steps were taken
to increase freight carrying capacity through the reduction o7 passenger
trains on the main line and the implementation of the Battery Operation
System 1/ To this end, PR was successful in consolidating some trains and in
reducing the  mber of passenger trains on the Karachi-Rawalpindi line by
five (5) as targeted in the plan of action, lu order to release much needed
train paths and motive power for additional freight train runs. The 460
carsets of air brake equipment received by PR under bilateral credits 2J
could have enabled PR to achieve this objective by running heavier passenger
trains. However, because of the unreliability of the main line diesel
lociomotives and rail cars, this action was rendered useless. Similarly, PR
has not been able to draw the full benefits of the battery operations imple-
mented in 1976 due to unnecessary handling of wagons and shuncing at inter-
mediate stations, in addition to unpunctual passenger trains leading to
further delays In freight trains traffic. Later on, because of increasing
political and social pressures to further increase the number of station
stops for passenger trains, the battery operations were diluted and
abandoned.
4.i3    In addition to the above factors, improvements in PR's freight
traffic depended upon the reliability of its services, i.e., as regards both
transit time, terminal operations, transport of major bulk counodities and
its ability to increase freight train speed above 35 mph.  In the Project
Plan of Action it was expected that by 1980/81 available locomotLves would
produce 370 miles per day on passenger trains, 190 miles per day on freight
trains and each 'reight train would carry an average of 700 tons.. The actual
results were 290 miles, 123 miles and 580 tons respectively. PR was also
expected to substantially reduce its turnaround time, and to increase freight
train speed up to 45 mph. Because of unnecessary frequency of passenger
trains and slow loading and unloading of bulk commodities, turnaround time
which was expected to be reduced from 16.7 day to 11 days in 1981 was brought
1/   Battery operation of passenger trains - grouping passenger trains with
similar speeds during certain hours of the day and thereby allowing
additional train paths for slower moving freight trains. This system was
Introduced in 1976 under the recommendations of the Sofrerail Consult-
ants study carried out in 1972 under the Ninth Railway Project.
2/   A KYW credit, a German commodities aid; and a French credit.



-24-
down to only 14.7 days (Annex 10). However, under the project, PR has been
able to resolve the problems of hot boxes on its freight equipment, and to
increase 4-wheeler freight train speed up to 40 mph as agreed under the plan
of action. Since further improvements are still required to increase the
speed up to 45 mph, the expected improvements in the utilization of PR's line
capacity have not been achieved.
4.14    During the period of emergency shipment of wheat and fertilizer 1/
throughout the country, PR has demonstrated its ability to operate effi-
ciently. Block and unit trains were used for the movements of these com-
modities to lLmited destinations, and round-the-clock unloading operations
were introduced at these stations to bring down the turnaround time. As a
result of these rationalization methods (which, with the reduction of pas-
senger trains on the main line, were the thrust of the plan of action), PR
loaded, from September to December 1978, an average of 800 wagons per day and
decreased its turnaround time from 16 days to 13.5 days as targeted in the
plan of action. Therefore, under efficient discipline PR has the potential
to improve its operations and attract some of the suitable rail traffic which
hal been diverted to the road transportation.
4.15    Through an efficient implementation of the plan of action, included
in the Eleventh Railway Project, which is in fact a replication of the plan
of action of the Tenth Railway Project, PR should be able to achieve this
objective. With its new telecommunication network PR should be able to
improve the utilization of its rolling stock and motive power, adjust itself
to the changing freight traffic patterns and exert more control on its
day-to-day operations and costs. A number of areas (such as a marketing
study on potential commodittes for rail transport, efficient use of block and
unit trains and development of container traffic) where the railway should be
able to improve and expand its activities were discussed with PR and the GOP
and included in the Eleventh Railway Project.
V. FINANCIAL PERFORIANCE
5.01    GOP's stated policy is that PR should earn sufficient revenues to
cover all operating expenses (including a depreciation charge), debt service
payments and a dividend (6.25Z per annum) on government-direct investments,
as well as the generation of sufficient funds to provide the local currency
cost of expenditure on replacement of fixed assets. The foreign currency
cost of expenditure on replacements is obtained from GOP loans and PR is
required to repav these loans. All cost on additions to fixed assets is
provided by GOP. But PR is required to pay interest on any foreign loans
obtained for such purposes. 'When such loans are repaid by GOP a correspond-
ing addition is made tO GOP's investment in PR which is known as
capital-at-charge.
5.02    One of the main obiectives of the Tenth Railway Project was to help
PR to become financially self-supporting and to strengthen its accounting
I/   From September 1978 to March 1979.



-25-
system. The appraisal estimates and actual financial statements for years
1975/76 through 1980/81 are shown in Annex 11 to 13. Under the project it
was envisaged that PR's finance would improve so that by FY1977/78 revenues
would be sufficient to cover operating expenses and debt service, and from
FY1978/79 they would be sufficient to cover an Increasing percentage of the
dividend until PR is able to pay 100% by FY1981/82. For reasons indicated
below in para 5.03, PR has not been able to achieve the expected financial
performance.
Net OperatinR Revenue
5.03    Up to FT 1975/76, although PR was incurring cash deficit and
passengers traffic losses were still being cross-subsidized by freLght traf-
fic, financial results were better compared to those achieved during the
project period. Because of the stagnation of PR's freight traffic and the
marked increases in operating costs (such as fuel, labor costs and mainr-
tenance costs) not offset by comparable increases in tariffs, PR was faced
with a deteriorating financial position from FY1976 through FY1981. On
average per annum, fuel cost increased by 18.9% (against an estimate of 8%)
and labor costs by 10.7% (against an estimate of 6.2%). Consequently,
although PR's total operating incomes increased by 70% (against an estimate
of 31%) as a result of successive increases in fares and rates, 1/ and its
total operating expenses went up by 83%, (against an estimate of 20.4%).
This resulted also from the fact that (a) cost savings expected from opera-
tional improvements did not materialize, (b) the depreciation is now being
calculated on revalued fixed assets since FY1980, and (c) from the priority
still given to money-loosing passenger services over profitable freight
service and the GOP's reluctance to allow PR to adequately raise its pas-
senger fares 2/ particularly for first sleeping coaches and first-class
services which fell far short from covering their variable costs (refer Annex
14). Despite the successive increases in fares by 20% in July 1979 and 30Z in
January 1980 passenger traffic was not able to cover its variable costs, as
agreed in Section 4.04 in Credit Agreement (refer to Annex 15). Since no
further fare increase was made in 1980/81, the coverage of passenger traffic
variable costs dropped from 92Z ln 1979/80 to 84%. The full operating expen-
ses were covered only in FY1977/78 and FY1978/79, as a result of the recovery
of the freight traffic during the emergency imports and shipment of wheat and
fertilizer throughout the country, and the operational improvements achieved
during these years, which helped PR to hold down its operating expenses. At
the end of FY1980/81, PR's operating ratio reached its highest level of 1092
against an estimated target of 87% and its net operacing losses amounted to
Rs 457 million (against an appraisal estimated surplus of Rs 45.6 million).
1/   In March 1976, fare was increased by 20%, and rates by 15%; on July 1,
1977, fare was increased bv 20C and rates by 12.5%; in July 1979, fare
was increased by 20%; and in January 1980, fare was increased by 30%
and rates by 252.
2/ In 1981, passenger fare levels represented in real terms about 75% of
those charged in 1972.



-26-
Appropriation of Funds and Recent Changes in Financial Policies
5.04    Although agreement was reached with GOP, under covenant 4.05 In the
Credit Agreement, that full dividend should not be provided until a surplus
became available, PR paid a total full dividend of Rs 360.3 million from
FY1976/77 to FY1978/79. Considering the deterioration of PR's financial
situation and the recomendation of the expert committee (refer to para
5.07), the GOP has agreed since FY1979/80 to waive dividend payment. However,
as no net operating surplus was earned during the project period, PR incurred
commercial Bank-overdrafts 1/ to meet these dividends, as well as its operat-
ing cash deficits.
5.05    In view of compensating part of PR's past deficits, GOP decided to
convert (a) in January 1979 a total Bank-overdraft of Rs 430 million into a
non-development loan bearing an interest of 12%, (b) In January 1981, an
additional Bank-overdraft of Rs 700 milllon incurred durLng 1970-1979 Into
government capital (or equity); and (c) to provide PR in FYl980/81 and FY
1981/82 with a grant in aid for operations of Rs 198 million and Rs 479
million,which were mostly used to cover the overdue debt services. Consider-
ing the deteriorating trend of PR's financial position, the Bank suggested to
the Government without success that the Rs 430 million non-development loan
also should have been converted into equity.
5.06    In early 1980, in accordance with Bank recommendations, GOP conr-
stituted an expert committee to review the main issues of PR's financial
structure (including the whole question of development loans, foreign loaLs,
dividend appropriations and the calculation of depreciations) and to seek
ways to improve the financial arrangements between the railways and the GOP.
In July 1980, the committee presented to the GOP its findings and recommenda-
tions which were the following: (a) passenger fares should be increased to
cover at least their variable costs: (b) the appropriation to the deprecia-
tion reserve fund (DRF) should be based on fixed asset replacement costs to
be revalued every three years; (c) the present rate of return (6.25% p.a.) on
GOP's capital-at-charge should be charged only when a net surplus became
available after meeting the appropriation to improvement 'und and debt
service liability; (d) operating losses should be covered through grants or
subsidies rather than through expensive Bank-overdrafts and the
non-development loans provided by the government to cover past operating
deficits should be converted into equity and (e) the payback period of the
loans should start with the commissioning of the prolects, and all expendi-
tures on additional investments financed by GOP should be added to the
capital-at-charge only at the commissioning of the projects.
5.07    The Government accepted in September 1981 all the committee's recom-
mendations, and actions have been taken to meet most of them with few excep-
tions. All passenger services still do not cover their variable costs;
subsidies (or grants) provided by the Government in FY1980/81 and FY1981/82
were not sufficient to cover PR's operating losses; and PR continues to pay
its loan principals before the commissioning of the projects they were con-
tracted for. The Bank's recommendations, that past deficits converted Into
1/   From the State Bank.



-27-
equity be not added to capital-at-charge liable to dividend payments, has
also noc been considered by the Government. However to ease PR's cash con-
straints and smooth out projects' implementations, GOP agreed to meet on a
monthly basis, its development loan allocations as well as its liabilities
(such as defence traffic) towards PR. Without an adequate increase in fares,
the deterioration of PR's financial sicuation will continue its trend, and
will weigh further on GOP's resources. During the negotiations of the
eleventh railway project GOB agreed to take measures to ensure that PR's
total revenue covers its total operating costs, debt service, and dividend
payments, and passenger services to meet their variable costs.
5.08    During 1976-1981, rhe net cash generated from PR's operations was
sufficient to cover only 88% of its total debt service and working capital
requirements. Since under current investment arrangements PR is expected to
fund the local costs of all expenditures on replacement accounts, the level
of these investments as originally planned was reduced by 7%, but was more
than compensated by an increase of 38% in new (or additional) capital invest-
ments. To meet the local cost requirements ef its expenditures on replace-
ment accounts, PR borrowed from the GOP a total loan of Rs 1949 million. The
government also provided Rs 2146.4 million for the financing of new capital
investment in addition to the foreign exchange components of Rs 363.4 million
for investments on replacement accounts, which PR is requested to pay back
(para 5.01).
Tm-vrovement in Accounting System
5.09    Although PR has not been able to conform with the timings set, it
has made appreciable effort to comply with most of the financial covenants
except for those related to tariff increases, to GOP's subsidies to compen-
sate PR's losses on uneconomic sections (which were beyond its control) and
to improvements in the presentation of the financial accounts (para 5.11 and
5.12).
5.10    During the project period, PR h-as also made considerable effort in
clearing up che audit of seven years  accounts.  The 1979/80, 1980/81, and
1981/82 accounts were audited in June 1981, in June 1982 and in February 1983
respectively; thus, there are indications chat in future, PR will be able to
produce timely audited accounts, I.e., 9 to 12 months after the end of each
fiscal year. Financial reporting has been improved and the accounts depart-
ment Is making efforts to produce timely monthly management and annual
accounts. The costing/tariff study (refer to para 3.36) provided PR with a
better knowledge of Its units costs and revenues, and on settlng adequate
tariff structure. However renewed efforts are scill required to strengthen
the Costing Cell in terms of staffing and training.
5.11    Despite these efforts to improve PR's financial system, unsatisfac-
tory features still exist in the presentation of PR's balance sheets and fund
flow statements. The amount shown for the value of fixed assets bear no
relationship to the value of the assets on eicher an historical cost or any
other basis, although in FY1979 fixed assets were revalued by PR and
depreciations calculated on the basis of revalued assets have been included
in the financial accounts since FY1979/80. Foreign loans are calculated at
the rates prevailing at their borrowing period, and development loans are
still lncluded In the DRF and not shown in the balance sheet. All the



-28-
Bank-overdrafts incurred by PR to meet its working requirements, GOP's
dividends, and cost overrun on capital expenditures are not shown in the Fund
Flow Statements where source of funds and their utilization do not balance.
In December 1983, PR was expected to complete the adjustments of its assets
books and to start their revaluation as soon as board approval will be
received. A service of an expert would be advisable to assist PR and to help
it to construct comprehensive balance sheets and fund flow statements.
5.12    A study requested by the Bank identified 62 uneconomic train
services. Financial losses incurred on these uneconomic sections have not
been recorded as agreed in Section 4.01 of the Credit Agreement since the
committee formed to review this issue concluded that it would be difficult to
implement section accounts, and that the division accounts should be main-
tained. For this reason, PR has also not been able to comply with the agreed
minutes, para 5, to attach as an exhibit these section accounts to its finan-
cial statements. However, inspite to the committee recommendations, it is
difficult to accept that estimations of uneconomic service costs are imprac-
ticable. During the project period, only twelve passenger trains on
uneconomic lines were eliminated, and the service of four trains have been
reduced. This process should continue as long as the revenues from passenger
services are not suffi-lent to cover their variable costs.
VI. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
Recent Changes in PR's Maragement and Organizational System
6.01    Until April 1982, PR's operating functions were performed by the
five-member Railway Board headed by a Chairman and located at Lahore, while
policy and monitoring controls were exercised by the Ministry of Railways,
headed by a Secretary, Ministry of Railways, established in Islamabad since
1974. Under the Bank's recommendation, GOP agreed on April 4, 1982, to
streamline the management and the organization of the railways by merging the
Railway Board and the Railways Ministry and moving the Board to Islamabad.
The Chairman, Railway Board is now the ex-officio Secretary, Ministry of
Railways and the other members of the Board have been designated as addi-
tional Secretaries, Ministry of Railways. Now PR's operations are controlled
from Lahore by a General Manager who performs the function of Chief Execur
tive. PR's organization prior to April 1.982, and the effective changes to
the senior management structure since April 1982 are shown in Annexes 16 and
17.
6.02    For decades, the members of the Board and other senior officers of
PR have been senior railwaymen with a deep attachment to tradition and slow
to adapt to changing environments. Although PR possesses competent and
skilled managsrs, the lack of communication between departments which make
them act as separate organizations, with only the Chairman of the Board
having authority over them, has been detrimental to the establishment of an
efficient management system. Since April 1982 this situtation has been
modified, as PR's operations are now under a single authority (The General
Manager), who is accountable to the Railway Board for all aspects of
day-to-day operations.



-29-
6.03    However, there is still room for improvement in PR's organization.
The marketing and costing functions of the railway need to be merged into one
single department separate from the transport function; steps are slso needed
to overhaul PR's purchasing and stores, and to establish them as a unified
stream-lined department. During the course of preparation of the eleventh
railway project, the Bank underlined these needs to PR's management, and
steps are being taken for their examination.
6.04    Although some achievement was made (calculation of depreciation on
revalued assets, costing study) in PR's accounting system and in the finan-
cial arrangements between PR and the GOP, the major distortions in PR's
financial system have still not been addressed. PR still needs the Bank s
support to lead the GOP progressively to comply with the expert committee
recommendations (Para 5.06) and to provide technical assistance to improve
the works of its Costing Cell as well as the presentation of its financial
accounts. Once its new telecommunication network is commissioned, PR should
be able (a) to produce timely and more accurate data needed to improve the
efficiency of its Costing Cell and sustain the modernization of its account-
ing system, and (b) to further improve its internal information system.
Staff Development and Training
6.05    With about 130,000 employees, PR is the largest public sector
employer In Pakistan, and next to Indian Railway, employs the highest number
of employees per track mile in the world. Moreover, since PR's freight
traffic stagnated during the project period, staff productivity increased
very little and less than full benefits were obtained from modernization
measures such as dieselization. Under the Tenth Railway Project's plan of
action, it was agreed that PR would reduce its staff by 500 per annum in
1977/78 and 1978179, and by about 1200 per annum in 1979/80 and 1980/81; and
would undertake by December 1977 a study to determine the possibility of
further staff reductions through attrition. PR was In compliance with these
agreements. The staff strength has been reduced by about 4,500, and further
staff reduction through attrition particularly for non-professional and
unskilled staff is expected to continue under the Eleventh Railway Project.
6.06    The Bank was also concerned about the relatively low salaries and
wages being paid to railway staff, but it was assured by the railway that
they continue to attract qualified personnel and that In general, the railway
wage levels are tied to those of the GoverTment service. However, in recent
years, PR's skilled and semi-skilled staff at all levels, particularly the
young ones, have been attracted to more highly paid work in the Middle East
countries.  During past years PR has made a sustained effort co train its
staff either in its own training schools, in government training institu-
tions, or in foreign institutLons.  Under the project, a total number of
f ifty eight (58) staff -were trained in PR's main operating areas, in the
commercial accounting system, and Ln the telecommunications system. Since
many long-service officers are expected to retire from PR in the near future,
the staffing problem thus created should be eased by the various training
carried out under the project.
6.07    Because of the above changes introduced in the railway's administra-
tive system (refer to para 6.01), its accounting system (calculation of



-30-
depreciation on revalued asset) the creation of a costing cell and the trainr-
ing program carried out under the project, some beneficial changes occured
within PR during the implementation period of the Tenth Railway Project.
However, to address PR's poor performance, substantial efforts are still
needed to improve Its management and internal functioning and to break with
tradition by introducing an aggressive commercial outlook at all levels
within the Institution.
VII. ECONOM£IC REVALUATION
7.01    PR makes a valuable contribution to the natlonal economy.  The pat-
tern of traffic in Pakistan is characterized by a prevalence of long distance
traffic. Rail has a cost advantage over road on long distance freight tran-
sport and PR freight traffic has been shifting to longer distance traffic.
There is also good potential for PR to increase its economic contribution.
The 1981 study (para 4.04) indicated that a substantial amount of
rail-suitable freight traffic currently was transported by road, and PR
should aim to carry much of this traffic. However, passenger services have
been given priority in allocation of the rail system's capacity, despite the
economic cost of rail passenger transport being higher than road passenger
transport. Making the most of PR's economic potential requires switching the
use of at least some rail facilities from passenger services to long distance
freight. Such a switch would also help improve PR's financial position
because in 1982/83 passenger revenues covered only 54% of the costs of
passenger services whereas freight revenues exceeded freight costs by 5%.
7.02    The appraisal report calculated the economic rate of return for PR's
total planned investment expenditures during 1976/77 - 1981/82 because the
benefits from the components included in the Bank assisted project could not
be separated from those of the other components. The benefits were calcu-
lated on the basis of projected PR performance with and without the planned
investments, and without the planned investments PR's traffic was assumed to
remain at its 1976/77 level. Planned expenditures, however, included both
the provision of additional assets and replacement of existing assets and
without the latter, the constant traffic assumption may have been unduly
optimistic. Indeed, over a five year period, a substantial fall in PR's
capacity would have been likely if life expired assets had not been replaced.
Quantifying the plan's benefits therefore would require comparing actual
traffic performance with the plan against a declining capacity without the
plan. At this time, however, it is not possible to estimate, with any
accuracy, what the decline would have been. The alternative is to assume
that without the additional investment expenditures, PR's traffic capacity
would have remained constant, and to calculate the economic rate of return
for expenditures on additional assets only.
7.03    The investmerts were anticipated to have two types of benefits.  The
first was to make PR operating costs lower than they would have been without
the investment plan. The appraisal report had projected costs to rise by 3%
p.a. with the plan and 5Z p.a. without the plan. In fact, when measured in
constant prices, costs rose by 5.5 p.a. between 1975/76 and 1981/82, thus,
the benefits from ccst savings were zero. The appraisal report noted that
savings in operating costs were a critical part of the investment program's



-31-
benefits, and estimated that if no savings were achieved, the plan's economic
rate of return would be reduced from the expected 24% to 132.
7.04    The second benefit anticipated In the appraisal report was that the
increase in PI's capacity resulting from the planned investment would be used
to divert freight traffic from road to rail. The value of this benefit would
equal the economic cost saved through shipping freight by rail instead of
road (Rs 0.44 per ton mile by rail versus Rs 0.56 per ton mile by road in
1981/82 prices). Total benefits would be lower because the appraisal report
allowed for some increase in rail passenger traffic wbich would have been
cheaper by road (Rs 0.21 per passenger mile by rail versus Rs 0.10 per pas-
senger mile by road). The realized economic benefits of the investment plan
were adversely affected because the outcome of PR's traffic mix differed
substantially from the appraisal targets. Whereas total domestic freight
traffic grow by about 5 p.a. since 1975/76, freight ton miles carried by PR
declined from 5.8 billion in 1975/76 to 4.5 billion in 1982/83. The 1.3
billion ton miles that had to be carried by road instead of rail in 1982/83
had an economic cost of Rs 115 million. In contrast to lts poor freight
performance, PR's passenger traffic Increased by close to the 52 rate of
grovtb in overall domestic passengor traffic since 1975/76. Rail passenger
miles increased from 8.0 billion in 1975/76 to 10.8 billion in 1982/83 but
the economic cost of carrying the additional 2.8 billion passenger aless by
rail instead of road was Rs 312 million. Total economic costs in 1982/83
were therefore, Rs 467 millLon and mew benefits from the pla=nod Investment
were negative in every year (Annex 18). Plan benefits may be understatsd,
however, becsuse some investments, sueh as the telecommuications component,
have only recently been completed and will require a few yoars to have a full
impact on PR's capacity.
7.05    A asjor reason for the poor economic results of the inveastent
program has been the priority given to passengers at the expense of freight
capacity. The cost of this policy Can be Illustrated by calculating what
the economic rate of return would have been if PR had met the appraisal
target for freight traffic and carried 7.4 billion tons miles in 1982/83. An
additional 2.9 million ton miles (about 25% of road freight traffic) vould
have beeo carried by rail in 1982/B3 compared with the base year of 1975/76,
at an economic savings over road tanspert of Rs 350 million.  PP vould have
provided paasanger services only with residual capacity. Substitution
between frelght and passengers depends on many factors but one possLble
conversion factor would be the relative cost of ton miles to passenger miles
which is approximately one freight ton mile to two passenger miles. With
this conversion, PR would have had to reduce passenger miles to 5.0 million
in 1982/83, i.e., diverting 3.0 billion passenger miles to road cransport
compared with the base year of 1975/76 and saving Rs 329 million over rail
costs. The total bonsfic of giving freight priority would have been Rs 679
million in 1982/83 and the investment program would have had an economic rate
of return of 30% (Annex '9). Clearly, the policy of giving priority to the
provision of rail passenger services over :hoso of freight services imposes a
high cost on the Pakistan economy.



-32-
VIII. BANK PERFORMANCE
8.01    Although the Bank financed only 10% of the railways Fifth Five-Year
Plan, it contributed to reducing the scope of the investments to a more
realistic level in regard to the limited resources of the country and the
immediate needs of the railways; and to the prevention of further deteriora-
tion of the railways carrying capacity. It is clear that the Bank was cor-
rect in financing this project. The project objectives were appropriate and
the technical approaches generally satisfactory.
8.02    However, given the low availability of motive power at the time of
appraisal, more emphasis should have been placed on the improvement of main-
tenance facilltles, which are crucial to the railway system. During the
project implementation, the Bank became more aware of this requirement, and
under its recommendations PR carried out in depth studies on the reorganiza-
tion of its workshop facilities, and on its spare parts procurement proce-
dures. Both studies helped to identify the priority areas in need of
improvement in PR's maintenance system, and became the bases for selecting
the main components of the ongoing Eleventh Railway Project. The
Bank-financed study on PR's locomotive requirement helped the railway to
identify areas in needs of improvements in its operations and maintenance
system and to draw up an appropriate investment program and procurement
schedule for the additional new locomotives required (by FY1985), once con-
sistent maintenance procedures are established.
8.03    The size of the project was appropriate.  The implementation schedule
was in general too optimistic except for the telecommunication scheme, which
for reasons indicated in para 3.07 was beyond the Bank's and the PR's con-
trol. Since the telecommunication was the main component of the project, the
Bank provided considerable support co help solve controversies which arose in
defining the main components of this sub-project and various s--cialists in
the appraisal and supervision mission teams made useful suggestions, based on
their broad experience with other railways, for solutions to various
implementation problems. Periodic reports requested by the Bank on the
progress of the project as well as on actual operating performance indicators
helped to give PR and the Government a broad perspective of their own opera-
tions which might have been overlooked during the course of day-to-day opera-
tions. However, delays experienced in the procurement of needeB. spare parts
for diesel locomotives and part and machinery for workshops, due to institu-
tional and financial obstacles could have been reduced If the Bank would have
brought PR to initiate the necessary actions at the early stage of the
project. Although the disbursement of the Loan/Credit was delayed by only
nine months, which is considered reasonable within the sector, the disburse-
ment schedule for the different components of the project was too optimistic
4in regard to PR's internal slow decision-making process, and its usual delay
in procurement.
8.04    Similarly, taking into account the delays occured in procurement and
thus the related improvement in PR's infrastructure, the estimated operating
indicators appear somewhat optimistic in regards to the timing set for their
achievement.



-33-
8.05    By convincing the GOP to reorganize the Ministry of Railway, thus
placing tGLC and PR under the same Ministry, the Bank contributed to introduce
a better coordination within the sector.  The Bank also played a major role
in gecting PR to establish a Cost-ling Cell. However, the need for
strengthening the Cell, as well as the required improvement in the presenta-
tion of PR's accounts, should have been raised and tackled more aggresively
by the Bank's supervision missions.
IX. CONCLUSION
9.01    Although the operational and financial targets set under the project
have not been achieved, the 2-1/2 year delay experienced in the project (para
3.14) implementation period have allowed PR to complete most of the main
physical components included in the project. Studies 1/ carried out during
the project have served to identify key deficiencies in PR's maintenance
system and efforts are being made to address them under the Eleventh Railway
Project. Once completed, the new telecommunication system will provide the
basis for the MIS included in the Eleventh Railway Rroject. Effort should
also be made under the Eleventh Railway Project to provide PR with the
required technical assistance to train its scaff in costing techniques and
improve the presentation of its financial accounts. Tha deficiencies in PR's
financial system have also now been underlined to the Government by the
expert committee's study in 1980, and its is now up to the Governmaent to take
the necessary steps to put PR on a sound financial basis.
9.02    As indicated by a Bank financed study in 1981 on the future role of
the railway, PR has the potential, through an improvement in its operating
efficiencies, to increase its freight traffic by actracting mosc of the
suitable rail traffic diverted to the road sub-sector. However, the effec-
tive increase in the rail freight traffic will also depend upon an adequate
allocation of the line capacity between passenger and freight trains, as well
as long haul public traffic distribution between PR and NLC.
9.03    Most of the lessons learned from the project have been taker. into
account during preparation of the Eleventh Railway Projecc and are the fol-
lowing (a) since PR's ability to cope with traffic demand depends on various
factors (such as institutional improvements) the Bank has adopced a more
conservative approach in freight traffic forecasting and any cost reductions
expected from an improvement in management has aoc been taken into account in
financial forecasts, (b) since motive power maintenance was the main scum-
bling block in achieving most of the operating efficiencies, this matter has
been given top priority in the project, (c) che Bank financed study on che
future role of the railway has given GOP and PR a clearer view of the rail-
ways deficiencies, its capabilities, its economic importance wi-thin the
transport sector and the objectives to be sec in transport planning to allow
the railway to maintain and improve its role.
1/ Locomotive requirement study; PR's own study on its maintenance
facilities and spare parts procurement procedures.



_/ m'



-35-
ANNEX 1
Page 1
PARISTAN
TENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
PROJECT COMQLETION REPORT
Maior Mod1fication to the Five-Year Plan
1.      The Bank recomended, based on the preappraisal estimates, that PR
and the PC considered the downward revision of the freight traffic growth
rate at a more reasonable level of 6% and consequently reduce the size of Its
proposed investment program to a more realistic level. Along this line the
Bank suggested:
(a) to defer the construction of the three new lines and one
gauge conversion;
(b)  to reduce the scope of the rehabilitation and renewal program for
tracks and bridges;
(c) to sustain only 802 of the production of the carriage factory
and the rehabilitation of one thousand freight wagons units per
year, thus deferring the procurement of new freight wagons in the
near future except for specific equipment;
(d) to remove procuremeut of locomotives and diesel rail cars
except for high priority diesel shunters pending (i) the result
of the motive power requirements study; and
(ii) the assessment of expected operational and financial
Improvements under the new investment plan;
(e) to remove the installation of roller bearing on freight wagons,
as the problem of hot boxes that PR was experiencing at the
time of the appraisal could be solved through improved maintenance
procedures which are less costly;
(f) to postpone the electrification of the Kbanewal-Samasata Section and
carry out Khsnewal-Karachi electrification pending satisfactory
economic justification;
(g) to reduce the scope of the experimentation and development work
in the change over to air brakes; and



-36-
,ANNEt 1
Page 2
(h)  to reduce the scope of the telecommurnication and the related
signalling schemes by changing the original scheme based on
underground coaxial cables to a microwave system which is a
more reliable and less costly.
2.      In addition to those major modifications to the plan, the Bank also
suggested that the investment plan be drawn up for the period 1976/77 through
1980/81 and be supported by a more realistic financing plan and a detailed
program of action to introduce the required operational improvements.
3.      As the downward revision of the Plan and the related proposed project
was the primary condition for any further Bank Group's financing in support-
Lug PR, the Planning Commission agreed to Bank recommendations in January
1976 but suggested that two alternative projectious of freight traffic growth
rate be adopted, i.e., 6Z and liZ with the Bank confering its immediate
lending to an investment program based upon the lower traffic figures as
assessed by it. However, at GOP's request, the Bank agreed to reconsider its
assistance for a larger investment program, if the traffic increases in line
with the PC's projections.
4.      Based on the two alternatives PR's annual traffic rate were estimated
to be by FY1980/81 as follows:
nigh                     Low                  Actual in 1975
Traffic   Annual    Traffic    Annual                Traffic
growth rate             growth rate
_                       :
(in billion)             (in billion)            (in billion)
Toa-mile   9.4        11         7.3         6                     5-.7
Passenger-
mile    9.9       5.4        9.1         2.7                   7.6
5.      In agreement with the Bank, PR revised the freight traffic forecast
for FY1976 through FY1981 and prepared a new five-year investment plan. The
revised Plan, 1/ based on December 1975 prices and assuming passengers and
freight traffic forecasts of 9.1 billion miles and 7.3 billion tone-miles
respectively, amounted ro Rs 5,795.5 million (US$92 million) including a
foreign exchange component of about Rs 2,801 aillion (US$286 million).
1/   Including Group A and Group B.



PAKISTAN
TENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LOAN 1372/CREDIT 684-PAK
ICQ   n r 1   IQ^
seratl      Deoiril,tul                                                          Touni                             1014/1              _                                                           lflhJIO                                 1919_10
Ifl~~~~~Z    L  -L  ...      12z                                   (SLs  *L -L.   'Aiz    L  ~L   L        Ilz                                  t° .L   a  (l  L. .L                                L
Om Lim. GM%rim*                                                                                                                                                  II          ()          S1
(a)   KaletId spat                          t2 )) 21                        .       32           C)                                                                                                    to I  (1)  ta  ,
(    A e       aU    (a, UM                                        (19riU4U                                  I      -      A        ("ftel)  15           .      23
-~~~          1T              T
(b)  Cologa  Tweak Rom
(Ulata.,a.e.have.w2                Nl               0)        2       0                   (20)        ii     10       24.      (2            A     l0      2           (10)        a     20      It
PA  eI ,:a  I                      I'll:         t^OO)        11.0   *110   110           twO         1t             11a        ttO         1      *1                  (31)  IE 41      15      l*              l1               1    a1so                         
( l.Ubi   E ewI                          Nit          (240)          0     1*      4       0    -                  1 -               (301                2       U 30        ()          I             to                        I            20             )                 3     10
Cd)  SleepeF Laae,.el  (lH llnte)   Nile             (t00)          11     39        0          (20)         I      1       12        (30)         A      I      1i           (20)       4       I     12            (20f  )            5      12          (10)       4              l 11
(a)   Sleebpe    Seurwl  CIle.4ry.
LI.a.)                            Nil.         (300)        45      90      liS          120)         I      *        I        (80)        12     24     3U          (tO)        12      24    3U             (0)         4     to     21           (Go)        I      LI     it
Pointeln nF n104r4o,
?it.. *o S-11 tAnher               -         I-rl4e)         14    1        30       ('awle...       &      2        I     (vwlris.        2      4               3. l .o        2      &  ('al.,.                              3      4       (* arIes)       3       I      4
less C4adt-e.tI  .0  CseSets
S1etw" of teorl.                  so (.                      48     26       14          (.2         10      -       to        (*2        1      14      i3          (II        It    30       21            (29        11      4     2s            (0)        *       -      9
(4)  N8.c.tlaaeeea                                  (oolooa           .1            U.It.            " l     a      * 
= !.          " Cviewt.ner
(a)  *wld. Weoka
ii)    eaq       rka               1e 2)                     4       A      is            i)          9      *        0       C)           I       2       3           A                                       4                   
fit)  Srld 1eal        i1salr4      S..                                                   I,           .      : N               t-                                                                    2  I t   ( 2                -  I             (2                           4
(III) En d's"Oneeaocal for
Pima PUetleeil.           NO.           (2                            .                                                                  Is    -A_tl 11.     (I1)     ISL             -IL            C      15                             Mla                -=1 20 -  20
Suebtatl 111(e)                                  i2      3      164                                        N2  2                                3                     38       I     30                       38      I      39                   a-         2     24
(b)  Civil Ie(1e1auiTI    Iaisk
ft ~i.%s worts le..ieaa
*Ianiwiwet Projects                    ('awr..)    It                ?I        ('arioum'   2)                is      (variousi)    20              1 0    (vaftolo )      20            20     (Tewiweg)           1      -      1
Q044eer,  di)t  W   du ,
Projects. Ste.               *         (rlu)   4)           .         3        I)ar^ls         I      *        I     (vlewim,l     12    -         23     (.ewrt )        20            t0o                      tlo            to-wi..(0  10  ('wl..    20     -      IC
(ill)   P*a.awwh and  b0v.sap
asnt  e10:1'."t.,           Ie             I                                                                                                                                           JL                          A      -   _L.  .  .  .  _'
5.i Caler                                                      lot ......L    .   *                    .                     ,4             ._.**
(a)  lipri Yard                           No.           12)        20   4o         li           (*          49     21       10        I.)               42       Ii        (1)           I       .     to
(b3   K2r.dhb.  lwd V   nd O              Nher  Ve.     III         24        10    14           .        .1         .                (                ...A                (              .            II t.                     3  11.  111  1 
Sutbt tl IV dOhs                                                        202                      49    23        47                           2 I     04ItO                           4     2                          2      - 1
Riei   if  Weau   on  Os  .ber 1i1l  9,1c., InlludInS SY continaencle  In ucowrdanue  slt  Ft Cede, Fare. 92U.  The Pln dea oal not   ltd.   techalee   a                             e ,
0"3c



PAKISTAN
TENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
PROJECT COMPlLETION REPORT
LOAN 1372/CREDIT 684-PAK
-                        -   ~~~~~~~~~fl~~a  -&- -L  JL    iW-W                                                                                                                                                    - 
(43  IatuhI                     lese..                    i       I.qIs.
rev"10e%                                                     Is 33 4   Is                                Is'3  I 3    (.1       If      I    is           4.          3      3      Is         (.3       32      3    Is             -          3     3     3
(El  044., aftetea V.qta              *      (yr3.u.3        40      A    41        3Iarets.81    go    a    26         (Warluil..     to           toi        (.61mw..)    I    *         I       .T6                    
l. 163fGht tMIMIm
3334d13j~~~j1~~-                           314   342    338                        &    2T9    44311                                40                      23             19                           31                            0     6      9
113.     V.13,6 No   c.64 8.331.
(.3   V,.4.Iivo Yard 1y.1ams .            (various)        4    1  21                            .    .               ("rws l a1        I s2   21
not I"6                       me.        (403         34    44,0                             *            -           (33                     is2        (303          I3 go        i         (303              1      2i,          (30)        II33         23
(.3  Fe   qa  coacesu               lb,        (l003       441   331   900           (3133        341   44   lot           OM30      Ito    40   IS0           (3203        332   44     t80        (3203      tit    48   too            (3333      144   13   3I"
(43IWI Sq l. s4s                    34.        (3403         23      3    3P         33403         31    3    34
(.3   C.o,,s3  (Im   ft.w.
5"11  (1,5101                                     1T"*+ -ILL                                     *                         i   *         so*m   .41. -IL  -JL                          ('3   .L4
(33 VA4S3IP.ua 1104u*q                11-rist)         30o    3      44         (33            3                       4233       4      I    It         (32')          4    I       34    (VW 1..)        4     33     3       ("time)6          I   I38     If
(f 3 ai)   Iod       III.
8 ,.w ,4d.m34.                     ( l3          a     ja    33       (Wilus)                                ("flas        a      a    t0        (233eds         3    4       33        rml                       t        inlw
(w014cr,ga  *tlb                  (1,66            .         -.                                                              -U-~(6  ..    ~ .1L  rroo   -L   -U *  .,Uj) --L...f        1,363- ---- -                       (.I3            *
1.13.381 wil113e al3(6)l                                                                                                                                        o Is         5                      1      3     5                      3      1      i
(43  13,u.3.n3  V.11. ~ ~      ~        ~       ~        0                                                                  4     1        (1              I     a       t       (1)           6      .     o         L4)a                  
10,43430     *      (.6rI.,.3~~&  306 41"1  3.140                         aurli3                 (wr3.W I       3a           30 lb     r...         £a  au         30    ('61.1.         6 1 2    30          3,,366                    -I
asi33U' 3p3jj!T  ..4v3  ar 03.ecp.o.3sair   adsup.  A     ee'lIl   ,a   o  isls.tr   orplc   t~    fci'  r  lsitdsdtsirbaetodb    d                                                                                         pi
Spatmof  l t..       Io"i   h V.ra4  (.r3will  34v   1ei              3                                    .       (er.6          *      3      3     wia.                   *       3     (rI,) 
I (333)C OIlier.                   -      (6ra.            J,   ..        l      (ytajl            I           j        wuwa3        J                   J 4.                                    wI.u                        ..     (6. 
I/in     44.t . e  u3  o 033(btIin.)    ?11"e    muo  OmL .j            4 11                   4 o   osrato   ftr, ..o. ..and .and   ...±0  .i&..s   "'io  lstaid  to  jio P                                           .IL2t                                
Soure:      "dodgtesultmat.3.    II30                                   6      2                         3 *        3                       0     2       23                            1      3                      3     3       33                           3      1
33.   aiNo.vctoArwba.4



-39-
ARNEM 2
Page 1
PAKISTAN
TrENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Summary of P.R. Performance on Covenants and Undertaking
Under Credit 684/Loan 1372-PAK
Credit            Covenants/
MAreemct         Undertakings                         Remarks
Section 3.04      To carry out the plan of            Complied with
action, review its progress
and decide the action to
be taken.
Section 3.05     No change to be made in the          Complied with
Investment Plan, except for
that amounting to Rs 35
million p.a.
Section 4.01  1) Financial losses incurred on        Accounts of Pakistan Rail-
uneconomic sections and uu-         vays are being maintasied
remunerative services to be        Division-vise.  However,
recorded (Section 2.07 of           to meet the covenant, a
Project Agreement under             Coumittee was formed to
Loan 621-PAK).                      ezamine the feasibility of
maintaining section-wise
Accounts. This Coumittee
concluded that the proposal
wa's difficult to implement.
ii) Audited financial statement         Complied with
to be submitted not later
than 12 months after the
end of 1977-78 and 9 months
thereafter.



g-40
ANNEX 2
Page 2
Section 4.03  i) Reevaluation of fixed assets         Reevaluation of assets as
to be completed by July 1,          on 6/30/1976 finalized.
1977. This exercise is to
be repeated after every             Reevaluation of assets as
three years.                        on 6/30/1979 was also
carried out and completed.
The details are as under:
(Fixures in millLon)
Period  Budget      Revalued  Depre-
expendi-   Cost       ciation
ture
6/30/76 4228.2      7855.4      339.8
6/30/79 6254.8    21249.6       630.6
ii) Adequate annual                     Since complied with
depreciation charges
to be provided by
July, 1978
Section 4.04  i) Costing tariff study                 Complied with
to be completed by
December 31, 1977.
ii) Implementation of the               Implemented
tariff structures to be
commenced by June 30, 1978
and to be completed by
December 31, 1978.
iii) Fares and rates to cover at         Not fully complied with
least variable costs by
1979-80.
Sectiou 4.05      Revenue to cover operarting         Not complied with
expenses and debit services
requirements in 1977-78 and
dividend on Capital-at-Charge
by 1981-82.



-41-
ANNEX 2
Page 3
Side Letters
Side Letter      Second and Third class passen-    Passenger fares for Ist &
No. 2             ger fares to be increased by at   2nd classes were increased
least 20% by April 1, 1977.        by 20% w.e.f. 7/3/79.
Again an increase of 30%
was levied on fares for
all classes of passengers
traffic. Rates for goods
and other coaching traffic
were raised by 25%
w.e.f. 1/8/1980.
Side Letter      Additional Works
No. 3
3 new lines and one guage      ]
conversion:
!
., No annual return to be      ]   This has been kept in view.
paid on the Investment      ]
ii) Any losses to be off set   i
against future profits. '
iii) No adverse impact on the   1
implementation of Invest- ]
ment Plan and projects.    ]
I
iv) Rails, sleepers, bridge    ]
material to be given        ]
priority no higher than
those used for Investment  ]
Plan.                       1
v) Diesel Locomotives
Purchases of 30 locomotives    30 D.E. locomotives were
is allowed if they are used    received and put in ser-
for shunting operation.         vice and locomotives thus
released were utilized on
shunting services.
vi) A locomotive expert to carry   Complied with
out a study of future loco-
motive requirements in
collaboration with P.R.



-42-
ANNEX 2
Page 4
Side Letter         Government of Pakistan to        Complied with
No. 4                provide P.I. with at least
US10 million for diesel
spare parts for 1977-78/
1979-80.
Side Letter      1) Maxima allowable freight         After successful completion
No  5                train speed to be increased    of trials the working of
from 35 MU by Dec. 1978, and  goods trains with a load
to 45 H1I by December 1980.    of 1800 at 40 ME was
introduced on LaR-KYC
Section.
For increasing the speed
further to 45 WEPI, various
devices for improvement of
the vacuum brake system had
been obtained and trials
are being conducted.
ii) Specific time-phased plan       Complied with
for major bulk comodities
movement to be completed by
July 1, 1977.
iii) Staff tra gin   to be           Complied with
coamenced by December 1977.
iv) Minimum staff reduction to      Excluding the security
be about 500 p.a. in            staff which had a marked
1977-78 and 1978-79 and         increase during 1976-77
about 1,200 p.a. in             and 1?77-78 due to transfer
1979-80-1980-81                 of the Police staff from
the Provincial Goverment
to the Railway, the staff
position works out as
f ollows:
Year        Staff on loll          Reduction During the Year
1975-76       1 ,32,520                      -
1976-77       1,32,469                       51
1977-78       1,31,958                      511
1978-79       1,31,451                      507
1979-80       1,30,251                     1200
1980-81       1,27,980                     227L



-43-
ANNEX 2
Page 5
v) Staff reduction study to        The study was carried out.
be carried out by Dec. 1977    It had uot been possible
to make any further
reduction in the number of
staff in addition to that
agreed upon under item (iv)
above.
Side Letter      i) Dividend coverage to be.
No. 6
1978-79        25Z              Even after full rebate of
1979-80        502              the dividend on Capita-at-
1980-81        752              Charge. PR incurred in
1981-82       100%              1981-82 a loss of about
Rs 803 million.
ii) PR and Government of            The Government of Pakistan
Pakistan can choose to          has not agreed to bear
credit losses incurred          losses borne by PR on
on uneconoLical sections        operatiou of uneconomical
and unre-unerative services    and unremunerative
(Section 2.07 of                services.
Loan 621-PAK).
Agreed Minutes      Further reduction in the         The number of passengers
Para 4              average daily number or          trains has already been
the passenger trains in         reduced.
1978-79/1980-81 to be
discussed.
Para 5              Financial losses incurred       This has not been possible
on uneconomic sections and      as service or section-wise
unremunerative services         accounts are not maintained
to be shown as a foot note      by PR.
or exhibit attached to PR's
financial statements
Section 2.07 of Project
Agreement under Loan 621-PAK).



-44-
AINX 3
PAKISTAN
SENTI RArLWAY PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLErION REPORT
LOAN 1372/CREDIT 684-PAK
Actual and ExPected Phyeical Compl-tion
S Of Original Major Works
Unit of Completion of         Date of Completion of       Or Components Completed
Major workm or CoN&onent.   Najor _orks or ComAponnto           By The Expected
emtmett                                                   Actuci     Expected          Aetuel      Expected            Completion Date
New Line Conetruction
a) Iclamabad spur                                       5.6 km      5.6 km            1979         1979                     100I
b) Other new lines                                      2.8 km       14 km            1979         1979                      205
Track Rehabilitation Program
a) Complete track renewal                               185 nile.   185 mile.         1980         1979                      82Z
b) RSil renewal                                          70 miles    70 adles         1980         1979                      951
c) Sleeper renewal                                      200 nile.  200 mile.          1982         1979                      45Z
d) Concrete s'eepere factories
-  at Kotry                                            I            1              1981         1981                    I10Z
-  at Rohat                                            I           1               1981         1980                      845
-  at Shahinabad                                       1            1              1982         1981                      88Z
-  at RIhanewal                                        I            1              1981         1979                      75Z
Bridge Works and Civil Engineering Wdorks
a) Strengthening of bridge.
(Ravi bridge & Alexandria bridge)                      0           2                              -                      - if
b) Civil engineering works                                -           -               1983           -                       50Z 2/
Pigri Marshalling Yard                                    1            1              1980         1978                      20Z
Line Capacity Works and Terminal Facilities
a) Kotri bridge                                           I            1              1980         1977                      90Z
b) by pea. at Shershab 31                                 1            1              3978         1980                     1002
c) Freight terminal facility 14                          36           36              1983           -                      1001
Telecommunication and Related Signllintg                  -           -              OngOing       1981                      301 5/
Motive Pover and Rolling Stock
a) Freight wagon movers                                   0           6                6/          1978
b) Special shuntera                                       4           4               1980         1978                       -
c) le-englaing of diesel locomotive.                     20          20               1979         1979                     1001
d) Pasoenger coaches                                    200         200               1979         1979                     100Z
e) Conversion from four wheeler. into
boggies                                              4         800                7/          1979                    0.51
I.Plant and Machinerp for Workshops, Shed. and Depot.  229            229               1982         1979                      25Z
Improvewmat of Braking 5satem of Rolling Stock            -           -               1979         1979
Spare Part, for Diesel Locomotives                                                    1982         1980
Consultants Services
a) Telecomunication and related signalling
i) Technical assistance                                                            1983         1981
iI) Training                                                                        1983        1981
b) Improvement of Coating Procedores                                                  1979         1978
c) Training in operating areas                                                        1982         1981
These schemes heve still not been approved by COP.
No completion date va, made. In June 19B3, only 5OZ of the work. were completed.
By-pacr linee at Cobra still under consideration.
In 1977, the construction of the passenger terminal facility was suspended because of resource restraints.
Ref to Annex 4 for the modification made to the sub-project scope.
This component was dropy,ed from the project in 1978.
This component wa *uspended In 1980.



-45-
ANNEX 4
Page I
PAKISTAN
TENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
The Different Modifications made to the Telecommunications and
Related Signalling Network
1.      As the telecommunication and related signalling scheme represented
the main component of the Tenth Railway Project, controversies arising from
the definition of its scope and delays experienced in the procurement of its
components have been one of the main issues of the project.
2.      The telecommunication scheme included a microwave backbone network
covering the Karachi-Rawalpindi main line with three legs to Multan, Guetta
aud Lahore and complementary VEF spurs to wayside stations, a mobile VEF
system and some raito-activated signalling networks, and the related training
component to support the functioning of the system. In June 1977 Messrs.
Albertson and Associates - a team of consultants headed by Mr. Albertson, a
telecommunication and signalling engineer from TOP-SON-line services were
appointed to carry out the detailed engineering study and all the different
phases (preparation of tender documents and technical specifications,
organization of bidders' conference and bid evaluation) of the preparation of
the sub-project, as well as the supervision of the testing and commissioning
of the telecommunication network after its physical ccmpletion.
3.      The detailed engineering study of the telecommunication's sub-project
was financed under Loan 621-PAK, (US$0.271 million) and completed in June
1978. In July 1978, substantial changes were made to the original scheme
developed during the appraisal as a result of (a) the detailed engineering
study, (b) changes suggested by PR, and (c) the last modifications in the
frequency allocation made by Pakistan Telephone and Telegraph Department
(PTT) and the Pakistan Wireless Board Secretariat.
4.      Following the completion of the detailed engineering study, the VHF
system to be installed on the branch lines Kotri-Dader-Habibkot and
Jacobabad-Kashmir-Kotadue was replaced by a more reliable and more easily
expandable UEF system, creating the need for five additional microwave loca-
tions; after the study of topography maps, six additional microwave locations
were added to the 30 microwave locations envisaged on the main line. The



-46-
ANNEX 4
Page 2
capacity of the microwave system was expanded from 300 channels to 600 chan-
nels expandable later to 960 channel radio system; the telephone exchanges
were reduced by one; 80 additional trunk lines were required to connect all
PR's operators with a direct "hot line"; data terminals were limited to one
type thus reducing the number by 7; eleven base statious were eliminated to
limit the use of VEF comunications exclusively to locomotives crews; the
number of radio sets for supervisory vehicles was increased by six and the
number of pack sets for motor trolleys was reduced by eleven. 1/
5.      However, all additional items proposed by PR that vere not included
in the original network, such as the 450 additional hand-held Vts sets in
guard break vans, a telegraph (Morse Omnibus), EF radio equipment, were
considered, under the Bank's suggestions, as optional items in the tender
documents at PR's own cost.
6.      Besides the above alterations to the sub-projects' scope, the fre-
quency promised to PR by the Pakistan Wireless Board Secretpriat in January
1978 for the design of a microvave backbone system vas modified in June 1978
after the consultants had prepared the specifications, as it was found that
the bands promised (MHZ and UUP) either belonged co PTT or encroached on
other GOP agencies bands. As a result of all modifications, the consultants
had to perform additional work for about two-man months to prepare an
entirely new engineering study to verify the locations of the new microwave
sites, to develop a frequency plan and review the tower requirements.
7.      As most of the changes (excluding PR's optional items) had become a
necessary part of the basic network and represented an overall improvement in
the project design, the teuder documents were accordingly rectified in agree-
ment with the Bank.
1/  Reference: Mr. Holcer's me-  dated February 1, 1979.



-47-
ANNEX 5
Page 1
PAKISTAN
TENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Status of the Telecommunication and Related Sin alling Sub roject
1.        The detailed engineering and technical specifications for this
subproject were prepared by the consulting firm HMl Albertsoo and Associates.
These consultants also participated In the bidders conference held in Septem-
ber 1979, and in the technical assessment of the bids. M/s Kentron Pakistan
Inc.  (a subsidiary of LTV Corp., USA) was the lowest responsive bidder and
was awarded the contract in May 1980.  However, in August 1982, the LTV
Groug, sold its Kentron division. Thus, a separate corporate entity vas
created under Kentron International with small equity funded by the former
managers of LTV Group. Kentron Pakistan came under the control of Kentron
international. At the time of divestiture, a separate agreement was signed
betveen LTV and Kentron International for Kentron International to contlnue
to execute the telecom subproject for the Pakistan Railways and LTV to reim-
burse Kentron International for cost of services rendered in execut-
Lng/implementing the subproject.
2.        However in October 1983, Kentron International was served with a
lawsuit in which LTV claimed a breach of contract by Kentron International
and Government of Pakistan/Pakistan Railway. Apparently the basis for the
lawsuit by LTV is that Kentron International on the insistence of GOP and PR
had done work beyond what was required under the original contract. From the
day the lawsuit was filed, LTV stopped reimbursement of costs incurred by
Kentron Internatlonal. Since the latter does not have funds to continue the
vor"s, the expatriate engineers had to leave Pakistan and the project came to
a standstill.
3.        Testing of the microwave equipment already installed on the
Islamabad-Lahore section have been carried out by the engineers engaged by PR
and preliminary results indicated that quality of equipment and installation
on this complete section was (except for some corrections needed) acceptable.
Hovevtr, the overall noise level was high and will have to be ascertained
after the completion of the remaining portion of the subproject. Performance
guarantees were encashed by PR realizing US$6 million.  When asked by the
Bank (in October 1933) how much financing would be needed to complete the
remaining works, Kentron International gave an estimation of US$20 to 25



-48-
ANNEX 5
Page 2
million. No satisfactory explanation was given on this estimate which
appeared too high. 1/
4.        In December 1983, PR carried out a survey to find out details of
unfinished work including the remaining needed equipment at various sites.
Since PR was considering its survey report as the basis for inviting in the
near future tenders for the remaining works and in view of its resource
constraints, it requested the Bank In January 1984 to bire the Hls Albertson
& Associates' consultancy services for a period of two weeks to authenticate
its survey report. To assure a speedy completion of this subproject, the
Bank agreed to finance all the necessary consultancy expenses under the
technical assistance component of the eleventh railway project, and advised
PR to make the appropriate arrangement with M/s Albertson and Associates.
1/ Since all equipment and material for the project have been already paid
for and almost 95Z are in Pakistan and on site.



PAKISTAN
nW     AIL.WAY PO:r
FROJICT COOLUT I0N SNAVO
Actual "A Appaisal 2691"t4f Ot ItO  .t Coats
-------Acetl Cost   -- - --   Afroltl   RetICes*f Cate Oecludiqc Costlo.sael
Other Foreign                                    Otber f teip
PfvJe.to Cn.eoPote                          LoceL   IUD          caut        Total         Laccl      111        ' Con. rTol,
(US$)   (usO)       (US$)        (Usi)         (U3$)      (mus)        (U33.      (WSB_
1.   New Li"o CWmetructies                  4.74      -           -          4.74           6.4         -           _
(Imlawba4 spur)
it.  ftVek  2e bllltatiom                  24.49     3.15       34.12       10.94          19.7       15.1        26.4       61.4
Ills Iridle4  Works & Clvil
Easl Awrlos V*bsk                    5.00      -          0.63        5.23          17.4         -         3.1        l1.2
IV.  Ibrehollmg qTrde                     22.4        -          5.53       28.32           6.7         -          4.9       15.6
V.   Lise CepacItj Vorsk  nd1
T r mll f cilitie                  21.42       -           -         21.42           1.2         -         1.2         9.4
VI.  Telmee  ualcerlom and
SigmAIllag                         37.16    32.03        10.49      30.10           21.1      14.0         4.5        47.6
vil. Native Paer 4 Rollins Stoek
a) Narehelllsg Verd Ijuipuem
(4  haegter.)                   1.42      2.63         -         4.05           0.7        2.5          -           3.2
*) 3.-onalinn of Diesel
ae4kativao                      1.91       -          5.17        7.43          2.2         -          4.1          G.3
a)  Peseengor Coach.o                32.12      7.53         -         39.45          30.6       11.0         -          41.6
d) Basis Cooog,eloo tor
4-liweter Volans                 Dropped                                        5.9        4.0          -           9.9
VII. Plet and 14achlnery tor ockkehopm,
shad AJ Dopot                      14.92      4.19       11.27       30.39           7.3       3.7         2.1         13.4
IX. Change-Ooer to Atrhieko end
C40trel Coupler                      -         -           -           -             2.1         -         101
X.   Techical Assistance * Sttaff
trailing                             -        0.s4                    0.54            -        1.4          _           1.4
Its  Spare Fcts for Diesel
Loconogwoes                         2.45      4.41         -          7. n6           -        4.3                      6.3
XIM. Total                                171.20   59.48        70.04      300.74         134.6       60.0        50.2       247.0



PAKISTAN
TElJIT  RAILWAY POJCT
PIOJuCT CUl3QWITO  aMouT
Estimted and Actual Dlebursanat Schedule
Actual Disbart
Appraisal       New Estiites         Actual              Actual Diwbursemat ao X         so 2 of Now Eet(utee
Eatiustea       in March 1979        Disburaeeent        of Appraisal estimates          In March 1979
1977/78
Septexber 30, 1977                             0.1
December 31, 1977                              0.3 
March 31, 1978                                 2.3               -
Jun. 30, 1978                                 13.3               -                    -
1978/79
September 30. 1978                            23.3               -                    4.1                      18
December 31, 1976                             32.9                _                   8.1                      25                            _
March 31, 1979                                38.5                12.5               13.8                      36                            110
June 30, 1979                                 43.5                14.6               16.4                      38                            112
1979180
September 30, 1979                            47.5               21.6                19.2                      40                             S9
December 31. 1979                             51.5                30.7               23.6                      46                             77               0
March 31, 1980                                55.1                34.3               23.8                      43                             69
June 30, 1980                                 58.1                42.6               24.7                      43                            5S
1980/81
Septeuber 30, 1980                            58.8               45.4                25.5                      43                             56
Decelber 31. 1980                             59.3                50.6               34.7                      59                             69
Merch 31, 1981                                59.8                51.9               34.9                      58                             67
June 30, 1981                                 60.0                58.1               36.1                      60                             69
1961/82
September 30, 1981                             -                  54.6               36.6                      -                              67
December 31, 1981                              -                  57.1               38.7                      -6
Harch 31, 1982                                 -                  59.6               45.9                      -                              77
June 30, 1982                                  -                  60.0               46.7                      -                              78
L"62/83
leptewber 30, 1982                                                                   58.0
Deceber 31, 1962                                                                     59-3
KMreh 31, 1983                                           -                           60.0
CloingL Dete                                   6/30/1982          6/30/19821/         3/31/1983
1/ In February 1982 ths closing date wes extended to December 31. 1982.



PAKISTAN
lETIl RILWAY PROJECT
FU4JECT COMPLETION RIPOET
Eatilted and Actual freiht Tca1f1c and WAgo. TulgnrGauad
Iueiaht            I39J611              1t7111                191mg1                1979/I0                1530/31              1111/11
T     TNl    AD             T N    An     I      TNl   AD     I       IN      AD      I     TN      AD       I       N     AD
biluate    315.32   5.98  3294   18,231  8,314   361  11,616  8,524 341  13,913   8,953   3*1   20,175  1t238   3*1
AcUtl        14.1)1  4.605  240   132130  1.221   355  11.18* 5,133  48X  11..88    5,258   451   113s11  4.642   433  11.265  4.322  3"
I b7g1 1ee Iws- @a/01§0$
'hlssee              14.5                14.0'                 1.5                    12.I                   11.0
£et4                t1.2                 15.4                  35.5                   16.,                   14.1
EWin      T - Lao &a  (000L)
Ml - L_m         i
AD - Av.Iagq 4dime... (Ous)
bw4a   labia  la.ul       e eals a" ka1 Ealc



PAKISTAN
TENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION RC 1RT
Actual and Forecsstm of PR's Pasuenger Traffic 1975/76 - 1980181
1975/76            1976/77             1977/78           1978/79              1979/80            1980/81        1981/82
A.e.   Actual      A.E.   Actual       A.E.   Actual      A.B.   Actual       A.E.   Actual      A.R.   Actual      Actual
I.   Number of Passengers (million)
Upper clas  1/                      0.5       0.5       0.6       0.4      0.7       0.2       0.7       0.2      0.7       0.2       0.7      0.4         0.3
First clas TIl                      6.8       6.1       7.2       4.9       7.6      5.0       8.0       5.4      8.4       4.6       8.9      3.         3.8
Second class 1/                   152.3    140.7    153.5    137.2    154.8    143.8    158.3    140.4    163.5    138.9    168.4    119.0                115.6
Tntal                             159.6    147.3    161.3    142.5    163.1    149.0    167.1    146.0    172.7    143.7    178.0    123.1                119.9    3
11.   Passenger Miles (nillion)
Upper class 1/                       167      166       181      165       192      61         202        67       212      101       223       130       114
First class 1/                      752       791       801      711      849      906         895    1,161       937    1,086        983    1,026      1,073
Second class 1/                   7.051    7,141    7,191   7,373    7.331   8.587           7,500    9,158    7,690    9,574,   7,894    9,027          .037
Total                             7,970    8,098    8,173   8,249    8,372   9,554           8,597   10,386    8,839   10,760    9,100   10,183    10,254
III.   Average Travel Distance per
Passenger (jilel
Upper class 1/                      284       339       283      376       283        305      283       396      283       478       283      433        480
First class 1/                       111      129       III      143       111       181       111       215      111       237       111      270        282
Second class 1/                      46        51        47       54       47         60        47        65       47        69        47       76         78
All passengers                        50       55        51       58        51        64        51        71        51       75        51     82.5       8S.5.
1/   As of 1978/79 "upper class" includes both air conditioned and
upper class services. Up to and including 1977/78, "upper class"
includes air conditioned coaches, upper clas, and the old first
class services; "first clas." is the old second class; and
"second class" is the old third class.
NOTE:  A.R. - Appraisal Estimate                                                                                                                                      I



PAKISTAN
TENTh RAILWAY PROJECT
PROJECT COOPLETION REPORT
Plan of Action: Operating Indicators
Targets (T) and Actual (A) Figures
1976177         1977/78                1978/79                1979/80                1980/81         1981/82
T     A      T           A          T          A           T          A           T         A          A
a)   Average number of Passenger trains per day*
on Karachi - Ravalpindi line                     74   74      72          72        69          69         69          69         69        69        66
b)   Passenger train diesal locomotive  - Miles
per day per coach in use*k                      330  310    340         301        350         292        360         288        370       290      459.7
c)   Passenger - coach miles per day per coach
in use**                                        210  200    215         203        220        206         225        213         230      214       334.1          La
d)   Freight train diesel locomotive miles per
day per locomotive in use***                    150  120    160         123        170         125        180         115        190       123      175.6
a)   Average net ton per freight train***            613  610    625          626       650         627        675         596         700      580       489.8
f)   Wagon turn around (days)                       14.5 16.7      14         15.6      13.5        15.5       12.5        14.9       11.0    *14.7        16.4
g)   Complete track renewal (miles) Karachi -
Lahore-***                                       70   55      70          66        85          55         85          40         90        55          61
Lalamusa - Peshawar                              20   14      20-         20        10          10          -           -          -         -          -
TOTAL                                            90  69       90          86        95          65         85          40         90        55         61
h)   Reduction In the number of non-profeasional
and unskilled staff through attrition                        500         511       500         507      1,200       1.200      1,200    2,271       inder
and I)  Kotri bridge was completed in February 1982 instead of April 1978. and Pipri Marshalling yard by February 1980 instead of Decembar 1978
*  Both directions, up and dovn and excluding the Karachi suburban shuttle and corauter traina.
IC Excluding couuter and passenger diesel railcar trains.
*** Excluding stunting but including departmental trains.
**A*  Including removal of speed reatrictions on Karachi-Lahore mainline of about 100 miles                                                                             0
against a target of 140 miles. 



tUTU SA WA j8JC
laeu  ea  bugdiure Aeoaa1973/76 tbzeuaeh 296{2/6j
1975/74            2976,7                   29t7t7/                  1979/79                  2979/60                  1960/91            1991/fl
Ia. Mtillon _.
OmeraSma Eqteflue                                            Actual       A.F.        Actual       A.F.        Actual       A.P.         Actual      A.P.         Actual      A.F.         Actual        Aeg  tl
PaaeeXenwre                                                 457.2        4s5.0        473.6       S43.6        640.7       579.1        697.8       595.6         nd.o0      *.47        0,o,o.s       1,163.9
Othlr coaehla;                                               69.9         60.0         69.1        85.0         60.9        90.0          82.3       95.0          95.1     100.0          104.1         116.7
Iraight                                                   l,069.5       1,260.0     1,152.7    1,353.6       1,446.0    1,415.5        1,45.0    1,558.6       1,558.0   1.677.9        1.700.0       1. XO.O
Other                                                        31.8          36.0        33.1        32.5          10.1       35.0          I3.S       37.5          27.7      40.0           37.0          3 .6
Totel Operatinl  lvunue                                   1,619.4      1,66.0       1,728.5    2,016.7       2,197.9    2.119.6       2,273.6    2,281.9        2.678.8   2.432.6       29321.7       2*019.2
-   torkitat UzUUsis
Puel                                                        348.5        400          342.4       440.8         376.3      460.t         457.0      491.9         676.7     516.1         616.7
Labor                                                       662.6         760.9       734.7       763.9        992.9       779.6       1.048.9      794.1       1.,02.2     813.4       1,223.6        1.256.4
Material                                                    265.0         315.0       142.0       327.3        246.:       340.4         329.6      353.9         454.0     371.6         462.4          716.6
Othore                                                       52.9          46.0       117.3        50.4         133.2       52.9          93.6       55.5         268.7      58.3         270.7          S1.0
Total Working Esponses                                    1,329.2       1,524.3     I,536.4    1 582 4       1 746.5    16]33.7        1 929.1    1,697.4       2.483.6   1.759,4       2,733.4        3,198.3
- Auroprlation to OR?                                       165.9         223.3       207.4       242.0        263.7       325.4         272.8      335.4         370.0     345.4         420.0          421.0
- Total Operating Exponsgs                                1,515.1       1,747.6     1.741.8    1,924.4       2,012.2    t.959.1        2,201.9    2,032.6       2,653.6   2,104.8       2,193.4        2,616.6
- Wet g Oratima  v.nuoU  (1oaa)                            (104.3)       (113.4)      (15.3)      192.3         1635.1     IO 5          *71.7      254.1        (174.6)    327.8        (261.73        (50.6)
- Interret as loads                                          99.6         140.6       143.7       170.s         154.6      199.6         175.7      225.3         305.8     249.4         135.5          142.2
- Apprgoriatlon to IgmOeenrot Fund                           25.1          26.7        25.1        31.0          35.2       31.9          39.4       32.8          54.9      33.8          60.0           41.3
- flivied Paid on Capital at Chare                            -             -          34.3         -           154.1        --          171.9        -             -         -             -
We-t Onarati.. Surplus (deficit)                            (20.4)        (53.9)     (218.4)       (9.5)       (156.2)     (71.0)       (315.3)      (.0)        (535.5)     45.4        (457.2)        (003.1)
Os.ratiaa Ratlo (23                                          94            94         101          90           92          92            97         69           107        67           109            120
Averag. Receipt per 1aaeeo2er edle (Pales)                    5.7           5.9          5.7        6.-7          6.7        6.7           6.7                      9.2       *.6          LO.7           10
&Vera%* tacapt per too - mile (Pite.)                        19.3          21.0         23.9       21.2          27.6       21.7          25.4       22.4          29.6      23.0          35.1           39.3



PAKISTAN
TENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
PROJtFrCT COIGLETION REPORT
Sotirce and Applicaciun of Funds 1975/76 - 1981/82
1976/77                    197779                        1978179                       1979/90                       198(328                 1976/77 - 1980/81          1981/82
A.P.          Actual         A. t.          Acutal          A.P.          Actu4l         k. p.          Actual          A.?.          Actual         A.P.           Actual      Actual
Source of Funds
Net Operatina Reventue               111.4         (15.31         192.I          185.7          160.5           '1.7          254.1        (174.8)          327.8         (261.7)      1,046.1         (194.6)         (599.6)
Approprtatton to  1RF                22.3          207. 4         242.0          Z6J.7          ]25.4          272.8          !15.4          370.0          345.4          420.0       1,471.5        1.533.9           420.0
Draw from Reserves                   36.0           19.5            --            35.n            --            35.0            --           63.5             --            2C.7           36.0         173.7             -
-  Inproveent FulnJ                   --            25.1            -            1.               --            19.4            --           54.9              -            60.0           --           214.6            61.3
1.-  Railway Cash Ceneratiton         37  1          236.7          i4. 1         51.h           485.9          4 1.9          589.5         313.6           673.2          239.0       2,555.6        1,727.b (6IIS)
Decrease (Incru.asa) In
Workirtq Capital                   --              .                         14!.4             --         (786.6'            --         C104.5I            --           56.9            --          (617.II         (384.7)
21.-  Foreign Exchangr  L.,ans
Goven,ment's own Resources        t5.4            --             -             --              --             --              -            --              --             --           95.4            --
Coverneent 'for .additloo)        25.5            1.2         1612.t          40.3            64.0          1!2.7         12S.0          298.1            50.0         209.8          418.5          862.1          219.9
PR (for replacement)               0.2           15.J         '5,Jf            0.4           248.0           11.9         226.0          149.6           259.0         186.2          990.1          363.4          366.7
:11. Local CLrrency                                                                                                                                                                                                                      -
Grant. in Aid for lperatlona          --              --                                          -- *--                               -                      --           195.5            --           198.5  I/      478.9-
Government (for additions)          191.0          221.8          132.0         258.D           211.0          194.2          '37.0         !15.9           197.0          392.4        1,060.0       1,2t4.3           729.3
Cash rev&.1jpmant (for
replaceent)                         224.7         1I0.f            ?7.3         140.8            64.0          476.1            --          947.1             --           174.1          366.0       2,948.9             -
Total :, 1t  4 III                  S91.4          797.5       1,;61.6        1,106.5         1,072.9          62'.2        1.'o0.5       1.719.8         1,179.2        l.45r.9       5,465.6        5,707.7          1,361.8
Anlcat lon, of F1md
nbht Servnce                        227.4          19'.0          255.6         221.4           276.9          220.2          302.2         405.2           313.5          230.6       1,374.6        1.270.4            249.7
Investment on Additlons             217.0         til'.0          191.0         298.9           275.0          664.3          365).0        463.1           247.0         453.7,       1,497.0       2,062.9             725.4
Investmnent *n ReplAcerent          415.0          360.5         l1M.0          284.5           489.0          362.5    ~      I.0          678.0           497.0         484.2        2.143.0        2,169.7            702.5
Expenditure nn  moprevetnts          32.0           2t.7           32.0          25.0            32.0           21.3           12.0          25.3            32.0          45.7           160 0         144.0             53.5
Available for DivIdend                --            34.3            --           54.1              --          171.9           21.3            --            R9.7           -_            110.0          360.3              -
Other Transxfr (        f      l                     --                    --                             -              --            --              --                  196.5            --          198.5               -
Total                               891.4          7q7.5       1, I%.6          963.S         1,072.9        1,440.2        1,180.5       1,571.6         1.179.i       1'412.7        5,485.6        6,205.8          1,731.1
Debt Service Coveranst (2)          ISt            122.0          170           234             170            190            190            77             210             6i           19i            135
Net Cash Ceneration/Znvest-
aente after Debt Service snd                                                                                                                                                                                                -
vkngCapilbut  before                 21             9.12           202            71i            262                           342             02            46S          0.61.            302            01              0t      I
j/  In agreement yIth the recoaendatlons of the Comittee, G00  provided those grantSin aid to comoensate part of the operating deficits.
AP U  piraisal Projection



PAKISTAN
TENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Balance Sheets - 1975/76 Through 1981/82
Rs Million
----1976/77          -1977/78-----         ---- 1978/79---      --1979/80--          -1980/81-            1981/82
Asets                                             Actual    A.P.       Actual      A,P.      Actual      A.P.      Actual    A.P.       Actual    A.,P      Actual
Fixed Assets                                   2,898.8  5,269.7   3,102.2   5,909.6    3,395.3   6,481.0   3,803.6   7,157.0   4,620.0  7,751.0   5,304.5
Less Accumulated Depreciation                    (95.5)  (176.7)    (60.4)    (42.6)    (120.8)   (140,7)   (161,1)   (326.1)   (410.1)  (521.5)   (476.0)
2,803.3  5,093.0   3,041.8   5,867.0    3,27-4.5   6,239.3   3,642.5   6,830.9   4,209.0  7,229.5   4,828.5
Current Assets
Inventories                                    569.6    524.0      624.2      524.0       846.4      524.0     936.3      524.0      940.4    524.0   1,104.3
Receivables                                  1,130.1    239.0   1,225.5       239.0    1,532.4       239.0   1,918.9      239.0   1,324.7    239.0   1,760.8
Investment in Road Transport                    14.4      15.0       14.4      15.0        14.4       15.0       14.4      15.0       14.4      15.0      14.4
Cash Balance                                     -        49.0       -         49.0         -         49.0        -        70.3      140.6    160.0      251.0
1,714.1    827-0  1,864.1        827-.0    2,393.2     827.0   2,869.6       848.3   2,420.1    938.0   3,130.5
Leam  Current Liabilities                      884.6    756.0   1,182.0       756.0       924.5      756.0   1,505.4      756.0   1,112.8    756.0   1,438.5    UI
Current Assets less Current Liabilities        829.5      71.0      682.1      71.0    1,468.7        71.0   1,364.2       92.3   1,307.3    182.0   1,692.0
Carry Forward of Part Losses to be
Recovered from Future Revenues                 349.6    179.0      508.1      179.0       55214     179.0   1.067,9      179.0   1,346.7    179.0   1,670.8
3,982.4  5,343W.0      4,23-2.0   6,117.0    5,295.6   6,489.3   6,074.6   7,102.2   6,863.0  7,590.5  1,T3E.
Financed By
Govermuent Capital                           3,508.4  3,100.9   3,807.3   3,381.2    4,471.6   3,636.4   4,934.7   3,919.0   5,388.0  4,155.7   6,113.7
Cash Development Loan(Covernaent)                -       817.4     -          938.8         -        986.0       -        986.0      -         986,0      -
Foreign Loans (Capital Amount)                 359.8    654.4       358.5     767.1       623.6      786.5      879,*4    868.0   1,064.9    879.2   1,336.7
YoTeign Loans (Replacement Account)            112.0    721,7        45.5   1,030,3        12.9   1 136.2        63.1   1.387.7      154.3  1.581,2      413.4
3,980.2  5,294.4   4,211.3   6,117.4    5,105.I 61        5.1   5,877.2   7,160.7   6,607.2  7,602.1   7,863.8
Fund Balances
Depreciation Reserve fund                      -         -          -         -           -         -           -                    -       -           -
Railway Revenue Fund                          36.2       2.8      40,5      (42.5)       45.8    (101.4)       51.5    (104.5)      58.2    (59.8)      65.8
Improvement Fund                           (-)36.2      42,7   (-)20.1       38.1       165.9       41.6      198.1      42.0      261.0      44.2     303.9
Pension Fund                                   2.2       4.0        0,3       4.0    (-)24.2         4.0  (-) 52,2        4.0   (-)63.4        4.0  (H42.2
2.2     49 .5      20.7      T(0.T)      187.5     (5.8)    197.4        (58.5)    75.8    T1,T)          r2T    fi
Total                3,982.4  5,343.0   4,232.0   6,117.0    5,295.6   6,489.3   6,074.6   7,102.2 - 6,863.0  7,590.5   8,191.3
AP f Appratsal Projection



PAKISTAN
TENTII RAILWAY PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Statement of Cost and Earning Per Passenger Kilonetre (ProvLsLonal)
for Each Class of Traffic Service for FY1980/81 to PY19B2/83
-------- 1980-81                       - 1981-82       --   ----1982-83                
Passenger  General  Variable   Passenger   General  Variable   Passenger   General  Vatiable
Fare/Km    Cost      Cost        Pare/Km      Cost     Cost        Pare/Km      Cost      Cost
Paisa      Paisa    Paisa        Paisa        Paisa    Paisa       Paisa        Paisa    Palss
A.C.C. Sleeper    72.0       57.18    44.06         69.6       59.05    44.94         72.2        66.0      53.0
A.C.C. Sleeper    37.1       38.12    29.37         37.0       39.36    29.96         36.3        44.0      35.0
First  Sleeper    28.8       36.26    27.94         28.7       39.00    29.73         28.4        43.0      34.0
First  Sitter      17.4      24.18    18.63         17.5       26.00    19.82         17.7        29.0      23.0
Second Class       9.19      08.27    06.37         9.19       09.54    07.26         9.23         11.0     08.5
The costs prior to the year 1980-81 are not available because the methodology                                                -
for estabLishing detailed costs were still not Introduced. This was Introduced
only in the year 1979 after the cost study of SOFRERAIL Consultants.



-58-
Annex 15
PAKISTAN
TENTH RAILWAY P%.OJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Statement of PR's Earnings and Costs - FY1979-80 to EY1981-82
Rs IKi11on
197 9-80-
Variable   Fixed    Total       Diff      Diff
Percentage  Service         Earnings    Cost        Cost      Cast        2-3      2-5
37Z      Passengers       1,026.781   1,110.54   475.946  1,586.487  (-) 84  (-) 560
5S      Other Coaching    134.060       156.618   67.122    223.740  (-) 22  ()  90
57%      Goods            1,596.442      926.582  397.106  1,323.686    +670   +  273
11      Sundry              30.000         -        -          -        + 30   +   30
Suspense            14.614                  -          -        + 15   +   15
1001             Total    2,801.897   2,193.74   940.174  3,133.915    +Y09   -  332
An Percentage of Cost         -           70Z       30%      loo0
As Percentage of Rev.       100%          78%       34Z      112%
1980-81
Passengers       1,128.669   1,330.274  396.096  1,726.370    -232   -  628
Other Coaching    124.086      193.218   57.532    250.750    - 39   -   96
Goods            1,654.982     991.957  419.880  1,411.837    +662   +  244
-undry             36.574        -          -        -          + 38   +   38
Suspense
- 002            Total    2,944.311   2,515.449  873.508  3,388.957    +4294
As Percentage of Cost                     74Z       26Z       100%
As Percentage of Rev.       100%          85Z       30Z       115%
1 981 -82-
Passengers       1,159.493   1,519.214   477.858  1,997.072    -360   -  838
Other Coaching    189.132      220.690    69.310    290.000    - 31   -  101
Goods            1,659.001   1,030.975   504.218  1,535.193    +629   +  123
Sundry              38.S58       -          -        -          +  38   +   38
Suspense
L1G%             Total    3,046.186   2,770.879 1,051.386  3,822.265   + 276   -  776
As Percentage of Cost        -            72.5%     27.52    1002
As Percentage of Rev.                     91 2      34.57  125.5S



-59-
ANN     16
PAKISTAN
TENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN RAILWAYS ORGANIZATION
_~~~~~~~~~~~.1 .hn IC _g u
FciiE1 I               F L       O CHEI  WAVS
eLouJn                       n_eI  Isa W        I                             _ 1015ev 
OGEP asIan        I                                            s      I
mMErmm,Gus,M C. .      I ICrIIC
17~~~~~ "ig C                              L ' L
3 cc"zuIro           STORES
rsbDig T DoneCTo  C-_its eoftnuo
OPbOAC_   O E e



PAKISTAN TENTH RAILWAY PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN RAILWAYS ORGANIZATION
Federal
Minister of Railways
Sec., Ministry of Railways &
duinarn, Railway Board
M3&r, vlay Bord                     RaMilr dway Board                 Secretarly                      I_ iare
maiYnYe         r             1 *eiYmical                L      Railway Qmud        _ <            Xrriage Factory           lo
| Mier, Kilway l Ms>wiaywrd  0   |Federal Gmvenrvntl
lTraffic        r                 f Ctvi w sy neerlng       Inspector of Railways
General Xans r, RMauyls|
Railway Saff
U



Annex 18
Ex-Post Economic Rate of Return Calculations
(Rs millions, 1981/82 Prices)
Additional.
Investment    Cost of Freight       Cost of Passengers        New
Cost       Diverted to Road    Diverted from Road        Benefits
(1)                (2)                  (3)           -(3)-(2_ -(1)
1976/77     246                119                    22               -387
1977/78     357                  69                  171               -597
1978/79     708                  8                   263               -979
1979/80    '460                  65                  304               -829
1980/81     415                115                   235               -765
1981/82     584                 177                  248             -1,009
1982/83       -                155                   312               -467
2004/05       -                 155                  312               -467
The new benefits are negative each year.



-62-
Annex 19
ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN WITH FREIGHT GIVEN PRIORITY
(Rs miflions, 1981/82 PrIces)
Addtitional       Savings              Savings
Investment   from  freight        froM  Passengers        New
Cost      Diverted to Rail    Diverted to Road         Benefits
(1)              (2)               (3)                __________
1976/77     246                23                  239                 - 16
1977/78     357                62                   68                 -227
1978/79     708                88                  -86                 -706
1979/80     460               138                   69                 -253
1980/81     415               293                  303                  181
1981/82     584               364                  419                  199
1982/83       -               350                  329                  679
2004/05                       350                  329                  679
Economic Rate of Return is 31%.



