CONFORMED
LOAN NUMBER 1372 PAK
LOAN AGREEMENT
(Tenth Railway Project)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated March 8, 1977


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 8, 1977, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF
PAKISTAN, acting by its President (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCT'ION AND DEVELOPMENT (herein-
after called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter
provided;
(B) the Borrower has also requested the Association to pro-
vide additional financial assistance towards the financing of the
Project and by an agreement of even date herewith between the
Borrower and the Association (hereinafter called the Development
Credit Agreement) the Association is agreeing to provide such
assistance in an aggregate principal amount equivalent to twenty-
five million dollars ($25,000,000); and
(C) the Borrower and the Bank intend, to the extent practi-
cable, that the proceeds of the credit provided for in the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement be disbursed on account of expenditures
on the Project before disbursements of the proceeds of the Loan
provided for in this Agreement are made.
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of the
foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and con-
ditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein, subject,
however, to the following modification thereof (said General Con-
ditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions):
Section 2.01 (11) is deleted and the following is substituted
therefor:
"ll. The term Project means the project for which the Loan
is granted, as described in the Development Credit Agreement
between the Borrower and the Association of even date with
the Loan Agreement end as the description thereof may be
amended from time to time by agreement among the Borrower,
the Association and the Bank."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions, in the Preamble to this Agreement, in the
Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions appli-
cable thereto have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the term "Development Credit Agreement" means the agreement of
even date herewith between the Borrower and the Association for
the purpose of the Project, as such agreement may be amended from
time to time; and such term includes the General Conditions Appli-
cable to Development Credit Agreements of the Association, dated


﻿3-
March 15, 1974, as made applicable to such agreement, all agree-
ments supplemental to the Development Credit Agreement and all
schedules to the Development Credit Agreement.


﻿ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or re-
ferred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to thirty-
five million dollars ($35,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to the Development Credit Agreement, as such Schedule may be
amended  .om time to time by agreement between the Borrower, the
Bank and the Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Bank
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule
2 to the Development Credit Agreement and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, con-
tracts for the purchase of goods to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in accordance with the pro-
visions of Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1982 or
such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank*a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)


﻿-5-
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and one-half per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in the Schedule to this Agreement.


﻿-6.-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 3.01. Articles III and IV of the Development Credit
Agreement are hereby incorporated into this Agreement with the
same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein; pro-
vided, however, that: (i) all references to the Association in
such Articles shall be deemed to be references to the Bank, and
(ii) all references to the Credit in such Articles shall be deemed
to be references to the Loan.
Section 3.02. So long as any part of the Loan provided for
under this Agreement shall remain outstanding and unpaid, all
actions taken, including approvals given, by the Association pur-
suant to the Articles of the Development Credit Agreement referred
to in Section 3.01 of this Agreement, shall be deemed to be taken
or given in the name and on behalf of both the Bank and the Asso-
ciation; and all information furnished by the Borrower to the
Association pursuant to the provisions of such Article, shall be
deemed to be furnished to both the Bank and the Association.


﻿-7-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Sec'ion 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of for-
eign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of such
member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any public
assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any external
debt, which will or might result in a priority for the benefit of
the creditor of such external debt in the allocation, realization
or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost to the Bank,
equally and ratably secure the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in creating or per-
mitting the creation of such lien, shall make express provision
to that effect; provided, however, that, if for any constitutional
or other legal reason such provision cannot be made with respect
to any lien created on assets of any of its political or admini-
strative subdivisions, the Borrower shall promptly and at no cost
to the Bank secure the principal of, and interest and other charges
on, the Loan by an equivalent lien on other public assets satisfac-
tory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely


﻿as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking trans-
actions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year after
its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets" means
assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative subdi-
vision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by, or oper-
ating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any such
subdivision, including gold and other foreign exchange assets
held by any institution performing the functions of a central
bank or exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for
the Borrower.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02(k) of the
General Conditions, the event set out in Section 5.01 of the
Development Credit Agreement is specified.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof: the event specified in paragraph (i)(B)
of Section 5.01 of the Development Credit Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions, namely,
that all conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement have been fulfilled.
Section 6.02. The date May 25, 1977, is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary of the Government of Pakistan,
Economic Affairs Division of the Borrower is designated as repre-
sentative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary of the Government
of Pakistan
Economic Affairs Division
Islamabad
Pakistan
Cable address:
ECONOMIC
Islamabad
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD                     440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
64145  (WUI)


﻿- 12 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By /s/ A. M. Mufti
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Ernest Stern
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                              (expressed in dollars)
On each February 15 and August 15
beginning February 15, 1982
through   August 15, 1996                     1,125 ,000
On February 15, 1997                               1,250,000
To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 14 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                             1.25%
More than three years but
not more than six years
before maturity                             2.55%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                             4.65%
More than eleven years but
not more than sixteen
years before maturity                       6.80%
More than sixteen years but
not more than eighteen
years before maturity                       7.65%
More than eighteen years
before maturity                             8.50%


