CONFORMED
CREDIT NUMBER 684 PAK
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(Tenth Railway Project)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated March 8, 197T


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 8, 1977, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF
PAKISTAN, acting by its President (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by making the Credit as hereinafter provided;
and
(B) the Borrower has also requested the Bank to provide
additional assistance towards the financing of the Project and
by an agreement of even date herewith between the Borrower and
the Bank (hereinafter called the Loan Agreement) the Bank is
agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal
amount equivalent to thirty-five million dollars ($35,000,000)
(hereinafter called the Loan); and
(C) the Borrower and the Association intend, to the extent
practicable, that the proceeds of the Credit provided for in this
Agreement be disbursed on account of expenditures on the Project
before disbursements of the proceeds of the Loan provided for in
the Loan Agreement are made.
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to make the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date here-
with between the Borrower and the Bank for the purpose of the
Project, as such agreement may be amended from time to time; and
such term includes the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, as made
applicable to such agreement, all agreements supplemental to the
Loan Agreement and all schedules to the Loan Agreement;
(b) "PR" means Pakistan Railways, an agency of the Borrower
administered by the Pakistan Railway Board and any successor
thereto, and shall include any other agency of the Borrower
charged with the administration and operation of railways in
Pakistan;


﻿-3-
(c) "Investment Plan" means PR's Investment Plan of even
date herewith incorporating all capital expenditures planned by
PR during the period covered by the fiscal years 1976/1977 through
1980/1981 as agreed between the Borrower, the Association and the
Bank;
(d) "Plan of Action" means the plan of action for the im-
plementation of Part D of the Project, as set forth in the Annex
to Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(e) "Prior Project Agreement" means the Project Agreement
(Ninth Railway Project) Loan No. 621-PAK, between the Bank and
the Borrower's former province of West Pakistan, dated June 26,
1969;
(f) "capital-at-charge" means the capital provided by the
Borrower to PR for the acquisition of its original installations,
equipment and additions thereto, and appearing as such in PR's
accounts as the Borrower's investment in PR; and
(g) "Rupees" and the letters Rs mean the currency of the
Borrower.


﻿ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to twenty-five million dollars ($25,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or,.if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services re-
quired for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1982 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Associa-
tion shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent


﻿-5-
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit with-
drawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
.   Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each
February 15 and August 15 commencing February 15, 1987, and
ending August 15, 2026, each installment to and including the
installment payable on August 15, 1996 to be one-half of one
per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%)
of such principal amount,
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause PR to carry out
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and rail-
road practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit
and the Loan or the equivalent thereof in the currency of the
Borrower to PR for the purposes of the Project at a rate of in-
terest of eight and one-half per cent (8-1/2%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Credit and the Loan so relent and out-
standing from time to time, to be repaid to the Borrower in the
currency in which it is so relent, after a period of grace of
4-1/2 years from the date of this Agreement in semi-annual in-
stallments, the last such installment to be paid on or before
August 15, 1996; except that with respect to such portion of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Loan as shall be used for additions,
unless the Association shall otherwise agree, such portion shall,
at the time of scheduled repayment, become capital-at-charge not
subject to amortization.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall make its best efforts to
obtain credits to finance the cost of goods and services required
for the Project and not financed under this Agreement, the Loan
Agreement or out of the Borrower's or PR's own resources.


﻿-7-
Section 3.03. In order to assist in carrying out Parts C and
D of the Project, the Borrower shall cause PR: (a) to employ con-
sultants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association: (i) for
Part C of the Project, and (ii) for Part D of the Project as
agreed with the Association with regard to scope and area; and
(b) to implement a staff training program acceptable to the
Association.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause PR: (i) to carry out
Part D of the Project substantially in accordance with the Plan of
Action, as such plan may be amended from time to time by agreement
between the Borrower and the Association, and (ii) to review the
progress together with the Association made in carrying out the
Plan of Action for each year, and decide in consultation with the
Association on the basis of such review, the action to be taken in
the following year for the purpose of attaining the targets included
in the Plan of Action for such year.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall ensure that no substan-
tial changes are made in the Investment Plan except by agreement
between the Borrower and the Association.
(b) For the purposes of this Section, "substantial change"
shall mean a change or changes which shall amount to more than
thirty-five million Rupees (Rs.35,000,000) per annum in the
Investment Plan or any part thereof for such year.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be


﻿- 8 -
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Loan against
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Loan to be used exclusively for
the Project.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement sched-
ules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reason-
ably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in the Project and to examine the goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and the Loan and any relevant records
and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all
such information as the Association shall reasonably request con-
cerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit
and the Loan and the goods and services financed out of such pro-
ceeds.


﻿-9-
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed. all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for the construction and operation of the facilities
included in the Project.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause PR to maintain
records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently main-
tained appropriate accounting practices the operations and finan-
cial condition of PR. The records shall include PR's financial
losses incurred on such services provided by PR as have been iden-
tified by the studies carried out under Section 2.07 of the Prior
Project Agreement.
(b) The Borrower shall cause PR to: (i) have its accounts
and financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any
case not later than twelve months after the end of fiscal years
1977/1978 and 1978/1979, and nine months after the end of each
fiscal year thereafter, (A) certified copies of its financial
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to
the Association such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of PR and the audit thereof as the Asso-
ciation shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause PR to take out and
maintain with responsible insurers, or to make other provision,


﻿- 11 -
including self-insurance, satisfactory to the Association for, in-
surance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be con-
sistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall:
(i) cause PR to complete, on or before July 1, 1977,
a revaluation of PR's fixed assets in accordance
with appropriate and consistently maintained meth-
ods of valuation acceptable to the Association,
and
(ii) provide, on or before July 1, 1978, an adequate
annual depreciation charge in PR's accounts based
on the aforementioned revaluation of PR's fixed
assets.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall:
(i) cause PR to complete, on or before December 31,
1977, a costing-and tariff-study satisfactory to
the Association;
(ii) commence on or before June 30, 1978, and complete
on or before December 31, 1978, implementation of
a tariff structure satisfactory to the Association
based on the results of the aforementioned costing-
and tariff-study; and


﻿- 12-
(iii) ensure that the fares and rates on the above-men-
tioned study shall, by fiscal year 1979/1980, as a
minimum cover the relevant variable cost of each
service, passenger and freight, as agreed in con-
sultation with the Association.
Section 4.05. (a) The Borrower shall cause PR to take all
necessary measures, satisfactory to the Association, as shall
be required to enable PR to earn revenues commencing in fiscal
year 1977/1978, sufficient to cover all operating expenses and
debt service requirements, and progressively thereafter but not
later than fiscal year 1981/1982 a surplus equivalent to the
prescribed dividend on capital-at-charge.
(b) For the purposes of this Section: (i) the term "operat-
ing expenses" means al.l direct costs of operation by PR of its
facilities, including adequate maintenance expenses and adequate
provision for taxes, if any, depreciation and pension funds; (ii)
the term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount
of amortization (which may be paid out of the depreciation re-
serve), including sinking fund payments, if any, and interest and
other charges on debt; and (iii) the term "debt" means all debt
of PR excluding capital-at-charge and all debt incurred by the
Borrower on behalf of PR, except debt incurred in the ordinary
course of business and which is payable not more than one year
after it is originally incurred.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall cause PR to be managed and
operated at all times in accordance with appropriate business,
financial and railroad practices under the supervision of quali-
fied and experienced management and shall cause PR to operate,


﻿- 13 -
maintain, renew and repair its equipment and property included
in the Project, in accordance with appropriate engineering and
railroad practices.
Section 4.07. Section 2.10 of the Prior Project Agreement
shall be amended to read as provided in Section 4.05 of this
Agreement.


﻿- 14-
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following event is specified pursuant to paragraph
(h) thereof; namely that:
(i) Subject to paragraph (ii) of this Section:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any grant or loan made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project
shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
the terms of the agreement providing there-
for, or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and
payable prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii) Paragraph (i) of this Section shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that:
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination
or prematuring is not caused by the failure
of the Borrower to perform any of its obli-
gations under such agreement, and


﻿- 15 -
(B) adequate funds for the Project are avail-
able to the Borrower from other sources
on terms and conditions consistent with
the obligations of the Borrower under
this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following event is specified pursuant to para-
graph (d) thereof, namely that the event specified in paragraph
(i) (B) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 16 -
ARTICLE VI
Termination
Section 6.01. The date May 25, 1977, is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.01 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 17 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary of the Government of Pakistan,
Economic Affairs Division of the Borrower is designated as repre-
sentative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of
the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary of the Government
of Pakistan
Economic Affairs Division
Islamabad
Pakistan
Cable address:
ECONOMIC
Islamabad
For the Association:
International Development
Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INDEVAS                       440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
64145 (wUI)


﻿- 18 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By /s/ A. M. Mufti
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Ernest Stern
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Credit and of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Loan, the
allocation of amounts of such proceeds to each Category and the
percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the Credit
and of the Loan Allo-         % of
cated (Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1) Track materials, com-          13,900,000          100% of foreign
ponents and equipment                             expenditures
for track renewal on
Karachi-Lahore main
line
(2) Marshalling yard                2,100,000         100% of foreign
equipment in Karachi                              expenditures
area
(3) Materials and com-              8,800,000         100% of foreign
ponents for manu-                                 expenditures
facturing passenger
coaches
(4) .Materials and com-             3,200,000         100% of foreign
ponents for conver-                               expenditures
sion of four-wheeler
wagons into bogies
(5) Plant and machinery             3,700,000         100% of foreign
for workshops and                                expenditures
running sheds


﻿- 20 -
Amount of the Credit
and of the Loan Allo-         % of
cated (Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)       to be Financed
(6) Spare parts for die-            5,000,000          100% of foreign
sel locomotives                                    expenditures
(7) Equipment for tele-            13,800,000          100% of foreign
communications and                                 expenditures
related signaling
network
(8)                                 1,000,000
(a) Technical                                     100% of foreign
Assistance                                    expenditures or
70% of local
expenditures
(b) Staff Training                                100% of foreign
expenditures
(9) Unallocated                     8,500,000
TOTAL     6o,ooo,ooo


﻿- 21 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Association and the Bank that no pro-
ceeds of the Credit and the Loan shall be disbursed on account of
payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower
on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement
or supply thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and the Loan decreases or increases, the Asso-
ciation and the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or
decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item
as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of
the Association and the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 22 -
In addition, except as the Borrower, the Association and the
Bank shall otherwise agree, and until all amounts of the Credit
shall have been withdrawn or committed, no withdrawals shall be
made from the Loan Account except under commitments entered into
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
referred to in Section 1.01 of the Loan Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit and
of the Loan or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table
in paragraph 1 above, if the Association and the Bank have, or
after full withdrawal of the entire amount of the Credit, the Bank
has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit and of the
Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to finance
the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that Category, the
Association and the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) re-
allocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the es-
timated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan which
are then allocated to another Category and which in the opinion
of the Association and of the Bank are not needed to meet other
expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then appli-
cable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under
such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall
have been made.
6.   If the Association and the Bank shall have reasonably deter-
mined that the procurement of any item in any Category is incon-
sistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit and of the Loan and the Association and


﻿- 23 -
the Bank may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other
right, power or remedy of the Association and of .the Bank under
the Development Credit Agreement and the Loan Agreement, by notice
to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit and of the Loan
as, in the Association's and the Bank's reasonable opinion, repre-
sents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit and
of the Loan.


﻿- 24 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following Parts:
A.   Portions of the Investment Plan intended for implementation
in fiscal years 1977/1978 and 1978/1979 and includes:
1.   Track Rehabilitation
Complete track renewals of about 185 miles, rail renewals
of about 70 miles, sleeper renewals of about 200 miles
equivalent of track and the construction of 4 new sleeper
factories.
2.   Bridge and Civil Engineering Works
Strengthening and expansion of bridges; and construc-
tion of a research and development center and staff
housing.
3.   Marshalling Yards
Completion of the Pipri yard and construction of other
yards.


﻿- 25 -
h.   Line Capacity and Terminal Facilities
Completion of the second bridge at Kotri, construction
of the Karachi Passenger Terminal, crossing loops at
intermediate stations on the Lalamusa-Rawalpindi line,
by-pass lines at Sher Shah and Golra, and freight ter-
minal facilities at about 36 locations.
5.   Motive Power and Rolling Stock
Provision of six freight wagon movers for the Karachi
Port area and four special shunters for the Pipri
yard, re-engining of about 20 locomotives, manufacture
of about 220 second- and third-class passenger coaches
and conversion of about 1,600 four-wheeler wagons into
about 800 bogie-wagons.
6.   Plant, Machinery and Facilities for Workshops, Sheds
and Depots
Provision of plant and machinery for the Moghalpura
Workshop, the Rawalpindi Diesel Workshop, the Rawalpindi
Diesel Spares Workshop and other workshops, sheds and
depots; the expansion and rehabilitation of the Rawal-
pindi Diesel Workshop, the Rawalpindi Diesel Spares
Workshop and other workshops, sheds and depots.
7.   New Line Construction
Completion of about 5 miles of new line on the Islamabad
spur.


﻿- 26 -
8.   Change-over to Airbrake and Central Coupler
Research and development work on the change-over of the
present vacuum brake and screw coupler to airbrake and
central coupler.
B.   Spare Parts for Diesel Locomotives
Provision of spare parts for diesel electric locomotives
required during fiscal years 1977/1978, 1978/1979 and
1979/1980.
C.   Telecommunications and related Signaling
Completion of a backbone microwave route from Karachi
to Rawalpindi, including spurs to Quetta, Multan and
Lahore, related UHF and VHF communication equipment,
telephone exchanges, data transmission equipment and
related signaling equipment.
D.   Improvement of Railway Operations and Financial Condition
Improvement of train operations, locomotive maintenance,
accounting system and other activities related to rail-
way operations and financial condition as further spe-
cified in the Annex to this Schedule, with provision of
technical assistance and staff training.
*         *         *         *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1981.


﻿- 27 -
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
Plan of Action
to implement Part D of the Project
1.   PR shall develop and implement measures to achieve the targets
set forth below:
1976/77 1977/78 1978/79 1979/80 1980/81
(a) Average Number
of Passenger
Trains Per day*
on Karachi-Rawal-
pindi Line
Super Express      2        4         4        4        4
Long Distance
trains           18       18       18        18       20
Intercity trains  12       16       20        24       26
Express Railcars   8        6         4        2        -
Loco Hauled       19       19       19        19       19
Ordinary Railcars 13        9         5        2        -
Mixed              2        -         -        -        -
Total          74       72       70        69       69
(b) Passenger Train
Diesel Locomotive-
Miles Per Day Per
Locomotive in
Use**              330      340       350      360      370
*    Both directions, up and down and excluding the Karachi
suburban shuttle and commuter trains.
**   Excluding commuter and passenger diesel railcar trains.


﻿- 28 -
1976/77 1977/78 1978/79 1979/80 1980/81
(c) Passenger-Coach
Miles Per Day Per
Coach in Use**     210      215       220     225     230
(d) Freight Train
Diesel Locomotive-
Miles Per Day
Per Locomotive
in Use***          150      160       170     180     190
(e) Average Net-Ton
Per Freight
Train***           613      625       650     675      700
(f) Wagon Turn-
around (days)       14.5     14.0      13.5    12.5    11.0
(g) Ccmplete Track
Renewal (miles)
Karachi-Lahore****  70       70        85      85       90
Lalamusa-Peshawar   20       20        10      -
Total          90       90        95      85       90
The proposed reductions in average number of passenger trains
referred to in sub-paragraph (a) hereinabove will be reviewed
periodically by PR and the Association.
**   Excluding commuter and passenger diesel railcar trains.
*    Excluding shunting but including departmental trains.
**   Including removal of speed restrictions on Karachi-
Lahore main line, a total of 140 miles.


﻿-29 -
2.   PR shall not increase the average number of passenger trains
per day on lines other than the Karachi-Rawalpindi Line to exceed
281 from fiscal years 1976/1977 through 1980/1981 without a proper
study carried out in consultation with the Association.
3.   PR shall:
(a) implement measures for improving freight train opera-
tions, specifically in regard to increasing freight train speed,
additional unit and block trains and staff training required in
this area.
(b) implement specific measures to improve locomotive main-
tenance practices and staff training.
(c) In collaboration with the Telegraph and Telephone
Department of the Borrower's Ministry of Communications carry
out the telecommunications and related signaling scheme, staff
training and staffing of PR's telecommunications and signaling
sections, in a timely and efficient manner.
(d) complete and put into operation Kotri bridge by April
1978 and Pipri marshalling yard by December 1978.
(e) reduce the number of non-professional and unskilled
staff through attrition.


﻿- 30 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the pur-
chase of goods shall be procured in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Part A of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on
the basis of international competitive bidding, provided however
that spare parts other than those referred to in Part B hereinunder
to be financed under Category (6) of the table set forth in Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement shall be purchased from established spare
parts suppliers.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Subject to agreement of the Association and the Bank, certain
critical diesel locomotive spare part components to be financed
under Category (6) of the table set forth in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement may be purchased on the basis of quotations from ori-
ginal locomotive manufacturers, provided the aggregate expendi-
ture shall not exceed the equivalent of $5,000,000.


﻿- 31 -
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association and the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods, except those to be
financed un .er Category (6) of the table set forth in Schedule 1
to this Agreement, estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or
more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall cause PR to
furnish to the Association and the Bank, for their comments, the
text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other
bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising
procedures to be followed for the bidding, and shall cause PR to
make such modifications in the said documents or procedures as
the Association and the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association
and the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, cause PR to
inform the Association and the Bank of the name of the bidder to
which it intends to award the contract together with the reasons
for the intended award and to furnish to the Association and the
Bank, in sufficient time for their review, a detailed report on
the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, and such other
information as the Association and the Bank shall reasonably re-
quest; with respect to goods financed under Category (7) of the


﻿- 32 -
table set forth in Schedule 1 to this Agreement, the aforementioned
detailed report shall include a report by the consultants referred
to in Section 3.03 (a) (i) of this Agreement or such other consul-
tants acceptable to the Association and the Bank, to be accompanied
by the recommendations for award of the said consultants. The Asso-
ciation and the Bank shall, if they determine that the intended
award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such deter-
mination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Association's and the Bank's concurrence, materially differ
from those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association and the Bank promptly after its execution and
prior to the submission to the Association and the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds in respect of such con-
tract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and the Loan and not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall cause PR to furnish to the Associa-
tion and the Bank, promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association and the Bank of the first application
for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account or the Loan Account
as the case may be, in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the respec-
tive bids, recommendations for award and such other information
as the Association and the Bank shall reasonably request. The


﻿- 33 -
Association and the Bank shall, if they determine that the award
of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for
such determination.


