                                Document of
                               The World Bank


                                                    Report No: 65822-CO




                          RESTRUCTURING PAPER

                                    ON A

                   PROPOSED PROJECT RESTRUCTURING
                                 OF

             INTEGRATED MASS TRANSIT SYSTEMS PROJECT
                     SECOND ADDITIONAL LOAN

                              LOAN 7739 – CO


                                  TO THE

                       THE REPUBLIC OF COLOMBIA


                               March 23, 2012




Sustainable Development
Colombia and Mexico Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS



AF      Additional Financing
NUTP    National Urban Transport Program
CMU     Country Management Unit
GoC     Government of Colombia
CPPR    Country Portfolio Performance Review
PCU     Project Coordination Unit
MT      Ministry of Transport (Ministerio de Transporte)
MHCP    Ministry of Finance and Public Credit (Ministerio de Hacienda y Crédito
        Público)
CGN’s   General Accounting Office (Contraloría General de la Nación)
NQS     Norte – Quito – Sur Transmilenio’s Line
IMTS    Integrated Mass Transit System




            Regional Vice President:       Hasan A. Tuluy
                  Country Director:        Gloria M. Grandolini
                    Sector Director:       Ede Jorge Ijjasz-Vasquez
                   Sector Manager:         Aurelio Menendez
                 Task Team Leader:         Mauricio Cuellar
             Co-Task Team Leader:          Camila Rodriguez



                                       2
                INTEGRATED MASS TRANSIT SYSTEMPROJECT
                       SECOND ADDITIONAL LOAN
                                P082466
                             LOAN 7739-CO


                              RESTRUCTURING PAPER

A. SUMMARY

1.       The project closing date is extended by three years and nine months from March
   st
31 , 2012 to December 31st, 2012. The extension of the closing date is to support the
activities of the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) – the nodal agency in the Ministry of
Transport spearheading the ongoing institutional reform— until it becomes absorbed and
institutionalized by the new Vice Ministry.

B. PROJECT STATUS

2.      Project Progress.      The Integrated Mass Transit System project is rated
satisfactory, and is on track to achieve its development objectives. The project has an
overall execution and loan disbursement of 99.2 percent of programmed activities (the
loan amounts to US$300 million). The undisbursed loan balance as of December 31,
2011 was US$2.4 million, which will be disbursed by the end of 2012 in the ongoing
financing of institutional strengthening in the Ministry of Transport and in cities
participating in the National Urban Transport Program (NUTP) — Barranquilla, Bogotá-
NQS, Bucaramanga, Cartagena, Medellin and Pereira— resulting in an undisbursed
balance of almost US$1 million, associated with financing of the PCU. There are no
outstanding audit reports as confirmed by LCSFM. Neither this loan in particular, nor the
Republic of Colombia in general, is subject to an ongoing suspension of disbursements.
No changes in design, scope or expected project outcomes are involved.

3.       Key ongoing activities. The Government of Colombia (GoC) has been carrying
out an important institutional reform process, including the creation of the Vice Ministry
of Transport to support a comprehensive sustainable mobility agenda for Colombian
cities. This agenda is being led by this Project’s Coordination Unit (PCU), housed at the
Ministerio de Transporte (Ministry of Transport—MT), which has been charged with the
overall coordination, evaluation, supervision and implementation of the NUTP. Calendar
year 2012 is a critical year for this reform: all the necessary steps for the creation of the
organizational structure supporting the Vice Ministry of Transport are scheduled to be
finalized in the coming year. The GoC is requesting the extension to allow for the
continued financing of the PCU to coordinate and lead this effort. Once the reform is
complete the PCU will be absorbed in the new Vice Ministry and no additional funding
will be needed. The extension of the loan closing date will guarantee a smooth transition
and the continued financing of activities between the PCU and the new Vice Ministry.

4.   Implementation and Disbursements. The undisbursed loan balance as of
December 31, 2011 was US$2.4 million, which is expected to be disbursed by the end of

                                             3
2012. The remaining proceeds will be used to finance the activities of the PCU in its role
as the lead technical group spearheading the Ministry’s sustainable mobility agenda in
Colombian cities. It is anticipated that if the extension of the closed date is granted, most
of the remaining funds will be disbursed during year 2012.

C. PROPOSED CHANGES

5.     On October 27th, 2011, the Ministerio de Hacienda y Crédito Público (Ministry of
Finance and Public Credit— MHCP) requested an extension of the closing date of the
Second Additional Financing (AF II) loan from the current closing date of March 31st,
2012 to December 31st, 2012.

6.      There remains a small possibility that the reform may not be completed during the
year 2012. It is proposed that, in this circumstance, the PCU will be supported using
funds from the national budget or from a new TA operation (it has not been decided yet if
will be financed by IBD or World Bank) to the transport sector for the capacity-building
component.

7.     This will be the first extension of the closing date of the above referenced Second
Additional Financing (AF II) loan from the current closing date of March 31, 2012 to
December 31st, 2012, giving the AF II a total duration of three years and nine months.




                                             4
