Report No. PID7516
Project Name                     Azerbaijan-Cultural Heritage Support(+)
Project
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Cultural Heritage
Project ID                       58969
Borrower                         Government of Azerbaijan Republic
Implementing Agency              Committee for the Conservation of
Cultural and
Historical Heritage (the Committee)
Icheri Sheher, 39 A. Zeynalli
Baku, Azerbaijan
Tel:    99 412 92 1918
Fax:    N/A
Environment Category             B
Date This PID Prepared           March 15, 1999
Date Initial PID Prepared        November 24, 1998
Projected Appraisal Date         April 1, 1999
Projected Board Date             May 1999
Country and Sector Background
1.      Azerbaijan's location at the intersection of major trading routes
accounts for its unique culture, which has assimilated influences from China,
Western Europe, the Arab world and Russia. Its monuments bear witness to
these influences and to Azerbaijan's contributions to the cultures of
neighboring countries.
2.      During the Soviet era the preservation of cultural monuments was
largely in the hands of the Ministry of Culture of the Soviet Union and
Soviet Republics. Work undertaken by professional restorers was performed in
line with state-of-the-art practices prevailing then. Starting in 1988, the
efforts to preserve cultural monuments began to lose momentum and important
monuments began to deteriorate. This trend accelerated with the sharp
contraction of economic activity after the collapse of the Soviet Union in
1992. As a result of these developments Azerbaijan's ability to preserve its
cultural monuments has been greatly diminished:
Government agencies involved in the preservation of cultural monuments lack
the financial resources to prevent a further deterioration of even the most
important monuments.
With the renewed interest in Azerbaijan's culture, agencies emphasized
restoration and reconstruction of monuments over conservation, even if
available information did not allow for proper restoration.
Agencies are keen to show material results and therefore, often proceed with
restorations without having a concept of the ultimate objective of the
restoration effort.
With the decline in the emphasis on proper restoration and conservation, the
number of skilled craftsmen has dwindled and many of their approaches and



practices are no longer state-of-the art;
The agencies have no computers and outdated diagnostic equipment; craftsmen
work with the most primitive tools. The result is often irreparable damage to
historical materials.
3.      Recognizing the significant national and global value of its cultural
heritage and its potential to enhance social cohesion and revive the tourism
industry, the Government has:
passed a law to regulate the conservation of national monuments in
Azerbaijan.
initiated efforts to streamline its governmental organizations for these
efforts with the objective to privatize some of these agencies.
asked for the Bank's assistance for the efforts in conserving and restoring
key monuments and support for strengthening the capacities of the agencies
involved in these efforts.
Objectives
4.      The project development objective is to enhance the awareness of
Azerbaijan's culture and through that strengthen the national identity and
social cohesion. This, in turn, should contribute to stability and a
favorable investment climate.
5.      The proposed project would enhance Azerbaijan's capacity to conserve
and restore its historical cultural monuments, and restore or conserve a
selected number of cultural monuments which play an important role in
Azerbaijan's history and which are in imminent danger. The Government has
proposed four sites for conservation and, where appropriate, for restoration:
(a) the Shirvanshah Palace, (b) the Sheki Khan Palace, (c) the Karabaglar and
the (d) Momine Khatum mausoleums. All of the sites
have been ranked as being of international value under a project funded by
UNESCO; are significant landmarks nationally and in the context of their
surroundings; and people identify with the sites, culturally and personally.
Description
Shirvanshah Palace
6.      The Shirvanshah Palace is a 15th century monument located on the
highest point in Baku's ancient walled city. The palace is an ensemble of
several buildings enclosed by a wall, consisting of the palace residence,
Divanhane (a pavilion for public meetings), family tomb, palace mosque, the
mausoleum of Bakuvi (a noted scientist of the time), and the palace bath-
house. The Shirvanshah Palace is an essential component of the old town,
which itself is a historical site of international importance. The project
will include the completion of the reconstruction of the second floor of the
residential palace and the reconstruction of the Divanhane:
Preparation of a concept and plan for the restoration as well as the ultimate
use of the entire ensemble, and a more detailed project implementation plan
for reconstruction of the second floor of the residential palace;
For the Divanhane, carrying out of static investigations, documentation of
existing damages; development of the restoration concept and a detailed plan
for structural strengthening as needed, waterproofing of the roof, cleanup of
the water damage, and cleaning of the stone surfaces and implementation of
the approved restoration plan; and
the purchase of materials and equipment for cleaning of the stone surfaces.
-2 -



Sheki Khan Palace of Khans
8.      The Sheki Khan Palace of Khans is located in Sheki, the most ancient
city in Azerbaijan. One of the most unique features of the palace is the
large number of stained glass windows, which were put together without the
use of glue or nails, a construction technique known as the shabaka method.
Inside, the walls and ceilings in many of the rooms are covered with detailed
paintings of cultural and historic importance. The Palace is surrounded by a
rock wall enclosing a landscaped garden.
9.      The restoration of Sheki Palace will include:
A static engineering assessment of the palace, which would examine the
stability of the building and focus on the impact of the removal of the
concrete brace will have on the structural soundness of the building. It
would also include an assessment of the risk of damage during earthquakes and
provide recommendations for an alternative to the concrete brace;
Monitoring of humidity in the rooms and moisture in the walls for at least
one year; Detailed study of the paintings to determine the number of layers, types of
materials used, etc. so that the binding to each layer is known, and
restoration options can be identified;
Development of a restoration concept for the palace as a whole, including
removal of the concrete brace, restoration of the building, windows,
paintings, and the grounds;
Removal of the concrete brace, with minimum damage to the existing interior
and exterior surfaces, installation of a replacement brace, humidity and
moisture control systems and restoration of damaged woodwork;
Restoration of woodworking and interior wall paintings; and
Purchase of woodworking tools.
Karabaglar Mausoleum and Twin Minarets
10.     This site is located in the village of Karabaglar, about 40 kilometers
north of Nakhichivan city, in the autonomous region of Nakhichivan. The site
contains two monuments, a mausoleum and twin minarets, in a very pastoral
setting in the village. Both structures are outstanding examples of the
monument styles of the famed 12th century architect Ajemi Nakhchevani. The
twin minarets were built in the 12th century, and included a portal between
them, a style first developed by Ajemi. The mausoleum was built in 1333-35,
and contained cornices with scripts from the Koran in stylized Arabic writing
using glazed turquoise bricks and tiles around the top of the monument and
over each of the four portals.
11.     The minarets have large cracks which need structural stabilization. In
the early 1990s, a building enclosing the minarets and portal was
constructed, to provide some support to the base of the minarets. However, no
work has been done to stabilize the towers. The cornices of the mausoleum are
largely destroyed. Much of the surface brickwork of the mausoleum has been
repaired. The cupola was rebuilt, but there are still problems with water
damage. There are no current, detailed designs for their restoration or the
overall management of the site. Restoration of the mausoleum and the twin
minarets will involve:
The design and implementation of a plan for re-enforcement and structural
stabilization of the twin minarets. The openings at the top of each tower
need to be closed and the tops capped, to prevent further water damage.
Investigations of the foundation of the minarets are needed, to determine if
- 3 -



additional structural stabilization is required;
For the mausoleum, repair of the cupola to prevent water damage, re-
construction of the known script of the top cornice, and preservation of the
existing materials. The remaining scripts and materials will be protected
from further deterioration; and
Landscaping of the site grounds, construction of kiosks, and preparation of
brochures, etc.
Momine Khatum Mausoleum
12.     This mausoleum was designed by the famed architect Ajemi and built
1186, thus, as an original Ajemi structure, it is of particular architectural
importance. It is located in the center of the city of Nakhichivan and has
been restored as a national monument and is the symbol of the people and
historical culture of the region. The site now consists of the mausoleum, an
outside museum of stone carvings of animals, and a small museum inside the
mausoleum. The importance of this monument to the people is demonstrated by
the fact that the inside and outside museums were created and are maintained
by volunteers without any support from the Government.
13.     The mausoleum is leaning by about 11 degrees; the tilt of the structure
can be readily observed. Although the building does not seem to be in
imminent danger of collapse, it is important to obtain precise measurements
of the rate of tilt in order to determine whether the building continues to
move and further conservation measures are required. In addition, the cupola
of the monument leaks and needs to be repaired, vegetation growing on the
roof needs to be removed, and the cupola needs to be cleaned. The restoration
of this monument will involve the following activities:
Monitoring of the rate of leaning over a period of three years; and
Cleaning and waterproofing of the roof, including small repairs as needed.
Technical Assistance
14.     The most important issue the proposed project addresses is to raise the
skill levels of key staff in the agencies involved in the preservation of
Azerbaijan's cultural heritage:
Study tours will be organized for senior staff involved in the conservation
and restoration of historical monuments during which they would visit leading
institutions and agencies responsible for preservation of cultural monuments
in Europe and other regions.
Training of technical and scientific specialists in preservation and
conservation techniques.
Training of craftsmen in preservation and conservation methods by bringing in
experienced masonry/stone restoration craftsmen to work side-by-side with
local craftsmen during implementation of the Divanhane restoration project.
Technical assistance during the phases of project planning, preparation of
bid documents, implementation, and documentation.
Acquisition of equipment and hiring of contract staff to develop a
computerized inventory of important documents.
As part of this project, the Government would provide additional funding to
intensify the ongoing public awareness program. This program will involve the
media and NGOs.
Financing
15.     The project would be financed by an IDA credit of $7.5 million
- 4 -



equivalent and a Government contribution of $1.4 million equivalent. In
addition, the credit will finance technical assistance that will help the
Committee in developing partnerships with NGOs and international donors.
Implementation
16.     The Committee of the Cabinet of Ministers for the Restoration and
Preservation of Historical and Cultural Monuments would be responsible for
executing the project. The Committee has a design institute, regional centers
for conservation, restoration and production institutes and workshops. It is
headed by a Chairman with two Deputy Chairmen and has a total staff of 500
people.
17.     The project will be implemented through a Project Implementation Unit
(PIU), which will be organizationally located at the Committee and headed by
the First Deputy Chairman, who has extensive experience in the conservation
and restoration of historical and cultural monuments in the country. The
chief executive of the PIU, designated as Project Coordinator, and his staff
will be responsible for the overall implementation of the project, including
the institutional development program. The PIU will set up sub-units at each
of the three regional offices of the Committee in Baku, Sheki and Nakhichivan
responsible for monitoring the implementation of the subcomponents in their
respective regional areas The PIU will have officers for project management
and coordination, procurement, financial management, progress monitoring, and
partnership building. The PIU will have an expatriate consultant to assist it
in implementing, monitoring and evaluation of the project. Financing will be
provided for a procurement specialist for the first year of project
implementation. In parallel, procurement training will be provided for the
procurement officer. An oversight committee, with representation from the
President's office, Parliament, Ministry of Culture, Academy of Sciences,
NGOs and the public will be established to provide policy guidance,
facilitate coordination, and oversee implementation.
Sustainability
18.     The project has been designed to incorporate strategies that will
facilitate the sustainability of the Government's efforts to restore and
preserve historical sites and cultural heritage in Azerbaijan. The main
elements of these strategies are:
strengthening the capacity of the Committee to implement a comprehensive
program for the restoration and preservation of historical and cultural
sites; updating the skills of restorers and workmen; and
support in establishing partnerships with private corporations and
international donors.
Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
19.     Support for cultural heritage is a relatively recent initiative in the
Bank. It is therefore too early to draw lessons from similar projects in this
sector. However, lessons from the preparation and early implementation of the
Georgia Cultural Heritage LIL provide useful indications. These include:
project implementation units should be established as soon as possible;
the project design should be kept simple to ensure timely implementation;
PIU staff needs to receive training in areas that are critical for achieving
the project objectives;
-5-



community involvement and stakeholder participation is critical for building ownership;
and efforts to build partnerships with the private sector and other international
organizations involved in the preservation of cultural heritage is the key for
sustainability.
Environmental Aspects
20.     An assessment was carried out during the preparation of the project to
ascertain whether the reconstruction of the selected monuments would create
any adverse environmental impacts. It was found that no chemicals will be
used in the cleaning of the monuments; and that most of the on-site
construction work would involve the use of traditional methods and materials
which do not produce any hazardous wastes; overall current practices of
handling and disposal of construction wastes are adequate; the sites are
small and all are separated from the surrounding area by walls.
21.     Potentially adverse environmental concerns stem primarily from the
increased traffic to transport raw materials from the quarry and the noise
and dust involved in the cutting of the stones at the restoration sites. The
only site where traffic material deliveries will be of concern is in the
reconstruction of the Shirvanshah Palace, where stones from a quarry that is
about 60 kilometers from the site will delivered throughout the construction
period. However, the frequency of deliveries will be low, and will not
contribute significantly to air pollution. Noise and dust from the cutting of
stones at the site will have a very localized impact. Agreement will be
sought with the implementing agency to install dust suppression equipment and
to conduct this work only during normal working hours. The quarry from where
the stones for the reconstruction of the Shirvanshah Palace are obtained is
located about 60 km from Baku in a desert-like environment. The quarry which
has provided the stones for the palace since the 15th century, is surrounded
by numerous other quarries. It was ascertained that no people live in this
area, and that the safety measures for the workers, cutting the stones, are
adequate.
Program Objective Categories
22.     The program objective categories include: environmental protection and
management and to a lesser degree, poverty alleviation and private sector
development.
Benefits and Risks
23.     The benefits of the project include:
The restored monuments will convey to visitors the important historical role
of Azerbaijan in the region and, because of the location on the Silk Road,
beyond the region. It will deepen the understanding of what it means to be
Azerbaijani and, as such, contribute to social cohesion in the country. In
addition, investments will lay the foundation for further restoration
efforts. This project will directly benefit local communities at the sites in Sheki,
Baku and Nakhichivan through additional employment arising from renovation
work and the increase in tourism.
Implementation of the project will expose the staff of the Committee to
modern accounting, procurement and project management practices. The Bank's
involvement in the restoration of these important monuments will facilitate
the Committee's efforts to raise additional funds for other restoration
- 6 -



activities.
A special effort will be made under the project to upgrade the skills of the
people who actually carry out the physical restoration of the monuments.
Together with the businesses in the local communities, they will be the
primary financial beneficiaries.
24.     The risks of the project include:
Government fails to mount a public relations campaign for Azerbaijan's
cultural sites. Failure to implement the new law for conservation and restoration of
historical monuments
Government does not maintain the current level of funding to the sector.
Contact Point:           The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Peter Pollak, ECSEG
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone No.:   (202) 458-1065
Fax No.:         (202) 477-7977
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
This PID processed the week ending April 2, 1999.
- 7-



Annex
Because this is a Category B project, it may be required that the borrower
prepare a separate EA report. If a separate EA report is required, once it is
prepared and submitted to the Bank, in accordance with OP 4.01, Environmental
Assessment, it will be filed as an annex to the Public Information Document
(PID) .
If no separate EA report is required, the PID will not contain an EA annex;
the findings and recommendations of the EA will be reflected in the body of
the PID.
-8-



