                                        Document of
                                       The World Bank




                                                              Report No: ICR0000772



                 IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                     (Credit No 3207 AZ)

                                            ON A

                                          CREDIT

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 5.6 MILLION
                              (US$ 7.5 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                             TO

                                  AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC

                                           FOR A

                         CULTURAL HERITAGE SUPPORT PROJECT


                                    FEBRUARY 26, 2008




Sustainable Development Department
South Caucasus Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region

                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
           (Exchange Rate Effective January 31, 2007)
                 Currency Unit = Manat (AZM)
                    Manat 1.00 = US$ 1.1853
                      US$ 1.00 = Manat 0.8437

                         FISCAL YEAR
                    [January 1 ­ December 31]

             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AZM         Azerbaijan Manat
AZERBERPA   Scientific Research Institute for Restoration and Conservation of
            Architectural Monuments
B&B         Bed and Breakfast
CDD         Communities Driven Development
CHSP        Cultural Heritage Support Project
DO          Development Objectives
GOA         Government of Azerbaijan
ICR         Implementation Completion Report
IDA         International Development Association
IP          Implementation Performance
IS          Icheri Seher-The ancient fully walled old citadel in the center of
            modern Baku
ISR         Implementation Status Report
MCT         Ministry of Culture and Tourism
MIS         Management Information System
M&E         Monitoring and Evaluation
MTR         Mid Term Review
NGO         Non Governmental Organization
PAD         Project Appraisal Document
PDO         Project Development Objectives
PIU         Project Implementation Unit
POC         Project Oversight Committee
SDP         Site Development Plan
SDR         Standard Drawing Rights
SOE         Statement of Expenditures
TA          Technical Assistance
UNDP        United Nations Development Program
UNESCO      United Nations Educational Scientific and Cultural Organization


              Vice President:        Shigeo Katsu
            Country Director:        D-M. Dowsett-Coirolo
             Sector Manager:         Maninder Gill
         Project Team Leader:         Giuseppe Fantozzi

                                    AZERBAIJAN REPUBLIC

                       CULTURAL HERITAGE SUPPORT PROJECT


                                              CONTENTS


Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

1. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
3. Assessment of Outcomes
4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
6. Lessons Learned
7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 2. Outputs by Component
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes
Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Result
Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results
Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR
Annex 8. Comments of Co financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders
Annex 9. List of Supporting Documents

A. Basic Information

                                                                      Cultural Heritage
Country:                Azerbaijan             Project Name:
                                                                      Preservation Project
Project ID:             P058969                L/C/TF Number(s):      IDA-32070
ICR Date:               04/04/2008             ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                      AZERBAIJAN
Lending Instrument:     SIL                    Borrower:
                                                                      REPUBLIC
Original Total
                        XDR 5.6M               Disbursed Amount:      XDR 5.4M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
PIU-Ministry of Culture
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process          Original Date   Revised / Actual
                                                                                 Date(s)
Concept Review:        03/24/1999     Effectiveness:         01/28/2000        01/28/2000
Appraisal:             03/28/1999     Restructuring(s):
Approval:              05/13/1999     Mid-term Review:       02/14/2005        02/24/2003
                                      Closing:               12/31/2004        06/30/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                      Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                   Moderate
Bank Performance:                              Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                          Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                   Ratings               Borrower                Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Unsatisfactory         Government:            Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory           Implementing
                                               Agency/Agencies:       Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                   Overall Borrower
Performance:            Moderately SatisfactoryPerformance:           Satisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                               QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators              (if any)              Rating

Potential Problem Project No                   Quality at Entry      None


                                               i

at any time (Yes/No):                           (QEA):
Problem Project at any                          Quality of
                          No                                         None
time (Yes/No):                                  Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                              Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                               17                15
Other social services                                           83                85


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction          Primary           Primary
Participation and civic engagement                           Secondary          Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:           Shigeo Katsu                      Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:         D-M Dowsett-Coirolo               Ishrat Husain
Sector Manager:           Maninder S. Gill                  Hossein Razavi
Project Team Leader:      Giuseppe Fantozzi                 Peter Pollack
ICR Team Leader:          Giuseppe Fantozzi
ICR Primary Author:       Giuseppe Fantozzi
                          Emanuele Santi
                          Juan Bautista Morelli



F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
To enhance the awareness of, and support for, Azerbaijan's culture and through that, help
strengthen national identity and social cohesion at a difficult time of national transition.
This, in turn, should contribute to stability and a favorable investment climate. This
objective would be achieved through:
  · the conservation and partial reconstruction of four historical monuments of global
significance: the Shirvanshah Palace in Baku, the Palace of Khans in Sheki and the
Karabaglar and Momine Khatum Mausoleums in Nakhchivan; and
  · the strengthening of Azerbaijan's capacity to conserve and restore historical
monuments.




                                               ii

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
PDO was not revised.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target      Formally        Actual Value

   Indicator          Baseline Value           Values (from        Revised          Achieved at
                                                 approval           Target         Completion or
                                                documents)          Values         Target Years
Indicator 1 :   Increase in the number of visitors to cultural sites in Azerbaijan
Value
quantitative or 1,121,000                   N/A                                 1,398,000
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2001                    12/31/2001                          12/31/2006

Comments        The number of visitors to Museums and AR per year from the Azerbaijan

(incl. %        Statistical Service can be considered as a good proxy of the above indicators,

achievement)    involving all cultural sites. During the observed period, it has experienced an
                increase of over 24%.

Indicator 2 :   Increase in the number of volunteers and non-governmental groups involved in
                the conservation and restoration of historical and cultural sites
Value
quantitative or N/A                         N/A                                 32
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2001                    12/31/2001                          12/31/2006
Comments        At the time of project design there were no volunteers or NGOs and groups
(incl. %        involved in conservation and restoration of historical and cultural sites. It should
achievement)    be also noted that in the past few years the NGO phenomenon is on the rise.
Indicator 3 :   Increase in number of new site restorations
Value
quantitative or 25                          N/A                                 48
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/1999                    06/30/2007                          12/31/2006

Comments        This includes only the sites under the MoCT program. Other public and private

(incl. %        institutions are increasingly restoring sites and historical buildings (i.e. Kish

achievement)    municipality with Norwegian bilateral cooperation) but structured data is not
                available.

Indicator 4 :   Increase in funding from public and private sources for conservation and
                restoration of historical and cultural sites
Value
quantitative or 142,000                     N/A                                 1,450,000
Qualitative)
Date achieved 12/31/2001                    12/31/2001                          12/31/2006
Comments        While there is no availability of aggregate information on private funding during
(incl. %        the period, the Ministry#s budget has shown an impressive 10 fold increase in
achievement)    nominal terms




                                                 iii

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                           Original Target      Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value          Values (from                         Achieved at
                                              approval           Revised       Completion or
                                             documents)       Target Values    Target Years

Indicator 1 :  Conservation or partial reconstruction of four historical monuments of global
               cultural importance.
                                          4
                                          (Momine Khatum

Value                                     and Karabaglar in

(quantitative  0                          Nackhichevan,                     100%
or Qualitative)                           Shirvanshah
                                          complex in Baku,
                                          Kahn Palace in
                                          Sheki)
Date achieved 12/31/1999                  06/30/2007                        06/30/2007

Comments       The the four originally planned sites were restored/conserved. In Baku and Sheki

(incl. %       much more was achieved: the Mosque and the Ovdan (public well) at the

achievement)   Shrivanshah complex in Baku were restored; the old caserme in Sheki was also
               reconstructed.


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                                  Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived               DO                          IP                Disbursements
                                                                              (USD millions)
  1     06/15/1999          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      0.00
  2     12/09/1999          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      0.00
  3     05/19/2000          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      0.25
  4     11/16/2000          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      0.38
  5     02/01/2001          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      0.38
  6     06/11/2001          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      0.48
  7     12/05/2001          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      0.61
  8     02/20/2002          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      0.81
  9     08/05/2002          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      1.33
  10    02/07/2003          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      2.20
  11    05/22/2003          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      2.62
  12    12/24/2003          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      4.37
  13    06/30/2004          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      5.21
  14    12/29/2004          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      5.80
  15    06/06/2005          Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory                 6.05
  16    10/28/2005          Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory                 6.10
  17    09/12/2006          Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory                 6.58
  18    06/29/2007          Satisfactory               Satisfactory                      7.41




                                              iv

H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable




I. Disbursement Profile




                             v

1. Project Context, Development Objectives [or Global Environment Objectives] and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative):

1.1      Context at Appraisal (summary of country/sector background, rationale for Bank
assistance):
Azerbaijan is a land rich in tangible and intangible culture, with many unique monuments covering
a wide time range dating from the Stone Age to the contemporary era. The country's location at
the intersection of major trading routes, some of which date back to pre-historic times, accounts for
its unique culture, which has assimilated influences stretching from China to Western Europe and
from the Arab world to Russia. Its numerous monuments bear witness not only to these influences,
but also to Azerbaijan's contributions to the cultures of its neighboring countries.

At the time of project appraisal, such wealth of cultural assets was at serious risk. Government
agencies involved in the preservation of cultural monuments lacked the financial resources to
prevent a further deterioration of even the most important monuments. Nevertheless, government
agencies were keen to show material results and often proceeded with restorations and
reconstruction of monuments, without having a clear concept of the ultimate objective of the
restoration efforts, nor taking into account the original design of such monuments. The situation was
also exacerbated by the limited number of skilled craftsmen in the country, who were often working
with the most primitive tools. The agencies had no computers and outdated diagnostic equipment.
The result was often irreparable damage to historical materials.

In 1999, recognizing the significant national and global value of its cultural heritage, the
Government of Azerbaijan (GOA) passed a law to regulate the conservation of national monuments,
initiated efforts to reorganize its governmental agencies involved in the restoration of cultural
monuments; and asked for the Bank's assistance for the ongoing efforts in conserving and restoring
key monuments and support for strengthening the capacities of the agencies involved to bring them
in line with leading organizations in the rest of the world.

Although the Bank did not anticipate any involvement in the area of cultural heritage in its country
assistance strategy, it joined the GOA in recognizing the strategic importance of the sector, as a
means to strengthen the efforts of building identity and social cohesion in the relatively young nation
of Azerbaijan3, as well as setting the basis for future growth of tourism. The Bank also acted in a
context of emergency, considering the high number of sites of global significance which were facing
the risk of irreparable damage4.

1.2      Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators [as approved]:
The project development objective was to enhance the awareness of, and support for, Azerbaijan's
culture and through that, help strengthen national identity and social cohesion at a difficult time of
national transition. This objective was planned to be achieved through: (i) the conservation and


3Azerbaijan gained its independence in 1991
4 Shortly after project approval, UNESCO declared Baku's old city Icheri Seher (IS) as a World Heritage Site and
shortly after added it to its endangered site list due to its poor conditions and lack of Management Plan. Originally a port
city on the Caspian Sea, Icheri Seher was a bustling maze of streets that was protected on three sides by crenellated walls
(the fourth side faced the sea). It r represents an outstanding and rare example of an historic urban ensemble and
architecture with influence from Zoroastrian, Sassanian, Arabic, Persian, Shirvani, Ottoman, and Russian cultures.


                                                                1

partial reconstruction of four historical monuments of global significance: the Shirvanshah Palace in
Baku, the Palace of Khans in Sheki and the Karabaglar and Momine Khatum Mausoleums in
Nakhchivan which were in imminent danger5; and (ii) the strengthening of Azerbaijan's capacity to
conserve and restore historical monuments.

Key performance indicators were the following: (i) increase in the number of visitors to cultural sites
in Azerbaijan; (ii) increase in the number of volunteers and non-governmental groups involved in the
conservation and restoration of historical and cultural sites; (iii) increase in the number of new site
restorations; and (iv) increase in the funding from public and private sources for the conservation
and restoration of historical and cultural sites. No specific PDO indicator has been included for
measuring the strengthening of Azerbaijan's capacity to conserve and restore historical monuments
since this was realized through activities that did not lead to numeric results such as the
informatization of the Scientific Research Institute for Restoration and Conservation of Architectural
Monuments (Azerberpa) archive, realization of the management Plan of Icheri Seher, realization of a
study about the institutional set-up of Cultural Property management, implementation of key training
activities such as in on-site management planning and exposure to state-of-art practices of
restoration and conservation.

1.3      Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification:
The original PDO was not revised, nor the key indicators.

1.4      Main Beneficiaries (original and revised; briefly describe the "the primary target group"
identified in the PAD and as captured in the PDO, as well as any other individuals and
organizations expected to benefit from the project):
The project primary target beneficiaries were the local communities at the four sites in Baku, Sheki
and two in Nakhchivan through additional employment arising from renovation work and the
increase in tourism as the restored monuments help convey to visitors the important historical role of
Azerbaijan in the region and, because of its location on the Silk Road, beyond the region. The
project also was planned to upgrade the Azeri capacity to conserve and restore, therefore the GOA's
agencies in charge of guarding and restoration of monuments of historical and/or cultural value6
were also seen as primary beneficiaries through their exposure not only to state-of-the-art practices
of restoration and conservation but also to better accounting, procurement and project management
practices. The Bank's involvement in the restoration of these important monuments was also
intended to help the Ministry of Culture's efforts to raise additional funds for other restoration
activities.

1.5      Original Components (as approved):
The five main components were the following:



5The 4 mentioned sites had been ranked as being of international value under a project founded by UNESCO and were
significant landmarks, within a national sense, but also within the context of their surroundings, either as part of ancient
cityscapes or rural villages where people identify with the sites, culturally and personally.
6The Committee for the Restoration and Preservation of Historical and Cultural Monuments was liquidated by
Presidential Decree on February 3, 2000 and its structure, functions and supervision of CHSP Project Implementation
Unit were passed to the Ministry of Culture and Tourism.


                                                             2

    · Shirvanshah Palace (US$3.09 million) included (i) concept paper for ensemble detailed
         plan for the palace residence (2nd floor); (ii) reconstruction of the palace residence; (iii)
         conservation of Divanhane; and (iv) purchase of a low pressure cleansing device.
    · Sheki Palace of Khans (US$3.11 million) included (i) concept paper for restoration
         (includes static, humidity and paintings); (ii) static, restoration and climate control; (iii)
         restoration of woodwork and glass; (iv) woodworking tools; and (v) restoration of wall
         paintings.
    · Karabaglar (US$0.86 million) included (i) study of twin minarets stability and preparation
         of project concept; (ii) bracing and rain proofing minarets; and (iii) conserve/restore
         mausoleum and site.
    · Momine-Khatum Mausoleum (US$0.28 million) included (i) study of movement of
         mausoleum; and (ii) conservation work (cleaning, restoration of cupola, waterproofing)
    · Institution Building (US$1.56 million) included a study tour to Europe, training of young
         restoration specialists, equipment for the Azerberpa archives, inventory and computerization
         of archives, equipment for Institute, auditor expenses, a local procurement consultant,
         technical consultancy support and operating costs for the Project Implementing Unit (PIU).

1.6      Revised Components:
During implementation the project undertook an expansion in scope within its defined PDOs,
aggregating several additional activities under the existing components to improve its impact,
without a formal restructuring. Following recommendations of the IDA Board of Directors when the
project was approved, the project incorporated during implementation, the preparation of a Site
Development Plan (SDP) for each site7 to identify complementary development interventions.

At the Mid-Term Review (MTR) the Bank recommended the need to incorporate some activities
identified by the SDPs to promote economic and social development in the project areas, using the
community-driven development (CDD) approach, as well as further civil works in sites, taking
advantage of availability of project savings8. The following activities were introduced in the existing
project components: (i) development of Bed and Breakfast (B&B), as well as handicraft activities in
Sheki, (ii) training for tour operators in Nakhchivan; (iii) organization of a Festival in Baku's
historical Icheri Seher (IS); (iv) conservation of the Mosque and the Ovdan of the Shirvanshah
complex in IS; (v) landscape improvements in IS, Nakhchivan and Sheki; (vi) the refurbishment of
an Information Centre in IS (later dropped) and (vii) the rehabilitation of Caserne (Sheki) for the
creation of a business incubator and showroom for the above mentioned handicraft producers

Towards the end of the project, new additions included the development of a management plan for
IS and the preparation of a study/analysis of the current institutional setup of the Cultural Heritage
sector in Azerbaijan, including the development of proposals aimed at increasing the financial
sustainability of the sector and of the related institutions. A summarized table of the component costs
including the revised activities can be found in Annex 1.



7The Government of Azerbaijan agreed in principle to the whole approach, but made clear that no reduction of the
activities originally agreed on for financing under the project would be accepted. IDA then suggested that should there
be any unused funds under the project, or additional funds from further donors, these would be used to implement
activities identified in the Site Development Plans.
8See 2.2 for further details on such savings


                                                             3

It should be remarked that these activities were fully consistent with the project objectives, actually
were probably more consistent with the PDOs than many original project activities. The CDD
activities aimed at producing a shift from a restoration/conservation-centered project into a broader
project leveraging local socioeconomic development at project sites through participatory
community development activities based on cultural heritage capital. The effort of introducing this
approach was worthwhile as a means to improve the capacity of decision-makers and communities
to identify, design and implement small community-based projects focused on cultural heritage,
cultural tourism and handicraft production.

1.7     Other significant changes (in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and
schedule, and funding allocations):
The project had two extensions of the closing date. After the MTR, at GOA request, the
Development Credit Agreement was amended on December 10, 2004 to: (i) extend it for two years
to December 31, 2006, in order to allow the expanded activities to be completed; and (ii) reallocate
some of the available loan proceeds accordingly, as described in the above paragraph. The request
was adequately justified because the project was performing in a satisfactory manner both in terms
of meeting its PDO and in implementation progress. The second six months extension to June 30,
2007 did not require a new amendment. It was approved and communicated by IDA on December
28, 2006. It was also well justified because respecting the closing date of December 31, 2006 would
have not allowed a proper finalization of the Management Plan aimed at implementing a proper
management of Baku's IS, due to the long and delayed process in attaining collaboration and
dialogue between the GOA's MCT and Baku's City Administration. Additionally the institutional
study of the Cultural Property sector could also have not been implemented.

2.      Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1     Project Preparation, Design, and Quality at Entry (including whether lessons of earlier
operations were taken into account, risks and their mitigation identified, and adequacy of
participatory processes, as applicable):
The project originated further in a strong demand by the government of Azerbaijan for assistance to
take immediate measures to preserve and conserve several significant sites under serious threat.
Although the project was not foreseen in the World Bank Country Assistance Strategy, the World
Bank responded positively to such demands and prepared a support project in a relatively short time
frame9.

The Bank's Quality Assurance Group did not assess the project's quality at entry. At the time, World
Bank had limited experience in cultural heritage and the project could draw on few preliminary
lessons learned from the few existing Bank-financed cultural heritage activities in other countries in
the region, such as the Georgia Cultural Heritage Project. Yet the project preparation failed to
incorporate some of the emerging lessons from Bank experience in the sector, such as the need to
fully engage local communities in conservation efforts, as well as taking a comprehensive and wider
developmental approach to cultural heritage projects. The PDO was definitely too broad and
ambitious for such an operation and it reflected the prevailing practice at that time, when the Bank
was not fully stringent in the application of measurable indicators for this type of projects.


9Project preparation lasted 13 months, namely from March 1998 to April 1999.


                                                         4

In terms of design, the project limited its activities to mainly restoration and conservation work, and
received several criticisms, including those of IDA's Board of Directors, many of whom claimed
that the project did not adhere to the principles for cultural heritage projects adopted by the Board
itself, and further lamented the limited linkages between such project and IDA's overarching
objective of poverty reduction. Besides the already mentioned little attention to the need and
opportunity to incorporate local communities and local development initiatives (some of the latter
being integrated as additional activities after MTR), the project had a very poor logical framework10,
and fell short in allocating resources for several important complementary activities such as sites'
orientation and interpretation, and communication and awareness.

The Project Appraisal Document (PAD) adequately identified some key risks, such as the
implementation of the new law for conservation and restoration of historical monuments, the
maintenance of public funding to the sector and the location of the monuments in well-known
earthquake areas, although it only identified measures for the latter risk. The risk related to public
awareness of cultural sites was also identified, but a communication and awareness-raising program
was omitted from the project. The PAD also omitted other significant risks which were faced by the
project, such as the pressures from real estate development in the IS, the limited exposure of local
architects to state-of-the art conservation techniques, as well as the financial sustainability of the
whole sector. Despite all the above shortcomings, the project was however successful and forward
looking in suggesting a very rigorous application of World Bank procurement rules11 recognizing the
poor governance and concerns about corruption at the time of project approval. This proved to be
very helpful in allowing the government to acquire very competitive expertise and was a key
ingredient in the project's success in saving project resources, as described in para 2.2, which would
be later allocated to activities aimed at addressing some of the shortcomings that emerged soon after
effectiveness.

2.2      Implementation (including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at
Risk status, and actions taken, as applicable):
Project implementation started very slowly. Although the Credit Agreement was signed on May 31,
1999, the project only became effective on January 28, 2000, mostly because of the inexperience of
the Project Implementation Unit (PIU), which had great difficulty fulfilling conditions of
effectiveness, complaining of lack of assistance from the Bank team during this period. Delay in the
project's initial phase was also due to the abolishment of the project's executing agency (the
Committee for the Restoration and Preservation of Historical and Cultural Monuments) five days
after effectiveness and the subsequent transfer of project responsibility to the Minister of Culture and
Tourism (MCT), which was only completed on July 20, 2000. There was also delay in arranging
suitable local staff for the PIU. Two changes of IDA Task Team Leader from project preparation till
July 1, 2001 also hindered acceleration of implementation. As a result by July 2001, eighteen months
after project effectiveness and more than two years after Credit signing, disbursement was only
about 4 percent of the credit amount and only some TA had been contracted out.




10See Section 2.3
11The Credit Agreement suggested a widespread use of International Competitive Bidding process for the procurement
of goods and services, and the use of Quality- and Cost-based Selection for most consulting services. Prior review was
needed for virtually all contracts and little flexibility was left for use of less competitive processes.


                                                                5

In August 2001, the Task Team and the PIU agreed on a new accelerated implementation schedule,
to be compressed to assure completion of agreed activities by the project's closing date. Thanks to
very good management of project resources by the Project director, careful supervision by the World
Bank team and the revaluation of the SDR12, the project generated an amount of savings which the
Mid-Term Review Mission in February 2003 estimated to reach 1.5 Million USD. The Bank
therefore agreed with the Government on a list of new complementary activities to be included under
the project financing, in order to promote community development, a direct involvement of local
population in the project, and a further increase in employment opportunities. From then on the
project was implemented through a participatory approach seeking continuous feedback from local
communities, NGOs and other stakeholders as any project should be13.

The project was therefore transformed, as much as it was possible, from a restoration and
conservation operation into a relatively broader development project, where communities living
adjacent to the sites played a larger and more active role, acting in the promotion of their own
welfare on the basis of cultural heritage and stronger social capital. The original objective of
enhancing and supporting Azeri cultural roots was therefore strengthened by leveraging local
socioeconomic development at project sites through complementary participatory CDD activities
based on the cultural heritage capital14. With the extended scope, the Government and IDA team
realized the need to extend the duration of the project, in order to give substantive time for the new
activities to become sustainable.

2.3      Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization:
The PAD had a very poor monitoring framework including too broad objectives with a very hard to
measure set of indicators, which were too wide to be directly linked to project intervention, as
explained in section 2.1. No baseline data for such indicators were also defined during project
preparation. The project foresaw the recruitment of a specialist to help the project develop a
monitoring information system (MIS), which could feed into the overall monitoring, the latter being
developed and carried out under the responsibility of the PIU. A Project Oversight Committee
comprising representatives from Government, NGOs and Academy of Science was supposed to
provide guidance and oversee implementation.

Neither the M&E nor the MIS were successfully implemented once the project became effective.
The MIS design was inadequately articulated by the internationally hired M&E consultant, suffering
from the lack of an adequate baseline characterization and poor progress information. Overall M&E
was limited to progress in civil works and financial management offering little value added. The lack
of planned resources specifically allocated for carrying out survey did not allow the project to
properly measure the PDO, with exception of the reports regarding the CDD activities. As for the


12 The SRD 5.6 million approved credit was equivalent to US$7.5 million at the date of approval. Due to differences in
the US$-SDR exchange rates during implementation, the available funds were US$8.46 million equivalent (12.8% or
US$980,000 over the original budget).
13The IDA and the GOA agreed addition of CDD activities provided that all original restoration activities would have
been completed as well. On the contrary, they enhanced the investment building synergies with the 4 site activities
originally foreseen.
14The new activities could be seen as an embryo of a territorial marketing strategy, focusing on and giving heavier
weight to: (i) a participatory methodology and approach to development that aims to include communities at every stage
of formulation of the decisions that affect them; and (ii) a certain set of assets or capital linked to cultural heritage, that
existed on the territory and in particular the accrued capital represented by the assets restored under the project.


                                                               6

Project Oversight Committee (POC), it partially failed to operate primarily due to the lack of interest
by some of the key stakeholders but also due to the content of the discussions, which were mostly
technical in their nature and with limited policy implication. The Bank advised on several occasions
the Minister of Culture to promote the POC as a privileged place for multi-stakeholders discussion
on policy issues but substantial progress did not take place and the Committee continued to meet
about twice per year and to deal mainly with technical issues. The only relevant exception was made
for discussing the substance of the Management Plan of Icheri Seher.

2.4     Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance (focusing on issues and their resolution, as
applicable):
The project complied with all applicable Bank policies. The project was rated as an environmental
category B, as limited concerns were raised, and its compliance with OD 4.01 on environmental
assessment was rated satisfactory by all available Project Status Reports (PSR). Safety measures on
the restoration and conservation work were adequate, as well as the handling and disposal of
construction wastes. The project complied with OPN 11.03 safeguard on cultural property and was
rated highly satisfactory throughout all project implementation, as stated by PSRs. The project
received one procurement complaint, which was however reviewed by the ECA Region Procurement
Advisor and the legal department, and no evidence of misprocurement was found.

2.5     Post-completion Operation/Next Phase (including transition arrangement to post-completion
operation of investments financed by present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements,
sustaining reforms and institutional capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable):
Although the project has concluded all the activities planned in the PAD, there is a clear interest by
the government to continue deepening its support to the project activities and scale up its work to
other sites. The project has indeed managed to create a strong enthusiasm for conservation of
cultural heritage and the PIU has pioneered some very important initiatives in the area of community
based economic and social development. In this regard, the MCT is preparing a new State Program
for Conservation and, within such context, it decided to retain the skills developed within the PIU by
transforming it into a "Scientific Operational Unit" dedicated to prepare and implement CDD
activities similar to those implemented under the project. Additionally this Scientific Operational
Unit is expected to be a center of excellence for Azerbaijan in the area of preservation of cultural
sites though use of Management Plans. The government is also considering financing now some of
the activities the Bank suggested but did not manage to implement earlier, such as the installation of
the Cultural Information Center in Baku.

In terms of sustainability, the strong endorsement of the IS Management Plan by the new authorities
provides good hopes that efforts would be put in place to continue conserving the Shirvanshah
Palace and the management of IS as a whole. However, strong pressures by real estate investors still
pose serious risks to the conservation of the historical center. As for the Shirvanshah Palace and the
other three sites, most of the risks come from the fact that, despite the significant increase of visitors
following the restoration, the sites are still highly dependent on public funding and have not
developed a capacity for generating their own resources. Fortunately, the MCT has significantly
increased its budget for restoration works (allocations for restoration grew from 142,000 AZM in
2001 to 1.45 million AZM in 2006). Nevertheless, much of the future capacity of the sites to carry




                                                      7

out maintenance work would therefore rely on this aspect and on the capacity of the GOA to reform
current ways of collecting and receiving revenues15 and spending them effectively.

Some of the steps to be made have been highlighted in the study on the institutional set-up for
Cultural Property Management that was finished shortly before the project's closing. While the
proposed change in approach of the Government from "provider/implementer" to "enabler/facilitator"
will take several years, some other suggested measures could be implemented relatively soon and with
relative easiness such as the establishment of a system of financial and social incentives, the adaptations
of the legal system and creation of programs aimed at promoting apprenticeships and research on
traditional building materials.

As for the CDD activities, especially in Sheki, there are good expectations that the Bed & Breakfast
and the handicraft producers' associations would continue to operate effectively, despite existing
weaknesses primarily linked to their youth and lack of experience.16

In terms of follow-up, the Study for the Institutional Set-up of Cultural Property Management
financed by the project would certainly provide further guidance on longer term policy solutions and
financing mechanisms for conservation of the country's cultural assets. These findings would also
help the government to formulate possible follow up activities, which the donor community and the
government itself would be willing to support. The MCT has already requested the World Bank to
consider a possible follow-up operation.

In this regard, there is a good rationale for the Bank and other donors to continue support in the
sector of culture heritage and economic development activities including tourism, based on the
lessons learned during the project and taking advantage of the very promising perspective of the
tourism sector in Azerbaijan17. The government request to the Bank for further assistance and policy
dialogue could result in further support and help in identifying future actions and as a catalyst for
other donors' engagement in the sector. The CAS pillar on developing the non-oil sector and
reducing regional inequalities focusing on the poorer regions could be complemented by expanding
on the new cultural heritage and development approach taking advantage of traditional tourist routes
and creating opportunities for poverty reduction in areas of unexploited tourism potential.




15In this regard, it is worth noting that there is little incentive for site managers to collect ticket revenues or increase
prices as appropriate, as the proceeds go directly into the GOA's budget without any immediate return on the site. The
proposal of creating a special account at each site is currently under discussion. There is also very little experience in the
country of issuing leasing agreements for souvenir shops and organizing events around the sites, for the purpose of
enhancing visitors' experience and raising additional revenues.
16 This is particularly true in the area of marketing and the internal communication and accountability system. While
members of the associations are still largely dependent on the project efforts to promote their products and services, poor
information flow between each association and its members on the management of revenues represents a major
weakness, which could potentially challenge the future of such activities.
17According to the Ministry of Tourism, the number of international visitors to the country has increased by 250%
between 2002 and 2006, and there were above 1 million foreign visitors in 2006.


                                                                 8

3.        Assessment of Outcomes

3.1       Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation (to current country and global
priorities, and Bank assistance strategy):
The project broad objectives were and are still valid as the Azeri society is very fragile and
segmented. However they were too general and should have been more focused to and linked with
other national objectives as encouragement of site economic growth and poverty alleviation as
pointed out before. National identity and social cohesion are still weak in Azerbaijan and cultural
projects like this one could play a major role if adequately linked to the country's development
objectives. Moreover, the recent increase of domestic tourism and the doubling of international
tourism arrival in the country during the last decade make this type of intervention even more
relevant, especially whereas cultural heritage can be linked to economic growth and diversification
through tourism18. This would be in line with the current CAS, namely with its second pillar, which
is focused on supporting sustainable and balanced growth of the non-oil economy. The introduction
of CDD activities during implementation precisely went towards the direction of increasing
economic opportunities, especially among poor communities.

3.2       Achievement of Project Development Objectives (including brief discussion of causal
linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on outputs in Annex 2):

As stated earlier, the project had a very broad and ambitious PDO (national identity and social
cohesion), which are also hard to measure. Moreover, the lack of baseline data on the indicators
specifically mentioned by the PDO seriously handicaps determining the actual attainment of such
objectives. Nevertheless, the project observed a very pronounced improvement in all the four key
monitoring indicators mentioned in the PAD and/or their proxies, namely: the (i) increase of visitors
to cultural sites; (ii) the increase of funding for conservation and restoration; (iii) number of NGO
active in conservation and restoration; and (iv) the number of new sites restored19. Although such
increases cannot be explained solely as the contribution of the project, one can observe a positive
correlation between more project specific and observable trends and such indicators.

For instance, there is no doubt that the project contributed to increase the number of visitors to
cultural sites and specifically to museums and architectural reserves20, due to the great importance of
the four sites in the country's overall cultural landscape and the increase of visitors experienced by
such sites, as shown later.

The project also contributed to the overall outcome of leveraging public and donors' additional
resources for conservation of cultural heritage as demonstrated by the significant increase in
allocated fiscal budget for the restoration works both within the country's MCT and the Ministry of
Tourism in Nakhchivan autonomous territory. In the MCT case, budget allocations for restoration
grew from 142,000 AZM in 2001 to 1.45 million AZM in 2006, while in the Nakhchivan case they


18The ongoing challenges of the country's economy linked to the oil boom and the so-called Dutch disease, urges to
diversify its economic activities, and tourism has the potential to become an important driver for growth in non-oil
sectors, including the revitalization of poor villages, which live around many historical sites of great significance.
19See Results Framework on page iii
20According to the State Statistical Agency, the number of visitors to museums in Azerbaijan indeed increased by 24 %
between 2001 and 2006.


                                                              9

went from approximately 40,000 to 300,000 AZM in the same period. There is a huge increase in the
number of monuments and buildings being restored in Baku but it was not possible to get supporting
data since it is done by the municipality and by several other public agencies and private sources.
Although the direct causality of such trends with the project cannot be properly assessed, it is worth
noting that the project had a small but significant direct contribution in this regard, by leveraging
additional resources from the Soros Foundation and UNDP, who complemented CHSP funds by
supporting specific activities, namely in the area of tourism information and community
development. Regarding the specific components, the project output is described below.

Component 1. The restoration of Shirvanshah Palace (Baku) resulted in a significant increase of
visitors to the site, which in the first quarter of 2007 appears to be about 45% over the yearly visitors
before the end of restoration work21. Considering also that the price of tickets has increased
significantly in January 2006, the contribution in terms of revenues is even more important. The
contribution to achieving the PDO and in particular to the goal of raising awareness and building
social cohesion was however best achieved through the additional activities funded by the project
during project implementation. The Festival of IS in particular had a direct impact in terms of raising
awareness, fostering ownership and active participation of the local residents22 becoming a great
wakening for the local community on the need to preserve the city23. The preparation of the old city
management plan and its application by the city authority is also beginning to show results. The
document is being reviewed by UNESCO and with its approval and application, it is expected that IS
may be removed from the World Heritage endangered sites list and to remain on the World Heritage
list. The component outcome is considered as satisfactory.

Component 2. Restoration of the Sheki Khans Palace completed by the end of 2004 appears
extremely gratifying to the population of Sheki and to outside visitors. Bright facade paintings,
delicately executed Shebeke, mirror stalactites shine, the unique paintings of walls and ceilings
confirm the originality and magnificence of Azerbaijani architecture. As a result, the number of
visitors has also increased dramatically24. However, the most direct impact on the PDO has been
achieved through the CDD activities (the B&B and the handicrafts associations) integrated by the
project and their capacity to generate additional income25 and build public support for cultural
heritage26. Component results are satisfactory.



21On the year following the end of restoration work the increase was of 10% (from 44,354 in 2004 to 49,520 in 2005)
and after a small decrease in 2006, it showed an even higher growth rate during the first part of the calendar year 2007,
which, if sustained, would lead to an additional 30% increase over the previous year, with an estimated number of
visitors beyond 60,000, as shown in the annex 2. It was not possible to obtain reliable data on revenues from entrance
tickets sold.
22See Annex 5, Beneficiary Survey results.
23A survey among 100 IS residents carried out by the PIU revealed high appreciation and positive disposition towards a
follow-up festival. Additionally, the sample showed that: (i) 77% of survey participants took part in festival, (ii) 74%
received material or moral profit, and (iii) 96% would take part in following festivals.
24 According to the MC&T, 17,213 persons visited the Palace in 2006, while in 2001 the palace had only 1,950 visitors,
25Thanks to the project 52 new accommodations have been created in Sheki. Total bed/nights sold averaged at 70 in
2004, 242 in 2005 and 276 in 2006, leading to the creation of an additional income, which reached a reported amount of
US$ 1,659 in 2006 that is comparable with the investments made in this activity (brochures and website). As for
handicrafts, lack of reported data poses a serious challenge in assessing the actual impact. One can note however that the
sale of a specific product, the Kalagai, generated additional revenues of US$ 2,200 in 2006 only.
26See annex 5, Beneficiary Survey results.


                                                            10

Component 3. Momine Khatum Mausoleum site has been restored as a highly appreciated national
monument. The project together with parallel works undertaken by the local authorities contributed
to transform an unsecured unfriendly site into a complex, where locals and tourists converge to
admire the mausoleum. It now consists of the mausoleum with a small museum, an outside museum
of stone carvings of animals, and the Khan's buildings (with a carpet museum). The number of
visitors to this Mausoleum was about 5,000 per year before restoration and grew fourfold to 20,000
in 2006. Component results as a whole are considered satisfactory.

Component 4. Gudi Khatum Mausoleum (Karabaglar). While it is not possible to estimate the
number of visitors to this monument since no tickets are sold or records taken, about two to three-
fold increase have been reported by locals. The maintenance of this site is still quite weak, and
should be reinforced since some floor tiles and lighting devices are damaged due to the extreme low
temperatures (-30oC) in the winter of 2006-07 in the first case and to vandalism in the second.
Component results are considered as moderately unsatisfactory mainly due to the lack of capacity of
the municipal authorities of Karabaglar and of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism of Nakhchivan
to ensure a proper supervision and maintenance of the site. Additionally and unlike other
components, the CDD activity (training of Incoming Tour Operators) in Nakhchivan did not have a
direct impact, as the local government denied the trained ITOs to be registered and therefore to be
able to operate.

Component 5. Institutional Strengthening. The capacity building of the PIU staff and of key
government officials was adequately executed and allowed for a satisfactory project implementation
performance and for the possible implementation of follow-up projects and activities in the future27.
The strengthening of Azerberpa and the creation of an electronic archive was also successfully
completed. Azerberpa is a public institute that works in close collaboration with MCT and whose
principle responsibility is the survey of the state of conservation of the monuments in the Old City
and the elaboration of conservation projects to be financed by the MCT. The total number of
documents retrieved and inserted in the electronic archive is more than 53,000, and relevant
references can now be accessed through queries of the database. The archive was tuned to make it
user-friendlier and training of the Azerberpa Institute personnel who are responsible for the
management and operation of the archive is very active in supporting public and private enquiries.
This component results are considered satisfactory.

3.3     Efficiency (Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate
norms, least cost, and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return):
An economic and financial analysis of the project was not done at appraisal because project benefits
are mostly public goods and appropriate methodologies for estimating them were not developed
during preparation. It is now not possible to formulate new approaches using proxies for results and
activities not easily quantifiable. In addition, available baseline and current data about visitors to the
sites and revenues from the selling of tickets or from the CDD financed activities are partially
incomplete or, in some cases, need validation. It appears to be clear however, that key project
activities are benefiting indirectly by stimulating tourism and economic growth in site adjacent areas
(B&B, handicrafts, etc.). Cost-effectiveness involved in the implementation towards achieving PDOs
was high allowing including other complementary restoration works, CDD activities, and
institutional strengthening activities beyond what was foreseen at appraisal.

27See also 3.5.b and 5.2.b for more on the project impact in terms of institutional strengthening


                                                           11

3.4     Justification of Overall Outcome Rating (combining relevance, achievement of PDOs
[GEO], and efficiency):
Rating: Satisfactory
Most of the intended project objectives and key associated outcome targets were achieved or are in
the process of being achieved with minor shortcomings: (i) the conservation or partial reconstruction
of the four planned sites was carried out (actually the project restored eight monuments instead of
the foreseen five); and (ii) Azerbaijan's capacity to conserve and restore historical monuments is
enhanced. As stated earlier, all four key PI show positive trends, including: (i) number of visitors to
cultural sites; (ii) number of volunteers and non-governmental groups who are involved in
conservation and restoration; (iii) number of new sites restorations; and (iv) funding of public and
private sources for conservation and restoration of historical and cultural sites. All the original
project activities and most of the MTR added activities have been completed successfully.
Azerbaijan's capacity to conserve and restore historical monuments has been definitely strengthened
under the project in several of its aspects although none of those improvements could result in a
numeric indicator.
The drawing materials in possession of Azerberpa were not archived and not accessible. The careful
cataloguing of these materials allows today any student or practitioner to consult any of its 53,152
documents. Some findings already started to affect the conservation/restoration work conducted by
public or private bodies. CHSP itself was affected by the sudden availability of this goldmine of
information, in fact some of the lost details of the Momine Khatum mausoleum were discovered in
retrieved documents dated 1939 and were followed during implementation of the works financed
under the project.
Within training activities aimed at preparation of the MP for IS a specific space was left to
realization of conservation plans (one of the many plans composing a MP). The trained people were
then used for realizing the conservation plan for IS and, it is worth mentioning, that this was a high
quality product in fact it was accepted by UNESCO integrally, that means without any modification
requested.
Other training activities such as on-site management and on soft rocks cleaning together with
exposure to the state of art practices of restoration and conservation clearly also helped achieving of
such objective. All restoration and conservation contracts financed under the project, except
restoration of the Caserne in Sheki, were won by foreign companies that introduced new procedures
and concepts among Azeri practitioners. For example how partial reconstruction contributes to the
understanding of monuments for visitors was previously neglected in restoration made by the
Department for Restoration under the Ministry of Culture. This "completamento" technique (as this
partial reconstruction is called) has been observed, particularly during Sheki Khan Palace fresco
restoration, and is now being increasingly used in many works financed by the department.
Implementation of the study about the institutional set-up of Cultural Property management did not
directly improve Azeri capacity to conserve and restore but provided several suggestions on areas
that would require additional training, in particular on traditional building materials.
Summarizing the project is rated successful despite the 2 1/2 year delay in final completion
compared to the original schedule because it not only achieved the original projected targets of the
project, but both exceeded them and added important new aspects which significantly improved the
project and its outcome with project savings, and fulfilled those as well.

3.5     Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts (if any, where not previously covered or
to amplify discussion above):


                                                    12

(a)      Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development
The most significant changes in terms of social development came from the CDD activities
incorporated during project implementation involving mainly women. As mentioned earlier, in
Sheki, these activities had a direct impact in terms of generating additional income for families
offering B&B and handicraft artisans and related traditions in Sheki, in a moment of steep decline of
the handicraft production and trade in the area. The on-going revitalization of the old trading street
of Sheki is a clear indicator of the dynamism created by the association. In addition, the new Sheki
business incubator is also expected to bring significant changes in this regard. The project had also a
small but significant contribution in this regard in IS, thanks to the Festival28. Overall the social
development impact of some of the project activities can be best summarized in Annex 5. The
restorations have also allowed the sites to be more accessible and their visit to be enhanced. A
significant increase of visits by school students has also been reported particularly at IS and in
Momine Khatum Mausoleum, indicating a further possible contribution in terms of building stronger
social cohesion, especially in the long run.

(b)      Institutional Change/Strengthening (particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term
capacity and institutional development):
The project contributed to strengthen the capacity of key government or local officials leading
cultural institutions in managing their resources. Personnel of public agencies or bodies that received
formal training includes some departments of the MCT, in particular the department for Restoration
and Conservation, the Executive Power of Baku city, the Municipality of Baku, the Archaeological
State Reserve of Shirvanshah, the Archaeological State Reserve of Sheki, the University of
Nakhchivan City and clearly the PIU that now has been transformed into the Scientific Operational
Unit under the MCT. Thanks to the involvement of foreign companies and experts in all restoration
works (except restoration of the Caserne in Sheki), key officers have been exposed to the state-of-
the-art practices in conservation and restoration work, as well as management of cultural sites. A
cultural shift has been observed among some key government officials in modern concepts of
restoration, who are currently questioning the Soviet tradition of reconstructing sites or carrying out
restoration works. Particular importance should be given to the training on management plan
development organized by ICCROM in Rome. Most of the trained personnel was later involved, at
different levels, in the realization of the MP for IS. At the same time, implementation of the MP for
IS falls considerably short of quality standards, particularly as regards reconstruction techniques. In
sum, we can conclude that several public officers and other stakeholders have been trained but at the
same time it seems that unluckily this did not initiate a comprehensive process of change within the
institutions that probably need an explicit and well defined strategy, together with longer terms, to be
successful.

(c)      Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive and negative):
Besides the unintended outcome of changed attitudes of key government officials towards the
management of cultural heritage as part of the economic and social development efforts going




28For instance sale of souvenirs made by local residents during the festival generated at least US$800 reported profits
from sales of local residents' products indicating interesting incremental income generation possibilities for local
residents from such festivals.


                                                             13

beyond civil works, more attention is now being paid to participatory local development around
cultural sites, enhancing relationship with local communities and developing social capital29.

3.6      Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops (optional for
Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes):
No formal beneficiary survey or stakeholder workshop has been done. Meetings were held with the
IS informal committee in charge of organizing the 1st Community Festival, who unanimously
expressed their enthusiasm with the results obtained in terms of enhancing the community's social
capital, rescuing their collective memory and reevaluating the need of conserving the IS old city (see
Annex 6). Also the two associations in Sheki, highly valued the importance of the collective efforts
supported under the project even if with limited funds and emphasized the need for supporting future
development plans for their B&B and handicraft associations.

4.       Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate
No major technical, economic, social, political, environmental, GOA or other stakeholder's
commitment risk to the PDO achievement is foreseen30. Only some moderate risks exist regarding
the maintenance of the Karabaglar site since insufficient attention is being provided for the
maintenance and supervision of the site: only one guard is assigned to this site and this guard seems
not to be often on the site. Despite the Bank's advice the Ministry of Culture of the Autonomous
Republic of Nakhchivan did not, to-date, take any corrective measure. Also, regarding natural
disasters exposure, the monuments in Nakhchivan are located in a well-known earthquake zone.
Although restoration technologies were used to minimize this risk by making structures more
resilient to earthquakes, the threat will always exist.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance (relating to design, implementation and
outcome issues)

5.1 Bank
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry (i.e., performance through lending phase):
Rating: Unsatisfactory
The Project was an immediate response to the GOA request for assistance to Government's
priorities, at the time, which were to recover endangered monuments, and through supporting the
institutions and symbols of nationality, to help Azerbaijan to develop positive economic and social


29Two cases deserve to be mentioned, the Mayor of Sheki and the Director of Shirvanshah Palace. The first is supporting
development of the showroom/incubator for handicraft artisans in several ways including new street signals indicating
location of the showroom. The second participated to both training on MP and site management, and before her sudden
death in 2006 started organizing weekly evening concerts and other cultural events in the site premises, thereby opening
up to a new concept of sites management, which is critical in creating added value and engaging broader audiences
through events and other alternative uses. The weak point of this last case, in absence of specific regulations, is how to
control such phenomena and direct it towards improvement of the site's financial sustainability.
30MCT authorities, including the Minister are convinced on the value of the new approach to conservation of cultural
heritage including the complementarities of development of the communities surrounding the sites. The adopted
management plan for the IS old city by the relevant authorities and the on-going institutional study, together with the
current preparation of a follow-up project by the MCT will probably consolidate the achievements and advance in further
actions towards the development of the sector.


                                                           14

development. It was approved by IDA's Board of Directors despite considerable criticism that it did
not adhere to the principles for cultural heritage projects adopted by the Board itself, and further that
it did little or nothing toward IDA's overarching objective of poverty reduction. The PAD was weak,
particularly because it lacked a reasonable logical framework and the PDO indicators were too
loosely linked to the project activities and because no baseline was presented or required. At the
same time the PAD did provide a reasonable framework for proper implementation of restoration
works and the team did respond quickly to adjust its design following Board's recommendations.

(b) Quality of Supervision (including of fiduciary and safeguards policies):
Rating: Satisfactory
After an initial slow start the project team provided a rather good and effective supervision that has
been appreciated by the counterpart. The first year of supervision passed with very little
communications between Bank and the Borrower and with insufficient attention paid to the
weakness of the newly created PIU, who was slow in complying with simple effectiveness
conditions. During and after the second year, following up on the IDA Board's criticism of project's
flaws, the project team initiated an intense dialogue with the client to improve the PIU team by
strengthening its capacity, improving its integration, accelerating procurement and complementing
the original project activities with activities to promote economic and social development of the
project areas, using the CDD approach. To this end, strong assistance was provided to the
dissemination of the ICB pre-qualifications questionnaires allowing for adequate time for the
preparation of cost-effective proposals. At the time, IDA team also suggested preparation of a Site
Development Plan for each site, to identify complementary activities to be undertaken with project
financing or through donor funds31. Strong TA support was mobilized by the supervision team to
help the relative initial weakness of the PIU. The supervision team was also actively involved in
successfully convincing the Borrower's policy makers on the importance of adding a development
approach to the strong physical works character of the original project design and supporting with
information for the project planning and management. Cost of works savings and the appreciation of
the SDR against the dollar allowed for the introduction of the new activities during MTR and the
extension of project closing for completion of the new activities. The Bank staff based in the country
office helped to provide strategic support to the PIU throughout implementation.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance:
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
The quality of Bank overall performance is considered to be satisfactory since the Bank managed to
transform a poorly conceived project into a successful implementation that led to a satisfactory
outcome through setting clear objectives, a strategic plan, and close supervision to rise above poor
quality at entry and adverse situations. The major achievement of the Bank team was to discuss and
to agree with the Government about the use of savings for implementing activities that had not been
agreed during preparation that shifted the focus, as much as possible, from Cultural Property
restoration to local social and economic development and policy improvements.

5.2      Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance:

31However, despite some early interest by some donors, such funds had not materialized and funds to implement the Site
Development Plans within the scope of the Project had to come from unused funds of the Project through savings
resulting from a good and cost-effective implementation management.


                                                          15

Rating: Satisfactory
The Borrower's performance during preparation and implementation is assessed as satisfactory.
Preparation responded to their strong original concept and commitment towards recovering its
cultural heritage as a means to enhance social cohesion and revive the tourism industry. There were
no delays identified in securing Government counterpart funding during implementation.
Government initial resistance to introduce the development approach suggested by the Bank
gradually gave way to understanding, acceptance, and later strong support to the point that today it is
endorsing the new approaches for their sector strategy. Government project ownership has been very
strong from the very beginning and flexible in changing its views over conservation and restoration
versus the reconstruction approaches. The expansion of the scope of the project beyond "bricks and
mortar" to include CDD activities32, a development approach engaging local communities in
conservation of sites33, has been adopted and expanded. In parallel, several institutional changes are
being implemented, which did not have an impact on the project, mostly because they occurred in
the last year, but have utmost importance for the future34. A slight negative aspect concerning
government was the lack of strong political push or interest in calling sessions of the Project
Oversight Commission (POC) that was thought to facilitate coordination and oversee
implementation. These sessions took place rarely and were mainly limited to technical issues. The
only positive exception was the discussion of the Management Plan for Icheri Seher where
substantial contributions of the Municipality of Baku, of the Archaeological State Reserve of
Shirvanshah complex and of representatives of some Ministries made the POC discussions relevant
and useful for IS MP coordination.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance:
Rating: Satisfactory
The PIU was initially quite weak, which compounded with the poor attention provided by the Bank
supervision team at those initial stages, resulted in losing about a year. After some major PIU
reshuffling, in the second and third years of project implementation the PIU entered into a steep
learning curve that led to increased implementation competence and a highly positive mentality for
solving implementation difficulties. One key ingredient to such transformation is to be attributed to
the professionalism of the Project Coordinator who also proved to possess strong negotiating skills.
He also had to overcome a real struggle in introducing state-of-the-art concept of conservation
approaches to a number of government officials, academicians and private contractors, who
sometimes criticized the projects work, based on old concepts of applying major reconstructions to
monuments. He also had to explain to a large audience the necessity of the CDD activities that were
seen by some as resources taken away from restoration activities. Financial management, project
accounting and reporting, internal control procedures, planning and budgeting; counterpart funding;
and external audits; were done since then in a correct professional manner. Detailed reviews of SOEs
were conducted during supervisions to ascertain that the expenditures contained in the SOEs were

32It must be noted that the government appreciated the convincing arguments brought forward by the Bank team based
on best practices from similar initiatives, as noted in the Borrower's own Report
33The Minister showed a particularly favorable attitude towards CDD activities, in fact he promoted participation of both
the Sheki Bed and the Breakfast and Handcraft associations to the country's Tourism Fair in April 2007.
34At the end of 2006 an Architectural Reserve Department within the IS municipality was created as responsible for all
archeological values except for provision of public utility service. The projects management plan for IS has been
strongly adopted and would be enforced once it is approved by the Presidency of the country. Also, the merging of the
Ministry of Culture and that of Tourism in 2006, have provided a great opportunity for closer linkages with the
conservation and community development work and the country's tourism strategy and marketing efforts.


                                                             16

authorized, fully supported and eligible for financing under the existing legal agreements. No
significant weaknesses were identified in administrative and accounting capability to prepare and
maintain SOE records and make them available for inspections.

Some weaknesses can be tracked back to the areas of M&E and in the capacity of the project director
to maintain a high quality PIU staff at all times. A good example of the latter can be the procurement
officer. The PIU had to deal with very strict procurement procedures as per provision of the Credit
Agreement that envisaged extensive use of prior reviews and strict control operated by the Bank
supervision team. Procurement succeeded to carry out all foreseen works and activities achieving
significant saving on budgeted costs (See Annex 1) without compromising the quality of the
restoration works and activities. However, in spite of two training abroad for the two different PIU
procurement officers, there were three changes in the local procurement staff and the procurement
international expert had to be maintained for three years to support their job. As a result, despite
considerable expenditures for training and TA in this area, towards the end of the project its
procurement capacities were still very limited due to the continuous changes regarding these key
staff. The M&E tasks also suffered from the lack of a proper set of PDO and monitoring indicators
and the international expert failed to propose an adequate plan as well as to focus on systematic
outreach activities. As the project changed its approach, thereby requiring a M&E system going
beyond the following of progress in civil works and financial management, the PIU failed to develop
a system, which would have allowed better reporting and closer follow-up on the challenges faced
by the sector35.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance:
Rating: Satisfactory
The Borrower (government and PIU) complied with most project covenants and agreements toward
achievement of the DO. They showed flexibility and openness to discussion about the use of savings
and this allowed achievement of project implementation targets in all components beyond
expectations. The PIU started weak but gained experience and capacity and played a major role in
building widespread understanding of the new state-of-the art approaches on conservation and
restoration among stakeholders.

6.       Lessons Learned (both project-specific and of wide general application)

Sustainable restoration and conservation is much closer to sustainable development than to pure
restoration and conservation, it is much more difficult to achieve and therefore needs detailed
agreement and coordination with the counterpart particularly during the preparation phase. This is
also true since the main counterpart, the Ministry of Culture, is sometimes not completely aware of
concepts more typical of development economics. This project was originally not enough focused on
return on the investments, guaranteed future income for covering the costs for maintenance and
contribution to local or regional growth. As shown above, the project did manage to add some of this
type of intervention going beyond civil works during implementation. However, having added such



35For example, the lack of information on the actual users of the archives and the difficulty faced by the ICR team in
acquiring reliable data on number of visitors and revenues from project sites, are clear indicators of capacity and
planning constraints faced by the government agencies supported by the project. It also shows their weakness in putting
in place a transparent and effective revenue mechanism.


                                                           17

activities upfront, with a balanced weight of resources between them and the pure rehabilitation
works, would have led to broader and more sustainable results.

Engaging communities in economic and social activities around cultural heritage sites in particular
proved to be one of the keys to the success of the project. No other activities have been as successful
in building widespread understanding, stewardship and real commitment to conservation. The
experience has also demonstrated that community driven development is possible even in a difficult
context such as Azerbaijan

The project faced several misunderstandings at different levels primarily due to the lack of a well
planned and resourced communication program. A two-way communication program, aimed at
providing complete information to local communities and engaging them in providing timely
feedback to the project, would have helped to build stronger ownership and enthusiasm about the
work, and more importantly, to convey very delicate changes of concepts involved in managing
effectively cultural heritage resources.

Even more than in other types of projects the data to be monitored, their importance and reliability
should be agreed in detail and upfront with the counterpart. Much of the difficulty encountered by
the international M&E consultant in building an acceptable MIS came from the lack of acceptable
data sources. As a consequence all proposed next steps lose relevance or do not have a solid base to
be attached to. For example, poor or not existent control over selling of tickets at the sites is a major
obstacle for analyzing the degree of financial sustainability of the sites. In turn this does not help
designing of a reliable system of financing for post-project operations.

Finally, the success of the project in preventing corruption and accumulating a high amount of
savings due to very stringent procurement rules also shows the importance of adapting procurement
rules to country circumstances, as well as strengthening the Bank's fiduciary role in monitoring of
contracts in the context of poor governance.

7.      Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a)     Borrower/implementing agencies:
The borrower prepared its own evaluation that is largely in accordance with the ICR's contents.

(b)     Co financiers:
Not applicable

(c)     Other partners and stakeholders (e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society):
No comments or evaluation was received from NGOs and Soros foundation.




                                                   18

                                                    ANNEXES

 Annex 1.          Project Costs and Financing

 (a)      Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)


                                     Appraisal Estimate        Actual /Latest        Cost as % of        Target (%)
             Components                 (US$ million)            Estimate              Appraisal        Achievement
                                                               (US$ million)

 1. Shirvanshah Palace                        2.58               2.48                     96%               100%

 2. Sheki Palace of Khan                      2.62               2.11                     80%               100%

 3. Karabaglar                                0.72               0.82                    113%               100%

 4. Momine-Khatum Mausoleum                   0.24               0.37                    150%               100%

 5. Institution Building                      1.34               1.33                     99%               100%

 6.Complementary MTR Activities                  -               1.94                                       100%

  - Other Shirvanshah Monuments                  -               0.30                                       100%

  - Reconstruction Sheki Incubator               -               0.55                                       100%

  - Community Development                        -               0.80                                       100%

  - Other Activities                                             0.29                                       100%

                Total Baseline Cost           7.50

 Physical Contingencies                       0.75

 Price Contingencies                          0.65

                Total Project Costs           8.90               9.05                    101%               100%

        Originally Planned Activities         8.90               7.11                     79%               100%

              MTR Added Activities               -               1.94                                       100%

          Total Financing Required          7.50 1/              8.17                    108%               100%

                  Unused/Cancelled               -               0.29


 1/ The SRD 5.6 million approved credit was equivalent to US$7.5 million at the date of approval. Due to differences in
 the US$-SDR exchange rates during implementation, the available funds were US$8.46 million equivalent (12.8% or
 US$980,000 over the original budget).

 (b)      Financing

                                                      Appraisal               Actual/Latest
  Source of Funds        Type of Financing             Estimate                  Estimate              Percentage of

                                                    (US$ million)             (US$ million)              Appraisal

[Government]                                               1.40                     0.88                     63%
[IBRD/IDA or GEF]                                          7.50                     8.08                    108%




                                                          19

                                  Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1. Results of this component are satisfactory. The Shirvanshah Palace is a 15th
century monument located on the highest point in Baku's ancient walled city. The palace is an
ensemble of several buildings enclosed by a wall, consisting of the palace residence, Divanhane (a
pavilion for public meetings), family tomb, palace mosque, the mausoleum of Bakuvi (a noted
scientist of the time), and the palace bath-house. The Shirvanshah Palace is an essential component
of the IS old town, which itself is a historical site of international importance. The project included
the completion of the reconstruction of the second floor of the residential palace, the reconstruction
of the Divanhane and the conservation of the Mosque and the Ovdan of the Shirvanshah complex.
Activities included the preparation of a concept and plan for the restoration as well as the ultimate
use of the entire ensemble, and a more detailed project implementation plan for reconstruction of the
second floor of the residential palace. For the Divanhane, carrying out of static investigations,
documentation of existing damages; development of the restoration concept and a detailed plan for
structural strengthening as needed, waterproofing of the roof, cleanup of the water damage, and
cleaning of the stone surfaces and implementation of the approved restoration plan; and the purchase
of materials and equipment for cleaning of the stone surfaces.

                              The Shirvanshah Palace Before and After




The palace restoration had an immediate impact on the number of visitors. The following graph
shows the evolution of visitors to the Shirvanshah Palace which increased by about 35% over the
number of visitors before restoration:




                                                     20

                                        Visitors to Shirvanshah Palace


   70000
                                                                                      60,951
   60000

                                                                    49520
   50000       47711                                                         47618
                            44682        44486    44867    44352

   40000
                                                                                                Year
   30000


   20000


   10000


        0
                2000         2001        2002     2003     2004     2005     2006     2007*


  Source: Ministry of Tourism and Culture
  * Projections, based on 1st quarter 2007


IS Festival. Materials for publicity and public information including festival posters (500 copies) in
Azeri and English and a 30 second preview trailer in Azeri about the planned festival that was shown
on central TV channels during the month before the start of the festival were prepared to stimulate
community participation. Also, to strengthen the advertising campaign the preview trailer was shown
on the light screen on one of the central squares of the IS city 690 times. The festival started with an
official opening on a stage behind Maiden Tower on June 4 2005 conducted by Minister of Culture,
the Head of the World Bank office in Azerbaijan, and a representative of IS community. During first
two days 5000 copies of the festival map with the program and 3000 copies of the UNESCO decree
about the IS old city were distributed among visitors, confirming the presence of 5000 visitors just in
the initial hours. A monitoring group to check the quality and implementation of all main festival
activities was created including three PIU representatives and three representatives of Ministry of
Culture. Based on meetings with IS residents, visitors and participants of the festival the event was
recognized as interesting and implemented according to the main requests and goals of the
community with the exception of some organizational flaws (i.e. insufficiencies in the advertising
campaign). Following, a 15-minute documentary film was shot about the festival (separate scenes
about major events of the festival). Information about the event was published in Mass media
including 23 publications in newspapers and ten TV programs.

Following the festival an IS community public committee of nine persons was created (with
representatives of IS community, cultural organizations, persons participating in the past festival and
PIU specialists); a festival statute was prepared and working meetings are being held with PIU
specialists. In order to attract potential sponsors an official letter about the project and types of
sponsorship (3 categories) with offers and promotional materials were prepared. The letter was sent
to some banks, the international organizations and the foreign companies. Information work to
potential sponsors has continued.

Component 2. This component output is considered as satisfactory. The Sheki Khan Palace is
located in Sheki, the most ancient city in Azerbaijan. One of the most unique features of the palace is
the large number of stained glass windows, which were put together without the use of glue or nails,
a construction technique known as the shebeke method. Inside, the walls and ceilings in many of the


                                                         21

rooms are covered with detailed paintings of cultural and historic importance. The Palace is
surrounded by a rock wall enclosing a landscaped garden. Its restoration included: (i) a static
engineering assessment of the palace, examining the stability of the building and focus on the impact
the removal of the concrete brace will have on the structural soundness of the building; (ii) an
assessment of the risk of damage during earthquakes providing recommendations for an alternative
to the concrete brace; (iii) monitoring of humidity in the rooms and moisture in the walls; (iv)
detailed study of the paintings to determine the number of layers, types of materials used, etc. so that
the binding to each layer was known, and restoration options identified; (v) development of the
restoration concept for the palace as a whole, including removal of the concrete brace, restoration of
the building, windows, paintings, and the grounds; (vi) removal of the concrete brace, with minimum
damage to the existing interior and exterior surfaces, installation of a replacement brace, humidity
and moisture control systems and restoration of damaged woodwork; (vii) restoration of
woodworking and interior wall paintings; and (vii) purchase of woodworking tools.




                         The Sheki Khan Palace of Khans Before and After




Sheki Bed and Breakfast Association. The project supported the creation of the Sheki B&B
association from June, 2003 to May, 2006. Several working meetings held with professionals
(lawyer and financial experts) led to: (i) the registration of the association; (ii) the definition of
organizational and financial structures including rights/responsibilities, types of activities, spread
sheets forms for registering coming tourists; (iii) training of personnel; and (iv) signing of contracts.
From the 52 members about 33 signed agreements including rights and duties of the parties,
distribution of the profits (including a deduction of 20 % for the association for paying taxes on
behalf of the members and for other expenses). The supported advertising campaign included the
preparation, printing and distribution of informational materials including 5000 booklets, 200
catalogues (40 members' houses were reflected both in the catalogue and the website); the



                                                    22

promotion of B&B activities among tour agencies, embassies including catalogues/booklets
distribution; promotion work with the info-centers in Baku and Sheki; advertisement campaign on
TV; info-tours for the representatives of leading travel agencies; participation in tourist exhibitions;
preparation and implementation of tourist routes; power point presentations; etc.. Since the most
important aspect of the demand was found to be the availability of decent toilets in the B&B houses,
the project even supported a minor toilet rehabilitation program, which turned out to be crucial36.

The PIU also organized inspections of the B&B houses and financed the construction materials and
sanitary equipment for improving guest conditions for 28 of the B&B houses. Total bed/nights sold
averaged at 70 in 2004, 242 in 2005 and 276 in 2006, indicating a positive development of the
association. During the 2004 season about 46 guests from a total of 95 were derived from travel
agencies, 11 of which were foreigners. Total turnover grew from about US$292 in 2004, to
US$1,414 in 2005 and U$S1,659 in 2006 indicating a significant growth in member's revenues.

The main achievements of the association in 2006 included: (i) presentation of the annual report
including fiscal report; (ii) participation of the Association in two international tourism exhibitions
in Baku; (iii) submission of a project on "Development of tourist industries in north-western region
of Azerbaijan" to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the MCT; (iv) submission of a project on
"Development of ecotourism in Sheki" to the Embassy of Norway; (v) tour-routes including a 1-2
days handicraft tour, a 1-3 day walk in Sheki-tour, a 7 days walk in suburb of Sheki-tour; and (vi)
information concerning tours to the recently opened center in Sheki and association's activities.

The sustainability of the association is considered highly likely based on the working connections
between Handicraft and B&B associations, the preparation of informational tours and guides for the
association, the improvements of the B&B rooms, the individual trainings for the house owners, the
on-going other donor's grants, trainings to further development of the association activities, and the
preparation and implementation of follow-up projects.

The Sheki Handicrafts Association. Activities under this project's CDD program were implemented
from June, 2003 to May, 2006. The creation and registration of the Sheki Handicrafts association
and the development of its organizational structure, management, council and controlling
commission were followed by the signing of contracts with members including rights and duties of
the parties and deduction of 7-10 % for taxes by the 32 members. Six groups of artisans working
wood, embroidery, silk products, metal, ceramics and leather were formed. Main activities included:
(i) new product prototypes development (for shebeke, wood engraving, embroidery, ceramics and
sets, silk products, and crochet and knitwear); (ii) training for export processes for the Association
(quotation, confirmation, shipment list, invoice); and (iii) market research and survey in different
customer groups from European countries. Advertising campaign materials were also prepared
including: (i) information booklets and catalogue of products in three languages (5000 copies and
200 copies respectively) with photos, products, prices, etc.; and (ii) a web site of the association and
its products.

Information concerning the Association and its products was presented on the series of international
exhibitions with the help of the project's international experts and distributed among art galleries,

36The toilet rehabilitation program spent about US$ 200 of materials, concrete and tiles, and each participating family
provided their own labor or hired laborers at their own expense.


                                                           23

craft shops and tourist agencies. Although only one contract was signed with a European customer,
the direct connections with foreign retail buyers will probably result in further increased incomes for
the artisans in the future.

Several workshops to train tour guides in Baku were organized covering areas as presentation skills,
walking tours and on the spot training conducted by qualified international experts including a guide
for the city of London, and a "Blue Badge" guide from the SE England Tourist Board qualified as a
trainer and examiner by the Institute of Tourist Guiding. Guides were trained to conduct both craft-
tours and tours for B&B association. As a result, the associations offer three prepared guides with
English language skills for walking and on the spot tours. In addition, an informational-cultural tour
for representatives of fifteen tourist companies from Baku was held in Sheki to familiarize these
companies with activities of both Handicrafts and B&B associations. The tour included visiting
workshops where participants witnessed the production process, shared information about crafts and
visited Sheki historical spots to practice their guide skills. Partnerships were also developed with the
pilot mobile scheme "Program through Partnership" with support from the SOROS Fund Institute
and working connections with similar non-governmental organizations in Central Asia (International
Fund of the Handicraftsmen "Haft Paikar", "Kyrgyz Heritage" and Centre of Rishtan ceramic). In
October, 2005 a two weeks workshop with participation of eight craft experts from Central Asia was
organized. Additional funds from the OSI-Budapest were obtained by the Association (US$9,185
and US$1,500).

Main achievements of the handicraft program are: (i) increased revenues; (ii) diploma as the best
regional association awarded by the President of Azerbaijan Republic; (iii) micro credits obtained
(US$4,000) corresponding to musical instruments, shebeke (stained glass windows), metal products
and production of chirags (national lamps) crafts; and (iv) participation in two business trade fairs in
Baku and Ganja. Several other development proposals are being presented to different donors giving
a high probability of success of sustainable development. In order to give sustainability to the
development of the Sheki Handicraft Association, the project also supported the creation of an
incubator center for Sheki artisans and an internal regulations frame for the incubator was defined.

Component 3. This component output is considered as moderately unsatisfactory. The rehabilitation
works have been carried out properly but the current low level of maintenance at Karabaglar site as
described in the para below led to this unfavorable rating. The Karabaglar Mausoleum and Twin
Minarets are located in the village of Karabaglar, about 40 kilometers north of Nakhchivan City, in
the autonomous region of Nakhchivan. The site contains two monuments, a mausoleum and twin
minarets, in a very pastoral setting in the village. Both structures are outstanding examples of the
monument styles of the famed 12th century architect Ajemi Nakhchivan. The twin minarets were
built in the 12th century, and included a portal between them, a style first developed by Ajemi. The
mausoleum was built in 1333-35, and contained cornices with scripts from the Koran in stylized
Arabic writing using glazed turquoise bricks and tiles around the top of the monument and over each
of the four portals. The minarets had large cracks which needed structural stabilization. In the early
1990s, a building enclosing the minarets and portal was constructed, to provide some support to the
base of the minarets. However, no work had been done to stabilize the towers. The cornices of the
mausoleum were largely destroyed.




                                                     24

Much of the surface brickwork of the mausoleum had been repaired. The cupola was rebuilt, but
there were still problems with water damage. There were no current, detailed designs for their
restoration or the overall management of the site. Restoration of the mausoleum and the twin
minarets involved: (i) the design and implementation of a plan for reinforcement and structural
stabilization of the twin minarets; (ii) closing of the openings at the top of each tower and the tops
capped, to prevent further water damage; (iii) investigations of the foundation of the minarets to
determine if additional structural stabilization was required; (iv) for the mausoleum, reparation of the
cupola to prevent water damage, re-construction of the known script of the top cornice, and
preservation of the existing materials; (v) protection of the remaining scripts and materials from
further deterioration; and (vi) landscaping of the site grounds, construction of kiosks, and
preparation of brochures, etc.

The quality of the restoration works was satisfactory. However, there are some problems with the
inadequate arrangements for the conservation and maintenance of the site. Since the mausoleum is in
the small village of Karabaglar 40 km away from the city of Nakhchivan and only one guard is
assigned to the site, the place looks almost abandoned. The floor tiles imported from Iran have not
resisted the extreme low temperatures of the winter (-30 C) showing several broken tiles. Also,
                                                           o

some lights are not working as bulbs are not repaired. The Ministry of Culture of the Autonomous
Republic of Nakhchivan has been alerted about this situation but until July 2007 no countermeasure
has been taken.

                The Karabaglar Mausoleum and Twin Minarets Before and After




Component 4. Momine Khatum Mausoleum. Overall output of this component is satisfactory.
This mausoleum is of particular architectural importance since it was designed by the famed
architect Ajemi and built 1186. It is located in the center of the city of Nakhchivan and has been
restored as a national monument and is the symbol of the people and historical culture of the region.
The site now consists of the mausoleum, an outside museum of stone carvings of animals, and a


                                                     25

small museum inside the mausoleum. The importance of this monument to the people is
demonstrated by the fact that the inside and outside museums were created and are maintained by
volunteers without any support from the Government. The mausoleum is leaning by about 11
degrees and the tilt of the structure could be readily observed. Although the building did not seem to
be in imminent danger of collapse, it was important to obtain precise measurements of the rate of tilt
in order to determine whether the building continues to move and further conservation measures
were required. In addition, the cupola of the monument was leaking and needed to be repaired,
vegetation growing on the roof needed to be removed, and the cupola needed to be cleaned. The
restoration of this monument involved the following activities: (i) monitoring of the rate of leaning
over a period of three years; and (ii) cleaning and waterproofing of the roof, including small repairs.

Training for Tour operators in Nakhchivan. Since no operator of incoming tours was authorized to
work in Nakhchivan, it was proposed to prepare a certain number of young incoming tour operators
with the goal of piloting an activity that seemed to be completely absent in the autonomous republic.
The training was strongly supported by the local government and local universities. Organization
and implementation of the training activities has been good and enthusiastically supported by local
institutes, authorities and population. Unfortunately the result has been unsatisfactory. In fact after
an advertising campaign for residents of Nakhchivan to participate in the training, seventy applicants
applied of which thirty were selected. Four teachers were nominated by the Nakhchivan State
University and the Pedagogical Institute increasing the number of participants to 34 participants. The
training involved five foreign and ten local teachers. After completion of the training, six
participants applied to the relevant state authorities for the registration of their company but could
not obtain it given tight restrictions and/or other vested interests of a single existing informal
operator whose existence was not known even to the participants to the course. Due to that problem
above-mentioned activity could not achieve its ultimate objectives. In spite of it, one of the trainees
that were interviewed by the ICR mission reconfirmed the value of the training and the convenience
on repeating the event given the existing possibilities in the region and considering that the
authorities sooner or later will allow the new operators to be registered.




                                                    26

                         Momine Khatum Mausoleum Before and After




Component 5. Institutional Strengthening. Moderately satisfactory institutional development has
been achieved. MTC authorities and key staff involved in the preservation of cultural heritage in
Azerbaijan have internalized the new concepts regarding conservation and restoration as they
benefited from study tours to leading institutions and agencies in Italy and other countries and
through the exposition to state-of-the-art techniques and methodologies for conducting proper
conservation through the internationally competitive selection of foreign specialized companies.
Craftsmen in preservation and conservation have benefited from working with the foreign companies
and have updated methods and techniques. The computerized archive and institutional strengthening
of the Azerberpa Institute have effectively completed offering a new framework for the improved
management of the national patrimony in future. Communities and PIU officials involved in carrying
out the project have benefited from the new transparency and accountability introduced and fostered
by the project through careful conservation and restoration of the selected monuments, competitive
bidding for works and services, and greater consultation with a wider group of stakeholders. The
project has been less successful in instituting strong institutional development within the MCT.
However, the PIU director has managed to maintain continuity of government commitment and
support, greater understanding for community consultation as well as stronger transparency and
competitive procedures in the design and execution of civil works. New institutional arrangements
are being analyzed by the MCT for the future handling of conservation and restoration works of new
monuments, capitalizing the skills developed by the project PIU.




                                                    27

Annex 3.        Economic and Financial Analysis

An economic and financial analysis of the CHSP was not done in the original appraisal because
project benefits are mostly public goods and appropriate methodologies for estimating them were not
developed at the time. It is not possible to formulate new approaches using proxies for components
and activities not easily quantifiable and in addition, available baseline and current data about
visitors to the sites and revenues from the selling of tickets or from the CDD financed activities are
not reliable or in some cases inexistent. It appears to be clear however, that key project activities
would benefit indirectly by stimulating tourism and economic growth in site-adjacent areas (B&B,
handicrafts, etc.). Cost-effectiveness involved in the implementation towards achieving PDOs was
high allowing including other complementary restoration works, CDD activities promoting cultural
works, and institutional strengthening activities not foreseen at appraisal. At MTR it was estimated
that through good management and close Bank supervision, and the revaluation of the SDR, about
US$1.5 million in savings in the main restoration works was generated as compared with the budget.




                                                    28

Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

     (a) Task Team members


             Names                              Title                 Unit          Responsibility/ Specialty

Lending (The system pulls from Task Team in PAD Data Sheet, if any.)

Peter Pollak                       Team Leader                    ECSIE



Supervision (The system pulls from Task Team Members in all archived ISRs.)


Giuseppe Fantozzi                  Sr Operations Off.             ECSSD         Task Management/Social
                                                                                Development

Ida N. Muhoho                      Sr Financial Management        ECSPS         Financial Management
                                   Specialist

Yingwei Wu                         Sr Procurement Spec.           ECSPS         Procurement

Saida R. Bagirli                   Sr Operations Officer          ECCAZ         Operations

Emanuele Santi                     Communications Officer         EXTCD         ICR/Communications

Mark Woodward                      Sr Social Development          ECSSD         Task Management/Social
                                   Specialist                                   Development

Tom Blinkhorn                      Consultant                     ECSSD         Task Management

Manfred Wedhorn                    Consultant                     ECSSD         Restoration Specialist

Gianluca Regoli                    Consultant                     ECSSD         Fresco Specialist

Juan Morelli                       Consultant                     ECSSD         ICR Preparation


     (b) Staff Time and Cost (from SAP)
     (The system pulls data available for all fields)

                                                         Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
         Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Staff Weeks                    US$ Thousands
                                                                           (including travel and consultant costs)
  Lending
                 FY99                                   n. a.                           106,263.70
                             TOTAL:
  Supervision/ICR
                 FY00                                  21.10                              75,448.22
                 FY01                                  18.99                              63,961.88
                 FY02                                  20.93                              79,525.83
                 FY03                                  16.97                              47,859.56
                 FY04                                  19.36                              69,391.40
                 FY05                                  20.43                              55,617.09
                 FY06                                  20.58                              64,938.17
                 FY07                                  10.44                              47,361.37
                              TOTAL



                                                         29

30

Annex 5.           Beneficiary Survey Results


No formal beneficiary survey was carried out. However during the ICR mission, the World Bank
had more than a dozen meetings with local communities in the project areas.

In Baku, a meeting was held with a group of more than twenty inhabitants of IS, most of them
having taken part in the informal committee in charge of organizing the Festival of IS, financed by
the project. The community members unanimously expressed their enthusiasm for the results of such
activities, as a means of enhancing the community's social capital, rescuing their collective memory
and reevaluating the need of conserving the IS old city (see box below with quotes from the
meeting).


  Box 1: Quotes from the Meetings with the local communities of Icheri Seher

  "Before the festival we were neighbors and did not even know each other. Thanks to the
  festival we built a relation among us"

  "We knew each other and discovered how many talented people we have"

  "We were motivated to revise our memories and became aware of the history of the old city"

  "The festival revitalized our memory"

  "Many neighbors did not believe in the value of the Festival and after it expressed they wanted
  to be involved in the organization of the second one"


Some lamented the fact that, besides the festival, few opportunities are offered to local communities
to get more interested and more involved in the management as well as the use of the IS monumental
complex. Regrettably, only a few had visited Shirvanshah palace after the restoration, mostly due to
the lack of events being organized at the site37.

A sample of 100 IS inhabitants was interviewed soon after implementation of the festival. It appears
that their participation was very high and amounted to 77 persons. Out of them 57 were spectators
and 20 participated actively as performers, preparing the stands, preparing food or selling something.
Five made a profit out of the selling activities. Out of these 77 only three would not repeat the
experience or did not find it interesting. The overarching majority of the other 74 instead asked for
scaling up the experience and for repeating it in the future.

The community members were also moderately satisfied with the actual restoration work carried out
in Shirvanshah Palace. In fact, opinions differed widely on the type of work carried out, with a few
members complaining about some of the most modern elements added to the building and others
questioning other technical aspects of the actual work. It became very clear that better


37It must be noted that the series of concerts of traditional music being organized with the support of UNESCO in April
2006 is certainly in the right direction. However such events are still quite sporadic and of limited reach.


                                                              31

communication between the PIU and the director of the palace and communities to illustrate the
rationale of the choices taken for the restoration would have helped build larger consensus and avoid
misunderstanding.

In Sheki, the mission met with local community members, who took part in the B&B and handicraft
                                            associations, and thereby benefited directly from project
                                            support. The high number of participants, as well as the
                                            very engaged discussions, were certainly good indicators
                                            of the interest of Sheki communities in the project and its
                                            activities. Members of the associations spoke
                                            enthusiastically about the training they received, the actual
                                            results achieved in terms of increased income and the
                                            more lasting changes brought by the project. The members
                                            of the handicraft association in particular spoke about the
                                            longer term impact of project activities in revitalizing
                                            local handicraft production, by putting local artisans in
                                            closer contact with domestic and international markets.
The mission also sensed a great enthusiasm for the refurbishment and conversion of the Old Caserne
into a business incubator, which was finalized at the end of the project. This is expected to further
enhance the social and economic prospects of local artisans, by providing them with a space for new
product development, as well as a point of sale for tourists visiting the nearby Palace of Khans.
Currently all contracts for occupancy of all the incubator's slots have been signed and the mayor of
Sheki is making a major effort to promote tourist visits to the showroom/incubator by all tourists that
come to visit the old city. New street-signs have been put in place and the waiting list for occupying
next free slot in the incubator already counts more than a dozen artisans (in July 2007).

In Nakhchivan, the ICR mission had little opportunity to meet local project beneficiaries, as most of
the participants of the training for Tour Operators left the region or were simply not available. The
local government refusal to register the trained Tour Operators simply prevented the project to have
a direct impact at community level. Yet, it is however worth noticing the positive feedback provided
by one of the former participants from the training, who affirmed the overall usefulness of the
training and the engagement of qualified foreign expertise to "open up our mind, and bring about
change in such a difficult and closed environment".




                                                    32

Annex 6. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results

No workshop has been held.




                                        33

Annex 7. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

The borrower provided comments through a five page evaluation report prepared by the director of
SOC (Scientific Operational Unit) in coordination with the head of the department for Restoration
and Conservation under the Ministry of Tourism and Culture. The borrower's evaluation report does
not have an executive summary, and the ICR team selected those parts that seem to be more
relevant.

The borrower is very satisfied with the project. All components of the project were completed on
time according to the planned schedule of works and the quality of the works is satisfactory.
Relevant experience in preparation and realization of international tenders was acquired, in applying
modern methods and materials in sphere of conservation, in preparing management plans of
historical cities, and in organizing work with local communities.

The cooperation between borrower, Bank and other partners that played specific or minor roles
(NGOs, Soros Foundation, ICCROM) was very good. Bank and Borrower performance in all stages
of the project cycle - identification, preparation, implementation, supervision, final completion ­ was
positive and timely and this allowed successful implementation in Azerbaijan of the project. Direct
contact and consultations between the Bank team in HQ and in Azerbaijan gave to the PIU well-
qualified help in achieving project targets.

The most significant outputs coming out of the project have been:
                Creation of Project Implementation Unit (PIU), consisting at present time of well-
                qualified specialists of necessary types in sphere of preservation of cultural heritage,
                restoration and program of community development.
                Training for local specialists in techniques of restoration and conservation, received
                from contact with foreign companies well-qualified professional level.
                Restoration of monuments, having national and international importance.
                Accumulation of experience of work with local community taking active part in
                preservation of monuments, having social and economical value.

The Country received political, economical and social benefits during realization of the project.
Those benefits of the project can be summarized as follows: (I) improvement and conservation of
valuable sites, which reinforce social unity of Azerbaijan population;(II) attraction of tourists to
restored monuments of Shirvanshah Palace and to Sheki Palace of Khans, which resulted in increase
of tourism to Baku and Sheki with appropriate benefit for economies of these cities; (III)
consolidation of potentials of Azerbaijan in restoration of its historical and cultural monuments,
improvement of restorer's and worker's skills, involved in restoration of selected monuments; (IV)
attraction of community to taking active part in preservation of monuments as social and economical
value.

The negative aspects were the following:
        A suitable space for the information cultural center in Icheri Seher could not be found by
        Baku authorities;
        Several Azeri masters in sphere of conservation of historical monuments did not participate
        actively in project's activities;



                                                     34

Incoming Tour Operators (ITOs) agencies in Nakhchivan could not be established due to
impossibility of providing them adequate permits by the autonomous republic authorities.
The POC was created by the Prime-Minister but was not fully effective.




                                        35

Annex 8.   Comments of Co financiers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

There was no co financier. Local NGOs and Soros Foundation did not provide any comment.




                                             36

Annex 9.     List of Supporting Documents (available on request)

 1. Cultural Heritage Project (Concept Report)
 2. Project Appraisal Document
 3. World Bank Supervision Mission Reports
 4. Management Plan of Icheri Seher
 5. Azerbaijan, Study of the Institutional set-up of Cultural Property Management
 6. Shirvanshah complex site management plan
 7. Sheki Khan palace site management plan
 8. Momine-Khatum and Karabaglar site management plans
 9. The Borrower's evaluation report




                                                          37

