Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 19966-BR
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
SOCIAL SECURITY SPECIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN (SS SECAL)
Loan No. 4431- BR
December 21, 1999
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Unit (FPSI)
Brazil Country Management Unit (LCC5C)
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                       Real (R$)
December 1995, US$1.00              R$0.97
December 1996                       R$1.04
December 1997                       R$1.12
December 1998                       R$1.21
July 1999                           R$1.90
December 1 5F999                    R$1.86
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS                   Country Assistance Strategy
CNIS                 UJnified Cadaster of Social Information
DB                   Defined Benefit Pension Scheme
DC                   Defined Contribution Pension Scheme
EAPP                 Open Private Pension Funds
EFPP                 Closed Private Pension Funds
ESW                  Economic and Sector Work
FGTS                  Severance Guarantee Payment Fund
GDP                   (iross Domestic Product
IDB                  Inter-American Development Bank
IMF                   lIternational Monetary Fund
INSS                 National Institute for Social Security
IPEA                 Institute of Applied Economics and Research
LIBOR                London Interbank Offer Rate
MARE                 Ministry of Administration and State Reform
MERCOSUL             Alercado do Corno Sul
(Common Market of the Southern Cone)
MPAS                 Ministry of Social Security and Social Assistance
NDC                  Notional Defined Contribution
PAYGO                 Pay-as-you-go Pension System
RGPS                 R'egime Geral de Prevision Social
(Social Security Regime for Private Sector Workers)
RJU                  Regime Juridico Uinico
(Social Security Regime for Civil Servants)
SAL                   Structural Adjustment Loan
SCPP                 Sistema Complementar da Previdencia Privada
(P'rivate Complimentary Pension System)
SECAL                 Sector Adjustment Loan
SPC                  Secretaria da Previdencia Complementar
(Secretariat of the Complementary Pensions System)
SUSEP                 Superintendency of Insurance and Pensions
Vice President:                        Mr. David de Ferranti
Country Manager fDr Brazil:          Mr. Gobind T. Nankani
Sector Manager:                        Mr. Danny Leipziger
Task Manager:                            Ms. Mariluz Cortes



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
page number
Preface                                                                          ii
Evaluation Summary                                                               iv
Part One     Social Security Special Sector Adjustment Loan Implementation Assessment
I.  Background .1
II.   Program Objectives.                                                         3
III.          Achievement of Program Objectives.                                  5
IV.          Major Factors Affecting the Program .10
V.           Program Sustainability .11
VI.   Bank Performance .12
VII.   Borrower Performance .13
VIII.   Assessment of Outcome .13
IX.   Future Operations .13
X.   Lessons Learned .14
Part Two   Statistical Annex of ICR Tables .15
Appendixes
A. Evidence of Compliance with Loan Conditions
B. ICR Mission's aide-memoire
C. Borrower comments on the ICR
(Ministerio da Previdencia e Assistencia Social, MPAS)
D. Map IBRD No. 20444R
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
SOCIAL SECURITY SPECIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan No. 4431- BR)
Preface
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Social Security Special Sector
Adjustment Loan (Loan No 443 1-BR), in the amount of US$757.57 million, which was approved
on January 7, 1999, signed on March 9, 1999 and made effective on March 9, 1999. The loan
was fully disbursed in a single tranche on March 31, 1999. The loan was closed on June 30,
1999.
The ICR was authored by Truman Packard, Social Protection Specialist (LCSHD), under
the supervision of Mariluz Cortes, Principal Operations Officer (LCSFP) of the Latin America
and Caribbean Region, and was reviewed by Suman Bery, Lead Economist for the Brazil Country
Management Unit (LCC5C). The borrower provided comments that have been incorporated to
the ICR and are reproduced (unedited) in an appendix to the report.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's completion mission to Brasilia,
September 20 - 24, 1999. The report is based on material in the project file, interviews with key
participants in the loan's preparation, the implementation team's counterparts, and the findings of
Bank analysis of the pension system in Brazil.






iv
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
SOCIAL SECURITY SPECUIL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
(Loan No. 4431- BR)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
1.    Since the early 1990s Brazil has been engaged in a major reform of its economy, moving
away from import substitution and state-dominated enterprise, toward greater emphasis on.private
initiative, competition and international integration. A central pillar of the new economic model
is the Real Plan, launched in July 1994 to secure price stability and economic growth. However,
while the Real Plan succeeded in controlling inflation and creating an improved economic
environment for private enterprise, progress with fiscal adjustment and reform of the public sector
lagged. Price stability and the elimination of the inflation tax on wages and the generous
publicly-provided pensions of private and public sector workers, has dramatically deepened the
government's primary fiscal deficit and increased its vulnerability to financial shocks. Brazil's
vulnerability became apparent with the impact of the Asian financial crisis that reached emerging
markets in Latin America by October 1997. The impact of the Asian crisis in 1997 indicated the
urgent need for swift fiscal adjustment, underpinned by a broad program of constitutional,
legislative and institutional reforms. Central to the government's reform strategy lay two
amendments to the 1988 Federal Constitution that would allow comprehensive restructuring of
public sector administration and reform of social security.
2.    Less than a year later, waning investor confidence in the wake of the Russian debt default
of August 1998, caused a second, rapid flight of capital from emerging markets. The hemorrhage
of reserves and pressure on the Real once again forced the Government to confront its
burdensome public sector borrowing requirement that at the close of 1998 reached 8% of GDP.
The administration of Fernando Henrique Cardoso - reelected by a wide margin in October -
committed to a program of deep structural reforms to bring public finances into balance. Reform
of the national social security system, that in 1998 generated a consolidated deficit of 4.8% of
GDP, returned to the forefront of the Government's agenda. The first Social Security Special
Sector Adjustment Loan (SS SECAL) for US$757.57 million, is the largest component of the
Bank's US$4.5 billion commitment to the IMF organized Brazil Rescue Package. The lending
instrument chosen to support a first round of reforms was a single tranche adjustment operation
(STO) - the first in a sequenced lending program to support structural reform of Brazil's national
social security system.
Program Objectives
3. Based on a medium term strategy agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, this loan was
the first in a planned series of operations to support Brazil's pension reform program. The first
phase of the Administration's pension reformn program, supported by the first SS SECAL,
centered on Congressional approval of a Constitutional Amendment modifying those clauses in
the 1988 Constitution which were largely responsible for the current problems of the system. The
primary objective of the amendment was to loosen the constitutional constraints tying the hands



v
of the Government's reform team, to allow them to pursue reforms that would stabilize the
growing pensions deficit.
4.     The Constitutional Amendment approved by Congress in December 1998 after five years
of debate: (i) introduced the principle of' actuarial and fiscal balance in the pension regimes for
private (RGPS) and public sector workers (RJU); (ii) replaced pension benefits based on length-
of-service with benefits based on years-of-contribution, (iii) removed the benefit formulafor
private sector workers from the Constitution; (iv) eliminated most special pension regimes; and
(v) imposed a minimum retirement age for civil servants. Along with the approval of the
Constitutional Amendment, the Administration announced a number of emergency measures to
reduce the deficit of the pension regime for public-sector workers, as well as its intention to
propose a General Public Pension Law to Congress that would reduce the deficit of civil servant
pension plans at the state and municipal level of government.  The first phase of the
Administration's pension reform also included initial steps to restructure INSS to improve the
delivery of services, increase revenue colllection and reduce evasion of pay-roll contributions.
5.    In addition to launching the first phase of Administration's social security reform, an
important objective of the Bank's support was the protection of essential public expenditure on
social assistance, education and health in the face of a long overdue fiscal adjustment. The
protection of carefully selected public programs aimed at the poor - especially women and
children - was a core condition of the Brazil Rescue Package, and supported with a separate
single tranche SECAL for US$252.5 million and a multi tranche sector adjustment loan from the
IDB.
Implementation Experience
6.    After five years of debate in Congress, the passage of the Constitutional Amendment
made possible adjustments to the PAYGC) parameters of the first-pillar regime for workers in the
private sector, that with a second phase of structural reforms - still under discussion - would
bring the system into fiscal and actuarial balance. The Amendment removes the definition of the
benefit formula from the 1988 Constitution; eliminates most special pension regimes; adopts
years-of-contributions instead of years-of-service for benefit eligibility; eliminates early
retirement with a partial pension; sets a ceiling on retirement benefits indexed to inflation;
expands the contribution base to all work-related earnings; and allows income taxes to be levied
on pension and survivor benefits.  Although originally included in the Amendment, the
introduction of a minimum retirement age for private sector workers failed to pass in Congress.
7.     Since the passage of the Constitutional Amendment, the Administration has taken
important legislative steps to implement most of the parametric reforms, and to prepare for more
ambitious structural reforms planned for the second phase. New parameters for special pension
benefits for primary and secondary school teachers were established by Presidential Decree. A
draft Ordinary Law proposing a new formula for the calculation of pension benefits has been sent
to Congress. Additional packages of draft legislation to expand income tax to include pensions,
and to establish the legal framework for the private provision of work injury insurance have been
prepared and will be sent to Congress before the end of 1999.
8.     The Constitutional Amendment also introduced important parametric adjustments to the
pension regime for civil servants at the federal, state and municipal levels of government. The
Amendment requires that RJIU pensions be strictly contribution-based, and requires that future
parameters be set to ensure financial and actuarial balance. In addition to eliminating the option
of early retirement with a partial pension., the Amendment removes the possibility of "double-
dipping" - collecting multiple pensions and of simultaneously collecting salaries and pensions -



vi
requires current retirees to pay income taxes on their benefits, and sets a ceiling on pension
benefits equal to the highest civil-service salary permitted under the recently passed
administrative reforms.
9.    Despite the progress made with passage of the Amendment and recently enacted
legislation, the pension regime for civil servants continues to be a mounting burden on Brazil's
public resources, and presents a more immediate challenge to the Government's objective of
fiscal solvency than the RGPS. Opposition to even minor reforms to the RJU has been fierce.
The constitutionality of the Administration's January 1999 progressive contribution increase and
imposition of contributions on current beneficiaries, was immediately challenged in the courts.
On September 30, 1999, the Supreme Court struck down the measure that if implemented, would
have brought the Federal Government an additional R$2.3 billion in RJU contributions in 2000.
To surpass the Supreme Court, the Administration has, with the support of 24 state governors,
submitted a second constitutional amendment to Congress that in addition to legalizing the
collection of contributions from retired workers, would require that all new hires into the civil
service accrue pension benefits under the parameters of the RGPS. This would effectively unify
the two pension regimes into a single system, which is one of the reform program's most
important long term goals.
10.   Progress in implementing the reforms to the SPC passed in the Constitutional
Amendment, has been the most rapid. With technical and financial support, from the Bank and
the IDB, the Administration has taken steps to encourage the creation of more complementary
funded schemes, including the set of well-designed rules for both private and government
sponsored pension funds, and plans to consolidate and strengthen supervision. Funded plans to
supplement RJU benefits are being proposed, and state governments are especially keen on
offering these funds to employees. While risky, the Complementary Funds for civil servants are
promising from a political economy point of view, in that they allow state governments to offer
their workers a "new deal" consisting of lower but more dependable pensions, rather than simply
confronting them with a cut in their benefits.
II.   From December 1998, when the Constitutional Amendment was passed, authorities at the
SSPC were given three months to prepare and present three key Complementary Laws to
Congress. The three Complementary Laws would: (i) modernize the institutional framework of
the SPC, originally established in 1977; (ii) allow government as employer at the federal and state
level, to establish complementary funds for civil servants, and ensure equal regulatory
requirements with those regulating existing funds for private sector workers; and (iii) establish
the institutional relationship between government bodies and complementary pension plans, as
well as the governance structure of the new funds. The three draft laws were presented to
Congress on March 15, 1999. The Administration expects a vote on the three draft laws in
December 1999.
Performance
12.   The resilience of the Administration in managing a difficult reform in the face of
powerful vested interests, in the course of an election year, and in the midst of a financial crisis,
should be applauded. The Borrower's performance in the identification, preparation, and
appraisal the first Social Security Special Sector Adjustment Loan, wassatisfactory. Although
supported by a large sector adjustment loan, almost all of the parametric reforms included in the
first phase were designed by a special reform unit within MPAS. Until the first major financial
crisis in October 1997, reforn of social security was not given much priority nor even seen as
necessary. The reform unit within MPAS was forced to work on the design of the first package in
adverse political conditions with little financial support.



vii
13.    Bank performance in the identification, preparation, appraisal and the shortened
supervision period of the first Social Security Special Sector Adjustment Loan, was highly
satisfactory. The Bank, in coordination with the IDB and the IMF, responded in a timely fashion
to the Government's sudden need for financial assistance in the wake of the Russian default and
the international crisis that ensued. The Bank bolstered its financial backing with rigorous sector
analysis, technical support in the evaluation of reform options, and the sharing of international
best practice by training future counterparts and organizing important conferences to highlight
and publicize the need for refonn.
Program Sustainability and Assessment of Outcome
14.    The sustainability the reforms supported by the first SS SECAL is likely, but subject to a
number of risks. While the Government has succeeded in taking the essential first steps in a
difficult adjustment process, it cannot afford to loose momentum. With the passage of the
Constitutional Amendment in 1998, Braizil has only opened the door for further reforms, but a
new course remains to be charted toward the establishment of viable retirement security system
that encourages private savings, while providing an adequate safety net against widespread
poverty in old age. The enabling Constitutional Amendment of 1998 and the enacted legislation,
will have to be followed up with a comprehensive package of structural adjustments to both the
RGPS and the RJU if Brazil is to make any further progress.
15.    More immediate risks arise from the RJU. The Supreme Court's ruling in September
1999 dealt a serious blow to the Administration's pension reform program. The adjustments in
the parameters of the RJU passed in January 1999 would have significantly lowered the regime's
projected deficits. The Supreime Court's ruling against the January 1999 reform package is an
indication of the formidable challenge to reform posed by vested interest in the federal legislature
and judiciary, and jeopardizes the Administration's plans for deeper, structural reforms to the
RJIU. The Administration recognizes thait comprehensive reform of civil servant pensions cannot
take place without a second amendment to the 1988 Constitution, and is currently building
support for constitutional reform among state govemors.
16.    Progress to date in strengthening Complementary Pension System is the most promising.
Although the trend toward greater reliance on the SPC is encouraging, especially for civil
servants, the most difficult steps for the Administration still lie ahead. To make Complementary
Funds a viable and lasting solution to the problems posed by the RJU, the current parameters of
the regime will have to be chaiged. Under current RJTJ rules, even large infusions of cash (from
privatization of state assets or from external borrowing) are quickly dissipated. The viability of
the proposed complementary pension finds for civil servants will depend critically on the
elimination of guaranteed full income replacement for retired civil servants.
17.    Overall, the outcome of the operation is considered satisfactory.  The preliminary
analysis of indicators in this report concludes that, despite current delays in the legislative process
and setbacks in the courts, the Borrower has complied fully with the conditions of the first
Social Security Special Sector Adjustment Loan. Having said this, the sustainability of the
reforms that were supported by the first SS SECAL, hinges on the deeper adjustments planned for
the follow up operation.
Lessons Learned
18.    The main conclusions and principal lessons learned in the implementation of the first
Social Security Special Sector Adjustment Loan, are:



viii
(i) Applying Analytical Tools to Help De-politicize Reforms. Where the counterparts'
professional and technical capacity will allow, the benefits from sharing analytical tools and
letting the Borrower conduct its own analysis are considerable. Federal authorities continue to
use PROST along with other models to monitor state and municipal pension plans, and work with
local government on the design of reforms. Considerable effort has been made with the support
of the State Pension Reform Technical Assistance Loan (PARSEP), to train staff in state
governments in the use of simulation tools to both quantify their RJU liabilities and to determine
an optimal reform strategy. The impact of training state civil servants in the use of the simulation
model is already evident. Those that received training have formed an on-line discussion group
(http://www.onelist.com/community/PROST) to trade information on reform options being
considered in each state. This is approach is seen as the key to mobilizing essential support for
future amendments to the Federal constitution among state governors that deeper structural
reforms will require.
(ii) Sensitivity to the Politics of Reform. The politics of social security reform is particularly
treacherous and has consistently constrained the reform agenda of even the most resolute of
governments. Political factors and the legislative needs and limitations of the client need to be
understood at entry, and should be included in the Bank's dialogue with the client. In the case of
the SS SECAL in Brazil, the Bank's willingness to support a more modest program of
improvements to the reformed pension system in the first phase, has allowed the institution to
have a greater influence on the formulation of future reforms planned for the second phase.
(iii) Effective Political Communication to Catalyze Support for Difficult Reforms. Related
to the second lesson learned, reform of social insurance and publicly provided pensions should be
accompanied by a comprehensive and accessible public information campaign. However, it is
not sufficient to simply make information on the fiscal and actuarial imbalance of public pension
systems available to the public. Reformning governments and their partners have an obligation to
make their reform rationale understood, with clear and simple messages on the negative impact of
poorly designed PAYGO systems on public finances and social equity. Both Bank staff and their
counterparts pointed to the ineffective use of information and poor political communication as the
main weaknesses of the Administration's reform strategy, and the principal reason for the failure
of the January 1999 RJIU reforms in the Supreme Court. A public information component in the
INSS LIL is designed to address this weakness in the immediate future.
(iv) Selecting an Appropriate Instrument.  Rather than risk delays and failure in the
achievement of the program's long term aims by locking the client into an overly ambitions and
politically sensitive policy agenda, the Bank team chose to negotiate a medium-term reformn
strategy, and to allocate its reform goals over a series of single-tranche adjustment operations
(STOs) - a lending vehicle designed by the Bank specifically to protect the integrity of difficult
adjustment operations from significant political shifts in borrowing countries. The choice of the
STO over the traditional multiple-tranche option provided the Bank with greater agility in the
disbursement of the SS SECAL, and will enhance the institution's efficiency and leverage in
establishing the conditions of the proposed second loan. Politically motivated delays in the
passage of the IDB's multi-tranche social protection loan would indicate that the choice ofSTOs
for both the SS SECAL and the SP SECAL was appropriate given Brazil's difficult political
climate. Additionally, the decision to use a sector adjustment loan (SECAL), rather than a wider
structural adjustment loan (SAL) was taken to focus the Bank's leverage in sectors where the
institution had had conducted substantial analysis and could contribute to the design of reforms.






ICR, Brazil: Social Security Special Sector Adjustment Loan
Page I of 21
PART ONE: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
I. BACKGROUND
1.    Since the early 1990s Brazil has been engaged in a major reform of its economy, moving
away from import substitution and state-dominated enterprise, toward greater emphasis on private
initiative, competition and international integration. A central pillar of the new economic model
is the Real Plan, launched in July 1994 to secure price stability and economic growth. Founded
on a managed exchange rate regime, the plan was accompanied by a program of privatization,
deregulation and increased openness to foreign investment and trade. Under the Real Plan, Brazil
made visible progress toward economic stability. Price inflation, that ran rampant at 2,668% in
1994, fell to 7% in 1997. Growth of GDP, although volatile, averaged 4% over the same period.
2.    However, while the Real Plan succeeded in controlling inflation and creating an
improved economic environment for private enterprise, progress on fiscal adjustment and reform
of the public sector lagged. Price stability and the elimination of the inflation tax on wages and
the generous publicly-provided pensions of private and public sector workers, has dramatically
deepened the government's primary fiscal deficit and increased its vulnerability to financial
shocks. Brazil's vulnerability became apparent with the impact of the Asian financial crisis that
reached emerging markets in Latin America by October 1997. In response to a sudden slide in
the stock market and a large loss of reserves, the Brazilian Government was forced to double
domestic interest rates to maintain the managed currency regime and protect its hard won
macroeconomic gains. Although it succeeded in restoring confidence and quickly regained
access to international capital markets, the reprieve was only temporary.
3.    The impact of the Asian crisis in 1997 indicated the urgent need for swift fiscal
adjustment, underpinned by a broad program of constitutional, legislative and institutional
reforms. Central to the government's reform strategy lay two amendments to the 1988 Federal
Constitution that would allow comprehensive restructuring of public sector administration and
reform of social security. While the Government was successful in passing the administrative
reform amendment though Congress, critical elements of the social security amendment - first
presented in 1995 - remained tied down in the legislature by formidable political opposition.
Brazil's fiscal position continued to deteriorate and was further aggravated by the defensive rise
in interest rates in 1997 that, in addition to compounding the debt burden, led to a slowdown in
economic activity and a sharp rise in unemployment.
4.    Less than a year later, waning investor confidence in the wake of the Russian debt default
of August 1998, caused a second, rapid flight of capital from emerging markets. The spread
between the rate on Brazil's sovereign bonds and United States Treasury bills peaked in mid
September 1998 at nearly double the spread reached in October 1997. Struggling to maintain the
exchange rate regime in place, the Brazilian authorities raised interest rates again and intervened
in the foreign exchange market, losing almost US$30 billion in reserves by October 1998.
5.    The hemorrhage of reserves and pressure on the Real once again forced the Government
to confront its burdensome public sector deficit (public sector borrowing requirement) that at the
close of 1998 reached 8% of GDP. The administration of Fernando Henrique Cardoso - reelected
by a wide margin in October - committed to a program of deep structural reforms to bring public
finances into balance. Reform of the national social security system, that in 1998 generated a
consolidated deficit of 4.8% of GDP, returned to the forefront of the Government's agenda.



ICR Brazil: Social Security Special Sector Adjustment Loan
Page 2 of 21
1000                                                        80,000
900                                                        70,000
800
60,000
700
.~~~~~ 600 ~~~~~~~~~50,000 
S-  500                                                        4000 
IL  400                                                        30,000
300
200
100 .                           \ 0X_10,000
!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~+ M                              - -   O 
Mar- Apr- Maiy- Jun- Jul- Aug- Sep- Oct- Nov- Dec- Jan-
98  98  98  98  98  98  98  98  98  98  99
=Intemational Bond (IDU) Traded Spread ....Gross Intemational Reserves
6.    To allay investor concerns and to preempt a payments crisis, the IMF organized a
US$41.5 billion Rescue Packag;e in coordination with the IDB and the World Bank to support the
Government's reform program. Although the Government was unable to sustain its defense of
the Real and was forced to devalue the currency in January 1999, the Rescue Package was
essential in leveraging support for reform while minimizing the collateral effects of fiscal
adjustment and protecting essential public expenditure on social assistance, health and education
for the.poor. A critical condition for presentation of the Banks loan for social security reforn to
the Board of Directors, was agreement on the conditions of a parallel social protection loan that
would ensure continued allocations from the Federal budget to targeted social programs for the
poor, primarily women and children.
7.    The first Social Securily Special Sector Adjustment Loan (SS SECAL) for US$757.57
million, is the largest component of the Bank's US$4.5 billion commitment to the IMF organized
Brazil Rescue Package. The parallel adjustment loan for social protection was for US$252.52
million - over a third the size of the social security operation. The lending instrument chosen to
support the first round of reformis was a single tranche adjustment operation (STO) - the first in a
sequenced lending program to support structural reform of Brazil's national social security
system. This ICR focuses on progress achieved to date by the Government in its program of
social security reform.



ICR, Brazil: Social Security Special Sector Adjustment Loan
Page 3 of2l
II. PROGRAM OBJECTIVES
8.     Although Brazil has a long tradition of government mandated social insurance, the
Federal Constitution of 1988 entrenched a system of expensive entitlements, whose real costs
only became apparent with the defeat of inflation in 1994. Brazil's social security system is
divided into three branches:'
o The national social security system for workers in the private sector (Regime Geral da
Previdencia Social - RGPS), administered by the Federal Government's National Social
Security Institute (INSS), from which 18 million Brazilians receive pension, disability and
survivor benefits, and to which about half of the labor force of 60 million make compulsory
contributions.
o The pension regime for civil servants (Regime Juridico Unico - RJU), administered by the
Federal Government, and all state and many municipal governments for their workers;
contributors and beneficiaries each number about 3 million.
* Funded pension plans to supplement RGPS pensions (Sistema da Previdencia
Complementar - SPC): Privately managed pension plans intended to supplement RGPS
benefits; contributors number 3 million and beneficiaries 1.5 million, but the industry is
dominated by pension funds of public enterprises.
9.     As in other countries in Latin America that ran unfunded pay-as-you-go (PAYGO)
pension regimes, the imbalance in the social security accounts is a dominant factor in Brazil's
weak fiscal position and financial vulnerability. Unlike other PAYGO systems, imbalances in
Brazil's first pillar regimes (the RGPS and the RJU) were aggravated by constitutionally-
guaranteed full income replacement for covered workers (100% of average of last 3 years salaries
in RGPS, and 100% of last salary in RJU), and the absence of a minimum age at which workers
could retire. The first phase of the Administration's pension reform program, supported by the
first SS SECAL, centered on Congressional approval of a Constitutional Amendment modifying
those clauses in the 1988 Constitution which were largely responsible for the current fiscal
problems of the system.2  The primary objective of the amendment was to loosen the
constitutional constraints tying the hands of the Government's reform team, to allow them to
pursue reforms that would stabilize the growing pensions deficit.
10.    The Constitutional Amendment approved by Congress in December 1998 after five years
of debate, was aimed at correcting the social security system's long term fiscal and actuarial
imbalances, as well as lower distortionary effects on the economy. The amendment: (i)
introduced the principle of actuarial and fiscal balance in the pension regimes for private and
public sector workers; (ii) replaced pension benefits based on length-of-service with benefits
based on years-of-contribution; (iii) removed the benefit formulafor private sector workers from
In the World Bank's standard terminology, Brazil's system of old age income support has a large
mandatory publicly-managed pay-as-you-go first pillar consisting of the RGPS and the RJU, and a
relatively small (but growing) voluntary privately-managed funded third pilar consisting of the SPC.
Legislation has been passed allowing the federal, state and municipal governments to form a fourth
branch of voluntary funds for civil servants that would be included under the regulatory structure of
the SPC. To date, funded third pillar plans for civil servants have been piloted in Parana and Rio de
Janeiro. A fund reserve to finance first pillar benefits has been set up in Bahia.
2 For a more detailed discussion of structural weaknesses in each branch of the Brazilian social security
system, the results of actuarial analysis and recommended reforms, see World Bank Report No.
19641-BR Brazil: Critical Issues in Social Security



ICR, Brazil: Social Security Special Sector Adjustment Loan
Page 4 of21
the Constitution; (iv) eliminated most special pension regime@; and (v) imposed a minimum
retirement age for civil servants. Along with the approval of the Constitutional Amendment, the
Administration announced a number of emergency measures to reduce the deficit of the pension
regime for public-sector workers (RJUJ), as well as its intention to propose a General Public
Pension Law to Congress that would reduce the deficit of civil servant pension plans at the state
and municipal level of govemrnment. The first phase of the Administration's pension reform also
included initial steps to restructure INSS to improve the delivery of services, increase revenue
collection and reduce evasion of pay-roll contributions.4
'I -14                     -'U 'T
(5
5h -4   --_     __            X__                   __
-RGPS *1RJU
-6
**Simulations assume no reforms**
-7
2000         2005         2010         2015          2020
ll.   In addition to launching the first phase of Administration's social security reform, an
important objective of the Bank's support was the protection of essential public expenditure on
social assistance, education and health in the face of a long overdue fiscal adjustrnent. The
protection of carefully selected public programs aimed at the poor - especially women and
children - was a core condition of the Brazil Rescue Package, and supported with a separate
3Except for school teachers and vworkers in hazardous professions.
Most of the steps taken to restructure INSS are being supported by a Social Security Technical Assistance
Loan (LIL), I.D. No. 62619



ICR, Brazil: Social Security Special Sector Adjustment Loan
Page 5 of2l
single tranche SECAL for US$252.5 million and a multi tranche sector adjustment loan from the
IDB.s
12.    The loan's objectives were clear and in the context of a sequenced, medium-term
framework, were appropriately designed for the fast-disbursing, single tranche operation. The
objectives were consistent with the Government's policy agenda, as articulated in the Letter of
Sector Policy, dated December 9, 1998. The loan's objectives where in line with the Bank's last
update of its Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Brazil, discussed by the Board on June 2,
1998, which sets the establishment of a financially sustainable social security system as a priority
for the country.
III. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROGRAM OBJECTIVES
13.    An overview of the Administration's medium-term strategy for pension reform, as well
as a summary analysis of the social security system are provided in the President's Report No.
7277-BR. As is the case in single-tranche adjustment lending, most of the objectives of the SS
SECAL were met prior to the loan's presentation to the Board. These included the approval by
Congress of the amendment to the 1988 Constitution introducing key legislative reforms to each
branch of the social security system, passage of the General Public Pensions Law specifically for
state and municipal pension plans, and preliminary steps in the institutional restructuring of INSS.
Details on preparatory measures taken by the Bank and Borrower, and the rationale behind the
conditions of Board presentation, are also contained in the President's Report. Evidence of the
Borrower's compliance with all of the conditions of the loan, is provided in Appendix A:
Evidence of Compliance with Policy Actions of this report.
14.    Since the objectives of the first SS SECAL are part of a phased reform process supported
by sequenced adjustment loans, it is too early to fully assess the progress achieved toward
meeting the Administration's long term aims of comprehensive, structural reform of social
security. However, an analysis of current indicators as to whether these long term goals are likely
to be achieved is vital to the continuing dialogue with the Borrower, and as a guide to future Bank
support of deeper reform of Brazil's pension system. This section presents the key indicators of
progress achieved under the Administration's medium-term strategy in each branch of the social
security system since the passage of the Constitutional Amendment.
iiia. Advances Made in Reform of the RGPSfor Private Sector Workers
15.    After five years of debate in Congress, the passage of the Constitutional Amendment
made possible adjustments to the PAYGO parameters of the first-pillar regime for workers in the
private sector, that with a second phase of structural reforms - still under discussion - would
bring the system into fiscal and actuarial balance. As detailed in Annex A of this report, the
Amendment:
*> removes the definition of the benefit formula from the 1988 Constitution;
*> eliminates most special pension regimes; adopts years-of-contributions instead of years-of-
service for benefit eligibility;
e eliminates early retirement with a partial pension;
5 Although part of the Bank's contribution to the Brazil Rescue Package, the design and implementation of
the Social Protection Special Sector Adjustment Loan, No. 63351 (President's Report No. P7281 BR),
is reviewed in a separate ICR.



ICR, Brazil: Social Security Special Sector Adjustment Loan
Page 6 of21
sets a ceiling on retirement benefits indexed to inflation;
*>  expands the contribution base to all work-related earnings; and allows income taxes to be
levied on pension and survivor benefits.
Although originally included in the Amendment, the introduction of a minimum retirement age
for private sector workers failed to pass in Congress.6
16.    The reforms to the RGPS passed in 1998, and measures presented to Congress in 1999,
target the parameters of the Length of Service pension benefit - largely corresponding to urban,
male, formal sector workers. The eligibility and benefit parameters of the Old Age program and
special eligibility conditions fDr rural workers, were not effected by the reforms. The majority of
beneficiaries of the Old Age program are women, while the poor benefit the most from special
concessions in the regime to rural workers.
17.    Since the passage of the Constitutional Amendment, the Administration has taken
important legislative steps to implement most of the parametric reforms, and to prepare for more
ambitious structural reforms planned for the second phase. New parameters for special pension
benefits for primary and secondary school teachers were established by Presidential Decree. A
draft Ordinary Law7 proposing a new formula for the calculation of pension benefits has been
sent to Congress.8 Additional packages of draft legislation to expand income -tax to include
pensions, and to establish the legal framework for the private provision of work injury insurance
have been prepared and will be sent to Congress before the end of 1999.
18.    In addition to the measures specifically supported by the SS SECAL, the authorities in
MPAS have succeeded in piassing legislation that allows an accounting of workers' past
contributions to both of Brazil's first pillar regimes, the RGPS and the RJU, and that lays the
foundation for eventual transfers between the two benefit plans.
-ii2. Advances Made in Reform of the RJUfor Public Sector Workers
19.    The Constitutional Amendment introduced important parametric adjustments to the
pension regime for civil servants at the federal, state and municipal levels of government. The
Amendment requires that RJU pensions be strictly contribution-based, and requires that future
parameters be set to ensure financial and actuarial balance. In addition to eliminating the option
of early retirement with a partial pension, the Amendment removes the possibility of "double-
dipping" - collecting multiple pensions and of simultaneously collecting salaries and pensions -
requires current retirees to pay income taxes on their benefits, and sets a ceiling on pension
6 This missing piece in the Administration's first package of reforms will have serious implications for the
effectiveness of the measures taken in 1998, and the sustainability of the RGPS, discussed in Section
V of this report.
7 The Brazilian legislative process distinguishes Complementary Laws from Ordinary Laws: while there is
not hierarchical distinction between the two kinds of law, the Complementary Laws require a special
quorum of deputies to be present for a vote to be taken, and are, therefore, much more difficult to pass
in Congress.
8 The new formnula incrementally extends the reference wage to eventually include a worker's entire
working life, and establishes an endogenous accrual rate determined by years of contribution and life
expectancy at retirement. The Administration is still discussing the parameters of the new benefit
formula, which along with a system of Notional Defined Contribution (NDC) accounts, or a system
with some sort of pre-funding are still being debated. For an analysis of reform options, see World
Bank Report No. 19641 -BR Brazil: Critical Issues in Social Security.



ICR, Brazil: Social Security Special Sector Adjustment Loan
Page 7 of2l
benefits equal to the highest civil-service salary permitted under the recently passed
administrative reforms.
20.    Despite the progress made with passage of the Amendment and recently enacted
legislation, the pension regime for civil servants continues to be a mounting burden on Brazil's
public resources, and presents a more immediate challenge to the Government's objective of
fiscal solvency than the RGPS.9 In the RJU, the most significant reforms in the first phase were:
(i) the introduction of a minimum age of 53/48 years for men/women at which retirement benefits
commence, gradually increasing to 60/55, and (ii) the progressive increase in the contribution rate
for federal executive branch workers and retirees, not included in the conditions of the SS
SECAL, but approved by Congress in January 1999. While these reforms slow down the growth
of fiscal deficits in the Federal RJU, they do not eliminate the structural imbalances in the regime.
*Base Case  -.  1998/99 Reformsi
(0.5)
Assumes long term economic growth of 3%,
inflation of 5%, productivity growth of 2.5%,
_   (1.0)                       ____and real interest rate of 6%.
(1.5) -_                         ___-_
(2.0) 3-____
(2.5)     -                                                   _______D    _    _
(3.0)-
_ N O F1 (D   U    J N      11   iD t   N  O       M   (DJ   M     M  I r     CD    Ml    1<   0     D  N     M
s ~~~~N  N~ N1 N N  N~ Nl    "  Nl N" (N  N I N  Nl N~ N    CIQ N   N N  N\ Nl N  N N
c                           ~~~~~~~YearofSimulation
21.    Opposition to even minor reforms to the RJU has been fierce. The constitutionality of the
Administration's January 1999 progressive contribution increase'0 and imposition of
9 Although fiscal deficits in the RGPS overtake RJU deficits in the long run.
tO The January 1999 reform of the Federal RJU would have raised the pension contribution of workers
earning more than R$1200 per month from 11% to 20%, and for those earning more than R$2500 per
month to 25%. These same income thresholds for were to also be applied to retirees from the Federal
executive branch receiving benefits. However, pensioners receiving less than R$600 a month were
exempted from contributing, as were the disabled and those aged over 70 receiving less than R$3000
per month. The new rates would have only applied to the federal executive branch, leaving the
contribution rates of civil servants in the judicial and legislative branches unaffected.



ICR, Brazil: Social Security Special Sector Adjustment Loan
Page 8 of21
contributions on current beneficiaries, was immediately challenged in the courts. On September
30, 1999, the Supreme Court struck down the measure that if implemented, would have brought
the Federal Government an additional R$2.3 billion in RJU contributions in 2000." Although
disappointed by the Court's decision, the Administration has already responded with plans for a
flat increase of Federal RJU contributions from active civil servants from the current 11% to as
much as 14%, and require the military and police - currently contributing only 1.6% - to begin
making full contributions toward their retirement benefits.
22.    To surpass the Supreme Court, the Administration has, with the support of 24 state
governors, submitted a second constitutional amendment to congress that in addition to legalizing
the collection of contributions fromn retired workers, would require that all new hires into the civil
service accrue pension benefits under the parameters of the RGPS. This would effectively unify
the two pension regimes into a single system, which is one of the reform program's most
important long term goals.
iii3. Advances Made in Reform of the SPC & Complementary Fundsfor Civil Servants
23.    Political consensus in Brazil is gradually moving towards greater reliance on employer
provided, funded plans for old age support in the third pillar, for both workers in the private as
well as in the public sector. While funded pension plans in the Complementary Pension System
(SPC) manage over R$100 billion worth of assets, coverage of funded pension plans remains low
at about 5%  of the workforce.  This low rate of participation, despite Brazil's relatively
sophisticated capital market, is due to inadequate regulation of the system, and the lack of tax
incentives for retirement savings. Progress in implementing the reforms to the SPC passed in the
Constitutional Amendment, has been the most rapid. With technical and financial support, from
the Bank and the IDB, the Admiinistration has taken steps to encourage the creation of more
complementary funded schemes, including the set of well-designed rules for both private and
government sponsored pension funds, and plans to consolidate and strengthen supervision.
24.    Funded plans to supplement RJU benefits are being proposed, and state governments are
especially keen on offering these funds to employees. Some states such asBahia, Parana and Rio
de Janeiro have already taken steps to establish funded plans. Santa Caterina is considering the
option. While risky, the Complernentary Funds for civil servants are promising from a political
economy point of view, in that they allow state governments to offer their workers a "new deal"
consisting of lower but more dependable pensions, rather than simply confronting them with a cut
in their benefits. The bulk of the Bank's technical advice in preparation for the second phase of
the reform program will be provided directly to the state governments to evaluate the fiscal health
of their RJU plans, and assist in the design and regulation of new Complementary Funds.
25.    From December 1998, when the Constitutional Amendment was passed, authorities at the
Secretariat for Complementary Pension System (SSPC) were given three months to prepare and
present three key Complementary Laws to Congress. The three Complementary Laws would: (i)
modernize the institutional framework of the SPC, originally established in 1977;12 (ii) allow
government as employer at the fedleral and state level, to establish complementary funds for civil
servants, and ensure equal regulatory requirements with those regulating existing funds for
I For further discussion of the implications of the Supreme Court's decision, see Section V of this report.
12 The first complementary law establishes new vesting and benefit rules to protect workers' interests and
allow portability of acquired rights. Additionally, the law would allow organizations and entities
other than single companies to offer pension plans, extending the right to set up a complementary plan
to industry and trade associations as well as unions.



ICR, Brazil: Social Security Special Sector Adjustment Loan
Page 9 of 21
private sector workers;13 and (iii) establish the institutional relationship between government
bodies and complementary pension plans, as well as the governance structure of the new funds 14
26.    The three draft laws were presented to Congress on March 15, 1999.  A  special
Legislative Commission has been formed in the Senate to review each draft law. Since the SSPC
enjoys the support of most of the political parties in Congress, the Administration expects that the
draft laws will be sent for a vote with few modifications. A vote on the three draft laws is
expected by December 1999, should the Administration succeed in assembling the special
quorum required to pass complementary legislation.
27.    While not included in the set of reforms supported by the first SS SECAL, the authorities
have been involved in additional regulatory initiatives to strengthen the Complementary Pension
System. The SSPC is working jointly with the Brazilian Federal Securities Commission and the
Central Bank on a proposal to update asset management requirements for institutional investors,
including Complementary Pension Funds.  The new  requirements would introduce VAR
evaluation of acquired securities, improve diversification of financial risks, and limit exposure to
certain risks with the imposition of portfolio ceilings by asset class. Additionally, the authorities
are lobbying for key reforms in the tax code to allow tax exemptions on retirement savings and
the income these earn from investment.15
28.    Finally, to the degree that workers begin to rely more on the Complementary System for
retirement income than on the publicly administered first pillar, the SSPC's supervisory and
regulatory responsibilities will grow. The Secretariat of the Complimentary Pension System,
currently a branch of INSS within MPAS, is actively pursuing a greater degree of autonomy from
the social security system as a new national agency. The SSPC believes greater independence
would increase its efficiency, and allow it to compete with the private sector in recruiting and
retaining staff with essential actuarial and financial expertise. The new national agency would
operate along the lines of similar regulatory agencies in the Region - the Private Pension Fund
Superintendencies in Chile and in Argentina (SAFP and SAFJP) and National Retirement
Savings Commission in Mexico (CONSAR). The establishment of a new, independent regulatory
body for the Complementary System is considered one of the Administration's most important
long term goals in restructuring of the old-age security system in Brazil.
13 The second complementary law establishes that the new government sponsored Complementary Funds,
regardless of what level of government they are established - will fall under the supervision of the
Federal Secretariat of the Complementary Pension System, currently within MPAS. The new funds
will be required to meet the same actuarial and disclosure guidelines as the rest of the plans in the
system.
14 The third complementary law sets requirements for the management of the Complementary Funds,
establishing the principle of "management parity" between the sponsoring employer and beneficiaries
of the new plans. The law also introduces guidelines for the administration of the plans, to avoid
conflicts of interest and misuse of the funds.
15 Almost all OECD countries have an "EET" model ("exempt, exempt, taxed"), where pension
contributions and investment returns are exempt for taxation, and only pension benefits are taxed.
The tax code in Brazil, in contrast, puts limits on such exemptions, and is unclear on how retirement
savings and their earnings are taxed. This is seen as one of the principal reasons for low rates of
participation in the voluntary plans, despite the relative sophistication of the capital market in Brazil
(World Bank, 1999)



ICR, Brazil: Social Security Special Sector Adjustment Loan
Page 10 of 21
IV. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROGRAM
29.    Although the Bank's analytical work and technical dialogue with the Brazilian authorities
on reform of the national social security system has been ongoing since the early 1990s, the
demand for lending support arose suddenly in the midst of a financial crisis. The challenges of
responding rapidly to pre-empt a payments crisis that could have had repercussions across the
Region while ensuring a substantive program of reforms, were the most important factors
effecting the design and implementation of the SS SECAL. With the implementation period of
the program limited to actions taken prior to Board presentation and the passage of the
Constitutional Amendment, Section IV "major factors affecting the program" should be
approached from a design as well as an implementation perspective.
30.    Since the underlying structural imbalances of the Brazilian social security system are
rooted in the Federal Constitution of 1988, any significant reform package would require a
constitutional amendment. Thus, in formulating the conditions of the first sector adjustment loan,
both the Bank team and the Borrower had to pay close attention to Brazil's decentralized
structure of government. Although reelected by a wide margin, the Administration was
constrained in the scope of reforms it could pursue by what state governors - often members of
parties in opposition - would be willing to support.  The Administration was forced to
compromise on several critical reform measures such as a minimum retirement age in the RGPS
and the pension benefit guarantee in the RJU, in order to secure passage of the 1998 amendment.
31.    To give the Borrower a greater degree of flexibility in implementing its phased reform
strategy, the Bank chose to use the single-tranche lending instrument that could be quickly
disbursed to provide urgent liquiclity assistance, and that would engage the Government in a
continuing dialogue on social secu;rity reform. Although it is too early to tell to what degree the
long term aims of the reformn will be achieved, and despite recent setbacks (discussed in Section
V), the choice of the single-tranche instrument within a framework of an agreed medium-term
strategy with the Government, appears to have been correct. The Bank team and its counterparts
have agreed on a new approach for the second phase, which will place greater emphasis on direct
technical assistance at the state level in order to build support for the more difficult structural
reforms from the bottom up.
32.   In addition to political constraints, the Bank team and its counterparts were limited by a
lack of consensus between stake holders in Brazil around the basic structure of a future reformed
pension system. Most of the Bank's work with the Brazilians to date has been in quantifying the
country's implicit pension liabilities and exploring the viability of a wide range of design options
for a new system. Since there was no consensus even within the Administration on the basic
model of a reformed system at the time of the 1998 crisis,'6 the reforms leveraged by the first SS
SECAL were limited to adjustments in the parameters of the current PAYGO structure of the first
pillar and measures to strengthen regulation of the voluntary third pillar.
33.    Finally, unlike its neighbors in the Region, prior to 1998 Brazil had little (or no) previous
experience with adjustment lending. The bulk of the Bank's portfolio in Brazil is held in
investment loans financing projecis with more tangible outputs. The lack of familiarity with
adjustment loans on the part of the Bank's counterparts, as well as the Brazilian public caused
both minor delays in the negotiation of the conditions of the loan as well as confusion among the
social security authorities, who held expectations for the use of the loaned funds. In the case of
the accompanying Social Protection SECAL, this confusion even provoked public accusations of



ICR, Brazil: Social Security Special Sector Adjustrzent Loan
Page II of 21
misuse of funds that opposition parties used to tie down approval of the IDB's mrulti-tranche
adjustment loan in Congress.
V. PROGRAM SUSTAiNABILITY
34.    The sustainability the reforms supported by the first SS SECAL is Iikei', buti subject to a
number of risks. While the Government has succeeded in taking the essential first steps in a
difficult adjustment process, it cannot afford to loose momentum. With the passage of the
Constitutional Amendment in 1998, Brazil has only opened the door for further reforms, but a
new course remains to be charted toward the establislment of viable retirement security system
that encourages private savings, while providing an adequate safety net against widespread
poverty in old age. The enabling Constitutional Amendment of 1998 and the enacted legislation,
will have to be followed up with a comprehensive package of structural adjustments to both the
RGPS and the RJU if Brazil is to make any further progress.
35.    The fiscal balance of the first pillar regimes remains the principal challenge to even the
immediate viability of the pension system. In the RGPS, the elimination of early retirement with
reduced pensions (aposentadoria proporcional) and changes in the benefit formula,'7 should be
followed up with the establishment of a minimum retirement age - a critical piece of the 1998
amendment that failed to pass in Congress. The Bank's simulations of the 1998 reforms show
fiscal gains until 2010 over what would have occurred without these reforms, as people wait
longer to get unreduced benefits and the reference wage is lowered. However, over the mrediurm
to long term, the 1998 reforms will worsen fiscal imbalances as those who would have retired
with reduced benefits (between 70% and 100% of reference salaries) now begina to retire with
unreduced (100%) benefits.
36.    The Administration claims that the new RGPS benefit formula deals with this negative
fiscal effect. While the new benefit formula goes far in addressing this issue and delivers
significant fiscal gains in the long-term, these gains will depend on workers postponing
retirement and cannot be guaranteed without a statutory minimum retirement age and a drop in
Brazil's formidable rates of evasion. Simulations of the impact of the new formula will be
conducted in the preparation of the proposed second loan.
37.    Further, more immediate risks arise from the RJU. The Supreme Court's ruling in
September 1999 dealt a serious blow to the Administration's pension reform program. The
adjustments in the parameters of the RJU passed in January 1999 would have significantly
lowered the regime's projected deficits as well as the above market rates of return enjoyed by
beneficiaries. 4owever, had the measures passed they would have only applied to civil servants
in the Federal Executive Branch. A large part of the fiscal problem lies untouched in the
remaining branches of the Federal government and at the sub-national level. The Supreme
Court's ruling against the January 1999 reforn package is an indication of the formidable
challenge to reform posed by vested interest in the federal legislature and judiciary, and
jeopardizes the Administration's plans for deeper, structural reforms to the RJU.  The
Administration recognizes that comprehensive reform of civil servant pensions cannot take place
without a second amendment to the 1988 Constitution, and is currently building support for
constitutional reform among state governors.
17 Specifically, an extension of the reference salary and averaging period on which retirement benefits are
calculated - a proposal for a new benefit formula based on a life expectancy-adjusted annual rate of
accrual, has been approved by Congress.



ICR, Brazil: Social Security Special Sector Adjustment Loan
Page 12 of2l
38.    Progress to date in strengthening Complementary Pension System is the most promising.
Although the trend toward greater reliance on the SPC is encouraging, especially for civil
servants, the most difficult steps for the Administration still lie ahead. To make Complementary
Funds a viable and lasting solution to the problems posed by the RJU, the current parameters of
the regime will have to be chenged. As mentioned above, the Government will have to remove
the RJU benefit formula from the Constitution just as it did with the RGPS, lower replacement
rates, and increase the reference period, before the new plans are created. Under current RJU
rules, even large infusions of cash (from privatization of state assets or from external borrowing -
an unattractive option given current levels of public debt at the Federal and state level) are
quickly dissipated. The viability of the proposed complementary pension funds for civil servants
will depend critically on the elimination of guaranteed full income replacement for retired civil
servants.
VI. BANK PERFORMANCE
39.    Bank performance in the identification, preparation, appraisal and the shortened
supervision period of the first Social Security Special Sector Adjustment Loan, was highly
satisfactory. The Bank, in coordination with the IDB and the IMF, responded in a timely fashion
to the Government's sudden need for financial assistance in the wake of the Russian default and
the international crisis that ensued, with special liquidity financing. The Bank bolstered its
financial backing with rigorous sector analysis, technical support in the evaluation of reform
options, and the sharing of iinternational best practice by training future counterparts and
organizing important conferences to highlight and publicize the need for reform.
40.    The Constitutional Amendment that was presented to Congress was the subject of intense
debate for more almost five years. While the financial crisis of 1998 pushed social security
reform to the top of the Administration's agenda, the Bank's support was critical in carrying the
legislative process forward and in accelerating the preparation of follow up laws and regulations.
The Bank's Country Management Team recognized that the time was ripe for a substantial step in
social security reforrm to be taken.
41.    The Bank team has been congratulated on the quality of its technical assistance to the
pension authorities in Brazil, a:nd for engaging its counterparts in the analysis of the structural
weaknesses of the social security system. The Bank's response was backed by years of dialogue
and sector analysis that allowed the team - together with the Borrower - to formulate a viable
reform strategy. Through a package of lending and non-lending technical assistance,'8 the Bank
trained a core unit within MPAS in the use of its Pension Reform Options Simulation Toolkit
(PROST), initiated the collection of data on and monitoring of state and municipal pension plans,
assisted in the drafting of key pieces of enabling legislation, launched an institutional audit of the
INSS, and sustained a complex policy dialogue with federal authorities through the preparation of
four informal reports that analyzed the specific weaknesses in each branch of the social security
system.
In addition to the SS SECAL, the Bank negotiated and signed a State Pensions Technical Assistance
Loan (PARSEP) ID No. 57910 Report No. 17965, and a Social Security Technical Assistance Loan
ID No. 62619.



ICR, Brazil: Social Security Special Sector Adjustment Loan
Page 13 of 21
VII. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
42.    The resilience of the Administration in managing a difficult reform  in the face of
powerful vested interests, in the course of an election year, and in the midst of a financial crisis,
should be applauded. The Borrower's performance in the identification, preparation, and
appraisal the first Social Security Special Sector Adjustment Loan, was satisfactory. Although
supported by a large sector adjustment loan, almost all of the parametric reforms included in the
first phase were designed by a special reform unit within MPAS. Until the first major finanlcial
crisis in October 1997, reform of social security was not given much priority nor even seen as
necessary. The reform unit within MPAS was forced to work on the design of the first package in
adverse political conditions with little financial support.
VIII. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
43.    Based on interviews with the Borrower and the Bank, and as detailed in the paragraphs
above, the overall outcome of the operation is considered satisfactory. The preliminary analysis
of indicators in Section III of this report concludes that, despite current delays in the legislative
process and setbacks in the courts, the Borrower has compliedfully with the conditions of the
first Social Security Special Sector Adjustment Loan. Having said this, it is unclear whether
political conditions in Brazil will allow the Administration to go forward with its medium term
pension reform program. Support for the Administration in Congress is dwindling, and pressure
from international capital markets has abated eliminating the urgency of difficult and unpopular
reforms in the short run. The sustainability of the reforms that were supported by the SS SECAL,
hinges on the deeper adjustments planned for the follow up operation.
IX. FUTURE OPERATION
44.    A second SS SECAL is planned as a part of the IMF's package of support for Brazil.
Despite the measures taken in 1998 and 1999, Brazil's national social security and pensions
system continues to suffer from critical structural weaknesses. The Government is faced with
implicit pension liabilities that amount to well over 100% of GDP. The fiscal and equity
challenges of restructuring publicly and privately provided pensions are many and forrnidable,
and the list of reforms necessary to ensure the long term fiscal balance and sustainability of social
security is both technically and politically demanding. The September 1999 ruling of the
Supreme Court against the Administration's attempt to increase contributions to the Federal RLTU
indicates that at the very least, any significant reform of civil servant pensions will require a
second constitutional amendment.
45.    While the need for special liquidity assistance may have passed, the Bank is ready to
respond to demand for a second adjustment loan to support steps taken to implement the second
phase of the Administration's reform plan.  Further work with the Administration in the
implementation of two pensions-related Learning and Innovation Loans and further non-lending
assistance will also continue. The Bank's support is expected to lead to larger investment
operations for further institutional reform of INSS (based on the findings of the current INSS
LIL), to build the institutional infrastructure of a wider system of privately provided
complementary pension plans, to consolidate the provision of retirement income security for civil
servants at every level of government, to expand effective coverage to unprotected workers, and
to ensure equity between the public and private sectors.



ICR, Brazil: Social Security Special Sector Adjustment Loan
Page 14 of2l
X. LESSONS LEARNED
46.    The main conclusions and principal lessons learned in the implementation of the first
Social Security Special Sector Adjustment Loan, are:
(i) Applying Analytical Tools to Help De-politicize Reforms. Where the counterparts'
professional and technical capacity will allow, the benefits from sharing analytical tools and
letting the Borrower conduct its own analysis are considerable. Federal authorities continue to
use PROST along with other models to monitor state and municipal pension plans, and work with
local government on the design of. reforms. Considerable effort has been made with the support
of the State Pension Reform Technical Assistance Loan (PARSEP), to train staff in state
governments in the use of simulation tools to both quantify their RJU liabilities and to determine
an optimal reform strategy. The irnpact of training state civil servants in the use of the simulation
model is already evident. Those that received training have fonned an on-line discussion group
(http://www.onelist.com/community/PROST) to trade information on reform options being
considered in each state. This is approach is seen as the key to mobilizing essential support for
future amendments to the Federal constitution among state governors that deeper structural
reforms will require.
(ii) Sensitivity to the Politics of Reform. The politics of social security reform is particularly
treacherous and has consistently constrained the reform agenda of even the most resolute of
governments. Political factors and the legislative needs and limitations of the client need to be
understood at entry, and should be included iin the Bank's dialogue with the client. In the case of
the SS SECAL in Brazil, the Bank's willingness to support a more modest program  of
improvements to the reformed pension system in the first phase, has allowed the institution to
have a greater influence on the forrnulation of future reforms planned for the second phase.
(iii) Effective Political Communication to Catalyze Support for Difficult Reforms. Related
to the second lesson learned, reform of social insurance and publicly provided pensions should be
accompanied by a comprehensive and accessible public information campaign. However, it is
not sufficient to simply make information on the fiscal and actuarial imbalance of public pension
systems available to the public. Reformning governments and their partners have an obligation to
make their reforrn rationale understood, with clear and simple messages on the negative impact of
poorly designed PAYGO systems on public finances and social equity. Both Bank staff and their
counterparts pointed to the ineffective use of information and poor political communication as the
main weaknesses of the Administration's reform strategy, and the principal reason for the failure
of the January 1999 RJIU reforms in the Supreme Court. A public information component in the
INSS LIL is designed to address this weakness in the immediate future.
(iv) Selecting an Appropriate Instrument. Rather than risk delays and failure in the
achievement of the program's long term aims by locking the client into an overly ambitions and
politically sensitive policy agenda, the Bank team chose to negotiate a medium-term reform
strategy, and to allocate its reform goals over a series of single-tranche adjustment operations
(STOs). The choice of the STO over the traditional multiple-tranche option provided the Bank
with greater agility in the disbursement of the SS SECAL, and will enhance the institution's
efficiency and leverage in establishing the conditions of the proposed second loan. Politically
motivated delays in the passage of the IDB's multi-tranche social protection loan would indicate
that the choice of STOs for both the SS SECAL and the SP SECAL was appropriate given
Brazil's difficult political climate. Additionally, the decision to use a sector adjustment loan
(SECAL), rather than a wider structural adjustment loan (SAL) was taken to focus the Bank's
leverage in sectors where the institution had had conducted substantial analysis and could
contribute to the design of reforms.



ICR, Brazil: Social Security Special Sector Adjustment Loan
Page 15 of2l
Part Two: Statistical Tables'9
Table 1:   Summary of Assessment
Table 2:   Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:   Project Timetable
Table 4:   Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 6:   Studies Included in Project
Table 7:   Status of Legal Covenants
Table 8:   Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 9:   Bank Resources: Missions
19 Isabelle Kim (LCSFP) provided assistance in the preparation of the ICR tables.



ICR, Brazil: Social Security Special Sector Adjustment Loan
Page 16 of2l
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives        Substantial        Partial        Negligible      Not applicable
Macro Policies                                       C 0
Sector Policies                                      C                C 0
Financial Objectives                 a                                C                 C
Institutional Development                            C                  I               Li
Physical Objectives                  C               C                                            |
Poverty Reduction                                                    E l o
Gender Issues                       L                                II                Ll
Other Social Objectives              C                                C                 C
Environmental Objectives            Cl               C                C
Public Sector Management             C                                C                 LI
Private Sector Development          LI                               LI                 C
Other (specify)                      C               C                C
B. Project Sustainability              Likely                  Unlikely                  Uncertain
(1)                       (1)                       (/) 
E3                       C                          C
C. Bank Performance                     satisfactory          Satisfactory                Deficient
(1)(a)                                             (1/)       I
Identification                       0                       L                           C
Preparation Assistance               i3                                                  C
Appraisal                            0                                                   C1
Supervision                                                   C                          C



ICR, Brazil: Social Security Special Sector Adjustment Loan
Page 17 of2l
Highly 
D.  Borrower Perfonnance                           satisfactory     Satisfactory       Deficient
(1)              (1')              (/)l
Preparation                                                        El                E]
Implementation                                    C                                   a
Covenant Compliance                                                                  El
Operation (if applicable)                                          i: 0
Highly                                                  Hgl
E. Assessment of Outcome                  satisfactory    Satisfactory     Unsatisfactory      unsatisfactory
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Amount US$ Millions                Purpose                  Year of approval                 Status
Preceding operations
BR - PE - 57910 for US$5        Technical Assistance to State   1999                     Disbursing
Pension System Reform
Following operations
BR - PE - 62619 for US$5        Preliminary Technical        1999                        Disbursing
Assistance to National Social
Security Institute (INSS)
As yet undecided                Second Special Sector        Expected 2000               Identification
Adjustment Loan - Liquidity
Assistance
As yet undecided                Institutional Reform and     Expected 2000/2001          Identification
Strengthening of National
Social Security Institute
(INSS)



ICR, Brazil: Social Security Special Sector Adjustment Loan
Page 18 of 21
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                Date Planned              |         Date Actual
Identification                                   August 1998                       August 1998
Preparation                                      October 1998                      October 1998
Appraisal                                  October - November 1998           October - November 1998
Negotiations                                   November 1998                      November 1998
Letter of Development Policy                    December 1998                    10 December 1998
Board Presentation                               January 1999                     7 January 1999
Signing                                         February 1999                      9 March 1999
Effectiveness                                   February 1999                     31 March 1999
Loan Closing                                      June 1999                        30 June 1999
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ Millions)
FY'99
Appraisal Estimate                                            757.57
Actual                                                        757.57
Actual as % of Estimate                                       100%
Date of Final Disbursement                                    March 31, 1999



ICR, Brazil: Social Security Special Sector Adjustment Loan
Page 19 of21
Table 5: Project Financing
Actual/Latest Estimate (US$M)
Source                             Local Costs              Foreign Costs              Total
IBRD/IDA                                ---                     757.57                757.57
Cofinancing Institution
Domestic Contribution
TOTAL                                   ---                     757.57                 757.57
Table 6: Studies Included in the Project
Study                                Purpose as Defined at       Status             Impact of Study
Appraisal
1. Simulation Analysis of Regime Geral   Quantify fiscal costs of  Complete &       Conditions for
da Previdencia Social             social security system, and    reviewed with   proposed second
explore options for reform  borrower          adjustment loan
2. Simulation Analysis of Regime      Quantify fiscal costs of   Complete &         Conditions for
Juridico Unico                    pensions in the public sector,  reviewed with  proposed second
and explore options for    borrower           adjustment loan
reform
3. Informal Report on the Brazilian   Institutional and regulatory    Complete &    Conditions for
Complementary Pension System      audit of complementary      reviewed with      proposed second
pension system to assess   borrower           adjustment loan
needs for reform
4. Informal Report on Viability of State   Simulation analysis of  Complete &       Conditions for
Civil Servant Pension Funds       financial viability of      reviewed with      proposed second
proposed pension funds,    borrower           adjustment loan
given current benefit
guarantees



ICR, Brazil: Social Security Special Sector Adjustment Loan
Page 20 of2l
Table 7: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement Covenant Present                               Description of                             Comments
type     status                              covenant
2.02(b)     5          C        The BDrrower to open and maintain in the Central Bank a deposit account in  In Compliance
dollars. All withdrawals from the Loan account to be deposited in such
Deposit account
2.02(c)     5          C        The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used to  In Compliance
finance expenditures excluded pursuant to Schedule I of the Loan Agreement
2.03        5          C        The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999                          In Compliance
2.04        5          C        The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in the amount of seven million five  In Compliance
hundred seventy thousand dollars.
2.05        5          C        The Borrower shall pay the Bank a commitment charge at the rate of 3/4 of one Single tranche -
percent per annum, on the principal part of the loan not withdrawn from time fully disbursed at
to time                                                          effectiveness
2.06        5          C        The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan  In Compliance
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each interest period
equal n) LIBOR Base Rate plus 4 (four) percentage points
3.01        5          C        The Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed action to In Compliance
be taken which would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives of
the First Phase of the Program, or any action specified in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement (Note: Schedule 3 describes reforms passed with 1998
Amendmsent to Constitution No. 20)
3.02 (a)(b)(c) I       C        Upon the Bank's request, the Borrower shall have the deposit account audited In Compliance
and furnish to the Bank an audit report, not later than four months after the
Bank request, and all other information requested
4.01        11         C        Macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is consistent with the  In Compliance
objectives of the Program
Covenant types:
1  =  Accounts/audits                                  8. = Indigenous people
2. =  Financial performance/revenue generation from    9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting
beneficiaries                                   10. = Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
3. =  Flow and utilization of project funds            11. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource
4. =  Counterpart funding                                     allocation
5.    Management aspects of the project or executing   12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
agency                                                 regulatory/institutional action
6. =  Environmental covenants                         13. = Other
7. =  Involuntary resettlement
8. Present Status:
C = covenant complied with
CD = complied with after delay
CP =  complied with partially
NC = not complied with



ICR, Brazil: Social Security Special Sector Adjustment Loan
Page 21 of2l
Table 8: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                                            Planned                       Actual
Project Cycle
Weeks           US$            Weeks            US$
Thousands                      Thousands
Preparation to Appraisal                               13.1           53.7            14.8            43.7
Appraisal-Board Approval                               7.4            46.3            11.6           90.9
Supervision                                            2.5             25             3.1             10.4
Completion                                              5              25               5              11
TOTAL                                                 28              150            34.5            156
Table 9: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Number                   Specialized   Implemen    Develop-
Stage of        Month/               of         Days in    Staff Skills    -tation     ment    Types of
Project Cycle       Year             Persons        Field     Represented    Status    Objective   Problems
s
Through Appraisal     Identification    4            5            a, b, f          _           _          _
August 1998                                                                                l
Appraisal through     Appraisal         6            15           a, b, c, d, e, f,  _         _          _
Board Approval        October 1998
Negotiation       2            3           a, b,
November 1998
Supervision
Completion            ICR               1            4            e                _           _          _
September 1999
Notes
a. Senior Operations Officer (TM)
b. Senior Economist
c. Financial Sector & Capital Markets Specialist
d. Human Resources Economist - Social Protection (Pension Reform Simulation)
e. Social Protection Specialist - Pensions
f. Consultants - Social Security Institutional Restructuring






Brazil: First Social Security Special Sector Adjustment Loan, Evidence of Compliance with Policy Actions
1. MA CROENOC POLICYFRAMEWORK 
Maintenance of          *  Maintenance of sound macroeconomic framework       /  After devaluation in January        Sound macroeconomic
Supportive                 consistent with policy objectives and program described  1999, inflation increased but    framework consistent with
Macroeconomic Program      in Letter of Sector Policy                            largely stabilized at 5.2%, GDP     the medium term policy
shrank by 0.8% by the second       objectives and program
quarter, and t short term interest  described in Letter of Sector
rate fluctuates around 20%     ____
2. REFORM OF TIlfE PENVSION SYSWTEM FOR PRIVATrE SECTOR WFORKERS RGPS
Improve Long-tern      Approved Constitutional Amendment:                     Legislation and regulation to make  Further legislative actions
Fiscal Health/Reduce   In December 1998, Congress approved an amendment to the   Constitutional Amendment effective:   expected:
Fiscal Deficit          Constitution that introduced key legislative reforms to the  /  Ordinary Law No. 1527        Establishment of a
social security system. The amendment:                    proposing new basis for benefit    minimum age of retirement
*  Removes the definition of the pension benefit          calculation, sent to Congress      for workers in private sector
calculation from the Constitution
*  Eliminates most special pension regimes except that for   /  Remaining special pensions   Introduce means test and
school teachers and some risky occupations (restricting  regulated in Decree No. 3048    age limit for survivor's
to actual performance of hazardous activities)    $  Base of contributions expanded to    pensions and rationalize
*  Adopts years-of-contributions instead of years-of-     all work-related earnings in       replacement rates for
service for benefit eligibility                       Decree No. 3048                     survivor's pensions
*  Eliminates early retirement provision with a partial                                      Pass and implcment the
pension (70%), with transition rules              V  Legal framework for a private       legal framework for a
*  Sets a monthly benefit ceiling at Rs$1,200, adjustable  work injury insurance market,     private worker's injury risk
by an inflation related index                         prepared and proposed              insurance scheme
*  Opens the work injury insurance program to private  /  Benefits ceiling adjusted upwards  *  Revise criteria for
sector (now a state monopoly)                         to R$1,255 with inflation               tera a per
*  Permits an income tax to be charged on pension and                                        temporary and permanent
survivor's benefits of persons over 65 years old  V  Ordinary Law for expansion of        disability programs
*  Expands concept of contribution for social security to all  income tax to include pensions,   *:  Define crimes against social
work related earmings                                 drafted.                            security and the
V  Ordinary Law No. 9796 sets          corresponding penalties
framework for accountability of
contributions between first pillar
Iregirnes
Improve INSS           Measures taken:                                 -          Full consolidation of all social  4  New organizational
Administration          *  Measures to improve contribution collection by INSS in l    security information registers  structure for INSS approved
effect. including::                              |    (CNIS)                              by Executive
(a) acceleration of administrative collections;  i    New SGS automated collection    *  Agreed efficiency
Appendix A
Page I of3



BrazU: First Social Security Special Sector Adjustment Loan, Evidence of Compliance with Policy Actions
.  (b) adoption of new questionnaires to collect         system, implemented to collect      benchmarks for INSS
individualized information of worker's labor and   from 10,0()0 largest contributors   reached
contribution history,;8  Administration of disability
(c) implementation of new system to follow up the                                         by INSS to be in line with
largest 10,000 contributors.                                                           new rules of disability
program
*>  Targets agreed under cost
reduction program achieved
*> Fraud control system for
future pensions fully
implemented
Data processing system
improved according to
agreed criteria
*. Progress in re-certification
of disability pensions
__~~~~~~~~01                                                          ,.mS 'M. 00  .,. 009..,WK
Improve Long-term      Approved Constitutional Amendment:                     Reductions the fiscal deficit of the  Further key structural reforms to
Fiscal Health/ Reduce  *  Makes the RJU system contribution-based, observing  pension system for federal civil   the RJU:
Fiscal Deficit             criteria that preserves financial and actuarial balance  servants by:
*  Introduces retirement based on years-of-contributions                                 *  Introduce individual
instead of years-of-service                       $  Requiring federal pensioners to     accounting of contributions
*  Introduces minimum tenure to be eligible for retirement:  pay social security contributions -  respecting the principle of
10 years in govermnent, and 5 years in current position  measure only passed for retirees  actuarial and fiscal balance;
*  Eliminates the possibility of collecting multiple     receiving more than R$600 per
pensions and of simultaneously collecting salaries and  month                        Further reduce the fiscal deficit
pensions                                          /  Raising the contribution rates of   of the federal pension system by:
*  Fixes minimum retirement age 53/48 (M/W) with         federal civil servants earnmg
transition rule for gradual increase to 60/55 (MIW)   salaries above R$1200 per month  *>  Introducing means test and
*  Allows the establishment of complementary pension                                         age limit for survivor
funds by the federal government, states and       Both reforms to the Federal RJU        pensions
municipalities                                    passed by Congress, contained in Law   *>  Revising criteria for
*  Eliminates early retirement provision with partial  No. 9717, currently before the        temporary and permanent
pension with transition rules                     Supreme Court                          disability programs
*  Permits an income tax to be charged on pension and  /  Complementary funds set up by
survivor's benefits of persons over 65 years old      state governments in Parana, and
*  Introduces ceiling on benefits equal to the highest civil-
Appendix A
Page 2 of 3



Brazil: First Social Security Special Sector Adjustment Loan, Evidence of Compliance with Policy Actions
service salary pertmitted                            Rio de Janeiro
Approved General Public Pension Law:
* Ends special pension systems for municipalities with
less than a specified minimum of participants
* Introduces automatic adjustment of contributions when
total pension payments minus contributions exceed a
determined share of current revenues of states and
municipalities
* Establishes a ratio of maximum employer contribution
to employee contribution of 2:1
*  Forbids benefits not included in the RGPS system
* Establishes penalties on states, Federal District and
municipalities for failure to comply with established
regulations
* Regulates maximum ratios between employer and
employee contributions, and automatic adjustment of
contributions, to be reflected in draft budgets for 1999
Improve Regulation/    *  With the support of a Learning and Innovation Loan  /  Evaluation of the states' civil    Actuarial evaluation of
Administration             (LIL), a special unit was established within MPAS to  servants pensions conducted for    pension systems of the
gather data on the stare and municipal RJUs          Parana, and planned for Rio de     largest municipalities
Janeiro and Santa Caterina     *  Complete evaluations of the
/  Pension administrators from state  states' civil servants
RJUs raine in ue of ROSTpensions
RJUs trined i use o PROSTRe-certification of disability
reform simulation model            pensions
V  Monitoring system for state and    4  Fully implement monitoring
municipal pensions compiling       system for state and
data on state and municipal RJUs   municipal RJUs
* Cross-checking data bases
of different pension systems
to identify incompatible
benefits
4. REFOM uOF LECO)PUEMENTA.RYPENSIONFUNDSYSTEM
Improve Long-term      Approved Constitutional Amendment:                    Constitutional amendment made      Consolidating the SPC, by:
Fiscal Health/ Reduce  *  Forbids public sector entities to contribute more than
Appendix A
Page 3 of 3



Brazil: First Social Security Special Sector Adjustment Loan, Evidence of Compliance with Policy Actions
Deficit               employees (n1:t ratio) to complementary pension funds,   effective with:                     Federal moitoring of state
within two years of approval of the Constitutional                                          cornplementary pension
Amendrnent                                          V  Three Complementary Laws             funds
*  Eliminates fiscal subsidies to complementary pension    drafted and submitted to
funds of public enterprises                            Congress, strengthening
*  Forbids contribution of resources of public sector      regulation of SPC
entities to complementary pension funds except as   V  Pension funds sponsored by
sponsors                                               public entities for their employees
*  Requires complementary pension funds sponsored by
public sector entities to revise benefit plans and adjust
them actuarially to assets, within two years of
Constitutional Amendment
Iml,prove Regulation    *  Introduces full disclosure of information to plan                                         *  Establishment of single
participants                                                               .                regulatory agency to
regulate complementary
pension funds
Appendix A
Page 4 of 3



Appendix B
Page 1 of 3
BRAZIL - SOCIAL SECURITY SPECL4I: SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
& SOCIAL PROTECTION SPECIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
ICR MISSION
(September 20 - 24, 1999)
AIDE MEMOIRE
This note summarizes the main findings of the World Bank mission on Social Security and Social
Protection sector adjustment, that visited Brasilia during September 20 - 24, 1999. Due to the
close link between the conditions of the two special sector adjustment loans being evaluated -
both part of the Bank's contribution to the IMF organized Brazil Rescue Package of US$41.5
billion - a single ICR mission was sent to Brasilia. The mission consisted Truman Packard,
Social Protection Specialist (LCSHD), with the support of Joachim Von Amsberg, Senior
Economist, Antonio Magalhaes, Principal Country Officer, and Patricia Bacelar, Team Assistant,
of the Brazil Country Management Unit (LCCSC). The mission would like to thank the
Government of Brazil for the collaboration and support provided.
The objectives of the mission were to:
> Assess progress to date in the implementation of reforms supported by the first Social
Security Special Sector Adjustment Loan (SS SECAL) and the Social Protection Special
Sector Adjustment Loan (SP SECAL);
> Gather information for the preparation of the Implementation Completion Reports (ICRs) for
both S/SECALs;
The mission's agenda was set with the help of the Brazil County Management Unit. Interviews
were conducted with Authorities at the Ministry of Social Security and Social Assistance (MPAS)
and the Ministry of Planning and Budget (SEAIN).
I. Overall Impressions - Social Security
Based on the comments and observations the mission received during its interviews with
the principal counterparts in the preparation of the loan, the overall progress achieved by the
Government in meeting the long-term objectives of its social security reform program, has been
satisfactory. The Borrower has complied fully with all of the conditions of the loan. The mission
was able to gather information on the impact of reforms supported by the loan, and the progress
in Congress of several key legislative initiatives linked to the loan's conditions.
Progress on the RGPS. As is the case in single-tranche adjustment lending, most of the
objectives of the SS SECAL were met prior to the loan's presentation to the Board. These
included the approval by Congress of the amendment to the 1988 Constitution introducing key
legislative reforms to each branch of the social security system, passage of the General Public
Pensions Law specifically for state and municipal pension plans, and preliminary steps in the
institutional restructuring of INSS. Since the passage of the Constitutional Amendment, the
Administration has taken important legislative steps to implement most of the parametric reforms,
and to prepare for more ambitious structural reforms planned for the second phase. New
parameters for special pension benefits for primary and secondary school teachers, and the
expansion of the contribution base were established by Presidential Decree. A draft Ordinary
Law proposing a new formula for the calculation of pension benefits has been sent to Congress.
Additional packages of draft legislation to expand income tax to include pensions, and to



Appendix B
Page 2 of 3
establish the legal framework for the private provision of work injury insurance have been
prepared and will be sent to Congress before the end of 1999.
Progress in RJU. Despite the progress made with passage of the Amendment and recently
enacted legislation, the pension regime for civil servants continues to be a mounting burden on
Brazil's public resources. In the RTJU, the most significant reforms in the first phase were: (i) the
introduction of a minimum age of 53/48 years for men/women at which retirement benefits
commence, gradually increasing to 60/55, and (ii) the progressive increase in the contribution rate
for federal executive branch workers and retirees, not included in the conditions of the SS
SECAL, but approved by Congress in January  1999.   The constitutionality  of the
Administration's January 1999 progressive contribution increase and imposition of contributions
on current beneficiaries, was immediately challenged in the courts. On September 30, 1999, the
Supreme Court struck down the measure. Although disappointed by the Court's decision, the
Administration has already responded with plans for a flat increase of Federal RJU contributions
from active civil servants from the current 11% to as much as 14%.
Progress in the SPC. Political consensus in Brazil is gradually moving towards greater reliance
on employer provided, funded plans for old age support in the third pillar, for both workers in the
private as well as in the public sector. While funded pension plans in the Complementary
Pension System (SPC) manage over R$100 billion worth of assets, coverage of funded pension
plans remains low at about 5% of the workforce. This low rate of participation, despite Brazil's
relatively sophisticated capital market, is due to inadequate regulation of the system, and the lack
of tax incentives for retirement savings. Progress in implementing the reforms to the SPC passed
in the Constitutional Amendment, has been the most rapid. With technical and financial support,
from the Bank and the IDB, the Administration has taken steps to encourage the creation of more
complementary funded schemes, including the set of well-designed rules for both private and
government sponsored pension funds, and plans to consolidate and strengthen supervision.
1I. Overall Impressions - Social P'rotection
Based on the comments and observations the mission received during its interviews with
iche principal counterparts and technical staff involved in the preparation of the loan, the overall
progress achieved by the Government in meeting the long-term objectives of its Social Protection
Strengthening Program, has been highly satisfactory. The Borrower has complied fully with all
of the conditions of the loan. The mission was able to gather information on the impact of
reforms supported by the loan, as well as information on federal budgetary allocations to the
twenty two protected programs expected in the next fiscal year.
Continued Budgetary Protection fior Essential Programs. In the three years previous to the
1.998 crisis, and particularly in the twelve months leading to September 1998, the Government
undertook a series of reforms to consolidate public expenditure for the poor, and to identify a
package of twenty two essential social programs. These twenty two "Protected Programs" have
come to form the bedrock of federally assisted social protection in Brazil. The Government's
success in maintaining and increasing budget allocations to the protected programs lies in sharp
contrast with cuts across the board in other areas. The revised budget proposal for fiscal year
1999 - submitted in November 1998 - provided greater protection to the social sector ministries
relative to other areas of public spending
New Institutional Infrastructure. The creation of a package of protected programs for special
budgetary consideration is seen as an important institutional innovation in Brazil, that is expected
to increase the efficiency of the country's social safety net. Implementation of the Social
Protection Strengthening Program has required a new institutional structure to be put in place that
allows greater coordination and monitoring of the twenty two protected programs across the



Appendix B
Page 3 of 3
social ministries and at the different levels of government - federal, state and municipal. The
establishment of this new institutional structure for more efficient delivery of social protection
was a key accomplishment of the Brazilian authorities in the months prior to the crisis.
In executing its Social Protection Strengthening Program, the authorities in Brazil have
established a new internet-based budget tracking system that both increases transparency and
underpins the new cross-ministerial structure for program implementation. A web site has been
set up that publicizes perfornance targets for the Social Protection Program overall, and provides
the public with progress reports in real time on advances in each of the social sectors. In addition
to increasing transparency, the greater availabi;ity of information should ensure the political
sustainability of budgetary protection of the twenty two programs.
Continuing Analytical Work. In addition to the accomplishments discussed above, a substantial
body of analytical and operational work has been conducted in the months since the approval of
the SP SECAL that will form the basis of future Bank support for the strengthening of social
protection in Brazil. This work - which includes the preparation of two follow-up investment
loans to support the eradication of child labor and temporary work-fare programs for the poor, has
been conducted largely in the context of the Bank's participation in the supervision of theIDB's
adjustment loan, and the monitoring of progress made by the Brazilian authorities
III. Next Steps - SS SECAL & SP SECAL ICR Preparation
The mission was successful in obtaining the necessary inputs to complete the ICRs for both
Special Sector Adjustment Loans. The Authorities - the Bank's official counterparts in the
preparation of the Social Security and Social Protection operations at MPAS and SEAIN,
respectively - will prepare their own assessment of the design, preparation and implementation of
each loan (no more than 10 pages), along the guidelines discussed during the mission with Mr.
Vinicius Pinheiro, Secretary for Social Security at MPAS, and Mr. Antonio Gustavo Rodrigues,
Deputy Secretary at SEAIN. Upon returning to Washington, the Bank team will complete the
first drafts of each ICR, which will be shared with the Authorities by end-November 1999.






Appendix C: Borrower Comment
Page I of 4
Summary Translation of Borrower Comments
On the Implementation Completion Report
Translation & summary of attached commentsfirom MPAS in Portuguese. The Borrower opted to
provide comments on the ICR All of the Borrower's comments, except for those pertaining to the
impact of the new RGPS benefit formula, have been included in the final draft. The comments
that have not been included point to technical disagreements that have yet to be resolved
between the implementation team and their counterparts as to the probable impact of the new
RGPSformula that been passed. A brief note in response to the MPAS is included in underlined
italics.
However, these disagreements do not relate to reforms taken as part of the first phase supported
by the first SS SECAL, and will, therefore, be discussedfully in World Bank Report No. 19641-BR
Brazil: Critical Issues in Social Security, and examined closely in the preparation of the
proposed second adjustment operation.
The report prepared by the technical staff of the World Bank analyses the main advances that
have been made in the Social Security System in 1999, with emphasis on actions specified in the
matrix of objectives agreed on for the effectiveness of the loan.
We would like to suggest the following changes be made to the report to bring it up to date with
developments (since the ICR mission).
*, The benefit guarantee of last salary is only under the RJU.
*  The benefit formula for private sector workers' pensions (and not the guarantee) was
removed from the Constitution.
o  Graph 2. The simulation case being presented in this graph should be specified. The graph
appears to present simulations in the pre-reform case. If the simulations in this graph include
the 1998 reforms, they appear to be out of date, and should be updated to reflect the
simulations presented to the Bank at a workshop on Washington on November 1, 1999.
* The expansion of the wage base on which pension benefits are calculated (in the RGPS), to
80% of a worker's best salaries over the worker's entire work history, was passed by Law
No. 9876 in November 1999, and not by presidential decree. In the same law, that was
approved and has been implemented since November 29, 1999, are the parameters of the new
benefit formula, including the "fator previdenciario" (a life-expectancy adjusted yearly
accrual rate). Legislation for reform of work injury insurance is ready and will be sent to
Congress early in 2000.
o  It is important to note that the Federal Govermment, with the support of 24 state governors,
sent a constitutional amendment to Congress that would establish the collection of
contributions from current retired workers. This amendment also would unify the two
regimes (RGPS & RJU) for all newly hired civil servants.
O Within the Government, there was absolute consensus concerning the reform preseiited to
Congress, especially as pertains to Law 9876/99, that introduces the "fator previdenciario"
(i.e. changes to the RGPS benefit formula). As can be expected, there was no consensus
between the Government and certain groups in opposition. Technical support from the World
Bank was very important in this regard, in that it brought to bear international experience (in



Appendix C. Borrower Comment
Page 2 of 4
social security reform) to the domestic debate, and made available analytical tools with which
to calculate the impact of different reforn alternatives.
*: The new benefit formula (in the RGPS) has been in effect since November 1999. The new
formula deals with the negative fiscal effect of eliminating the option of early retirement (that
raises replacement rates from 70% to 100%). The ICR should reflect this change. (The
impact of the new formula will be analyzed in the preparation for the second loan)
*> The Graph showing the impact of reform options, should also be updated to include the
simulations of the new RGPS formnula. This should be done using simulation results
presented at the World Bank during the November 1999 workshop. (World Bank simulations
of the impact of the new beneJft formula are still being prepared Since the Bank team was
unable to include these in the ICR, the graph with the alternative scenarios was removed.
These scenarios can be found in World Bank Report No. 19641-BR Brazil: Critical Issues in
Social Security)
We understand that the structural weaknesses (of the system) are to be found only in the
pension regime for civil servants. The RGPS - the regime for private sector workers - has
gone through an important reform which, with the introduction of actuarial criteria in the
calculation of benefits, makes possible the stabilization of the regime's deficit in the long run.
The Government's future proposal is that all workers (including civil servants) enter into the
RGPS which has been reformed. The structural weaknesses of the RJU, therefore, apply to a
system that will go out of being.
Finally, the importance of the World Bank's technical cooperation in the organization of events,
conducting training, carrying out technical analysis, preparing simulations and briefs, and
iimplementing projects like the State Pensions Technical Assistance Loan (PARSEP), should be
underscored. This cooperation has lbeen an important contribution toward making administration
of social security a priority.
S'igned,
Vinicius C. Pinheiro,
Secretary of Social Security, MPAS



Appendix C: Borrower Comment
Page 3 of 4
Lg~L'~   MINISTERIO DA PREVIDtNCIA E ASSISTENCIA SOCIAL
SECRETARIA DE PREVIDtNCLI SOCIAL
COMENTARIOS SOBRE 0 "IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT" DO
BANCO MUNDIAL RELATIVO AO SOCLIL SECURITY SECTOR ADJUSTMENT
LOAN (SS SECAL)
0 relat6rio elaborado pelos tecnicos do Banco Mundial analisa os principais avan,os
ocorridos no sistema previdenciArio durante o ano de 1999, enfatizando-se as a,coes relacionadas
no quadro de metas acordadas para a efetiva,cao do emprestimo.
Considerando a necessidade de atualizar e aprimorar o documento apresentado,
sugerimos as seguintes modifica,Oes, relacionadas por paragrafo do docurnento:
Paragrafo 8. A garantia do beneficio igual ao uiltimo salario e somente para o RJIU.
Paragrafo 9. (iii) foi removida a f6rmula de calculo do beneficio para o setor privado.
Grafico 2: E necessario explicitar qual o cenario que estA sendo considerado para a proje,cao. No
meu entendimento, trata-se do cenario pre-reforma de 1998. Caso seja algum cenario p6s reforma
constitucional, creio que a proje,co esteja desatualizada em  rela,ao ao trabalho feito
recentemente no workshop intemacional, organizado em Washington no dia I de novembro.
Paragrafo 15. A expansao do periodo base de contribui,cao para os 80% melhores salarios de
toda a vida laboral foi pela Lei 9876 de novembro de 1999, e nao por Decreto Presidencial. Na
mesma Lei, ja aprovada e implementada desde 29 de novembro de 1999, tamb6m esta a nova
f6nnula de calculo do beneficio com o fator previdenciario. A legisla,ao para reforma do seguro
de acidente de trabalho ja esta pronta e deve ser enviada ao Congresso no inicio do pr6ximo ano.
Paragrafo 19. E importante comentar que o Governo Federal enviou ao Congresso, com o apoio
de 24 governadores de estados, uma emenda constitucional estabelecendo a possibilidade de
cobran,a dos inativos. Nesta emenda tambem esta prevista, a partir de emenda parlamentar, a
unifica,co dos regimes para os servidores que ingressarem na administracao publica no futuro.
Paragrafo 29. No governo brasileiro, houve absoluto consenso em  rela,co  a reforma
apresentada e aprovada no Congresso, especialmente no que se refere A Lei 9876/99, que introduz
o fator previdenciario. Como seria de se esperar, nao houve consenso com outros setores de
oposi,ao. 0 suporte tecnico do Banco Mundial foi muito importante no sentido de trazer a
experiencia internacional para o debate interno e fomecer ferramentas analiticas para os calculos
das diferentes alternativas de reforma.
Paragrafo 32. A nova f6rmula de calculo do beneficiojA esta em vigor desde novembro/99 e ela
elimina o efeito do aumento da taxa de reposi,co de 70% para 100% que ocorreu com o fim da
aposentadoria proporcional na Reforma Constitucional. Penso que esse paragrafo deve ser
atualizado.



Appendix C: Borrower Comment
Page 4 of 4
Grafico 4. Estas proje,ces tambem estao desatualizadas porque nAo incorporam o cenario atual
que introduz o fator previdenciario. Creio que seria importante faze-lo a partir do trabalho
realizado em no workshop realizado no Banco Mundial em novembro.
Paragrafo 39. Entendemos que a fragilidade estrutural encontra-se somente no regime de
previdencia dos servidores publicos. 0 regime geral de previdencia social passou por uma
importante reforma que, ao introcluzir criterios atuariais no calculo do beneficio, possibilitara a
estabiliza,ao do deficit no longo prazo. A proposta do govemo para o futuro e de que todos os
trabalhadores ingressem no regime geral, que ja esta reformado. A fragilidade da previdencia no
setor publico refere-se, portanto, a necessidade de administrar um sistema em extin,ao.
Finalmente, deve-se ressaltar a importancia fundamental da coopera,co tecnica do Banco
Mundial na organiza,ao de eventos, treinamento, realiza,co de estudos tecnicos, relat6rios e
simula,ces e na operacionaliza,cao do Programa de Apoio a Reforma dos Sistemas Estaduais de
Previdencia - PARSEP. Esta coopera,cao tem contribuido bastante para o aprimoramento da
gestao previdenciaria.
Atenciosamente,
Vinicius C. Pinheiro
Secretario de Previdencia Social
Ministerio da Previd8ncia e Assistencia Social
Brasil
Brasilia, 14 de dezembro de 1999.



IBRD 20444R
-      --- - - - - - -
Y v<h  --H. 1Dorr jVNEZUELAr,' go  <ta,  (ifREk4>                                                                                                               7
*c  SURINAMQUAA
COLO M  B I Arl                                    BoaVista                                      /
"'.7     -n               I            k~~~~~~-           J
S,-
(-7~~~                                                     ~~~~ 7  CFTt- ...... ET,7 W U-
.       ~ .I ;;  -                                                          77       $V               Gina            g0arsaR|                                                    ,9
C. ~  ~        ~      ~       /
-                                                       .                                                                               Teresna* (  _H I LE"    \    PAResin
. R'o Br'...                                                                                        "".,. ....oncaGros s Po  N   ra .H,
1  ~     -                     veJha/                                                                  Nortle
1 41 f v     l             A R G E    T 1tX>O THo. ir  X  ',', ',' ' "C,ESTZ .   L 
PAERUC           .                                                                         Kriie5 ~    0{elF    A   oolget0tddl ;; i ,
/>^  |  '( CENTE                                                   4IEST                      del ff16                                s nass5at ar e    |  a    K, li f  f TS io GVF
*uab                                   Distact  7       1
77                             '-7                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRASil-IA~
B OLIVIA ;a7:  si O;on                                                                                                  / /
/ -  / 6                                      ( ^  :  2   ssmswf o r  AeDb n- ct .   bO>   2  X    ;                  :CoopoGrande  oB tb                       . loi *   0-
\PARAGUAY  \'~tcs0s                                                      ,            7tsC
CHILE?N\.-$60P'l.                                                                                    <        Riace ie /4 r73
-x    Curitibc 
jSOUTH  "'i  (7                                                                -.. OUT ''
~~~~~~~~'    osBRAZIL A7     NTP 
)AME'kICA,/        ,~'-'                                                              PortoAlegre"2l roodj                                             ee-e ?rt
K/"      710 0   R'   1~0   200  37 40 :LoeroioooB'sdr,
7 ~ ~     ~     ~     w '  7~,~777                                      RGUAY            75
7                                                                                                                         AUGUST 1989~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~19 



