Report No. PID7548
PID7548.TXT
Project Name                     Brazil-Social Security Special...
Sector Adjustment Loan
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                           Public Management/Pension Reform
Project ID                       BRPE63340
Borrower                         Federative Republic of Brazil
Implementing Agency              Ministerio da Fazenda Nacional
Procuraduria Geral da Fazenda Nacional
Esplanada dos Minsterios, Bloco "P" - 8
andar
70048-900, BrasUlia, D.F.
Brazil
Date Pid Prepared                March 23, 1999
Appraisal Date                   October 23, 1998
Board Date                       January 7, 1999
COUNTRY AND SECTOR BACKGROUND
1.      Brazil is the latest of the major countries in Latin America
to reform its public pension system. As in other countries with
an unreformed Pay As You Go (PAYGO) system, the imbalance of the
social security accounts have become a dominant factor in the
deterioration of the country's fiscal position. The main causes
of the fiscal imbalance of the pension system are the absence of a
relationship between pension benefits and contributions, primarily
in the public sector pension system, and the number of special
pension regimes. During the past periods of high inflation, the
government could easily make generous promises to future
pensioners, since inflation increased nominal revenue, but eroded
the value of pension benefits. With the reduction of inflation in
1994, brought about by the Real Plan, the unsustainability of the
pension system became evident.
2.      Recognizing that urgent measures had to be taken to reduce
expenditures and increase revenues, the Government made social
security reform a centerpiece of its adjustment strategy, not only
for the fiscal payoff, but also as a signal to international
financial markets that the Government is able to succeed in
tackling a fundamental structural problem. Pension reform in
Brazil has been difficult because the main tenets of the pension
system are spelled out in the Federal Constitution of 1988. After
three years of intensive debate, an amendment to the Constitution
was approved in December 15, 1998, a critical first step towards
reforming the system.
3.      The Government's pension reform program is being implemented
in two phases, and will complement major reforms in the areas of



labor legislation and administrative reform. The First Phase of
Pension Reform involved approval of a Constitutional Amendment
that affected clauses related to the pension systems (pension
system of private sector workers, pension system of public sector
workers, and system of complementary private pension funds) to:
(i) introduce the principle of actuarial and fiscal balance for
all the pension systems; (ii) reduce the inequalities between the
pension system for public sector workers and the pension system
for private sector workers; and (vi) extend the option of creating
complementary private pension funds to states and municipalities.
Congress also approved legislation to reduce the deficit of the
state and municipal pension regimes. The first phase of pension
reform also included the initial stages of restructuring of the
National Institute of Social Security (INSS) to improve revenue
collection and reduce evasion. The Second Phase of Pension Reform
will involve: (i) the implementation of the Constitutional
Amendment reform through the passage of complementary and ordinary
laws to define the parameters of the new pension systems; and (ii)
institutional reforms of the government agencies that oversee the
pension system. These agencies are: the INSS, which administers
the pension system of private sector workers, and the Secretariat
of Complementary Pension Funds (SPC) which regulates and
supervises the complementary private pension system. Both
agencies are under the Ministry of Social Security (MPAS).
THE LOAN
4.      Loan Objectives. This special sector adjustment loan is part
of the World Bank's program of special support for Brazil's
Program of Fiscal Stabilization and Reforms. The Government's
fiscal program is designed to address the structural causes of its
fiscal deficit and to restrain the growth of public debt, in order
to both strengthen market confidence and permit a sustainable
reduction in interest rates. The proceeds of the loan will help
Brazil finance its current account deficit in an orderly fashion,
avoiding needless dislocation. This first loan of US$757,570
million supports the first phase of the Government's pension
reform program that follows Congressional approval of the
Constitutional amendment in December 1998. A second adjustment
loan would be presented to the Board in late 1999, accompanying
implementation of the reforms and institutional changes envisaged
in the second phase of the reform program.
5.      Loan Description. The Government and the Bank have reached
agreement on a program of fiscal reforms and structural reforms.
Within this program, the adjustment loan supports the policy
measures included in the approved Constitutional Amendment, and
other legislative and institutional reforms as described in the
following paragraphs:
(1) Reform of the Pension System for Private Sector Workers: The
main reforms include:
- Removing the pension benefit formula from the Constitution;
- Eliminating most special pension regimes;
-2-



- Adopting time-of-contributions instead of years-of-service for
benefit eligibility;
- Opening work injury programs in the private sector to private
sector insurers; and
- Permitting income taxes to be charged on pension and survivors'
benefits.
(2) Reform of the Pension System for Public Sector Workers. The
main reforms include:
- Making the pension regime of public sector workers
contribution-based, observing criteria to preserve financial
and actuarial balance;
- Introducing retirement based on length-of-contributions instead
of years-of-service;
- Introducing minimum tenure to be eligible for retirement at 10
years in Government service and 5 years in current position;
- Eliminating the possibility of collecting multiple pensions and
of simultaneously collecting salaries and pensions;
- Fixing minimum retirement age at 60 years for men and 55 years
for women, with transition rule;
- Allowing setting up of complementary pension funds by the
federal government, states and municipalities; and
- Permitting income taxes to be charged on pension and survivors'
benefits.
(3) Reform of the Complementary Pension Funds System. The main
reforms include:
- Restricting contributions by public sector entities to pension
funds to the same amounts contributed by employees;
- Eliminating fiscal subsidies to pension funds of public
enterprises;
- Introducing actuarial reviews of pension funds; and
- Introducing full disclosure of information to plan
participants.
(4) Approval of New General Public Pension Law. This Law
establishes:
- a minimum number of affiliates as a criteria for the creation
and operation of autonomous pension regimes for municipal
public servants;
- a maximum ratio between employer and employee contributions of
2:1;
- a system of individual contribution accounts; and
- automatic adjustment of contributions when pension payments
exceed an agreed percentage of net revenues of states and
municipalities.
(5) Strengthening of the National Institute of Social Security
(INSS). :
- Adoption of measures to collect individualized information of
worker's labor and contribution histories; and
- 3 -



- Adoption of measures to strengthen collection of contributions.
6.      Amount of the Loan.   The S/SECAL loan of US$737,570 million
is provided at US$ LIBOR plus 40 basis points, with a 1 percent
front-end fee to be financed out of the loan and a 75 basis points
commitment charges without waivers. The loan has a 5-year
maturity, including 3 years of grace.
7.      Project Sustainability.    The policy reforms supported by this
adjustment loan are expected to have permanent effects since they
part of a Constitutional amendment, and supported by the
population increasingly aware of the unsustainability of the
previous pension regime.
8.      Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector.
The Bank has accumulated a vast experience in the area of pension
reform through a number of adjustment operations targeting
national systems. One lesson learned from previous loans is that
adjustment loans have to be supported by strong analytical work.
In Brazil, the Bank is embarked on a strong analytical effort in
the social security/labor area. Five reports have either just
been completed or will be completed within the next months.
Another lesson is the importance of restructuring the agencies
that administer the social security program, to allow them to
adapt to their new roles within the reformed systems. The Bank is
preparing a technical assistance loan to support the restructuring
of the INSS and the strengthening of the government agency in
charge of regulating the system of private pension funds.
9.      Environmental Aspects. This project is not expected to have
environmental implications.
10.     Program Objective Categories.    The project is consistent with
the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal of supporting reform in
the area of social security reform.
11.     Poverty Category.   This project will not be included in the
Program of Targeted Intervention.
Contact Point:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Task Manager:                     Mariluz Cortes
Telephone: (202) 473-0029
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
activities and/or components may not be included in the final
project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending April 16, 1999.
- 4 -



