Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P 7277 BR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ONA
PROPOSED SOCIAL SECURITY SPECIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$757,570 MILLION
TO THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
December 10, 1998
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Sector Unit
Brazil Country Managing Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Reais
US$1.0 = R$1.078 average for 1997
US$1.0 =R$1.127 Ist quarter 1998
US$1.0 = R$1.148 2nd quarter 1998
Fiscal Year = Calendar Year
January - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CAS            =         Country Assistance Strategy Paper
CNIS           =         Unified Cadaster of Social Information
DB             =         Defined Benefit
DC           -           Defined Contribution
EAPPs          =         Open Private Pension Funds
EFPPs          =         Closed Private Pension Funds
ESW            =         Economic and Sector Work
FGTS           =         Severance Guarantee Payment Fund
GDP            =         Gross Domestic Product
IDB            =         Interamerican Development Bank
IMF            =         International Monetary Fund
INSS           =         National Institute for Social Security
IPEA           =         Institute of Applied Economics
LIBOR          =         London Interbank Offer Rate
MARE           =         Ministry of Administration and State Reform
MPAS           =         Ministry of Social Security and Social Action
NDC            =         Notional Defined Contribution Accounts
PAYGO                    Pay As You Go Pension System
RGPS           =         Private Sector Workers Pension System (Regimen Geral de
Prevision Social)
RJU            =         Public Sector Workers Pension System (Regime Juridico
Unico)
SAL            =         Structural Adjustment Loan
SCPP           =         Complementary pension fund system
SECAL          =         Sector Adjustment Loan
SOEs           =         State Owned Enterprises
SPC            =         Secretariat of Complementary Pension System (within
MPAS)
SUSEP          =         Superintendecy of Pension Insurance
Vice President              Mr. Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director            Mr. Gobind T. Nankani
Sector Manager              Mr. Danny Leipziger
Task Manager                Ms. Mariluz Cortes



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
PROPOSED SOCIAL SECURITY SPECIAL SECTORAL ADJUSTMENT LOAN
Loan and Program Summary
Borrower:         Federative Republic of Brazil
Amount and Terms: S/SECAL:
US$757,570 million --6-month US$ LIBOR plus 400 basis points,
reset semiannually, a one percent front end fee to be financed out
of the loan, and a 75 basis points commitment charge, without
waivers. The loan will have special terms: 5 year maturity,
including 3 years of grace.
Description:      The proposed loan would be the first of two S/SECALs in support
of Brazil's Social Security Reform Program. This first loan would
support the first phase of the Social Security Reform Program,
following Congressional approval, in November 1998, of an
amendment to the Federal Constitution of 1988.  A second
S/SECAL would be presented for Board consideration in 1999, in
support of additional measures, including institutional changes
envisaged in the second phase of the Government's Reform
Program, which includes the regulation and implementation of the
Constitutional amendment.
The Government of Brazil is undertaking a reform of its national
pension system in two phases. The first phase of the reform
consists of Congressional approval of a Constitutional amendment
to modify clauses of the Federal Constitution of 1988 dealing with
Social Security, to: (i) introduce the principle of actuarial balance;
(ii) replace retirement based on length of service with length of
contribution; (iii) eliminate specific benefit rules from the Federal
Constitution; (iv) eliminate most special pension regimes, and (v)
reduce inequalities between benefits of public and private sector
workers. The first phase of the reform also includes Congressional
approval of a new General Public Pension Law to regulate special
pension regimes of states and municipalities, and measures to
reduce evasion in the pension system for private sector workers.
The second phase of the reform involves the implementation of
further reforms to achieve the financial and actuarial balance of the
system, prescribed in the Constitutional amendment. Measures to
this effect would include legislation to define the new basis for
benefit calculation for retirees and survivors of the private pension
system, respecting the principle of actuarial and fiscal balance, and
to change the contribution rates for the pension system of the
public servants in order to achieve actuarial equilibrium between
the accumulated contributions and the conferred benefits. The
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



long run objective is to limit the first-pillar pension systems to
workers with monthly wages up to R$1,200 (adjusted by a price
based index), while stimulating the creation of complementary
pension funds for workers with higher earnings. This second
phase also includes institutional reforms to strengthen the National
Institute of Social Security to better manage individual pension
accounts, and strengthening of regulation and supervision of the
complementary pension funds system.  The latter institutional
reforms would be supported by a parallel technical assistance loan.
Benefits and Risks  In the short-run, the main benefits of Brazil's pension reform
would not be from the fiscal savings, which are modest, but from
the positive signal to the country and capital markets that the
Government is serious about tackling a major strain on public
resources, and ending the abuses of the past in which workers from
the public sector could retire with overly generous pensions paid
by the rest of the population. The Constitutional amendment will
give the Government the opportunity to redesign the parameters of
the pension system. The introduction of individual accounts based
on actuarial equilibrium and the emphasis on expanding the
complementary pension system for higher paid public sector
workers, will move the system towards the adoption of a two pillar
framework, leaving the PAYGO systems to eventually function as
a safety net.
The main risk to this loan is the possibility that the legislature will
not approve the imposition of higher pension contributions and
income taxes on the politically powerful public-sector workers and
retirees. The Government has tried to mitigate this risk by widely
publicising the inequities and abuses of the system.  This
disclosure may have contributed to the final passage of the
Constitutional amendment. Another risk is the possibility that
states and municipalities may refuse to accept either the limits on
their ability to establish their own pension systems or the
requirement to introduce automatic adjustments in contributions
when net pension payments exceed a determined share of current
revenues. This risk is mitigated by the adoption of administrative
reform measures which reinforce Federal controls over state and
municipal expenditure on salaries and pensions.
Poverty Category:  Not applicable
Disbursements      One tranche to be disbursed after effectiveness. All Conditions
were met before Board presentation.
Project Identification No.:P 7277 BR



FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
PROPOSED SOCIAL SECURITY SPECIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I. BRAZIL'S PENSION REFORM  PROGRAM  .....................................................2
A.  The Old Pension Sysem .....................................................................................3
B.  The Government's Medium Term Strategy for Pension Reform ............ ...........6
C.  Reform of the Pension System for Private Sector Workers (RGPS) .................. 8
D.  Reform of the Pension System for Public Workers (RJUs) .............................. 10
E.  Reform of the Complementary Pension Funds System (SCPP) ....................... 14
F.  Strengthening the National Social Security Institute (INSS) ............................ 15
II. BANK ASSISTANCE STRATEGY ....................................................       17
A.  Bank Assistance Strategy on Pension Reform .................................................. 17
B.  Coordination with Multilateral Institutions .................................................... 18
III. THE PROPOSED LOAN .................................................... 18
A.  Loan Objectives and Description ....................................................  18
B.  Proposed Policy Conditionality ....................     ................................ 18
C.  Disbursement and Auditing .................................................... 22
D.  Impact, Benefits and Risks .................................................... 22
III. RECOMMENDATION .................................................... 24
ANNEXES
I.    Brazil's Proposed Social Security Reform: Matrix
II.   The Pension System for Private Sector Workers
III.  The Pension System for Public Sector Workers
IV.  The Complementary Pension System
V.   Letter of Sector Policy
VI.  Economic Indicators
VII. Status of Bank Group Operations
VIII. Status of IFC Investments
IX. Brazil at a Glance
This Report is based on the findings of an October 1998, appraisal mission composed of
Mariluz Cortes (LCSFP) (mission leader); Anita Schwarz (HDNSP); Dimitri Vittas
(DECRG); Indermit Gill (LCC5C); Truman Packard (consultant); Alejandro Bramer
Marcovic (consultant); and Antonio Magalhaes (consultant). This report also draws from
Bank ESW on Social Security by A. Bonnerjee and I.Gill; I. Gill and Truman Packard;
and Cheikh Kane. It also includes comments from Paul M. Meo (consultant), Aniruddha
Bonnerjee and Juan Yermo.



2
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED SOCIAL SECURITY SPECIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$757,570 MILLION
TO THE
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
1.   The proposed Pension Reform Adjustment Loan for the Republic of Brazil would
be for US$757,570 million, to support the first phase of the Government's Social
Security Reform Program. The loan would be at US$ LIBOR plus 400 basis points, a
one percent front-end fee to be financed out of the loan, and a 75 basis points
commitment charge without waivers, 5-year maturity, including 3 years of grace. A
comprehensive overview of Brazil's macroeconomic situation and of the Government's
adjustment program are described in the "Framework Paper" (SecM98-943), distributed
to the Board on November 25, 1998. The Framework Paper also describes the World
Bank's program to support Brazil's adjustment efforts through three programs of Special
SECALS: Social Security Reform; Administrative Reform; and Social Protection
Reform. It further describes the Bank's collaboration with the IMF and the IDB in the
design of the program and the benefits and risks involved in the overall program.
1. BRAZIL'S PENSION REFORM PROGRAM
2.   Brazil is one of the last major countries in Latin America to reform its public
pension system. As in other countries with an unreformed Pay As You Go (PAYGO)
system, the imbalance of the social security accounts has become a dominant factor in the
deterioration of the country's fiscal position. The consolidated social security system is
expected to generate a deficit of R$42.2 billion in 1998, about 4.8 percent of GDP.
Unless urgent measures are taken to reduce expenditures and increase revenues, the
deficit would grow to R$49.7 billion in 1999. Reform of the social security system has
become a centerpiece of the Government's adjustment strategy, not only for its fiscal
payoff, but also as a signal to international financial markets that the Government is able
to succeed in tackling a fundamental structural problem.
3.   Brazil's pension system is not only financially unsustainable -- the implicit pension
debt has been estimated at 188 percent of GDP and fast increasing -- but it is also
distortionary, with high payroll taxes of about 30 percent for private-sector workers and
employers, which raise the cost of labor and induce evasion. Furthermore, the system is
inequitable, with public sector retirees receiving, on average, much higher pension
benefits than those from the private sector. However, pension reform has been difficult
because the main tenets of the pension system are spelled out in the Federal Constitution
of 1988, and the groups benefiting from the system have strong political power. After
three years of intensive debate, an amendment to the Constitution was approved in
November 1998. Approval of this amendment is the critical first step towards reforming
the system.



3
4.    The main causes of the fiscal imbalance of the pension system  are the complete
absence of a relationship between pension benefits and contributions, primarily in the
public sector pension systems, and the number of special pension regimes. During the
past periods of high inflation, the government could easily make generous promises to
future pensioners, since inflation increased nominal revenue, but eroded the value of
pension benefits. With the reduction of inflation in 1994, brought about by the Real Plan,
the unsustainability of the pension system became evident.
A. The Old Pension System
5.    Brazil's pension system  consists of three separate general regimes, and some
specific ones for very selected groups of workers. The first regime is the pension system
for private sector workers (Regime Geral da Previdencia Social-RGPS), a mandatory,
and defined-benefit (DB) scheme covering workers in the private sector and in state-
owned enterprises. The second regime consists of the pension system for public sector
workers (Regime Juridico Unico-RJU) that includes mandatory, DB schemes for
members of the judiciary, Congress, military and other government workers at the
federal, state and municipal levels. The third regime, the Complementary System of
Private Pensions (Sistema Complementar de Previdencia Privada-SCPP), consists of
voluntary funds sponsored by public and private enterprises, offering both defined-
benefit and defined-contribution (DC) pension plans.
Brazil's National Pension Regimes
Regime                   RGPS                         RJU                         SCPP
Participants    Workers in the private sector  Military. judiciary and civil  Workers in private sector and
and in state-owned enterprises    servants in federal, state and    state enterprises earning more
_____________            (SOEs)                   local government            than R$1,200/month
Population      36 million active, 18 million  3.9 million active, 3 million  3.1 million active, 300
_______________      retired                      retired'                 thousand retired2
Administrator            INSS               MARE for Federal RJU, state   SCPP/MPAS for closed funds,
and municipal governments for   SUSEP for open funds
their respective RJUs
Pension Plan     Mandatory defined-benefit   Mandatory defined-benefit   Voluntary defined-benefit, or
defined-contribution and
hybrids
Other           Disability, survivor, various  Disability, survivor, various  Disability, survivor
Benefits         social assistance programs   social assistance programs
Finance          Payroll tax on workers and  Payroll tax on workers and  Voluntary contributions from
Structure              employers             transfers from govemment    workers and employers, with
treasuries           some subsidies from SOEs
Pillar          First (tax-financed. publicly  First (tax-financed, publicly  Third (contribution-financed,
managed)                    managed)              privately/publicly managed)
Figure does not include municipal RJUs, on which data are incomplete.
2 approximate - no data on number of beneficiaries from open funds.
6.    The Pension Systemfor Private Sector Workers (RGPS). The RGPS is the largest
of Brazil's first pillar systems with about 18 million beneficiaries and 36 million
contributors. In 1998, it is expected to pay benefits of about R$53.8 billion and to collect
R$45.9 billion in contributions (see Annex II). The RGPS is centrally managed by the
Instituto Nacional do Seguro Social (INSS) within the Ministry of Social Security and



4
Social Action (MPAS). The fiscal situation of the INSS has deteriorated due to high
ratios of evasion (the pension system covers only about 35 percent of the economically
active population) and the Federal Constitution of 1988 that guaranteed generous benefit
levels of over 100 percent of the active worker's salary. A surplus of R$14 billion in
1990, rapidly turned into an estimated deficit of R$7.8 billion in 1998, and a projected
deficit of R$11.7 billion in 1999.
7.   The financial problems of the RGPS are the result of: (i) a high guaranteed
replacement rate of 100 percent, among the highest in the world; (ii) a falling ratio of
contributors to beneficiaries; (iii) an end-loaded replacement formula based on the
monthly salary of the last three years of service; (iv) eligibility determined by years-of-
service, instead of years-of-contributions; (v) the absence of a minimum retirement age at
which retirees can begin receiving benefits (the average retirement age is 49 years); (vi)
generous replacement rates for survivor benefits of 100 percent of the spouses' last
salary, with no age limit on payments to orphans or marital status conditions; and (vii)
generous replacement rates for disability benefits of 100 percent, and lenient eligibility
rules, which result in a high percentage of pensioners receiving disability pensions.
8.   The Pension System for Public Sector Workers (RJU).  The Ministry of
Administration and State Reform (MARE) administers the RJU for federal workers; the
RJUs for state and for municipal workers are administered by their respective states and
municipalities. With a total of about 3 million pensioners, the RJU regime is paying
R$41.2 billion in pension benefits during 1998, nearly as much as the pension benefits
received by the 18 million private sector pensioners under the RGPS regime (see Annex
III).
9.   The Federal RJU   Staff in the federal ministries, legislators in the national
congress, judiciary, the military and other government workers are all required to
participate in the scheme. The Federal RJU serves approximately 1.8 million active and
retired public servants; about half of whom are receiving pensions. Federal employees
have been required to contribute to their pension schemes since 1992; in 1997, the
contribution rate was unified at 11 percent. In 1998, the Federal system is expected to
pay about R$21.1 billion in pension benefits while collecting only an estimated R$2.7
billion in contributions.
10.  The State RJUs.   The 1988 Constitution ratified the right of states and
municipalities to establish separate pension funds for their workers. Each of Brazil's 27
state governments (26 states and the Federal District) administers its own RJU. The state
RJUs vary widely in the pension benefits they provide; while some impose pension
contributions, others do not. The state plans serve about 2.1 million active workers and
1.9 million retirees and survivors. In 1998, all the states are expected to pay about
R$17.2 billion in benefits and collect only R$3.6 billion in contributions.
11. The Municipal RJUs. About 1,400 of Brazil's 5,000 municipalities have their own
RJUs, while workers in the rest contribute to the RGPS system. Municipal RJUs will pay
about Rs$2.9 billion in benefits in 1998, and collect only Rs$0.4 billion in contributions.



5
12. The financial imbalance of the RJUs are the result of: (i) high replacement rates of
100 percent of the last month's salary'; (ii) many states and municipalities not requiring
contributions2; (iii) the indexing of benefits to current public-sector salaries; (iv) no
minimum retirement age at which retirees can begin receiving benefits; (v) absence of
restrictions on receipt of multiple pensions and continued pension after re-employment;
(vi) generous survivor benefits of 100 percent 3, with no age limit or marital status
conditions; and (vii) generous disability benefits of 100 percent with lenient eligibility
rules.
13. The Complementary Pension System (SCPP). There are about 3.5 million
workers contributing to voluntary pension funds in Brazil, and the system is expected to
grow to R$105 billion in assets under management in 1998. While in absolute terms
Brazil's pension-fund assets are by far the largest in Latin America, yet they comprised
only 9 percent of GDP in 1997. This is low when compared to Chile where pension
assets total to about 50 percent of GDP. However, there is an enormous potential for
further growth of the system. The voluntary funds in the SCPP have accumulated
substantial resources and generally operate with a high level of sophistication and
efficiency. They are divided into closed and open funds, with the former subdividing
further between those sponsored by public-and private-sector employers.
14. Closed Pension Funds dominate the SCPP system, with Rs$96 billion in assets in
1998. There are 345 closed funds (of which 96 in public sector entities). They cover 2
million participants, of whom 1.7 million are active workers and 300,000 are pensioners.
Half of covered active workers are in private sector pension funds. The funds also cover
their 4.6 million dependents.
15. Public sector funds account for 70 percent of assets. The average balance per
participant is R$70,000 for public sector funds, R$25,000 for private sector funds and
R$45,000 for all the funds combined. Some funds have average balances well in excess
of R$150,000 mainly reflecting their longer period of operation. Investments are well
diversified domestically, with between 35 and 40 per cent placed in equities, a similar
amount in marketable bonds, and the rest in real estate, mutual funds and various other
assets. However, investments in overseas assets are still highly restricted. Investment
returns have been reasonably good in recent years--over 10 percent in real terms--except
when financial markets suffered substantial setbacks. The closed funds have grown at a
rapid pace, partly reflecting the creation of new funds and expansion of coverage and
partly the contractual nature of pension fund saving and the positive real returns.
I Until passage of the recent Constitutional amendment, a retiree receiving 100 percent of his highest last
salary would earn more than while working because he/she did not pay social security contributions or
income taxes.
2 Although most state RJUs require contributions, these may only be for survivor and contingent benefits
other than retirement income. Few states have an explicit contribution for pensions (see Annex 111,
table 3).
3Also exempt from taxes and pension contributions.



6
16.  State-owned enterprises were the first to sponsor pension funds. However, in
recent years growth in the industry has been in closed funds sponsored by private firms.
Most public sector funds are defined-benefit plans, while the majority of private funds
offer hybrid defined-benefit, defined-contribution schemes.
17. Open Pension Funds. The open funds--also known as montepios--are defined-
contribution schemes managed by independent private financial and insurance
institutions, available to the general public. The posting of negative returns and the
bankruptcy of a number of the funds has hurt public confidence in private investment on
the open market and dampened demand. The open funds industry is highly concentrated
with 84 percent of assets controlled by only two funds
18. The main problems facing the SCPP are: (i) low coverage (less than 5% of Brazil's
economically active population); (ii) fragmented regulation and supervision; (iii)
excessive subsidization of the funds on the part of SOEs and government sponsors; and
(iv) restrictive investment regulations. Closed funds are regulated by a special branch
within MPAS, the Secretaria da Previdencia Complementar (SPC). The open funds are
regulated by the Superintendencia de Seguros Privados (SUSEP), attached to the
Ministry of Finance. Investment rules tend to be different and rather restrictive for both
types of funds and the capacity of the regulatory agencies to regulate and supervise the
fund is limited.
19. The National Institute of Social Security (INSS). The INSS administers the
RGPS for private sector employees and oversees the closed funds run by state enterprises.
The INSS is the result of the merger of several previous organizations. It has a staff of
50,000, distributed in 1,200 offices and a yearly operating budget of R$5.0 billion in
1998.
20.  While the INSS has begun a program of institutional strengthening, more work
needs to be done to make it into a more efficient organization able to support the
structural changes in the Government's pension reform program. Some of the problems
facing the INSS include: (i) high cost of operation per client served; (ii) an organizational
structure in which the previous organizations that merged to form the INSS are not fully
integrated; (iii) weak revenue collection and benefit control procedures; and (iv) slow
customer service, which has resulted in a poor public image of the institution. Some of
the difficulties the INSS faces are the result of a lack of both reliable information on
contributors and beneficiaries and efficient and timely data processing services.
B.  The Government's Medium Term Strategy for Pension Reform
21. Recognizing the problems plaguing its social security system, the present
administration is committed to a phased program of pension reform aimed at: (a)
reducing the fiscal deficit of the pension system by introducing the principle of actuarial
balance; (b) reducing the inequality in pension benefits between the pension programs of
private and public sector workers; and (c) broadening individual choice by limiting the
first-pillar pension systems to workers with relatively low earnings, while stimulating the
creation of complementary pension funds for workers with higher earnings in private
companies and government entities. The Government's long-term objective is to lower



7
the salary threshold over time to give more workers the opportunity to join private
pension funds. This reform program will be implemented in two phases and will
complement major reforms being implemented in the areas of labor legislation and
administrative reform. The following paragraphs describe the strategic outline of the
Government's Social Security Reform Program. The details of the program are described
in Sections C, D and E.
22. The First Phase of Pension Reform. The first phase of the Government's program
of pension reform is the approval by Congress of a Constitutional amendment to modify
clauses in the Federal Constitution of 1988, which are, to a large extent, responsible for
the current problems of the system. The reform proposal was voted on by the lower
house of Congress (Chamber) in June 1996 and by the Senate in October 1997. Final
approval of the Amendment took place on November 25 1998, and promulgation is
expected on December 15, 1998.
23. The main objectives of the Constitutional amendment were to: (i) introduce the
principle of actuarial and fiscal balance for both the pension system of private and public
sector workers; (ii) replace pensions based on length-of-service by pensions based on
years-of-contribution; (iii) eliminate the benefit rule to determine pensions for private
sector workers from the Constitutional text; (iv) eliminate most special pension regimes
(except for school teachers and workers in hazardous activities); and (v) impose a
minimum retirement age on civil servants.
24. Coinciding with the approval of the Constitutional amendment, the Government
announced a number of emergency measures to reduce the deficit of the pension regime
for public-sector workers and its intention to propose legislation to Congress that would
reduce the deficit of the state and municipal pension regimes as well as to tighten the
penalties for social security crimes. The first phase of pension reform also includes the
initial stages of restructuring of the INSS to improve revenue collection and reduce
evasion.
25. The Second Phase of Pension Reform. The second phase of the reform program is
the regulation and implementation of the Constitutional reform through complementary
and ordinary laws. This would involve the introduction of further reforms to each of the
pension regimes in order to achieve the objective of financial and actuarial balance
mentioned in the Constitutional amendment. The proposed reforms include the definition
of the new basis for benefit calculation for retirees and survivors of the private pension
system, respecting the principle of actuarial and fiscal balance and changes in the
contribution rates of the public servants in order to achieve actuarial equilibrium between
the accumulated contributions and the conferred benefits. Additional measures include
tightening the criteria for survivor's pensions and disability benefits. Further, the second
phase of the reform would focus on strengthening regulation and supervision of
complementary pension plans and on completing the restructuring of INSS to enable it to
manage individual pension accounts, reduce cost and provide better services to
contributors and beneficiaries.
26. The second phase of the reform would involve approval of enabling legislation to
introduce the above reforms, implementing the Constitutional amendment. The enabling



8
legislation includes a number of laws and regulations that would define the specific form
in which the amended articles will be interpreted and the rules for their implementation.
The legislation would probably include Complementary Laws, which are framework laws
that require a plenary session by Congress and approval by an absolute majority; and
Ordinary Laws, which regulate the reforms at a more specific level and require a simple
congressional majority for approval. Some of these laws would also require the issuance
of regulations and executive decrees for their implementation.   Some of the
Complementary Laws, already envisaged in the Constitutional amendment must be
presented to Congress within 90 days after the amendment has passed (before February 2,
1999). Other laws and regulations do not have to be presented within a time period. The
following sections provide more details on the reform program for each pension system.
C.  Reform of the Pension System for Private Sector Workers (RGPS)
The First Phase
27. Deficit Reduction Measures. To reduce the fiscal deficit of the RGPS system, the
Government has enacted provisional measures4 with immediate effect to: (i) accelerate
the transfer to INS S' administration of all contributions held in judicial and extra judicial
deposits as a result of cases resolved in INSS favor; and (ii) reform the criteria to dispose
of INSS real estate; and (iii) strengthen the control over large taxpayers to reduce evasion
of contributions. Legislation to ratify these measures has been submitted to Congress.
28. The reforms to the RGPS regime in the approved Constitutional amendment
include the following:
29. Removal of the benefit formula from the Constitution. The Brazilian Federal
Constitution stipulated that pension benefits provided by INSS would equal the average
of the last 36 months of salary. In a PAYGO system, such as the one in Brazil, the long
run demographics will permit a replacement rate equivalent to about twice the
contribution rate. The contribution rate in Brazil, at 30 percent on average, is high by
international standards, but is still far from sufficient to cover a replacement rate of 100
percent. Removal of this clause will permit the Government to provide more reasonable
benefit rates, rates that will ideally be fiscally sustainable. The benefit rates will now be
defined by law. If the Government is successful in enacting laws that actuarially balance
benefits and contribution rates, this will have a substantial impact on future fiscal
expenditures. However, there are many details yet to be defined, including the transition
rules for current contributors.
30. Use of length-of-contribution rather than time-in-service for calculation of benefit
eligibility. Before the Constitutional amendment, the rules allowed retirement after 35
years-of-service for men and 30 years-of-service for women. The new rule replaces
years-of-service with years-of-contribution, for both private sector and public sector
workers. Anecdotal evidence suggests a significant discrepancy between the two,
4Provisional measures (medidas provisorias) are issued by the Executive and have legal force until
Congress ratifies or revokes them.



9
suggesting further cost savings as individuals fail to qualify for retirement and are forced
to contribute for additional years before retiring.  However, in the short run, the
Government will be unable to refute claims of contributions made, given the incomplete
record base at the INSS This measure is thus expected to have greatest impact in the
future as record keeping system improves.
31. Elimination of partial benefits. Before the Constitutional amendment, the law
allowed length-of-service pensions as well as old-age pensions. The length of service
pensions allowed benefits of 100 percent of the average of the last 3 years' salaries for 35
years of service for men and 30 years of service for women, or reduced benefits of 70
percent of the average of the last 3 years' salary for 30 years of service for men and 25
years of service for women.  Government data suggest that about 80 percent of
individuals were choosing this reduced partial benefit. Elimination of this benefit will
encourage individuals to contribute another 5 years, but they will be rewarded for this
extra contribution with much richer pensions. In fact, the accrual rate5 on pensions is
higher under the full pension than under the partial pension. The question arises, though,
of how long the full pension will be in effect and for which cohorts. If the entire benefit
formula changes quickly and applies to all cohorts, this effect will be removed.
32. Elimination of most special regimes. Before the Constitutional amendment, there
were a number of special regimes incorporated in INSS, including special privileges for
veterans, pilots, journalists, professors, and dangerous occupations.  These special
regimes allowed early retirement, with 25 years of service for veterans and pilots with
minimum age of 45; with 30 years of service for men and 25 years of service for women
for professors; and various lengths of service ranging from 15 to 20 years for those in
dangerous occupations. The Constitutional amendment restricts the early retirement
provisions to primary and secondary school teachers and early retirement is changed for
those in dangerous occupations to those actually involved in hazardous work and for
those years in which hazardous work is actually undertaken.
33. Establishment of a monthly benefit ceiling. The maximum pension allowed by the
Constitutional amendment is Rs$1,200 per month (about 10 minimum salaries), adjusted
by inflation. Those earning more can eam higher pensions by contributing to a private
pension fund.
The Second Phase
34. The second phase of the RGPS reform is currently just being proposed by the
Government, and is based on the concept, now embedded in the Constitution, of
actuarially balanced systems. The proposal of the Government, therefore, is to introduce
actuarially fair pensions based on individual contributions. The current thinking is to
establish contribution records that would be kept by INSS for each individual, and the
individual's contributions would be credited with an interest rate. Upon retirement, the
individual's balance in this INSS account would be divided by a factor based on the life
5Annual percentage point gain in replacement rate.



10
expectancy for individuals of that age, and the result would be a pension indexed for
inflation throughout the individual's lifetime.
35. Individuals will be able to verify whether and when their contributions were made,
reducing some of the evasion in today's system. Individuals will also have a greater
incentive to correctly report their earnings since their pensions will depend on their entire
lifetime earnings and contributions, not just the earnings from the last three years before
retirement. It is hoped that workers will also have an incentive to delay their retirement
without recourse to another Constitutional amendment stipulating a minimum retirement
age, on the basis that the pensions calculated after the minimum period of contribution
will be quite small. Not all of the individual's contribution will go to the individual
account; a relatively large fraction would will go to INSS to cover disability, both long
and short term, and survivors' insurance.
36.   Strengthening legal action against Social Security Crimes. Also as part of the
second phase, the Government intends to request Congressional consideration of
legislation against social security crimes. This would define as criminal conduct and
define penalties for the omission of information in payment papers, unauthorized access
to information systems, the spread of confidential information and other detrimental
behavior that is not currently defined as criminal.
D.  Reform of the Pension System for Public Workers (RJUs)
The First Phase
37.  The measures to reform the civil service pension system in the Constitutional
amendment include the following:
38. Establish the principle of Contributory Pensions. The Constitutional amendment
introduces the principle that public servant pensions should be of contributory character,
respecting the principle of actuarial and financial balance. This powerful principle will
allow the Government to introduce further reforms to the system.
39.  Minimum  retirement age.  While the proposed clause in the Constitutional
amendment for establishing a minimum retirement age for private sector workers was not
passed, the clause for public sector workers passed. The Constitutional amendment
establishes a minimum retirement age of 53 for men and 48 for women, for current
employees, with the ages of 60 and 55 years for new entrants. Current contributors will
also be subject to a transition "toll" where the years of contribution remaining will
increase by 20 percent for a full pension and by 40 percent for a partial pension,
effectively raising the age of retirement further. Currently, 36 percent of new retirees are
retiring below the ages of 53 for men and 48 for women, and 70 percent of new retirees
are retiring below the ages of 60 and 55, respectively. Stemming the flow of new retirees
will have a substantial immediate impact on the fiscal burden of the system, since new
entrants represent about 5 percent of the total stock of pensioners each year. Lowering
the inflow will result in a reduction of expenditures in the order of 1.5 percent the first
year. However, it should be noted that most of these retirees would eventually retire, in



11
some cases with higher benefits due to greater years of contribution. But since over 20
percent of these individuals are already retiring with 100 percent replacement rates, they
will be subject to the benefit ceiling and will not cost the system additional resources.
40. Vesting period Workers previously could work 34 years and 10 months in the
private sector, join the public sector for 2 months and retire with a full civil service
pension. The Constitutional amendment restricts civil service pensions to those who
have worked 10 years in government and 5 years in the position from which they retire.
This measure will limit the number of new retirees from civil service and have a positive
fiscal impact.   Some arrangements must be made so that either INSS  makes
compensation to the RJU system or that the pension is paid from each agency in
proportion to the time the workers were employed in each sector. Such an arrangement
will be easier if the RJU system adopts the same ceilings as the INSS.
41. The requirement that individuals hold their position for 5 years before retiring from
that position also counters an existing abuse, where individuals often received promotions
just prior to retirement. It is difficult to quantify the magnitude of each of these
measures, although anecdotal evidence suggests that the impact may be significant.
42. Maximum benefit rate. The establishment of a maximum benefit rate of 100
percent is also helpful because the average pension is currently 2.3 percent higher than
the average wage of a civil servant.
43. Elimination of multiple pensions. An important measure eliminates the possibility
of collecting multiple pensions, as well as simultaneously receiving public salaries and
pensions. This has been a common practice under the present civil service pension
system.
44. In order to reduce the deficit of the state and municipal RJUs, on November 27,
1998, Congress approved a new General Public Pension Law (Lei Geral da Previdencia
Publica No. 9,717) that establishes general rules for pension regimes at the federal, states
and municipal levels. The main elements of this Law:
(i)  establishes a minimum number of affiliates as a criteria for the creation and
operation of autonomous pension regimes for municipal public servants.
Municipalities below that limit, will join the INSS system6;
(ii) establishes a maximum ratio between employer and employee contributions
of 2:1;
(iii) forbids benefits not contemplated in the RGPS system, except if required by
the Federal Constitution;
(iv) establishes an individual accounting system of contributors;
6The Government is thinking to establish this limit at 5,000 affiliates, which would eliminate the own
pension regimes of nearly 90 percent of the municipalities. The workers of these municipalities will
have to join the INSS.



12
(v)  introduces an automatic adjustment of contributions when pension payments
minus contributions exceed 12 percent of net revenues of states and
municipalities7; and
(vi)  gives the MPAS jurisdiction to regulate and monitor the autonomous pension
regimes (RJUs).
The Second Phase
45. Increase in Contributions. Although a first vote on the measure was negative, the
Government intends to resubmit to Congress next year a proposal to require retired civil
servants and survivors to pay social security contribution rates of 11 percent, on their
pensions which is equal to the current contribution rate of employed civil servants8. This
measure  would  affect 942,000  former civil servants and  their survivors.   The
Constitutional guarantee of a replacement rate of 100 percent of wage would be
reinterpreted to mean 100 percent of net wage (after social security contributions). Thus,
by contributing 11 percent, pensioners' net earnings would be equivalent to active
workers' earnings. In addition, civil servants earning above R$1,200 per month would be
required to pay an additional 9 percent of their salaries above R$1,200, during a five year
period. The 11 percent contribution required by pensioners would reduce the federal RJU
deficit by 21 percent. The additional 9 percent (on salary amounts above R$1,200) is
estimated to save approximately R$ 1 billion, or another 5 percent of the deficit.
46. Even with the new Constitutional amendment, the civil service pension regime is
bound by the requirement of paying a pension equal to the last salary for 35 years of
contribution for men and 30 years of contribution for women, although they are now
subject to minimum retirement ages. The second phase of the reform will introduce a
system of individualized accounts with the same parameters, but will alter the
contribution rate of those who want to retire after 35 years for men and 30 years for
women. This may involve substantial increases in the contribution rate for people who
want to retire early.
47. Longer run proposals. In the longer run, the Government intends to make the limit
for mandatory contributions by both the government and employee the same as in the
private sector, R$ 1,200 (indexed by inflation), with the remainder going to a
Complementary Pension, which is as in the private sector, would be a fully funded
defined contribution.
7 The figure of 12 percent results from the application of the Camata Law which limits personnel
expenditures, including pensions, to 60 percent of net revenues of a state and municipality. Since
private sector employers contribute 20 percent of wages to the pension system, the Government
proposes that states and municipalities contribute up to 20 percent of the personnel expenditures to the
pensions of their employees. Thus, 20 percent of 60 percent is 12 percent. At the beginning of 1998,
in six states the share of pension payments in their wage bill exceeded 35 percent.
8 Passage of a provisory measure with similar provisions was defeated in the Chamber on December 3,
1998. The Government has indicated its intention to present a new legislative proposal to the next
Congress. If this is approved before end-March 1999, it would stll go into effect on July 1s 1999, as
had been originally envisaged.



13
Fiscal Implications of the RGPS and RJU Reforms
48.   The projected deficit of the RGPS system  in 1999, assuming that no reforms are
implemented, amounts to R$11.7 billion. The Government estimates that over the next
12 months the reforms of the RGPS system will reduce this deficit by about R$3.75
billion, of which R$1.70 billion would come mainly from the elimination of the early
retirement option with partial pension; and R$2.05 billion would be generated by
measures to reduce tax evasion and tax exemptions. In the longer run, additional
reductions in the RGPS deficit would be generated by: (i) a reduction in the replacement
rate brought about by a change in the calculation of the pension from the average of the
last three years wages to the entire work history of the retiree; and (ii) by a reduction of
evasion brought about by the worker's perception of a closer link between contributions
and benefits under a system of nominal defined contribution accounts. Additional
reductions would come from the adoption of stricter criteria for granting disability
pensions and survivor's benefits. Preliminary Government estimates, of longer term
effects, not including potential savings from lower evasion (which will be confirmed by
Bank staff when implementing legislation proceeds), indicate that the proposed reforms
would not eliminate the deficit of the RGPS system, but would keep it at less than 2
percent of GDP, preventing it from ballooning to almost 6 percent of GDP by year 2015.
Fiscal Impact of First Year Xleasures to RZeduce Social Security )eficit
(Currenit RS)
Regime                               Deficit with no      Deficit with    12 month's deficit
reform             reform         reduction from
1999               1999              reforms
General Regime - RGPS                     11.7                7.9                3.8
Federal Regime - RJU                      18.9               12.8                6.1
States and Municipalities - RJUs          16.6               11.4                5.2
Total                                     47.3               32.2               15.1
Source: MPAS projections.
ProA isionail Estimates of Fiscal Impact of First-Pillar S,istenis With ani(i Withotit lProposed
Refor-ms
(Current l)eficits as.    of (GDP')
Regime                  1998         1999        2000        2005        2010       2015
RGPS        Current      0.9          1.2         1.5         2.4         3.8        5.9
Reform      0.9          1.2          1.2         1.2         1.5        2.0
RJU'        Current      2.0         2.1          2.1         2.4         2.6        2.7
Reform      2.0          1.5          1.5         1.4         1.4        1.4
Total Deficit Without    2.9          3.3         3.6         4.8         6.4        8.6
Reform
Total Deficit with       2.9         2.7          2.7         2.6         2.9        3.4
Reform
I. Federal system only: Projections do not include deficits at state and municipal levels of the RJU
Source: Preliminary Government Projections, October 1998



14
49. The projected deficit of the Federal RJU system for 1999, assuming that no reforms
are implemented is R$18.9 billion. The Government estimates that over the next 12
months the reforms will reduce the deficit of the Federal RJU system by about R$6.12
billion, of which R$1.30 billion would come mainly from the elimination of the early
retirement option with partial pension; and Rs$4.82 from the emergency measures that
impose contributions of 11 percent on pensions and contributions of 9 percent on salaries
of public sector workers over R$1,200, assuming that the contribution increases are
approved in February 1999, and in effect by July 1999. The projected deficit of the RJUs
of states and municipalities for 1999 is R$16.6 billion, assuming that no reform is
implemented. The reforms are expected to reduce this deficit in the next 12 months by
R$5.24 billion with R$1.30 billion generated by the pension reform and R$3.94 billion
generated by the emergency measures. In the longer run, the deficit would be reduced
from: (i) increases in contributions on salaries over R$1,200 to reach actuarial balance on
individual accounts; (ii) the elimination of multiple pensions and simultaneous collection
of pensions and salaries; and (iii) the combined effect of minimum age and minimum
years of contribution to qualify for a pension. As in the case of the RGPS, additional
savings would come from the adoption of stricter criteria for granting disability pensions
and survivor's benefits. Preliminary Government estimates of longer term savings (also
to be confirmed by Bank staff when implementing legislation proceeds), indicate that the
proposed reforms would not eliminate the deficit of the RJU system, but would almost
halve it by 2015.
E.  Reform of the Complementary Pension Funds System (SCPP)
The First Phase
50. The Constitutional amendment reforming the complementary system introduces
rules to eliminate or reduce the subsidization of the funds by public entities, and improve
their regulation. The most important reforms are: (i) a restriction on public sector
entities' contributions to that contributed by employees (maintaining a 1:1 ratio) to
complementary pension funds, within two years of enactment of the recently approved
Constitutional amendment; (ii) the elimination of fiscal subsidies to complementary
pension funds by public entities; (iii) a restriction of contribution of resources of public
sector entities to complementary pension funds except as sponsors9; and (iv) a
requirement that complementary pension funds sponsored by state institutions revise their
benefit plans and adjust them actuarially to assets within two years of the Constitutional
amendment.
The Second Phase
51. The provisions in the Constitutional amendment concerning the SCPP will be
implemented through three Complementary Laws that must be proposed to Congress
within 90 days of approval of the amendment. The first Complementary Law will create
a new framework for closed pension funds and will cover such issues as who can form
9 Eliminating the possibility of public sponsors subsidizing poorly-performing funds.



15
pension plans, what will be the rights of workers, the funding, vesting and portability
requirements and all similar issues. It will provide the possibility for non-employer funds
to be set up, for instance by professional associations (lawyers, engineers, etc.) as well as
multi-employer funds that will cater for the needs of smaller firms. The second
Complementary Law will allow for closed pension funds to be created by public
authorities (federal, state and municipal). It will generally follow the same approach as
for closed pension funds of enterprises. Finally, the third Complementary Law will
regulate institutional aspects of the functioning of closed pension funds of public
enterprises. It will set out the corporate governance and accountability of the
management of these funds and will also aim to insulate them from political interference.
Ordinary laws and implementing regulations will be developed following Congressional
approval of the complementary laws.
52.  The preparation of these laws opens an opportunity to unify the regulation and
supervision of the open and closed pension funds. The Government is preparing a new
law for the creation of a New National Agency of Complementary Pension Funds. The
system would be significantly improved if a new regulatory agency were established to
regulate all pension funds according to a single set of sound business principles. By
imposing ceilings on retirement benefits and gradually lowering the threshold for
participating in the SCPP, the Constitutional amendment will also provide an incentive
for more workers to increasingly rely on the complementary pension funds. With a
market capitalization of about 35 percent, the growth potential of the SCPP is very large.
F.  Strengthening the National Social Security Institute (INSS)
The First Phase
53.  The INSS has initiated a process of institutional strengthening designed to improve
its efficiency, reduce operating costs and enable it to implement the systemic reforms of
the pension system for private sector workers, including the adoption of individual
accounts, and to carry out its new role of supervisor of the of the pension regimes for
public sector workers. The main areas of INSS' institutional strengthening program
involves: (i) reduction of administrative costs; (ii) improvement of revenue collection;
(iii) improvement of fraud, and evasion control; (iv) improvement of benefit
determination and administration; and (v) improvement of services to clients.
54. The INSS has recently presented a cost reduction program for MPAS approval, and
has already begun some firm actions to improve revenue collection; the INSS has
adopted a new monthly form to collect individualized information of workers'
employment and contribution history. This information will facilitate matching with
bank statements and provide for control and audit trails. INSS has also implemented a
new system to link itself electronically with the 10,000 largest employers, who account
for about 70% of contributions. The INSS has been working for some time on the
integration of Brazil's multiple labor and social security information registers to create a
Single Register "Cadastro" of Social Information (CNIS). Full implementation of this
consolidated data base will improve control over work histories and collections, and will



16
be the basis for establishing individual contribution accounts under the reformed
RGPS/INSS regime.
The Second Phase
55   The second phase of INSS strengthening will involve three steps. The first step
will be to the develop an audit of the institution's strengths and opportunities. This
diagnosis, which should take about three months, will form the basis for developing
detailed plans and funding estimates for the different components of the strengthening
program. External consultants for the diagnostic work would be financed under a
proposed World Bank technical assistance loan. The second stage is the elaboration of a
Strategic Plan for the INSS.  This plan would be fundamental to the effective
reorganization of the administration of the INSS, especially as it undertakes major
changes in the way it operates as a result of the pension reforms. The design of the future
INSS will take into account: (i) the different services to be offered by the institution, in
light of the pension reforms and their impact on the system; (ii) the type and quality of
the services to be offered; (iii) the performance targets to be achieved against selected
benchmarks; and (iv) the desired degree of centralization or decentralization of services
and the geographical coverage to be achieved. The design of the Strategic Plan will take
approximately four months.
56. The fourth step would then be the implementation of the Strategic Plan, which will
lead to a new organizational structure for the INSS and a total reengineering of processes
within the institution.
57. Other areas that will be strengthened in the second phase include: Recovery of
Judicial Cases. The INSS plans to catalogue the existing court case backlog, develop a
strategy on how to tackle the court cases, and on how to prevent a recurrence in the
future'0. In addition to a legal strategy for resolving existing cases, INSS will also be
developing a program to profile and control these cases. Control of Disability Claims.
INSS will be developing a plan to review granting rules, profile the groups more likely to
commit fraud on their disability claims, train doctors, and introduce firmer supervision
and control procedures. The Bank's proposed technical assistance project would finance
the needed consulting work in these areas. Fraud Prevention/Detection The INSS will
carry out a diagnosis of current opportunities for fraud through profiling of beneficiaries
and contributors and through review of samples of files and will establish a focal point
for this activity within the organization. This effort will be accompanied of an effort to
educate the public about the need to report any irregular activity and how this should be
handled within the organization. Configuration of Customer Service Structure. Finally,
the INSS will be developing a customer service structure based on the types of service,
the level of service, the number of locations and the dimensions of the various facilities
and resources determined in the strategic plan. Publication of the service levels such as
office waiting times, telephone availability, benefit delivery dates will be used to build
10 INSS' monitoring activities have resulted in court cases against contributors amounting to about Rs$43
billion, but weak judicial recovery procedures have resulted in losses of collection opportunities even
in cases decided in INSS favor.



17
public confidence and improve expectations about the organization and establish a
stronger esprit de corps among the staff of INSS.
II. BANK ASSISTANCE STRATEGY
A.  Bank Assistance Strategy on Pension Reform
58.  The Framework Paper that preceded this loan (SecM98-943) of November 25,
1998) outlines the Banks' overall Special Support Program. It notes that the 1997 CAS
(discussed in the Board on June 12, 1997) and the 1998 CAS Progress Report (discussed
on June 2, 1998) acknowledged that Brazil could be subject to external shocks. In such
an eventuality, if the Government responded with corrective policy measures, the CAS
proposed to respond quickly with financial support for reforms in such areas as
privatization, social security, and safety nets. The external shock is now at hand and the
Government is responding with a strong reform program in the area of social security to
improve the long-term actuarial balance of the system, which accounts for two thirds of
the fiscal deficit. The Bank therefore proposes to support the program of Social Security
reform with a package of three sector adjustment programs of Special SECALs and some
technical assistance loans.
59.  The first S/SECAL would support the first phase of pension reformn which consists
of approval of an amendment to the Federal Constitution of 1988, and the adoption of a
number of emergency measures to reduce the fiscal deficit of the pension regime for
public-sector workers. The Federal Constitution of 1988 established the parameters of
the pension system with no regard for the principle of actuarial and fiscal balance and for
the need to maintain equity between pensions in the private and public sectors.
Amendment of the 1998 Constitution was a prerequisite for any further pension reform.
60. A second S/SECAL would support the implementation of the Constitutional
amendment through enabling legislation, which will determine, to large extent, the scope
of the reforms made possible by the amendment. The Bank's objective is to assist the
Government in the design of the new pension rules through technical assistance in the
application of actuarial models to determine new parameters consistent with the principle
of actuarial balance. These SECALs will be accompanied by a technical assistance loan,
now under preparation, to support technical work for: (i) the institutional strengthening of
the INSS"; (ii) the creation of a new agency to regulate complementary pension funds;
and (iii) improvements in the area of social assistance. Also; the Bank is embarked on a
strong analytical effort in the social security/labor area. Five reports have either just been
completed of will be completed within the next months:
* Brazil: A Simulative Look at the General Regime for Social Security (RGPS). August
15, 1998
1 Strengthening of the INSS is a crucial element in the ability of the Government to implement further
refonns of the pension system, including the adoption of individual accounts.



18
* Brazil: A Simulative Look at the Pension Regime for Civil Servants (RJUs).
February, 1999
* Brazil: Selected Issues in Pension Reform - Importance and International Experience.
March, 1999
* Brazil: Critical Unemployment Issues. September 25, 1998
* Brazil: The Labor Reform Agenda. May 1999
B.  Coordination with Multilateral Institutions
61.  The policy reforms supported under this operation are consistent with the IMF-
coordinated Multilateral Support Program for Brazil, which includes the World Bank, the
Interamerican Development Bank, and a large group of European, North American and
Asian bilateral lenders. Bank staff joined early IMF discussions with the Brazil team,
and have provided IMF staff with projections and working papers for this project. The
proposed structural reforms, including pension reform, have been reviewed jointly with
IMF staff, including the short-term assessment of the fiscal impact of the reforms.
III. THE PROPOSED LOAN
A.  Loan Objectives and Description
62. The proposed special sector adjustment loan is part of the World Bank's program
of special support for Brazil's Program of Fiscal Stabilization and Reforms. If forms part
of a coordinated effort (see "Framework Paper: Special Program of Support for Brazil",
SecM98-943). The Government's fiscal program is designed to address the structural
causes of its fiscal deficit and to restrain the growth of public debt, in order to both
strengthen market confidence and permit a sustainable reduction in interest rates. The
proceeds of the loan will help Brazil finance its current account deficit in orderly fashion,
avoiding needless dislocation.
63. This operation would be the first of the two adjustment loans (S/SECALS) in
support of Brazil's Social Security Reform Program. A first loan of US$757,570 million
would support the first phase of the Government's pension reform program that follows
Congressional approval of the Constitutional amendment in November 1998. A second
adjustment loan would be presented to the Board in 1999, accompanying implementation
of the reforms and institutional changes envisaged in the second phase of the Reform
Program.
B.  Policy Actions
64. The Government and the Bank have reached agreement on a program of fiscal
reforms (the "action plan") and structural reforms (the "work agenda") as described in the
Letter of Sector Policy (Annex V).



19
65. On November 25, 1998, the Brazilian Congress approved the final text of a
Constitutional amendment that introduced key legislative reforms to the social security
system. The amendment will be promulgated by the Presidents of the Senate and the
House of Representatives on December 15, 1998. It includes, inter alia, the following:
(1) Approved Clauses of the Constitutional Amendment Reforming the Pension
System for Private Sector Workers: The approved clauses introduce the following
reforms:
* Remove the reference period used in the calculation of pension benefits from the
Constitution;
* Eliminate special pension regimes except those for primary school teachers and some
risky occupations, restricting special parameters to those engaged in actual
performance of hazardous activities;
* Adopt time-of-contributions instead of years-of-service for benefit eligibility;
* Eliminate the option of early retirement with a partial pension (70% replacement rate)
with transition rules;
*  Set a ceiling on monthly benefits at Rs$1,200, adjusted by an inflation-related index;
* Open work injury programs in the private sector to private sector insurers (currently a
state monopoly);
* Permit income taxes to be charged on pension and survivors' benefits of persons over
64 years old; and
* Expand concept of funding for social security to all work-related earnings.
(2) Approved Clauses of the Constitutional Amendment Reforming the Pension System
for Public Sector Workers. The approved clauses introduce the following reforms:
* Make the pension regime of public sector workers contribution-based (pension
contributions for federal, state and municipal pensions), observing criteria to preserve
financial and actuarial balance
*  Introduce retirement based on length-of-contributions instead of years-of-service;
*  Introduce minimum tenure to be eligible for retirement at 10 years in Government
service and 5 years in current position;
* Eliminate the possibility of collecting multiple pensions and of simultaneously
collecting salaries and pensions
* Fix minimum retirement age at 53 years for men and 48 for women, with transition
rule for increase to 60 for men and 55 for women;
* Allow setting up of complementary pension funds by the federal government, states
and municipalities, and a lowering of the benefit ceiling of the RJU regime to that of
the RGPS regime (R$1200);
* Eliminate the option of early retirement with partial pension with transition rules;
* Permit income taxes to be charged on pension and survivors' benefits of persons over
64 years old; and
* Introduce ceiling on benefits equal to the highest civil service salary allowed.
(3) Approved Clauses of the Constitutional Amendment Reforming the Complementary
Pension Systemn The approved clauses introduce the following reforms:



20
* Within two years of approval of the Constitutional Amendment, public sector entities
will not be allowed to contribute more than employees (1:1 ratio) to complementary
pension funds;
* Eliminates fiscal subsidies to complementary pension funds of public enterprises;
* Prohibits contribution of resources of public sector entities to complementary pension
funds except as sponsors;
* Within two years of the Constitutional amendment, complementary pension funds
sponsored by state institutions will have to revise their benefit plans and adjust them
actuarially to assets; and
*   Introduces full disclosure to plan participants of plan information and investment
performance.
(4) Approved New General Public Pension Law (Lei Geral da Previdencia Publica No.
9,717). The main elements of this Law are:
3 establish a minimum number of affiliates as a criteria for the creation and operation of
autonomous pension regimes for municipal public servants. Municipalities below
that limit, will join the INSS system;
* establish a maximum ratio between employer and employee contributions of 2: 1;
* forbid benefits not contemplated in the RGPS system, except if required by the
Federal Constitution;
* establish an individual accounting system of contributors;
* introduce an automatic adjustment of contributions when pension payments minus
contributions exceed 12 percent of net revenues of states and municipalities'2; and
* give the MPAS jurisdiction to regulate and monitor the autonomous pension regimes
(RJUs).
(5) Measures to Strengthen the INSS. The INSS has introduced measures to reduce
costs and improve collections. These include:
* adoption of new questionnaire to collect individualized information of worker's labor
and contribution histories; and
* implementation of new system to follow up the largest 10,000 contributors.
* acceleration of administrative collections
The Second Social Security Loan
66. The Second Social Security Special Sector Adjustment Loan is still being prepared,
as is the second phase of Brazil's important Social Security Reform. The second loan
12 The figure of 12 percent results from the application of the Camata Law which limits personnei
expenditures, including pensions, to 60 percent of net revenues of a state and municipality. Since
private sector employers contribute 20 percent of wages to the pension system, the Government
proposes that states and municipalities contribute up to 20 percent of the personnel expenditures to the
pensions of their employees. Thus, 20 percent of 60 percent is 12 percent. At the beginning of 1998,
in six states the share of pension payments in their wage bill exceeded 35 percent.



21
would accompany and support the second phase of reforms. At this time, the second
phase appears to fall into six major groups:
67. Implementing Reform of the Pension System for Private Sector Workers. The
Government plans to formulate and implement rules to make the Constitutional
amendment effective regarding the pension system of private sector workers, including:
defining the new basis for benefit calculation for retirees and survivors, respecting the
principle of actuarial and fiscal balance'3. It is also considering the introduction of a
means-test and age limit for survivors' pensions, the rationalization of replacement rates
for survivors' pensions, and the revision of criteria for temporary and permanent
disability programs. The Government is preparing legislation defining crimes against
social security and the corresponding penalties and to establish the legal framnework for a
private worker's injury risk insurance scheme.
68. Implementing Reform of the Pension System for Public Sector Workers. The
Government plans to formulate and implement rules to make the Constitutional
amendment effective regarding the pension system of public sector workers, including
the introduction of individual accounting of contributions and setting-up contribution
rules respecting the principle of actuarial and fiscal balance. It will resubmit to Congress
legislation to reduce the fiscal deficit of the pension system for civil servants that would
require federal pensioners to pay contribution rates of 11. Further, legislation would
increase contribution rates for federal civil servants by an additional 9 percent on the
portion of their salaries above R$1,200 per month. Furthermore, the Government is
contemplating the introduction of ameans tests and age limit for survivor pensions and
the revision of criteria for temporary and permanent disability programs.
69. Improving Regulation and Administration of RJUs: This involves, among other
things, the actuarial evaluation of pension regimes of the largest municipalities; the
evaluation of the states' pension regimes; the re-certification of disability pensions; the
establishment of a monitoring system for state and municipal pension; and cross-
checking data bases of different pension systems to identify incompatible benefits.
70. Implementing Reform of the Complementary Pension Funds. The Government
plans to formulate and implement regulations to make the Constitutional amendment
effective regarding the complementary pension funds, including: the Private
Complementary Pension System; the pension funds sponsored by public entities for their
employees; and the Public Complementary Pension System. In addition, to strengthen
the SCPP and homogenize regulation, the Government is contemplating the
establishment of a single regulatory agency to regulate pension funds.
71.  Institutional Strengthening of INSS.  The INSS expects to complete full
consolidation of all social security information registers (unified 'cadastro' of Social
Information (CNIS), and improve its data processing system by early-1999, in
There is a difference between an actuarially fair system and a fiscally sustainable system. One does not
imply the other. For example, the US system is not generous enough to be considered actuarially fair,
but it is still expected to run into deficits in a few years.



22
preparation for the establishment of individual accounts. As part of the implementation
of its Strategic Plan, the INSS expects to propose a new organizational structure for
approval by the Executive early next year. It also expects to advance in the reengineering
of processes within the institution and to meet benchmarks and targets under its cost
reduction and re-certification of disability pensions programs.
C.  Disbursement and Auditing
72. Loan disbursements, would be made under simplified SAL/SECAL procedures.
The Borrower would be required to open and maintain a Deposit Account in its Central
Bank. As funds are released, the Borrower will submit a simplified withdrawal
application against which the Bank will disburse the loan proceeds into the Deposit
Account for the Borrower's use. The Borrower is expected to use the counterpart funds
stemming from the loan proceeds to assist in financing the Federal budget. Since Brazil's
fiscal performance will be vital to the success of the proposed loan--as well as the Bank's
Support Prograrn-- the Bank will be reviewing periodically with the Borrower overall
budget performance.
73.  Independent auditors, acceptable to the Bank may audit the Deposit Account.
Copies of the Deposit Account audits will be submitted to the Bank no later than four
months after the date of the Bank's request for such audits. The loan Closing Date would
be June 30, 1999.
D.  Impact, Benefits and Risks
72.  This S/SECAL is only part of the Bank's US$4.5 billion support program to assist
Brazil's adjustment effort, and the support program itself has risks as well as benefits.
These overall benefits and risks are addressed in the "Framework Paper" (SecM98-943),
distributed to the Board on November 25, 1998; the specific benefits and risks of this
loan are addressed below.
73.  Social Impact. One important social impact of the reform will come from the
short-term impact it will have on Brazil's fiscal credibility as volatile markets threaten
Brazil's exchange rate regime. To the extent that this reform helps avoid macroeconomic
instability, it would positively affect all Brazil's citizens, particularly the poorest ones.
Another social effect of the reform is that it takes the first step in redressing the great
inequalities between private and public sector workers and retirees. Under the old
system, the monthly value of an average pension, as a multiple of the minimum salary,
was 1.8 for private sector workers, 13.4 for Federal Government executives (including
military), 32.8 for legislative and 33.2 for Judiciary workers. Moreover, almost half of
Brazil's workforce works "informally" and receive no pension, except for a modest social
assistance. The pension reforms will redress some of these inequalities by increasing
contributions and reducing the pension of public sector workers. This would be
accomplished by a number of measures, including: (a) eliminating the possibility of
receiving multiple pensions and of receiving simultaneously a pension and a salary; (b)
requiring public sector pensioners to pay social security contributions and income taxes;



23
(c) opening the possibility for the Federal Government, states and municipalities to set a
maximum limit to the value of the pensions equivalent to R$ 1,200 (the same as the
RGPS), and to create Complementary Pension Funds for the contributions of public
sector workers on the portion of their salaries above R$1,200; and (d) by introducing
individual accounts where the contribution rates are established respecting the principle
of actuarial balance.
74. Environmental Impact. The program is not expected to have any environmental
impact. It is ranked as C for environmental purpose.
75.  Benefits. The benefits of Brazil's pension reform should be considered in both the
short and the long run. In the short-run, the main benefits from the reform come not so
much from the fiscal savings that it would generate, which are modest, but from the
positive signal that reform sends to the country and the capital markets of the
Government's resolve in tackling a major reform, and that the abuses of the past in which
workers--mostly public sector workers--could retire with large pensions paid by the rest
of the population, has ended. In the long run, the Constitutional amendment gives the
Government the opportunity to redesign the pension system along more sustainable lines.
The introduction of individual accounts and the emphasis on expanding the
complementary pension system for public sector workers earning over R$1,200 per
month, will move the system towards the adoption of a two pillar system in which the
RGPS and the RJUs will become part of a safety net and an increasing share of the
contributions will go to a funded pillar. Growth of the funded pillar would have a
positive growth impact on Brazil's capital market, which is already well developed.
Moreover, to the extent that lower pension deficits translate into lower public sector
borrowing requirements, the proposed reforms would help restore confidence in the
economy and allow for lower interest rates.
76.  Risks. The main risk of the pension reform is the possibility that the legislature
will not approve the imposition of higher pension contributions and income taxes on the
politically powerful public-sector workers and retirees. The Government has tried to
mitigate this risk by making public the large inequalities of the present system, in which 3
million public sector retirees receive almost as much as 18 million private sector retirees.
The deficits generated by the different systems have been widely advertised in the media,
which may have contributed to the final passage of the Constitutional amendment.
Nevertheless, Congress recently declined to ratify a provisional measure that would have
required federal pensioners and their survivors to pay contributions to the RJPU. The
Government, however, remains optimistic that this can be passed, and will resubmit it to
Congress during a special session to be called in February. Another risk is the possibility
that states and municipalities may refuse to accept the proposed legislation with limits on
their ability to establish their own pension systems and the automatic adjustments in
contributions when pension payment-minus contributions exceed a determined share of
current revenues. This risk is mitigated by the adoption of administrative reform
measures, which reinforce the controls over state and municipal spending on their wage
bill, including pension expenditures. The Bank will soon be proposing a Special SECAL
to support these administrative reforms. There is also the risk that the projection of fiscal
impact of the first and second phase of the reform is not realistic. The estimated short



24
term fiscal impact of the first phase of the reform is probably accurate. With respect to
the fiscal impact of the second phase of the reform, the Bank has already started working
with the authorities to refine the projections using the Bank's actuarial models, in order to
have them available for the preparation of the second S/SECAL. Finally, there is a risk
that the Government itself will not follow through on the second phase of policy reforms.
The Government has shown its strong commitment to pension reform by pushing for
difficult Constitutional amendments even during election years.  Furthermore, by
approving the Constitutional amendment, Congress has given some indication that it will
consider favorably additional legislation needed to implement the second phase of the
reform program.
III. RECOMMENDATION
77.  I am satisfied that the proposed loan complies with the Articles of Agreement of
the Bank, and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
by Caio K. Koch-Weser
Washington, D.C.
December 10, 1998
Attachments



Annex I
Page I of 3
BRAZIL's PROPOSED SOCI4L SECURITY REFORM
OBI.JECT IVES             ACTIONS TAKEN BY BRAZIL TO DATE                       KEY ELEMENTS OF BRAZIL's SECONID PHASE OF
TIHE REFORM PROGRAM
1. MACROECONOMIC POLICY FRAMEWORK_
Maintenance of Supportive   *  Maintenance of sound macroeconomic framework         *  Maintenance of sound macroeconomic framework consistent
Macroeconomic Program         consistent with policy objectives and program described in  with policy objectives and program described in Leter of Sector
Letter of Sector Policy                                  Policy
2. REFORMf OF THE PENSION SYSTEM FOR PRIVATE SECTOR WORKERS RGPS
Improve Long-term Fiscal   Approved Constitutional Amendment:                      Constitutional amendment made effective by legislation and
Health/Reduce Fiscal      On November 1998, Congress approved an amendment to the    regulation to:
Deficit                   Constitution that introduced key legislative reforms to the social  * Define the new basis for benefit calculation for retirees and
security system, including, inter alia, the following:           survivors, respecting the principle of actuarial and fiscal
*  Removes from the Constitution the definition of the benefit   balance
calculation (from the average of 36 months salaries)     *  Establish the legal framework for a private worker's injury
*  Eliminates most special pension regimes except that for       risk insurance scheme
school teachers and some risky occupations (restricting to  *  Introduce means test and age limit for survivor's pensions
actual performance of hazardous activities)                  and rationalize replacement rates for survivor's pensions
*  Adopts time-of-contributions instead of years-of-service for  *  Define crimes against social security and the corresponding
benefit eligibility                                          penalties
*  Eliminates early retirement provision with a partial pension  *  Revise criteria for temporary and permanent disability
(70%), with transition rules                                 programs
*  Sets a monthly benefit ceiling at Rs$1,200, adjustable by an                                                               en
inflation related index
*  Opens the work injury insurance program to private sector
(now a state monopoly)
*  Permits an income tax to be charged on pension and
survivor's benefits of persons over 65 years old
*  Expands concept of contribution for social security to all
work related earnings
Improve INSS              Measures taken:                                           *  Full consolidation of all social security information registers
Administration            *  Measures to improve contribution collection by INSS in     (CNIS)
effect, including: :                                  *  New organizational structure for INSS approved by Executive
(a) acceleration of administrative collections;       *  Agreed efficiency benchmarks for INSS reached
(b) adoption of new questioners to collect individualized  *  Administration of disability by INSS to be in line with new
information of worker's labor and contribution history;  rules of disability program
(c) implementation of new system to follow up the largest    *  Targets agreed under cost reduction program achieved
10,000 contributors.                               *  Fraud control system for future pensions fuilly implemented
*  Data processing system improved according to agreed criteria
*  Progress in re-certification of disability pensions



Annex I
Page 2 of 3
BRAZIL's PROPOSED SOCL4L SECURITY REFORM
~~~~~~~~~~~~~*  =  
3. REFORM OF THE PENSION SYSTEM FOR PUBLIC SECTOR WORKERS RJUs
Improve Long-term Fiscal   Approved Constitutional Amendment:                      Constitutional amendment made effective by legislation and
Health/ Reduce Fiscal     *  Makes the RJU system contribution-based (pension       regulation to:
Deficit                       contributions for federal, state and municipal pensions),  *  Introduce individual accounting of contributions and set up
observing criteria that preserves financial and actuarial  contribution rules respecting the principle of actuarial and fiscal
balance                                                  balance;
*  Introduces retirement based on length-of-contributions
instead of time-of-service                            Reduce the fiscal deficit of the federal pension system by:
*  Introduces minimum tenure to be eligible for retirement: 10  *  Require federal pensioners to pay social security contributions
years in government, and 5 years in current position  *  Increase contribution rates of federal civil servants earning
*  Eliminates the possibility of collecting multiple pensions  salaries above R$1,200 per month
and of simultaneously collecting salaries and. pensions  *  Introduce means test and age limit for survivor pensions
*  Fixes minimum retirement age 53/48 (M/W) with transition  *  Revise criteria for temporary and permanent disability programs
rule for gradual increase to 60/55 (M/W)
*  Allows the establishment of complementary pension funds
by the federal government, states and municipalities
*  Eliminates early retirement provision with partial pension
with transition rules
*  Permits an income tax to be charged on pension and                                                                         0)
survivor's benefits of persons over 65 years old
*  Introduces ceiling on benefits equal to the highest civil-
service salary permitted
Approved General Public Pension Law:
*  Ends special pension systems for municipalities with less
than a specified minimum of participants
*  Introduces automatic adjustment of contributions when total
pension payments minus contributions exceed a determined
share of current revenues of states and municipalities
*  Establishes a ratio of maximum employer contribution to
employee contribution of 2:1
*  Forbids benefits not included in the RGPS system
*  Establishes penalties on states, Federal District and
municipalities for failure to comply with established
regulations
*  Regulates maximum ratios between employer and
employee contributions, and automatic adjustment of
contributions, to be reflected in draft budgets for 1999



Annex I
Page 3 of 3
BRAZIL's PROPOSED SOCIAL SECURITY REFORM
(B1JECTIVES                ACTIONS TAKEN BY BRAZIL TO DATE                        KEY ELEMENTS OF BIRAZIL's SECOND P'HASE OF
TIlE REFORM PROGRAM
Improve                                                                               *  Actuarial evaluation of pension systems of the largest
Regulation/Administration                                                                 municipalities
*  Evaluation of the states' civil servants pensions
*   Re-certification of disability pensions
*   Monitoring system for state and municipal pensions established
*  Cross-checking data bases of different pension systems to
identify incompatible benefits
4. REFORM OF THE COMPLEMENTARYPENSIONFUND SYSTEM
Improve Long-term Fiscal   Approved Constitutional Amendment:                         Constitutional amendment made effective by regulating:
Health/ Reduce Fiscal      *   Forbids public sector entities to contribute more than  *   Private Complementary Pension System
Deficit                        employees (1: 1 ratio) to complementary pension funds,  *  Pension funds sponsored by public entities for their employees
within two years of approval of the Constitutional     *   Public Complementary Pension System
Amendment
*   Eliminates fiscal subsidies to complementary pension funds                                                                     4
of public enterprises
*   Forbids contribution of resources of public sector entities to
complementary pension funds except as sponsors
*   Requires complementary pension funds sponsored by
public sector entities to revise their benefit plans and adjust
them actuarially to assets, within two years of
Constitutional Amendment
Improve Regulation         *   Introduces full disclosure of information to plan      *   Establishment of single regulatory agency to regulate pension
participants                                               funds



28
Annex I1: Regime Geral da Previdencia Social
Page I of 7
Brazil's Pension System for Private Sector Workers:
Regime Geral da Previdencia Social, RGPS'
I. Introduction
1. Brazil's 36 million formal, private-sector workers participate in the Regime Geral da
Previdencia Social (RGPS) - a mandatory, defined-benefit, PAYGO social security system, that
offers pensions and a variety of contingent benefits. The RGPS is by far the largest of Brazil's
social security systems making payments for pensions, survivorship and disability to over 18
million beneficiaries. Under the administration of the Instituto Nacional da Seguridade Social
(INSS), the general regime is characterized by generous rates of replacement, high administrative
costs, widespread irregularities and evasion, inequities and inefficiencies and, consequently,
serious short- and long-term fiscal imbalances.
2. In 1998 the system will incur a deficit of R$7.8 billion (approximately 0.9% of GDP), that in
1999 is expected to deepen to R$11.7 billion (1.2% of GDP). The RGPS' deficit represents a
rapidly growing public liability that, in addition to draining the Government's resources, erodes
investor confidence and increases the vulnerability of Brazil's economy to speculative attack. This
annex outlines the parameters of the various benefit programs offered under the general regime,
examines its structural weaknesses, and provides a context for the Government's program of
social security reform.
II. The RGPS System
3.    The various programs offered by the RGPS extend to both the urban and the rural sectors
of the Brazilian economy. Benefits are defined for participating formal-sector employees and
employers, the self-employed, domestic servants, individuals working in family-owned small
enterprises, and voluntary participants such as students and housewives.
Table 1: Contributors 1990-95
1990           26.80                 90                     68                    61.92
~ 1992         25.22                  92                     68                    69.95
1993           25.19                  92                     68                    70.96
1994           25.62                  92                     67                    72.44
1995            26.16                 92                     67                    74.13
Source: PNAD Household survey/DATAPREV. Data for 1991 are not available
4. The system earns revenues by imposing payroll taxes on all insured members. Employer's
payroll taxes for social security amount to 20 percent of the wage bill along with contributions of
roughly 0.4 to 2.5 percent for workmen's compensation schemes. The self-employed contribute
roughly 20 percent of earnings, although, as is usual, it is difficult to monitor the income levels of
self-employed and voluntary participants. Employee contributions for social security are based on
This annex borrows extensively from Bonnerjee, A. and Gill, I., 1998, Brazil: A Simulative Look at the
General Pension Regime



29
Annex 11: Regime Geral da Previdencia Social
Page 2 of 7
a progressive scale and vary between 8 and 11 percent depending on the level of wages. The
table below summarizes the contribution tax schedule for employees.
Table 2: Wages and employee contribution rates
Lecel of Nvaos       Contribution ('/4)
1.00 - 2.58 min. wage                    7.82
2.59 - 3.00 min. wage                     8.82
3.01 -4.30 min. wage                      9.00
4.31 - 8.60 min. wage                    11.00
5. Employee contributions are subject to a wage ceiling, which was roughly R$1,000 a month in
1995, and has since been raised to R$1,200.2  The average wage of all contributors in 1995
amounted to about 5 times the minimum wage (R$5 10) and so the average contributor paid about
11% of gross wages for social security taxes. The total payroll tax for social security amounts to
about 30% of the wage bill - a steep tax rate when compared with contribution rates to similar
PAYGO systems in the region. The burden of reporting payroll taxes and of dividing payment
between each of the administrations that hold a claim on this revenue is an onerous task with high
costs of compliance, especially for small enterprises. Further, high payroll taxes hamper the
competitiveness of Brazilian firms and introduce a major distortion in the labor market - the
incentive to retain workers "informally" or outside all labor/wage legislation.
6. Other sources of revenue to the system include transfers from the federal budget for
administrative and other costs (in 1995, this was roughly 7% of INSS revenue) and income from
rent and dividends. In the first half of the 1990's, total revenue as a share of GDP remained
constant at around 6% of current GDP. In the face of declining or constant coverage, this reflects
rapid wage growth in excess of GDP growth rates.
7. The INSS administers a number of benefit programs for participants. These include both
retirement and contingent benefits, the parameters of which are summarized below:
8. Old age benefits are paid to both rural and urban workers. The age of retirement is 65 years
for men and 60 years for women working in the urban sector. Presently, rural workers can retire
5 years earlier than their urban counterparts. For those retiring prior to 1991, only 5 years of
contributions were needed to qualify for old age pensions. Recent legislation has increased the
minimum vesting period so that it reaches 15 years by 2011. In 1998, the minimum period of
contribution to be eligible is about 102 months and is scheduled to increase at 6 months per year
until the end of 2011. The replacement rate is 70% of the wage base for reaching the retirement
age subject to the minimum vesting period plus an additional 1% per year of service up to a limit
2 The minimum benefit is linked to the legal minimum wage. Benefits greater than R$1,200 and the
maximum contribution, while not constitutionally linked to the official minimum wage, tend to be
correlated since both are correlated with the cost of living index. When the monthly minimum wage was
R$100, the benefit ceiling in the RGPS was R$1,000. When the minimum wage was raised to R$120,
the ceiling was raised to R$1,200.
However, because these maxima are imperfectly indexed to minimum wages, the de facto limit varies
between 8.5 and 10. For example, while the minimum wage was raised to R$130 in May, 1998, the limit
on benefits remains at R$1,200.



30
Annex 11: Regime Geral da Previdencia Social
Page 3 of7
of 1OO%3 or about 10 minimum wages. The reference wage for entry pensions is the average of
the last 3 years' (36 months) salaries subject to contribution, adjusted for inflation.
9. Length of service pensioners begin receiving benefits after meeting a required number of
years of service irrespective of age. Currently the minimum vesting periods are 30 years for men
and 25 years for women, for individuals to receive 70% of their reference wage as pensions. The
annual accrual rate for additional years of service is 6% which implies that a man could receive
100% replacement rates after 35 years of service while a woman could retire with the price-
indexed average of her last three years of wages after 30 years of contribution. The reference
wage - the average of the last 36 months - is the same as that for old-age pensions, as are the
maximum and minimum level of benefits. Since 1994, pensions have been adjusted to inflation
and the minimum benefit has increased in real terms.
10. Special length of service can be claimed by individuals working in sectors considered to be
arduous after 15, 20 or 25 years of service depending on the nature of the activity. The
replacement rate for this category of service is 85% with an additional 1% for each year of
service in addition to the stipulated minimum vesting period.
11. Disability pensions are paid to those individuals certified by an INSS doctor as permanently
handicapped and unable to exercise any economic occupation. The minimum qualification period
for this kind of pension is only 12 months. The reference wage is the average of the individual's
actual wages up to the last three years of service if applicable. Replacement rates are at 80% of
the reference wage with the accrual rates for additional years of service at 1%. A separate, more
generous workmen's compensation benefit is offered for disabling injuries on the job.
12. Survivors and orphans of deceased pensioners receive 100% of the pensions due to the
deceased contributor. Such benefits are paid even if the contributor had only a single day of
recorded work. The replacement rate is based on an average of the wages actually received by the
individual if the individual's work history does not reflect three years of work. If the deceased
individual were already receiving benefits, these are transferred to the survivors or orphans.
13. Workmen's compensation is paid to any individual's suffering from  a work-related,
permanent disability. The benefit is 100% of the wages on the day the individual was rendered
disabled.
14. In addition to the benefits listed above, the RGPS also pays benefits for sickness, maternity,
and payments to the relatives of felons. Further, it provides a range of social transfers overseen
by the Secretaria da Assistencia Social and administered by the INSS.
15. INSS' pension expenditures increased from about 3% of GDP in 1990 to 5.4% in 1997.
Given the rapidly aging demographic profile and the generosity of the pension system, these
expenditures may be expected to increase rapidly in years to come. Since pension revenues are
stagnating, while pension expenditures are increasing, increasing deficits are to be expected
unless the system is reformed. The pressure on expenditures comes from both demographics
(reflected in the number of beneficiaries) as well as from generous levels of benefit payments.
These are reflected in tables 3 and 4 below.
3 Since rural workers can not prove contributions, until 2006 they receive I minimum wage in benefits.
After 2006, rural and urban workers will be subject to the same benefit rules.



31
Annex 11: Regime Geral da Previdencia Social
Page 4 of 7
Table 3: Beneficiaries 1993-1997
( Ctcgories                                          1995              1996            1997
Number of Beneficiaries (millions)                           15.8            16.1            17.0
% of beneficiaries receiving pensions                        88.3            88.2            86.8
Length ofService                                          14.1             15.3            16.3
Old Age                                                   30.7             29,9            28.8
Survivors and orphans                                     26.7             26.8            26.4
Disability                                                13.1             12.6            12.0
Other                                                       7.0             6.8             6.4
% of beneficiaries receiving social assistance                8.1             8.1             9.7
% of beneficiaries receiving workmen's                        3.6             3.6             3.6
compensation.
Source: DATAPREV calculations.
16. The stock of beneficiaries increased by more than 20% in just four years with length-
of-service beneficiaries dominating this expansion. Length-of-service pensioners account for
about 12 to 16 percent of beneficiaries yet absorb almost 33 to 38 percent of pension
expenditures. Old-age pensioners, survivors and orphans, and disability pensioners more
or less maintained their relative shares, though in absolute numbers all categories of
pensions show a significant rise.
17. It should be noted that while old-age beneficiaries consist of chiefly of female rural retirees,
almost all length-of-service retirees were males from the urban sector. The rising number of old
age pensioners could be explained by the reduction in the mandated retirement age for rural
workers which made it much easier for rural workers, especially women - whose retirement age
decreased by 5 years from 60 to 55 - to qualify for old-age pensions.
Table 4: Benefit Expenditures 1993-97
( ;atct>orics                                         1995               1996             1997
Benefit Expenditures (millions of current R$)             32,190.7          40,397.9        46,745.0
As % of Current GDP                                            4.9               5.1             5.4
Millions of 1997 Reais                                    38,050.5          40,723.6        46,745.0
Average Payment to Beneficiary (R$ 1997)                     2,408             2,529           2,749
% Benefit Expenditure: Pensions                               91.5              92.1            91.8
Length of Service                                          32.9               35.9            3&6
Old Age                                                    22.2               20.9            19.2
Survivors and Orphans                                       22.9              22.5            21.9
Disability                                                  9.9                9.4             8.9
Other                                                       3.3                3.0             3.3
% Social Assistance: Benefit Expenditure                       5.6               4.9             5.0
% Workmen's comp.: Benefit Expenditure                         2.9               3.0             3.1
Source: DATAPREV Calculations
III. Financial Outlook
18. Simulations of the rates of participation, retirement, revenue collection, and benefit payments
using the World Bank's Pension Reform Options Simulation Toolkit (PROST) indicate that



32
Annex 11: Regime Geral da Previdencia Social
Page 5 of 7
current revenues are not sufficient to cover projected expenditures of the RGPS programs. The
pension system is already in deficit: in 1998, for the programs covered, projections show a cash
deficit of 0.4% of GDP or about R$3.5 billion. While revenues remain within the range of 5 to 10
percent of current nominal GDP throughout the simulation horizon, expenditures increase from
about 5% of GDP in the base year to about 20% of GDP in later years. This implies that deficits
as a percent of current nominal GDP could be as high as 10-15% of GDP in a few years.
Simulations measure the system's implicit pension debt (IPD) at about 130% of GDP in 1996. By
the end of the simulation horizon - the year 2075 - the IPD would be almost 3 to 4 times the
nominal GDP, indicating a huge implicit debt that would eventually have to be financed by the
government.
19. The total financing gap - the estimate of how much it would cost if the RGPS were to
continue with the current parameters until 2075 - is R$7,070 billion. This is the sum of the
present discounted value of all deficits, current and future, and is clearly unsustainable. A big
share of the increase in expenditures is accounted for by length-of-service pensions. Individuals
can claim these benefits as early as age 40 years (and even earlier for special sectors). Old age
pensions are also expensive for the pension system because in many instances they involve
payments to the rural sector with little or no evidence of any contributions from rural workers.
IV. Systemic Weaknesses & Adverse Effects
20. As noted above, the RGPS system generates a growing fiscal burden. Yet, the current
financial stress of the RGPS is not the result of demographic processes alone. Rather, it is an
outcome of the system's generous design features. It may be useful to note them since these help
determine the scope, validity and success of future reform efforts.
21. High payroll taxes with no transparent link between benefits and contributions
encourage evasion and induce distortions in the labor market. Labor market distortions have the
same negative impact on the economy as deadweight losses and adversely affect production and
economic efficiency. The probability of evasion rises with high payroll tax rates, absence of any
link between contributions and benefits, poor information systems, and the inability to treat
evasion as a punishable offense. Workers have no incentive to participate in the pension system
once they have contributed past their vesting period since there is no minimum legal age for
receiving pensions under the Length of Service Pensions. Older workers can choose to retire
under the Old Age Pensions category with barely 108 months (8.5 years) of contributions.
Finally, to the extent that employers choose to avoid burdensome taxes on formal contracts,
workers may not be offered formal employment and thus be excluded from social security. The
system's coverage as a fraction of the economically active population has declined from about
43% in 1990 to about 35% in 1995, and is low even when compared to rates of participation in
other Latin American countries.
22. Excessively generous benefit entitlements imply increasing taxes. Future generations will
have to pay increasingly larger shares of their wages to fulfill generous pension promises. The
benefits are excessively generous since they preclude the choice of a higher current take home
pay rather than having to pay the full cost of high benefits to current retirees.
23. End-loaded reference wage bases encourage missreporting of salaries. The reference wage
base is the price-adjusted average of the last three years of wages. In the absence of any public
tracking of individual work records and the historic incidence of high inflation, this may indeed
be a 'practical' approach to determine an appropriate reference wage base. However, as is well
known, such a benefit formula tends to encourage the manipulation of reported earnings and



33
Annex 11: Regime Geral da Previdencia Social
Page 6 of 7
results in high costs, both real and economic, with regressive pension distributions since high
earners with the steepest age/earnings profiles tend to benefit the most.
24. Early retirement seems to be an inevitable outcome of low retirement ages, lax vesting
periods and the accrual rate structure inherent in the benefit formulas. The justification for low
mandatory retirement ages based on low life expectancies at birth is flawed, since life expectancy
at retirement is a more accurate predictor of an individual's expected duration of life upon
retirement. Under the current configuration of rules, working an extra year beyond the average
contributing period imposes a high implicit tax4 on additional labor supply. At present, the
average age of new retirees under the length-of-service retirement plan was only 48.9 years in
19975. This leads to a reduction in the supply of valuable and experienced human capital.
25. Special retirement schemes, if loosely legislated, as is the case with the RGPS, perpetrate
inequities and distortions. Though a social justification is often claimed for providing retirement
subsidies to individuals working in strenuous jobs, a pure cross subsidization by means of a
common payroll tax provides no incentives for employers to update their technology or attempt to
make the job less hazardous.  Further, these privileges also extend to administrative and
supervisory staff - individuals not necessarily involved with the risk activity per se.  The
prevailing high disability replacement rates and workmen's compensation awards expose the
system to abuse and moral hazard problems.
26. The absence of a sound administrative infrastructure and a coherent pensions database
and tracking system implies that (a) the onus of the proof of payroll tax payment is left to the
individual (b) the ability to distinguish between years of service and years of contribution was -
until the recent reform - compromised. These attributes exacerbate the problem of evasion.
27. Imperfect and incomplete indexation to inflation allowed for a partial default of pension
obligations at the expense of pensioners left to deal with falling real values of benefits during
periods of high inflation. This has changed since 1994, when the Real Plan was introduced and
inflation rates fell to single digits. The practice of indexing minimum benefits (which is relevant
for a large number of beneficiaries) to the minimum wage continues to impose a dilemma
because when wages of lower-earning current workers are raised it implies higher pension
benefits for retirees, and aggravates the fiscal imbalance of the system.
28. These characteristics tend to create and foster distortionary effects on the economy.
As already mentioned, high payroll taxes loosely linked to benefits tend to raise labor
costs, reduce Brazil's competitiveness in the world market, encourage evasion and
informal production techniques. There is also a credible risk that the current RGPS
scheme may be reducing national savings. At the private level, because of the large
expected benefits upon retirement, workers may not save enough on their own for old
age. At the public level, debt financing of the RGPS deficits may crowd out other
productive investment or reduce investment in crucial sectors. Finally, as the de facto
insurer of last resort, half-way through the next century the Brazilian government may
ultimately bear responsibility for the large implicit pension liabilities amounting to about
4The implicit tax may be viewed as payroll tax + loss of benefits due to a year of work - foregone
increment in pension benefits for an additional year of work. These components need to be adequately
discounted.
The average age of new entrants to the old age pension system is about 61, the majority being women
from the rural sector.



34
Annex II: Regime Geral da Previdencia Social
Page 7 of 7
150-180% of GDP - a figure which would rise sharply unless corrective measures are
taken immediately.



35
Annex 111. RJU for Civil Servants
Page I of 11
Brazil's Pension System for Civil Servants:
0 Regime Juridico Unico, RJU'
I. Introduction
1. Workers in Brazil's public sector - at the federal, state and municipal levels of government -
participate in mandatory, defined-benefit, PAYGO pension plans established under theRegime
Juridico Unico, and commonly referred to as RJUs. Each tier of government administers
separate RJU schemes for its employees that afford them benefits ranging from contingent
payments for medical expenses and disability, to retirement and survivorship income. The RJU
for federal workers is managed by the Ministerio da Administra(do Federal e Reforma do Estado
(MARE), while the plans for state and municipal workers are run independently of the federal
system by institutions at their respective levels of government?
2. Although the RJUs currently support only three million of Brazil's twenty million social
security beneficiaries, these receive almost half of all pension benefits paid in the country. The
average pension relative to average wage is commonly much higher for civil servants than for
workers in the private sector. Average pension benefits as a portion of average current wages can
reach as high as 140%. In 1997, pension expenditure of the federal and state RJUs amounted to
2.3%, and 1.8% of GDP, respectively. Expenditure at all three levels is expected to open a deficit
of R$34 billion in 1998 that is expected to grow to R$36 billion in 1999. Generous benefits, end-
loaded replacement formulae, special privileges for politically influential groups, lenient vesting
requirements, and the indexation of pension payments to increases in current salaries, have
pushed the public schemes - that only recently began to exact participant contributions - deeply
into deficit.
3. The social security regime for civil servants is a formnidable and mounting burden on Brazil's
public resources, and presents a far more immediate challenge to the Government's objective of
fiscal solvency than even that posed by the deficit-causing Regime Geral da Previdencia Social
(RGPS) for workers in the private sector. This annex examines the structure of the federal and
state tiers3 of the RJU and presents empirical evidence on the extent of the deficits in the system
and the need for reform.
II. The Federal RJU
4. The federal RJU administered by MARE serves approximately 2 million active and retired
public servants from every branch of government. Nearly one million of these are receiving
pensions, or are the survivors of deceased pensioners. Staff in the federal ministries, legislators in
the national congress, federal judges, the military, and other government institutions (fundadoes)
are all required to participate in the scheme. Civil servants in the executive branch account for
nearly 85% of federal employees in the system. Table I below provides a breakdown of active
and retired participants in the federal RJU, by branch of government.
' This annex is a summary of Gill, I. & Packard, T., Brazil: A Simulative Look at the Pension Regime for
Civil Servants (RJUs), forthcoming.
In mid 1998, a unit Departamento dos Regimes de Previdencia dos Estados e Municipios (DEPEM) was
established within the federal Ministerio da Previdencia e Asistensia Social (MPAS) to monitor the
activities of the state and municipal RJUs.
3 There are presently 1,388 municipalities that have established their own RJUs. MPAS has determined
that the bulk of these do not have the administrative capacity nor a sufficient number of participants to
make the municipal schemes actuarially viable. The municipal RJUs function roughly along the same lines
as the Federal and state plans. For simplicity, this analysis will be limited to the federal and state plans.



36
Annex 111: RJU for Civil Servants
Page 2 of )!
Current Active  Retired w/Pension   Survivors w/Benefit   Total
Executive                       520,165            391,106             203,041  1,114,312
Military                        277,461i|           126,644            158,024   562,129
Legislative                       18,871             5.386               2,314    26,571
Judiciary                         72,715             14,227              4,4041    91,346
Public Enterprise                30,901                n.a.                n.a.    30,901
Combined Private/Public            7,996               n.a.                n.a.     7,996
Transfers                         99,727            33,966              20,126    153,819
Total                          1,027,836           571,329             387,909  1,987,074
Source: MARE 1998
5. Only since 1992 have federal employees been required to contribute into the social security
scheme. The contribution rate to the federal RJU was first set as a progressive scale - the rate of
contribution rising with salary level. In 1997, the scale was replaced with a flat contribution rate
of 11% for all federal workers. The introduction of the flat rate raised the contributions of lower-
wage workers, and lowered the contributions of higher-salaried civil servants. Over a quarter of
the military - soldiers and federal military police - are still not required to contribute to the
scheme.
6. Until the introduction of contributions, eligibility was based on years of employment - the
"employment" requirement applied loosely to include not only employment in the federal
government, but employment anywhere, including the private sector. Civil servant were also
considered "employed" when taking leaves of absence for study and other sabbaticals. To qualify
for a partial pension - aposentadoriaproporcional at 70% replacement of the last month's salary
- men and women are required to serve 30 and 25 years respectively. Workers receive a 6%
annual accrual for every year thereafter. For a full pension - aposentadoria integral at 100%
replacement - men and women must be employed 35 and 30 years. There is no statutory annual
rate of accrual for years of service above the minimum required for a full pension, and civil
servants are required to retire by the time they reach their 70'h birthday.
7. Special vesting arrangements are offered for teachers. Although most publicly employed
teachers work at the state level of government, the federal government also employs a
considerable number of teachers who qualify under the federal RJU for shortened service
requirements to be vested for both full and partial pension benefits. Under the special regimes,
primary and secondary school teachers as well as university lecturers can begin receiving benefits
five years earlier than other civil servants.
8. There is no established minimum age at which federal workers can begin receiving retirement
benefits, nor are these benefits forfeited or reduced should retired workers find a new job. There
is no ceiling on pension benefits that federal workers can receive;4 pension, disability  and
survivor incomes are not subject to taxation; and payments are indexed to increases in current
salaries of the government positions the pensioners once occupied.
9. The pensions paid by the federal RJU are far more generous that those paid by the system for
private-sector workers. In 1997, the ratio of the average annual benefit paid by the federal RJU to
the average contribution was roughly 7:1, while in the RGPS system the same ratio was 3:1. In
1998 the average monthly public sector pension was 13.4 times the minimum wage, while that
4By way of contrast, pensioners in the RGPS cannot receive more than R$ 1,200, or roughly ten minimum
wages a month.



37
Annex III: RJU for Civil Servants
Page 3 of I
paid to a retiree from the private sector was only 1.8 times the minimum wage. The replacement
ratios of the average monthly pensions paid to retirees from the executive, legislative and
judiciary branches, to the average monthly salary paid to active workers in each branch were
108%, 103% and 140%, respectively. These average replacement rates are reflected in the
distribution of active and retired civil servants in the executive branch by salary/pension cohort,
presented in Figure I below. Most civil servants in the executive branch receive a monthly salary
of R$75 1 to R$1,000 - the largest number of pension recipients are in the same cohort.
*30            --- - .   -- ..  .. . . .. . ..  .   .   _  _
a  %ActiveWorkers O%PensionRecipients
'V
25
U
w                         (b
20
'I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z
<  50050 7       100   1251 -15 500   3600   4500  5500   6501 7500
O      N~~~~5  10015   N020   6040    5060    5O$0
Salary/Pension Cohorts
10. Federal civil servants begin receiving retirement benefits at a relatively young age. The
average age of retirement with a full pension was fifty-six - the average age of workers retiring
with partial pension was fifty-one. However, as shown in Figure 2, on the following page, the
highest number of civil servants who retired with full- and partial-pensions did so between the
ages of 51 - 55 and 46 - 50, respectively. Most of the youngest recipients of full pensions are
primary and secondary school teachers, and about 70% of these are women.
I11. The federal RJU is generous to the orphaned children and surviving spouses of deceased
public-sector workers. While the orphans of civil servants can only receive benefits until they
reach 21 years of age, their spouses and the orphans and spouses of deceased soldiers can receive
benefits throughout their lifetime, As with pensions, survivor benefits rise with every increase in
the current salary of the government position the deceased once occupied. From January to July
1998, the federal RJU made payrnents to the survivors of former pension recipients in the amount
of R$ 1.6 billion or 0. 1 8% of the previous year's GDP.



38
Annex II RJU for Civil Servants
Page 4 of 11
I *
35.    -                                             35
Retired with full pension                       Retired with partial pension
30                                                   30
25                                                    25
20                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~20
is                                                    1
lS v                                                   is    L| li   
5                                              .   I
0 
.nder40   41 t. 45   46 to 505    lo to5   56 to60   61 t.6566 eto 70   oe(e70  n*1er40 41 to 45  46Bto sO   51 to55  5Setoe6S6 eto 65  66 to70  -ver 7
Men   Women -  Both                                Men C= Women a  80thJ
12. Payments for disability varied between 7.8% to 9.2% of the number of pensions paid by the
federal RJU from 1996 to July 1998. Disability is a difficult condition to determine and monitor,
and in other public PAYGO systems has often been used to allow workers to retire early when
they do not have sufficient years of service/contribution to qualify for a full retirement benefit.
Disability payments as a portion of total number of benefits paid by the federal RJU is most likely
low due of the generosity of the partial pension and the relative ease with which civil servants can
opt for early retirement.
Financial Outlook - Federal System
13. The total personnel expenditure of the federal government, including salaries for active
workers and pension payments to current retirees, has increased steadily in the past decade.
Annual personnel expenditure has risen by R$26.5 billion; from 3.5% of GDP in the period
starting 1987 to 5.7% of GDP in August 1997. Over the same period pension payments as a
portion of personnel expenditure have risen at a much faster rate. Table 2 below, separates
personnel expenditure by the federal government over the last eleven years into salaries and
pension payments. As shown in Figure 3, the index of federal pension payments rises rapidly
when compared to the index of total expenditure on salaries of active workers.
Total Personnel    Index      % of GDP   % of Revenue  On Active Workers   On Pensions
R$ billions    1987= 100                                  1987= 100        1987 =100
1987                     19.7         100        3.46            44.0              100             100
1988                    24.2         122.7       4.26            55.8             127.3          125.5
1989                    29.9         151.6       6.68            46.0             156.7          149.7
1990                    34.4         174.7       6.42            60.1             184.9            194
1991                    28.2         143.3       4.83            57.9             156.9            148
1992                    23.0         116.7       4.58            57.2             123.1          135.5
1993                    31.1         157.7       4.89            60.4             138.5          257.2
1994                    35.9         181.9       5.06            56.2             154.3          321.2
1995                    46.6        236.5        5.76            62.6             191.2          433.1
1996                    45.3        229.8        5.43            62.1             196.8          400.9
1997                    45.7        231.7        5.74            55.5             197.3          411.6
1998 to july            46.2j       234.3      _                 52.4             197.9          424.9
Source: MARE 1998



39
Annex 111: RJU for Civil Servants
Page 5 of 11
500
450 I      ...On Wages  .-On Pensions
400 I
350.
.:
:6 2501
200I
150I
100
50
1987  1988  1989 1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995 1996  1997 1998*
14. Pension benefits in 1997 amounted to 25% of the federal government's total revenues for that
year and 2.3% of GDP. Applying the 11% rate of contribution, the federal RJU should have
received approximately R$2.7 million or 0.3% of GDP that year. Benefit payments in 1997
outweighed contributions to the system by nearly R$16.9 million or 2% of GDP. The PAYGO
financing gap between current contributions and benefit payments is paid out of the federal
government's revenues from general taxation. For the federal RJU to be brought into balance
with no change in the current benefit structure, civil servants' mandatory contribution rate would
have to be raised by 39% to about 45% of their salaries.5 Federal authorities recognize that the
current level of benefits and rates of contribution are unsustainable.
II. The State RJUs6
15. Each of Brazil's twenty-seven state governments - twenty-six states and the federal district -
administers an RJU for its workers.7 Prior to the enactment of the 1988 constitution, most state
civil servants participated in the RGPS system.8  The 1988 constitution grants each state and
5 This is an informal calculation and should be taken only as an indication of the severity the federal RJUs
financial imbalance. The zero-balance rate assumes contributions from active and retired workers only. A
truer calculation would take account of a contribution from the state as "employer".
6 Some of the data available are not dissaggregated between the state and municipal tiers. Where this is the
case, it will be mentioned.
7 The distinction between pension and survivor benefits is more important in an analysis of the state RJUs.
The Regime Juridico Unico requires that all state administrative workers be paid pensions of 100% exit
salaries out of their respective state treasuries. Under the regime, states and municipalities have established
separate social security funds (RJUs) that primarily pay survivor benefits. Only in recent years have the
RJUs begun to receive contributions for and make payments of retirement benefits.
8 There are now two classes of state and municipal worker - the "estatutaios" or administrative worker that
contribute and receive benefits from the state under the RJU requirement, and the "celetistas" after C.L.T.,



40
Annex 111: PJU for Civil Servants
Page 6 of II
municipal government entity the right to establish an independent plan for its employees. State
and municipal schemes combined account for 47% of expenditure on pensions for civil servants.
The state RJUs vary widely in the variety of contingent and retirement benefits that they offer,
their generosity, and whether or not and how much they extract from salaries in the form of
contributions. In 1997 the dependency ratio of retirees to active workers in the state and
municipal tiers of the public-sector pension system was 0.95, with 1.9 million pensioners
nominally supported by 2.1 million active workers9
16. State governments are unable to legislate social security parameters that conflict with the
promises of the 1988 Constitution. Vesting requirements for a full and partial pension under the
various state RJUs have been patterned after the federal system. However, unlike at the federal
level, state civil servants were required to contribute to their RJUs from the very inception of the
plans, at least for the survivor portion of the systems. Another critical difference between the
federal and state systems is that either pension- or survivor- benefits paid by the state RJUs, and
in some cases both, are taxed."' Table 3 below, shows the different rates of contribution required
in each state's system.
Table 3: Social Security Conttributions to the State RJUs, I99
.tm                     From St.te Trry                  Fim SWa.ine                 From Pautoas       F-ot San*.-  Py1a3eaa
For                 Old AV     Suaoior  Htratth    Old AV     S-i%or    Hatb  OM Age   San-e.r H|.dt  OldAW5-.n*.r  H-.kh
0A                                                (2)      0. to Wr.         l%
l(lago     (4)                t%oo6,o                        ('.1- (3)
l6%  iflttis
A050                                               (2)         SY%
0Ama0s                                            (2)          8Y.
dahi.              5%1o21%       (2)     S%        (2)       9/.to lr/    5%   Y/. o I2%    (2)    S%    S%bo 12%    M/.
-t3               5Or.of.r.,ktW                   (2)       6%to 11% (3)
Io,ttibotton
in,i0to ftdmttl                                    (2)         I M.
1i(0100 SaW.         I 1%                         7%                                     7%                          7%
;oi0                                              (2)          6%                                6%
10A4.0.*                      7%. (3)            (2)     39%o 12% (3)               -        -
rato G.o-o                                        (2)       t% lo 9.5S% (3)
. Glo.-o do So       6%                            (2)        6% (3)
not Goo)t            4%                            (2)         a/               t%       (2)
oara                 Ilr/                          (2)         P%
oItoaiba            0.%                          (2)         0%
1-Mt Rt              l( J.                         WY.                        .           %/
4%                           (2)         C%/6                       4%
It,ia              8%                            (2)          S%.                               .
* do Jaoiobo                            2%                    9%        M/.                     2% .  
2 G-Wdo 6o N.tc     7%                                       a% (3)
GWoGododo So]                           4%      2% (4)        S%       4%   2% (t)    5%        4%                  2l.
Ftood6aio           0%.                          (2)          SY.                        S%
Foratoot     (3)
SotaCoonotar       4%                           (2)       0%o1 0 .   _% _            0to 12%     .     %tlo 2%
SoP.ttl. 6%                                     8%                                             W.
acrgipo             I(09.                                   (10%(6 (3)                                               x>0%
ot'It           .                ..               (2)          0% %%
Soot,- .IIP.4S
,(1) 0dpgpy..e, arc bo-mro bt tSo 0001e0 Oroaosu
(2) S(n( ooodbdt(oo for Old-oge a0 d Stanborslip
(3) (oclto  hotlth
(4)   oto   atdbtttior  d   mW S  d y noth o Ittte,   RJU
(3) Urn INSS aitia
or consolidacoes das leis do trabalho, who contribute and receive benefits from INSS under the RGPS.
This distinction has frustrated the efforts of federal authorities to arrive at an exact number of RJU
beneficiaries.
9 There are many inconsistencies in the numbers of active and retired government workers at the state and
municipal levels reported by MARE and MPAS. RAIS data is collected annually with a lag of two years,
but only counts active workers. Authorities hope that the quality of data on number of pensioners and the
monetary amounts of pensions received will improve, as DEPEM builds on its new database.
'1 This tax on benefits is commonly referred to as a "contribution" to the system by retirees and survivors.



41
Annex III: RJU for Civil Servants
Page 7 of II
17. The majority of current state civil servants are expected to qualify for retirement benefits in
the near future. The distribution of state workers by age cohorts in Figure 4 below, shows that
35% of workers fall into the 40 to 49 age group - 66% of these workers are women with longer
average life expectancies. In addition, the majority of publicly-employed teachers receive their
pensions from the state plans. Teachers can comprise as much as 30% of some states'
workforces. Since most teachers are also women and tend to retire earlier, that the majority
depend on the state RJUs for their retirement income greatly increases the states' implicit pension
debts. Furthermore, although they do not employ a military force, the bulk of each state's police
force receives the same treatment - exemption from contributions and lifetime, tax-free survivor
benefits - as do military personnel in the federal RJU.
40 0
300                 34.0    0. Z. .                         1       1302
9 30 0                                    o2                           11 2
25 0                                     10 0
*~~~~~~~~~~~1.           10.        4.
so0                             1..41.
10     1 04 15b17  181024  251029  30109  403   49  501004  65.04
Ag. Ct S009rl COIt - N.. Of MIn mn.  WO.9.
18.  The impending retirement of the majority of state workers is sure to entail a considerable
financial burden on the state systems that, like their federal counterpart, calculate pension benefits
based on workers' last month's wages. In 1997, 52% of state civil servants were earning more
than four minimum wages, while 28% received more than seven minimum wages. Given the
pattern of transition from salary to pensions observed frequently in the past, it is expected that
most state civil servants will receive a promotion immediately prior to retirement, thus causing
the pension liabilities of the state systems to balloon.
19. The retirement benefits of state civil servants were guaranteed by the 1988 constitution.
Benefits are paid either from the state's RJU or directly out of its treasury. Only in three states
are retirement benefits (aposentadorias) actually paid out of the RJUs, while all state RJUs, but
one, offer payments to survivors (pensdo). The most common benefits offered through the RJUs
to state civil servants after survivors' payments, are for the birth of a child, payments to offset
funeral costs, and a transfer to family members in case of imprisonment. Only Piaui's state RJU
offers benefits for disability, while Parana's is the only plan that offers life insurance.
20. A comprehensive database of benefits paid by the states does not yet exist. However, some
benefit data are available on a state-by state basis. Figure 5 on the next page, shows the
distribution of pensioners in two state systems, by the value (in number of minimum wages) of
their benefits."' Although the largest number of retired workers in Mato Grosso receive a pension
between one and three minimum wages, over 43% receive a pension worth more than five
minimum wages.
" Data taken from Beltrao, K. & Oliveira, F., Para - State Pension System: Diagnostic and
Recommendations, 1997, and Mato Grosso, State-Pension System: Diagnosis and Recommendations, 1997



42
Annex 111: RJU for Civil Servants
Page 8 of II
21. In 1995, the largest group of retired, state civil servants in Para received a pension worth 80
minimum salaries. This cohort represents over 35% of the state's benefit recipients. In the same
year, 23% of active state workers received an equivalent salary. Evidence is not yet available to
determine whether the benefits paid by the state governments of Mato Grosso and Para are typical
of other state pensions. However, the data on these two states can be taken as a preliminary
indication of the nature of the pension liabilities faced by the state RJUs as a whole.
30,000             =                ........                                      ...... .. ....... .. : .... . 120  3,000  _  ................................. ... .. ... . . .... . . 120
State of Puara 1995               _        State of Mato Grosso, 1996
I    25.000 .                         100   z   i 2.500    *                    j)  100   ;Q
23 20,000          /so .80 , 3                2,0000                             so
00           60 Z                                               P.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6 
0                              10          z        v                         ftt 
I e 3  b t5  25b 36 40 450 560 65 70 75    3                                 O
3 s 0152D 25 30s460t56m607750                 I 1,t 3b5 5tD10 10to.1l515to  '20
.nB.ti CdoIt . Noe. d MI.hwn Wag-             B.n.l. Cdot - No. d oMiriur Waeg-
|_Abso.lt Frequency i) Re06.e Cummutee Frequeney  | |Gbolur Frequency _Retabu Cu..ulate Frequency
Financial Outlook - State Systems'2
22. In 1997 the states paid out R$15.8 billion in pension and survivor benefits -approximately
31%  of total state personnel expenditure, 21%  of current revenue, and 1.8% of Brazil's GDP.
According to the 1997 consolidated wage bill and the reported rates of contribution, the states
should have collected R$3.4 billion in contributions, '3 implying an aggregate deficit of R$12.6
billion or 1.4% of GDP. This financial picture is expected to rapidly deteriorate, and the
consolidated deficit of the state RJUs to grow to R$14 billion in 1999, quickly growing shortly
thereafter as the largest cohort of workers fast approaches the average age of retirement.
23. Although contributions from the salaries of active workers, and taxes/contributions on
pension payments have been in effect since their inception, this does not guarantee an earmarked
stream of revenue to the RJUs. Authorities report that in most states contributions flow directly
to the treasury and become part of the state's general revenues, and never reach the pension plan.
With data from 1997, Table 5 on the next page shows what each state paid out in pension benefits
in absolute terms, and as a portion of personnel expenditure, current revenues and its annual
product. Table 6 shows what the states should have collected in revenues, their financing gap, the
rate of contribution that would bring its RJU into balance, and the necessary adjustment of current
contribution rates. Of the state systems, those with the largest current deficits in 1997 were Sao
Paulo (R$4.4 billion), Rio de Janeiro (R$1.5 billion), Minas Gerais (R$1.4 billion) and Rio
Grande do Sul (R$1.2 billion).
12 Data on expenditures and revenues of the municipal RJUs is still being compiled by MPAS. However,
federal authorities expect the consolidated RJU deficit at the municipal level to reach R$2.5 billion in 1998,
and to grow to R$2.6 billion in 1999. These estimates are included in the projected deficits of the entire
public-sector regime cited in the introduction of this annex.
1' Readers should note that this is an MPAS estimate of collected contributions, made by applying the
reported rates of contribution to the current wage bill.



43
Annex 11L: RJU for Civil Servants
Page 9 of 11
24. The precarious financial situation of the state RJUs is quite apparent from this static picture
of the stock of benefits, contributions and the financing gap in 1997. The "zero-balance" rates -
the rates of contribution that would bring the state systems into balance in 1997 - are only a very
rough estimate of what would be needed to balance the state systems in a single year, and do not
take account of future liabilities. The rates are meant only to be illustrate the extent of the current
pension deficits faced by the states, and should not be considered a reform proposal. MPAS is
currently working with its state counterparts to assemble the necessary data for a full actuarial
audit of each state RJU. The World Bank has made its Pension Reform Options Simulation
Toolkit (PROST) available for this endeavor.
Table 5: Social Security Expenditure, Federal and State RJtlIs, 1997
RJU                  RJJU Payments/           RJIU Payments/         RJII Payments/
Payments             Personnel Expenditre      Current Revenues            GDP
(RS millions)                 (%)
Federal                                        19,514.4                  45.2%                    25.1%                 2.3%
tates (Aggregate)                             15,788.2                  31.3%                    21.1%                  1.8
RONDONIA                                          32.0                     6.9%                    5.7%                 0.6
ACRE                                              28.2                     9.5%                    6.3%                 2.0
MAZONAS                                          190.5                   29.3%                    12.4%                  1.9/
RORAIMA                                            0.1                     0.1%                    0.0%                 0.0
PARA                                             224.5                   19.7%                    13.7%                  1.3
AMAPA                                              1.8                    0.8%                     0.6%                 0.2/
TOCANTINS                                         15.4                    5.5%                     2.4%                 0.6/
MARANHAO                                         191.5                   25.5%                    16.90%                2.4/
IAUI                                            121.3                    22.7%                   15.8%                  2.8S
EARA                                            203.8                    18 .0%                  11.0%                  1.40
RIO GRANDE DO NORTE                              151.8                    24.6%                    16.4%                 2.4/
'ARAU3A                                          98.1                    24.0%                    11.00%                1.7/
ERNAM13UCO                                      489.2                    30.5%                   21.6%                 2.5/
ALAGOAS                                          178.6                   29.3%                    21.7%                 3.2/
SERGIPE                                          100.5                    20.2%                    13.2%                 1.8S
AHIA                                            380.1                    19.0%                   10.0%                 0.9/
MINAS GERAIS                                   1.817.1                   34.6%                    27.7%                 2.2/
SPIIUTO SANTO                                   238.5                   21.4%                    14.0%                  1.8S
RIODEJANEIRO                                   1.781.8                   37.4%                    29.8%                 1.90/
SAO PAULO                                       5.024.3                   34.8%                   21.7%                  1.7/
PARANA                                          1,053.8                  36.4%                    25.1%                  1.8S
SANTA CATARINA                                   481.5                    32.0%                   21.4%                  1.6/
RIO GRANDE DO SUL                               1,517.0                  38.8%                    33.0%                  2.2/
MATO GROSSO DO SUL                                54.1                    10.5%                    6.8%                  0.3/
MATOGROSSO                                       175.5                    23.1%                   14.0%                  1.4/
GiOIAS                                        407.3                    38.1%                   23.5%                  1.7%
ISWRITOFEDERAL                                  829.7                   28.0%                    21.6%                 3.9%
Source: DEPEMWSPSIMPAS.



44
Annex 111: RJU for Civil Servants
Page 10 of 11
Table 6: RJUt Expenditure and Financing Gap - 1997 (RS millions)
RJU Expeditumr    Potential        RJU.        RJU Financing Gap/     Zero-balance     Necessary adjustment
Contributions   FinancingGap    Current Revenues    Contributions Rats    to Current
Contribution Rates
(A)            (B)           (BA)               (%)                 IS}                 (%)
ederal                            19,514.4       2583.0        -16,931.4             -21.75                45.2                  39.
tates (Aggregate)                15,78.2         3,359.9      -1257L28               -16.80               31.6                   24.
RONDOMA                              320            373             54                 0.95                 6.9                   -.11
CRE                                 28 2           24 1           441                .0 91                 9 5                    1.
AMAZONAS                            190 5           367          -153 7               -10.05               293                   237
RORAIMA                               0 1            00            -01                 -0.03                0 1                   0.1
ARA                                2245            733           -1512               -9.22                 19.7                  13.3
MAPA                                  IS            1S7            169                 540                  0.8                  -7.
OCANTINS                            15.4           224             70                 110                 55                    -2..
MARANHAO                            191.5           603          -1160               -10.26                235                    15.
IAUI                               121 3           33 I           -88 2              -11,49               22 7                   16.
EARA                               203 8           79 1          -124.7              -6 72                18.0                   11.
UOGRANDEDONORTE                     151S8           371          .1147               -12.39                246                   IS
PARAIBA                              98.1           24             -73.3              -8 21                24.0                  1S
PERNAMBUCO                          489 2           1088         -380.4             -16.80                30.5                  23
ALAGOAS                             178.6           475           -131.1              -15.96               29.3                   21.
SERGIPE                             1005            498            -50.7              -6.66                20.2                  10
BAHIA                               3S01            1701          .210.0              -5.51                190                    10.
INASGERAIS                        1,817 1          4197         -1.397.5             -21.32                346                    26
ESPIRITO SANTO                      2385            780          -160.5               -941                 214                    14.
RIO DE JANEIRO                     1,7S 8I         268 0        -1,513.8             -25 33                37 4                   31.
SAOPAULO                           5,0243          740.9        4.443.1               -19 15               359                    30.
PARANA                            10538           231.6         -822.2              .1955                 364                    28.
SANTACATARINA                       481.5          1504           -331.1             -14.74                320                    22.
RIOGRANDEDOSUL                     1,517.0         2734         -1,243.6             -2703                 38.8                   31.
MATO GROSSO DO SUL                   54.1           27.8          -264                 -333                105                     5.1
MATOGROSSO                          175.5           50.9          -124.6              -994                23.1                    16.
GOIAS                               407.3           39.7         -367.7              -21.22               38.1                    34.
DISTlUTO FEDERAL                    829.7          256 2          -5735               .14 95              28.0                    19
SOurce: SPS/MPAS E STNIMF.
Prepared by: DEPEMISPS9MPAS
-Estimales made by applying reported contribution rates to current wage bill
III. Systemic Weaknesses & Adverse Effects
25. Apart from the obvious public/private-sector segmentation, and the considerable differential
in the salaries and benefits received by civil servants and private workers, the distortions imposed
on the labor market by the RJU are largely contained by human-resource policy at each tier of
government. However, the social security regime for Brazil's civil servants suffers from a
staggering financial imbalance."4 To the extent that RJU deficits are financed from federal, state
and municipal treasuries, the cost of generous public-sector pensions is passed on to current and
future tax payers. Public pension deficits inflate the public sector's borrowing requirements,
increase the vulnerability of the economy to speculative attack, and contribute to oppressive rates
of interest that hinder productive investment. The RJU deficits and their adverse impact of the on
the broader economy are caused not only by the sheer largess of the system, but by structural
weaknesses, including:
26. Generous benefits indexed to current salaries. Although under the RJU pension benefits are
offered at 100% replacement, that these are indexed to increases in current public-sector salaries
14 With the exception of three state RJUs, all ran deficits in 1997.



45
Annex 11: RJU for Civil Servants
Page 11 of 11
has allowed replacement rates to rise as high as 140%, making Brazil's RJU one of the most
generous PAYGO pension system in the world.
27. Benefits based on last month's salary. The extreme end-loading in the benefit formula under
the RJU introduces strong incentives for abuse. Whereas in the RGPS system an end-loaded
benefit formula encourages evasion and strategic missreporting of wages, it is not uncommon for
public-sector workers to receive ample promotions in the months just before they retire. The
payments received by civil servants are not perceived as "pensions", as the term is understood in
other countries, either by the government or by the recipient. Rather, pension payments are
considered simply an extension of payroll expenditure to retired workers.
28. Loosely applied vesting requirements. Since the 1988 Constitution does not specify a
minimum age of retirement, the only binding requirement that civil servants have to meet to be
vested is years-of-employment. However, this requirement binds only loosely. Anecdotal
evidence suggest that a large number of current retirees became vested under the RJU for full and
partial pensions, after years of employment in the private sector and last minute migrations into
government service.
29. Early retirement and no restrictions on benefits upon re-employment. Lax vesting periods
and the accrual rate structure inherent in the benefit formula encourage early retirement. It is
optimal for a civil servant to claim early retirement since there are no actuarial penalties for doing
so and pension benefits in the federal RJU are tax-exempt. Under the current regime, working an
extra year beyond the average contributing period imposes a high implicit tax on additional labor
supply. Federal workers have every incentive to retire as early as they can to receive a stream of
tax-exempt income, and even to re-enter the federal government in the same or a higher-paying
position than the one they held previously. Anecdotal evidence indicates that this is a common
strategy among federal employees.
30. Special retirement schemes. While generous pensions and special vesting requirements for
primary and secondary teachers may be justified given the low level of their salaries, that the
majority are women who can retire after only 20 years of service and live longer (on average),
significantly increases the expected value of the stream of pension benefits and thus the
government's liabilities. The special schemes are also offered to university lecturers whose
average level of remuneration may or may not justify special treatment.



46
Annex IV Complementary Pension System, SCPP
Page I of 8
Brazil's Complementary Pension Funds: 0 Sistema Complementar
da Previdencia Privada, SCPP
I. Introduction
1. To better provide its citizens with an adequate income in old-age, and to ease the burden on
Brazil's actuarially imbalanced social security systems for public and private sector workers, the
Government passed legislation in 1977 that established the Sistema Complementar da
Previdencia Privada (SCPP), a complimentary private pension system.2 The complementary
regime offers voluntary, third-pillar, defined-benefit, defined-contribution and combined plans, to
workers in the public and private sector who earn monthly salaries greater than R$1,200. The
regime consists of open pension funds (Entidades Abertas de Previdencia Privada, or EAPPs)
available to any worker regardless of occupation, and closed funds (Entidades Fechadas da
Previdencia Privada, or EFPPs) set up specifically for employees of a particular firm or sector.
2. The pension funds cover over 3.5 million workers, roughly 5% of Brazil's economically
active population, and in 1998 the system is expected to grow to R$105 billion in assets under
management.5 Closed, occupational funds dominate the system with over two million affiliates
and control of 91% of retirement assets. While in absolute terms Brazil's pension funds are by far
the largest in Latin America, they barely topped 9% of GDP in 1997, and are expected to grow to
only 11% of GDP in 1998. The industry is small relative to comparable private pension regimes,
such as the funds in Chile where assets under management have grown to over 50% of GDP.
However, there is enormous potential for further growth of the system. The constitutional reform
to the first-pillar, PAYGO social security regimes is expected to provide an incentive for more
workers to increasingly rely on the complementary pension funds for their retirement income.
II. The Closed Funds - EFPPs
3. The closed funds dominate the complementary system, with R$96 billion or 91% of
retirement assets under management. The 345 EFPPs are regulated by a special branch within
MPAS, the Secretaria de Previdencia Complementar (SPC). They receive contributions from 1.7
This annex draws from Yermo, Juan, 1998, What Role for the State: The Brazilian Pension Fund
Industry in Historical Perspective, mimeo, and The World Bank, 1995, Brazil: Social Insurance and
Private Pensions, Report No. 12336 - BR, and material supplied by the Associafao Brasileira das
Entidades Fechadas de Previdencia Privada (ABRAPP), Towers Perrin, and the Superintendencia de
Seguros Privados (SUSEP) - a branch of the Brazilian Finance Ministry
2 Private pension funds have existed in Brazil since 1923. In the 1960s the private funds were absorbed
into the INSS. The enactment of the law that established the complementary pension system in 1977
reinstated the industry in Brazil's financial sector.
The salary threshold was once set to 10 minimum wages. The threshold is expected to rise or fall along
with the Government's ceiling on monthly contributions to and benefits from the first-pillar systems.
4A much smaller system of private Individual Retirement Funds - FAPIs - have R$6 million in assets
under management. These are investment funds equivalent to the 401k's in the U.S., that require a ten
year minimum commitment. The FAPls were created in 1997 for workers who do not have access to
the closed funds because of the high cost to employers of sponsoring an EFPP. There is considerable
potential for growth of the FAPIs, since over 70% of Brazil's workforce is employed in small and
medium enterprises for whom closed-fund sponsorship is too expensive.
Goldman Sachs Investment Research, September 1998, reports that the system is expected to grow  to
US$98 billion in assets under management in 1999.



47
Annex IV: Complementary Pension System, SCPP
Page 2 of 8
million active workers, and pay pension benefits to nearly 325,000 retirees and 123,000
survivors. The funds are in relatively healthier financial shape than Brazil's national PAYGO
plans - in the year to July 1998 they collected R$4.34 billion in contributions from workers and
employers, and made payments amounting to R$4.37 billion to current beneficiaries.
4. State-owned companies were the first to sponsor pension funds. In recent years, however,
growth in the industry has been in closed funds sponsored by private enterprise. Of the closed
funds, 50% offer defined benefits, 8% define only contributions, and 28% offer mixed plans; the
plan structure of the remaining 14% is unknown. Most publicly sponsored closed funds are
defined-benefit plans, while the majority of private funds offer hybrid defined-benefit/defined-
contribution schemes. Almost all of the funds offered by multinational companies operate on the
basis of defined-contributions.
Affiliation and Assets - Public and Private Closed Funds
5. Of the system's 345 closed funds, 96 are sponsored by 285 state-owned enterprises - such as
PETROBRAS and Banco do Brasil - and other public entities at the federal, state and municipal
levels of government. Workers in public enterprises and in certain branches of government
earning monthly salaries higher than R$1,200 can choose to contribute to such funds to
supplement retirement benefits promised by the mandatory RGPS and RJUs. The public EFPPs
control R$67.2 billion, or 70% of closed-fund assets. Of the 979,000 participants affiliated with
the public EFPPs, 217,000 are retired and receiving pension benefits. In addition to these, the
public EFPPs support 86,000 survivors. The average balance per participant in the public closed
funds is R$70,000.
6. The remaining 249 closed funds are private institutions that cover 1 .1 million participants, of
which 108,000 are retired and receiving benefits. The private funds support 37,000 survivors. Of
the private closed funds, 152 are offered by Brazilian firms, while 97 are offered by foreign
companies to their Brazilian workers. The private EFPPs control nearly 30% of closed-fund
assets, with R$28.2 billion in assets under management. The average balance per participant in
the private closed funds is R$25,000.
7. In the year to July 1998, the EFPPs collected R$4.3 billion in revenues. Of this total, 64%
and 29% was paid by employers and workers, respectively, and the rest was received as
contingencies, charges on late contributions, and unanticipated revenues. Over the same year, the
funds paid out R$4.4 billion in benefits. Of this amount 70.5% (R$3.1 billion) was paid as
regular retirement income, 56.1% (R$2.5 billion) was paid in special pensions for years-of-
service, 7.8% (R$340 million) to survivors, 3.9% (R$173 million) for disability, and special
pensions totaled 1.2% (R$51 million). The remainder of payments in the year were for special
assistance, provisions, restitutions, contingencies and unanticipated payments.
Investment Regulation & Tax Treatment
8. The closed funds are subject to portfolio limits similar to those imposed on other pension
funds in the region. However, since the system's inception in 1977, investment ceilings have
been raised to where they are rarely binding, and investment floors by asset class were eliminated
6 Under Brazil's three-pillar social security system, workers in state-owned enterprises are obliged to
contribute to the RGPS/INSS system, while civil servants in the three branches of government at the
federal, state and municipal level participate in an RJU. The public closed funds are sponsored by
most state enterprises and some government institutions as an additional retirement option for their
workers.



48
Annex H? Complementary Pension System, SCPP
Page 3 of 8
in 1994. Presently, the funds are allowed to invest up to 100% of their portfolios in government
securities including bonds issued by states and municipalities; up to 80% in private fixed-income;
50% in shares; 19% in real-estate; 10% in mutual funds, real-estate and commodity funds; 20% in
lending (to contributors, sponsors, and for mortgages), and 5% in venture capital. Regulation
forbids investment in company bonds, mutual funds, term deposits and foreign assets. Table I
below, shows the current regulated portfolio ceilings, and actual aggregate portfolio allocations of
the public and private EFPPs in absolute and percentage terms.
_W i ~~-   -M                                 NM~
Instrument/Asset Class    Portfolio Ceilings      Public Funds           Private Funds
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ R$ millions  %    R$ millions    %
Government Issues               100        2,168            3.36     2,620.7       9.47
Fixed Income                    80         20,263          31.53     13,190.4      47.68
Variable Income                  50        24,736          38.60     7,336.9       26.52
Real-estate Fund                 10        373.4            0.58     155.5         0.56
Emerging-Enterprise              5          15.05           0.02     5.8           0.02
Real-estate                     20         6,388.4          9.94     2,712.6       9.81
Loans to AfFiliates              3          1,207.1         1.88     304.2         1.10
Mortgages                       20          3,910.4         6.09     71.4          0.26
Operations with Sponsors         10         22.7            0.04     100.7         0.36
Other Investments                           5,181.3         8.06     1,166.2       4.22
Total                                       64,255.6        100      27,664.3       100
Source: SPC/MPAS
9. Private sector funds tend to be externally managed, while public-sector funds continue to
prefer internal asset management. In sharp contrast to pension funds in other Latin American
countries, both public and private EFPPs hold less than 10% of their portfolio in securities issued
by the federal government. Public EFPPs currently hold less than 3.5% of their assets in federal
paper.
10. The largest portfolio allocation of the public and private closed funds is in variable and fixed-
income instruments, respectively. The closed funds partially finance state and local government
and hold interests in Brazil's program of privatization.' Although their R$33.5 billion in fixed-
income holdings is mostly invested in instruments issued by commercial banks and other
financial institutions, 3.2% is invested in state and municipal bonds, and 0.16% is currently
invested in privatization certificates. Over 70% of the EFPPs' R$32 billion combined allocation
in variable-income instruments is invested on Brazil's stock exchange, while 29% is held in the
shares of investment funds. Of the R$9.1 billion combined investment in real-estate, 18% is held
in the facilities of the funds' sponsors, 29% is invested in shopping centers, and 43% is in
apartment buildings.
11. Current regulation of the closed funds does not provide tax incentives for employee
contributions. Workers' contributions to their complementary pension funds as well as the income
earned from investment of these contributions are subject to income taxation. The benefits paid
to retirees upon retirement, however, are tax exempt. The closed funds themselves, originally
treated as social welfare organizations and exempt under the tax code, have been subject to
7 Collectively they hold 48% of shares in electrical utilities.



49
Annex IV: Complementary Pension System, SCPP
Page 4 of 8
taxation since a 1983 ruling that revoked their exemption. The funds have disputed the ruling and
avoided payment until now under a court injunction until a new ruling can be made. Employer
contributions to the funds are deducted from their taxable profits.8
III. The Open Funds - EAPPs
12. The open funds - also known as montepios - are defined-contribution schemes available to the
general public. Presently about 1.4 million workers make contributions to 83 open funds,
organized as individual or group plans, and as eitherfor or not-for-profit private entities. Data on
the benefits offered by the funds, rates of contribution and payments, are scarce. The EAPPs can
be managed as independent, specialized financial institutions, or as part of an insurance company
offering a broader variety of insurance products. Of the open funds, 72% are offered by a private
insurer.  Since the EAPPs are required to offer their retiring affiliates either lump-sum  or
programmed withdrawals, the funds are a defacto branch of Brazil's broader insurance industry,
and thus fall under the regulatory auspices of the Superintendencia de Seguros Privados
(SUSEP).'
13. Unlike the closed funds, there has not been much growth in the number of EAPPs. The
industry may be suffering from unfavorable publicity of the funds' poor investment performance
in the past. The posting of negative retums and the bankruptcy of a number of the funds has hurt
public confidence in private investment on the open market.
14. Despite their unpopularity, the funds' reserves have grown from R$3.2 billion in 1996 to
R$5.6 billion in 1998. The overwhelming majority (72%) of retirement assets are held by
insurance companies. The open funds industry is highly concentrated. The largest EAPP is
operated by Bradesco Previdencia e Seguros with 56% of the market, followed by the EAPP of
Unibanco with 13%, Banco do Brasil with 10% and Itau with 4%. The four largest funds control
83% of assets under management. Participation of foreign insurance companies in the EAPP
market is growing, with Bradesco 's EAPP managed in association with Germany's Allianz and
that of Unibanco associated with AIG of the U.S..
Investment Regulation
15. Open pension funds operated by insurance companies offer guaranteed investment contracts
where the rate of return is pre-determined. The open funds are required to make a minimum
annual real return on their portfolios of 6%. The absolute rate of return regulatiorV, although
8According to convention, current tax treatment of the pension funds taxes contributions, taxes earnings
while benefits are exempt - or TTE for employees - and exempts employer contributions, and taxes
earnings - or ETT for employers.
9SUSEP estimate. There are no detailed data on the coverage of the open private funds.
t0 Since the open pension funds are structured as annuities, a separate private annuities market has not
developed, as has in Chile or Argentina where retirees withdraw their funds as a lump-sum and invest
in an annuity.
I Current investment regulation of private pension funds in Chile, Peru, Uruguay and Colombia require
fund managers to earn returns on investment at least equal to an industry-wide average. An absolute
minimum required return is also enforced in Uruguay, while in Mexico, an explicit absolute required
minimum has been set temporarily, while the life-time switch guarantee establishes an implicit
required minimum return.



50
Annex 11' Complementary Pension System, SCPP
Page 5 of 8
intended to establish a floor on profitability, has become the industry's informal benchmark which
few funds outperform.
16. Investment regulations on the open funds were considerably liberalized in 1992. The 1992
regulations replaced minimum required investments by asset class with portfolio ceilings. As of
1996, the EAPPs can invest up to 100% of their uncommitted reserves in treasury bonds; 80% in
fixed-income securities including state and municipal bonds,'2 time deposits, and mortgage
certificates; no more than 30% in urban real-estate; and up to 10% in loans to contributors. The
portfolio ceilings on committed reserves are 100% in treasury bonds;'3 60% in fixed-income
securities; and 50% in variable-income instruments.14
Asset Class                    Ceiling on investment of non-    Ceiling on investment of
committed reserves (%)        committed reserves (%)
Federal Treasury Bonds                    100                            100
Fixed-income securities                    80                            60
Variable-income securities                 50                            50
Urban real-estate                          30
Loans to Participants                      10
Source: Banco Central do Brasil
17. Until 1993, the open funds were forbidden from investing directly in foreign securities,
however, since 1996 they have been allowed to hold up to 10% of their portfolios in shares of
mutual funds that invest in markets outside Brazil. Additionally, the EAPPs can now invest up
to 50% of their portfolio in certificates of deposit and shares issued by "open" companies within
the MERCOSUR common market.15 Raising the ceiling on this provision, or extending it to
shares of companies outside MERCOSUR has not yet been seriously considered. Presently, no
data are available on the actual composition of the investment portfolios of the EAPPs, however,
their holdings are mainly in fixed income instruments as would be expected of funds operating
under an absolute-retum investment regime.
18. Administrative fees charged by the managers of the open funds include a one-time load
ranging from 5 to 12 percent and an annual fee of I to 2 percent on assets, respectively. The
insurance regulator, SUPEN imposes a ceiling on administration charges which cannot exceed
30% of contributions. However, competition between the open funds has kept fees well below
the 30% limit.
IV. Insurance Companies and Mutual Funds
19. There are 135 insurance companies in Brazil. The insurance market is recovering from
setbacks suffered during the period of hyperinflation. Gross premiums in 1997 amounted to
R$18.4 billion (2.3% of GDP) and total assets to R$22.7 billion (2.8% of GDP). The insurance
sector is much smaller than the pension funds. Moreover, the open pension funds that operate as
12 Of the maximum allotment to fixed-income instruments, up to 40% can be held in state and municipal
bonds.
13 At least 80% of these treasury bonds must maturities of 12 months or less.
14 Including shares of mutual funds regulated by the Brazilian Securities Commission, exclusive of
investment funds with shares in "emerging enterprise"
15 And up to 10% in the shares of "closed" companies within MERCOSUR.



51
Annex IV: Complementary Pension System, SCPP
Page 6 of 8
insurance companies are already included in both totals. The low multiple of assets to premiums
underscores the relative importance of short-term business and the adverse impact of
hyperinflation on total assets. Life insurance represents 18% of total premiums.
20. The largest insurance companies in terms of assets are Bradesco Previdencia e Seguros and
Bradesco Seguros with R$3.1 and R$2.6 billion, respectively. Itau, Sul America and Unibanco
Seguros all have more than R$l billion in assets. The largest five companies account for 41% of
the total market. The companies are allowed to invest up to 50% of their reserves in equities, but
the published data do not show separately their bond and equity holdings. Most insurance
companies have high capital ratios. The average ratio of capital to total assets for the sector as a
whole is over 37%.
21. The regulation and supervision of insurance companies is improving under SUPEN, but as
yet is not very effective. Insurance companies are subject to a minimum capital requirement,
which is set according to their geographic region and the range of products they offer. To
illustrate, a company operating in Sao Paulo offering both life and non-life insurance must
maintain minimum capital of R$4 million. There is still no requirement to operate separate
subsidiaries for life and non-life insurance, while life business is not yet subject to any solvency
margins. Those insurance companies that operate open pension funds are also not subject to
solvency monitoring. The solvency margin for non-life business is the higher of 20% of retained
premiums (3-year average) or 33% of retained claims (5-year average).
22. Brazil probably has the largest mutual fund sector of any developing country. In 1997 there
were nearly 2,500 mutual funds with over R$104 billion in total assets, or 13% of GDP. About
90% of assets were invested in debt instruments, with only 10% in equities. As already noted,
pension funds hold about 30% of mutual fund assets in their collective portfolios. The sector is
dominated by bank-managed funds and all the leading Brazilian banks-Banco do Brazil,
Bradesco, Itau and Unibanco-are accounted for. The top five fund managers control nearly
50% of assets under management. The mutual funds are currently bigger than the pension funds,
but the latter are expected to overtake them in the years to come.
V. Systemic Weaknesses
23. Since its inception in 1977 the importance of the SCPP - open and closed pension funds - in
the provision of retirement income, has grown. Given the direction in which the Government's
reform program is headed, it is likely that workers will have to rely increasingly on the
complementary system. However, in order to provide an adequate supplement to the tax-
financed, first-pillar systems, structural weaknesses in the third-pillar SCPP will have to be
addressed. These weaknesses include, but are not limited to:
24. Lack ofportability. Workers paying into the private-closed funds and the open funds cannot
easily transfer their accumulated balances between the closed plans, or between the closed and
open plans since vesting requirements are inconsistent across funds. Where vesting parameters
exist, they are set on a fund-by-fund basis. Transfer between defined-benefit plans is made even
more difficult by a shortage of actuarial capacity among the fund administrators to adequately
measure rights acquired under a previous plan. A worker's ultimate pension benefit from the
complementary system only reflects their last job rather than their entire career. Participants are
unable to transfer to better performing funds. The lack of portability between the pension funds



52
Annex IV' Complementary Pension Sysem, SPP
Page 7 of 8
has eliminated competition between the fund administrators, harbored inefficiency, sustained
relatively high administrative costs,"6 and may adversely effect labor mobility.
25. Absent tax incentives. As mentioned previously, workers are unable to defer income taxation
of current contributions until they receive their benefits. There are no tax incentives for workers
to participate in the funds. Tax incentives would allow the faster accumulation of funds for
investment, while tax exemptions on transfers would facilitate portability between funds.
26. Exclusion of lower-income workers. The current salary threshold on participation in the
complementary pension regime is too high. Workers earning less than R$1,200 a month are
forbidden from contributing to a pension fund. Although it is questionable whether lower-income
workers would chose to make contributions toward their retirement in addition to the various
mandatory payroll taxes to which they are subject, that they are effectively excluded from the
voluntary pillar and thus from earning a market rate of return on their savings, is a disturbing
precedent. 7 To the extent that the Government's reform of the first-pillar systems for private and
public workers shifts a greater weight onto the third pillar, the salary threshold should be lowered
to allow more workers to participate.
27. Implicit subsidies to public closed funds. Regulation requires the closed funds to report
deficits to the SPC.'" Sponsors may raise their contributions to cover these deficits. The ratio of
employer to employee contributions, especially among the public EFPPs has steadily risen since
the introduction of the system. In an attempt to control this, current regulation places a limit on
the ratio of employer to employee contributions and imposes an absolute ceiling on contributions
from employers of 7% of participants' payroll.'9 However, the limit only applies to funds initiated
after 1990. The majority of the public EFPPs are not affected by the law, and their sponsors pay
employer contributions well above the 7% ceiling. Contributions in excess of the ceiling often
constitute an implicit subsidy for those public funds that run continuous deficits.
28. Mismanagement of public closed-funds. Many of the public EFPPs sponsored by federal,
state and municipal government organizations, have been subject to investigations for corruption,
fraud and mismanagement. The funds are, in many cases, managed by political appointees with
time-horizons related more to the term of the current administration than to financial best-
practice. Regulators have cited cases of politically motivated investments, sponsor/employer-
contribution rates well above the stipulated minimum, inaccurate actuarial diagnoses, and poor
records of compliance with investment regulations.
29. Regulation and enforcement. Regulation on asset management, asset segregation, custodial
arrangements, performance measurement, transparency and disclosure, needs to be updated and
better enforced. Sanctions for non-compliance with regulations and actuarial supervision of
defined-benefit plans have only recently been introduced. Regulation of the SCPP would be
greatly improved by the creation of a single, autonomous agency enforcing a single set of rules,
that could undertake both off-site surveillance and on-site inspections, and that had clear powers
and duties of intervention in cases of non-compliance.
16 A comparison of administrative costs is made in World Bank 1995, p. 82. Brazil's closed funds are
found to be almost twice as expensive as the Chilean Administradoras de Fondos de Pensiones
(AFPs). Of the pension funds, the public-closed funds are the most costly.
7 This said, there are no salary restrictions on investing with a mutual fund or a FAPI.
18 Law 8020, article 4, December 4, 1990
9 Law 8020, article 2



53
Annex IV: Complementary Pension System, SCPP
Page 8 of 8
30. Weak supervision. The SPC within MPAS, which is responsible for overseeing the closed
pension funds is seriously understaffed, under-financed, and lacks the capacity to properly
monitor and enforce regulations. A reliable source of financing is needed for immediate
improvements such as the hiring and training of new staff, institutional analysis of the agency's
internal procedures, and full computerization of record keeping. The current division of
regulatory responsibilities between SPC/MPAS and SUSEP, and differences in regulations that
apply to the closed and open funds is an additional obstacle to portability, and diminishes the
efficiency of the system's supervisors.



54
Annae V
Brasilia, December 9, 1998
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
The World Bank
Washington DC
Dear Mr. Wolfensohn:
1.   This letter of Sector Policy describes the economic stability program of the
Brazilian Government, as well as the specific steps to deepen the reform of the social
security system. In connection with the implementation of these reforms, the Government
requests financial assistance from the IBRD (the Bank) in the form of a special sector
loan.
Background
2.    Since the introduction of the Real Plan on March 1, 1994, the Brazilian economy
has achieved a sustained reduction of inflation, from an annual rate in excess of 2,500
percent in 1993 to under 3 percent by September 1998. Real GDP grew at an average
annual rate of 4.1 percent in 1994-97 and real GDP per capita at an annual rate of 2.7
percent. Progress in macroeconomic and financial stability has been accompanied by
substantial structural reforms, which have contributed to the modernization of the
economy and to productivity growth. Investment has risen from under i5A percent of
GDP in 1994 to an estimated 181/2 percent of GDP in 1998, and foreign direct investment
(FDI) has risen from about US$2 billion to US$23 billion during the same period.
3.    Despite the Real Plan's successes, the finances of the non-financial public sector
(NFPS) have remained a source of concern.  The public sector is defined very
comprehensively in Brazil-more so than in other countries-as it includes the federal
administration, social security, the central bank, the states and municipalities, and federal
as well as state and local enterprises. Overall deficits of the public sector have been in
the range of 5-7 percent of GDP in recent years, and there has been a steady climb in the
ratio of the net public debt to GDP. The increasing dissaving by the public sector has led
to an increase in the current account deficit of the balance of payments from under 1/2
percent of GDP in 1994 to over 4 percent of GDP in 1997. Growing FDI has financed
nearly 50% of this deficit, but total gross external debt has also increased, to about
US$228 billion (over 28 percent of GDP) by mid-I 998.
4.    Like many other emerging markets, Brazil has been affected by the developments
in international financial markets since July 1997, particularly after the Russian debt
moratorium in August 1998. International reserves, which amounted to US$70.2 billion



55
at end-July, declined to US$45.8 billion by end-September, and to around US$42.6
billion at the end of October. Although the rate of reserve loss moderated substantially in
October, it became clear that a speeding-up of the pace of change in policy and reforms
was needed. In a major public speech delivered 11 days prior to the presidential elections
in October, President Cardoso made clear to the country that a major fiscal adjustment
and reform effort would represent the cornerstone of a second mandate for his
government.
The Government's Economic Program
5.    Economic policy in the years ahead will continue to aim at promoting sustainable
growth of real per capita income, and improvement of the living standards of the
Brazilian people, especially lower income groups, in a context of low inflation and
reduced vulnerability of the economy to external shocks. The government's medium-
term fiscal adjustment and reforn program is aimed at promoting a steady increase in
national savings, reducing the burden of the public debt, and facilitating a sustainable
decline in interest rates.
6.    The Fiscal Stabilization Program has two dimensions. The first dimension, the
Government's Work Agenda, deals with measures of a structural and institutional nature,
which are designed to deal with the roots of the fiscal disequilibria. This component
encompasses the approval of constitutional and legal reforms in social security, labor,
public administration, tax reform and fiscal management at the three levels of
government (Federal, State and Municipal) and the three branches of government (the
Executive, the Legislative and the Judiciary). The Work Agenda is complemented by a
Plan of Action of immediate fiscal measures covering the period 1999-2001, aimed at
stabilizing the debt/GDP ratio within this time frame, and bridging to a time when the
structural measures have their full effect. The financial and technical support of the
World Bank is particularly requested for selected elements in the Work Agenda.
The Work Agenda
7.    The government plans to make fundamental changes to the management of the
public finances. A key element in its efforts will be the new Fiscal Responsibility Act,
which the government intends to submit to Congress in December. The new law will set
up a general framework to guide budgetary planning and execution. With a view to
ensuring fiscal solvency, the law will, inter alia, establish prudential criteria for public
indebtedness; provide strict rules for the control of public expenditures; establish
standing rules to limit budget deficits; and prohibit any further refinancing by the federal
government of state and municipal debt.
8.    The government views the recently passed constitutional amendment on social
security reforn as an important first step in this critical area. This legislation will
generate important savings over the next several years. It will not be sufficient, however,
to ensure both the fairness and financial equilibrium of the system. To put social security
for both public and private sector workers on a sound footing and to increase its fairness,
while broadening the scope for individual choice, the government envisions a
complementary set of new legislative initiatives, to be presented to Congress in the first



56
quarter of 1999. The World Bank has already assisted the Federal authorities and certain
states in technical analyses of alternative proposals for social security reform. The World
Bank's proposed program of special adjustment loans for social security would build
upon this background.
9.    The passage of the Constitutional amendments for administrative reform was one
of the important achievements of the first administration of President Cardoso. To bring
this reform effort to a successful completion, the government has already submitted to
Congress various enabling laws and regulations, with the aim of ensuring that the reform
begins to produce effects as early as 1999. The main objective of the reform is to
increase the efficiency and reduce the cost of public administration. The enabling
legislation will also allow governments to enact the Administrative Reform's proposals
for the elimination of over-staffing. These reforms will apply at all levels of general
government, and will help governments meet the targets of the Lei Camata, which sets a
cap on government payroll spending as a percentage of revenues.  The federal
government is empowered to suspend discretionary transfers to those subnational
governments that are not in compliance with the Lei Camata target. Furthermore, states
not meeting the target will not be in a position to raise wages or increase employment.
This program of actions is expected to be supported by a program of special adjustment
loans for administrative reform from the World Bank.
10.   Although the Brazilian labor market is not beset by severe rigidities,
improvements in certain labor market regulations and policies can contribute to greater
flexibility and to the increase of labor productivity and formal employment. In the face
of the recent increase in unemployment-which results both from structural and cyclical
factors-the need to reform labor legislation and to improve labor market policies has
become more urgent. The following measures have already been implemented: (i)
adoption of a temporary lay-off system in order to reduce final separations; (ii) regulation
of part-time and temporary contracts; (iii) flexibility of working hours in order to reduce
overtime costs; (iv) extension of unemployment insurance benefits for long-term
unemployed workers; and (v) improvements in the training and retraining system.
Besides these measures, the Administration has recently sent to Congress a proposal of
constitutional reform which reduces the restrictions for union organization and creates
incentives for direct collective bargaining between unions and employees.  These
measures and proposals aim to provide a more encompassing safety net for the
unemployed, reduce job destruction, increase the proportion of formal labor contracts and
promote labor productivity. There has been useful joint work with the World Bank in this
area, making available international experience. It is expected that this dialogue will
continue.
11.   Brazil's current indirect tax system is inefficient and unduly complex; it includes
cascading taxes which hamper Brazil's competitiveness. The government is, therefore,
attaching great importance to presenting to Congress before the end of this year tax
reform legislation that will address these weaknesses. The reform is expected to create a
nation-wide VAT, with a common base and rate structure, that is shared among the
different levels of government and administered by the states. The new VAT will replace
a number of existing taxes, thereby greatly simplifying tax administration and reducing
distortions. The CPMF will be transformed into a tax which is deductible from other



57
Federal taxes, in order to attenuate any possible impact on the efficiency of financial
intermediation. Appropriate adjustments will need to be made in the system of revenue
sharing and expenditure assignment among different levels of government, to ensure that
any losses or gains induced by the reform are compensated for.
12.   Well-targeted and efficient social expenditure programs play a vital role in the
alleviation of poverty and in the development of human capital. Apart from the pension
system, most social expenditure programs are in the domain of the states, but the federal
government is responsible for financing a part of this expenditure, and has social
expenditure programs of its own. The government intends to give priority to primary
education and basic health in the allocation of social expenditures, to promote the more
efficient use and financing of health and education, particularly at the higher levels; and
to better target social expenditures to the poor. Brazil has made significant progress in the
past two years in constructing a stronger social protection system and in strengthening the
federal role in guaranteeing a minimum level of investment in the human capital of the
poor, as part of a medium-term strategy to increase labor income of the poor and thereby
reduce inequality. In education and health, programs are now in place that provide a floor
for expenditures for basic services, targeted federal subsidies for non-salary inputs and
community-level decision-making that will improve the equity and efficiency of these
programs. Programs in the social assistance area provide a safety net for youngsters, the
disabled, and the aged who live in poor households. Labor market programs provide
unemployment insurance for formal sector workers, and these benefits have recently been
expanded for those who may be unemployed for periods exceeding twelve months. The
Government is committed to maintaining expenditures in these programs in the 1999
budget despite severe budgetary pressure; these efforts to maintain and strengthen the
social protection system will be supported by the World Bank and the Inter-American
Development Bank.
13.   The process of privatization and dismantling of public monopolies is contributing
to provision of better and more efficiently produced goods and services, and to the
renovation and modernization of the country's capital stock. Deregulation of the
economy and the increased participation of foreign capital has generated important price
and technological externalities, raised productivity, improved resource allocation,
modernized management practices, and connected Brazilian corporations with major
global players, thereby improving the long-run prospects and efficiency of the economy.
The governnent is committed to strengthening expertise and effectiveness of
infrastructure regulation at both federal and state levels. This may be an area for
continued interaction with the World Bank.
14.   Although the high interest rates of the past year have put a strain on some of the
country's smaller banks, the banking system as a whole has weathered this period well.
While the share of nonperforming loans in total loans outstanding did rise from 6.9
percent as of December, 1997 to 8.3 percent in August, 1998 provisioning for bad loans
reached 145 percent in that month. Capital adequacy ratios among the top private
domestic banks are on the order of 15 percent (tier 1 capital) or higher, well in excess of
Basle recommendations. With the support of the World Bank, considerable strides have
been made in implementing the 25 basic principles of the Basle Committee on Banking
Supervision, and the government believes that Brazil can be fully compliant by the year



58
2000. Also with the World Bank's support, the Central Bank will commission an expert
group to develop a medium-term perspective for the evolution of depositary institutions
in the years to come, taking into account the new lines of business and competition that
are likely to emerge, and the much greater competitiveness of the domestic banking
industry. The difficulties of the state banking system are now largely resolved, in some
cases with World Bank support. The number of state financial institutions will have been
reduced from 35 to 11 once the restructuring process is concluded, and their share in the
total deposit of the Brazilian financial system is to be reduced by two-thirds to about 7
percent of the total by end-1999.
15.    The government intends to continue the policy of trade liberalization, which
characterized the first mandate of President Cardoso. It will continue to promote the
integration of the Brazilian economy with those of its MERCOSUL and other regional
trading partners, and will also aim to increase trade with countries outside the region.
Brazil will not impose trade restrictions which are inconsistent with the World Trade
Organization (WTO) commitments or, within the context of a program with the Fund,
restrictions based on balance of payments reasons. The government will continue to
promote the competitiveness of Brazil's exports through steps aimed at leveling the
playing field for Brazilian exporters, facilitating access to financing and to export credit
insurance, in line with WTO regulations.
The Plan of Action
16.   The current difficult international economic environment inevitably conditions the
macroeconomic outlook for 1999. From the fourth quarter of 1998 to the fourth quarter
of 1999 real GDP growth should be positive, since economic activity is expected to
recover in the course of 1999, and should thereafter accelerate to 3 percent and 4 percent
in 2000 and 2001, respectively. The rate of inflation should be around 2 percent in 1999.
The external current account deficit is expected to decline from 4.2 percent of GDP in
1998 to around 3 I/2 percent of GDP in 1999, and to be maintained around this level in
subsequent years.
17.   Reflecting the recent pattern, it is projected that more than half of the current
account deficit will be financed by foreign direct investment in 1999. As confidence
recovers and the international environment improves, it is expected that private lenders in
aggregate will renew maturing banking lines as well as notes and bonds. Short-term lines
have recently shown recovery. World Bank special adjustment lending forms part of an
international support package to assist Brazil in crisis prevention and management,
thereby permitting an orderly adjustment in the current account deficit and helping to
sustain the government's overall reform effort. Since World Bank support is intended to
be fiscally neutral, at the margin it will permit reduced market financing of the
government's deficit.
18.   To promote confidence and facilitate a sustained reduction in interest rates the
government has announced a substantially front-loaded fiscal adjustment program. This
program sets as a target for the primary balance of the consolidated public sector a
surplus equivalent to 2.6 percent of GDP in 1999. This surplus is targeted to rise further
to 2.8 percent of GDP in 2000 and to 3.0 percent in 2001. On the basis of conservative



59
estimates regarding developments in interest rates, privatization revenues and the
recognition of hitherto implicit public sector liabilities, these increasing primary
surpluses are expected to arrest the growth of the net public debt in relation to GDP by
2000.
19.   The states and municipalities are expected to contribute to the fiscal adjustment
effort with a shift in their consolidated primary balance from an estimated deficit
equivalent to 0.4 percent of GDP in 1998 to a surplus of 0.4 percent of GDP in 1999,
rising further to 0.5 percent in 2000 and 2001. To help ensure the achievement of these
targets, the federal government will enforce firmly the commitments undertaken by the
states in the context of their debt restructuring agreements with the federal government.
The fiscal adjustment programs agreed with the states include specific targets for each
state with respect to the primary balance, the revenue performance, and the ratios of
payroll, investment spending and debt to revenues, and privatization and other structural
reforms. Also, the privatization or liquidation of most state banks, and the enforcement
of strict prudential standards on the remaining ones, as well as the ongoing widespread
privatization of state enterprises, have eliminated most avenues for deficit financing by
the states.  The issues of state finances, state privatization, state banks and state
indebtedness have been an important feature of the World Bank's long-tern assistance
program for Brazil; the Bank is also an important financier of investment at the state
level.   The World Bank's proposed program  of special adjustment loans for
administrative reforn is intended to support the Government's policies to ensure that the
states meet their fiscal adjustment goals. The Bank will also support the efforts of the
Federal authorities in creating appropriate incentives for the resumption of essential
investment financing at the state level over the medium term.
20.   In the management of the domestic public debt, the treasury and the central bank
will give priority to securing a progressive lengthening of the maturity of the debt to
reduce gross refinancing requirements. The expected decline in interest rates, as risk
premia on the Brazilian and domestic debt are reduced by the recovery of confidence,
will provide an opportunity to begin increasing again the share of fixed-rate securities in
the debt at an acceptable cost. The World Bank is currently assisting the authorities in
developing a more integrated analytic approach to public debt management. Given the
importance of this issue, the government may request additional assistance for
implementation of any recommendations that emerge from this study.
21.   Brazil's external debt is not very high in relation to GDP (29 percent), and its
average maturity is relatively long. The public sector component of the external debt
accounts for no more than one-third of the total, and public sector short-term debt is less
than US$6 billion. It is the governnent's intention to keep the increase of the public
sector external debt within prudent limits, around US$10 billion in 1999. It is also the
government's intention to promote a gradual further lengthening of the average maturity
of the total external debt, as market conditions permit. There is scope for improving the
overall monitoring of external debt, and in particular for compiling and disseminating
more timely information on composition by type of instrument and creditor. The
government will take action to deal with these shortcomings in the information base, and
in this connection, will seek assistance from the World Bank, the IMF and other relevant
agencies.



60
Reform of the Pension System
22. Reform of the Pension System is of fundamental importance to the success of the
Fiscal Stabilization Program. The imbalance of the social security accounts is the
principal obstacle to the improvement of the fiscal position of the Government at the
federal, state and municipal levels. The consolidated pension-system deficit in 1998 for
public- and private-sector workers is about R$42.2 billion. This deficit would have
grown to R$49.6 billion in 1999, had the Constitutional Amendment on pension reform
not been approved.
23.  It is important to note that the estimated pension deficit for public sector workers in
1998, estimated at R$34.4 billion, is almost four times the pension deficit for private
sector workers. The Federal Government has pension expenditures equivalent to 85
percent of the wage bill for active public workers, while in the private sector, the
employers' contribution to social security is equivalent to about 20 percent of the wage
bill. In the states expenditures on retired workers is equivalent to one third of the wage
bill - in most cases, well above of the limit of 60 percent of the states' net income, as
established in the current legislation. At the municipal level, the situation is even more
serious, given that most municipal plans lack a sufficient number of participants to be
actuarially viable. According to the latest survey conducted by the Ministry of Social
Security and Social Assistance (MPAS), 1,388 municipalities have their own pension
plans, of which almost 943 have less than 20,000 inhabitants and lack the capacity to
properly administer pension accounts.
24. Measures Already Taken. The main objectives of the pension reform program
are to guarantee long term financial viability of the pension system by reducing its
actuarial imbalance, and to promote equity and social justice. The passage of the
Constitutional Amendment in November 1998, introduced the following reforms:
Pension Regime for Private Sector Workers (Regime Geral de Previdencia Social RGPS)
* elimination of pensions based on years-of-service, and adoption of the vesting criteria
based on years-of-contribution;
*  removal of the benefit definition from the Constitution;
*  elimination of most special pension regimes;
*  elimination of early retirement provision with a partial pension, with transition rules
for those already in the labor market;
*  assignment of responsibility for the collection of contributions to the Labor Justice
Department;
*  establishment of a monthly benefit ceiling of R$1,200, adjusted by an inflation-based
index;
*  establishment of a ceiling on benefits under special legislation; and



61
* opening of the public work injury program to competitions from the private sector.
Pension Regime for Public Sector Workers (Regimen de Previdencia do Setor Publico):
* introduction of a minimum retirement age of 60 years for men and 55 years for
women, with minimum required years-of-contribution of 35 years for men and 30
years for women;
* elimination of most special pension regimes;
*  establishment of a minimum tenure to be eligible for retirement, of 10 years in
government and 5 years in current position;
* prohibition on collecting multiple pensions and on simultaneously collecting salaries
and pensions;
* establishment of a ceiling on pension benefits;
- authorization of governments at every tier - federal, state and municipal - to establish
complementary pension funds for public sector workers, and a uniform ceiling of
R$1,200 on benefits, to match the ceiling on benefits in the private-sector regime; and
 authorization of governments at every tier - federal, state and municipal - to establish
additional funds financed with contributions from their workers, goods and assets of
any nature, to pay the pensions of retirees and their survivors.
Complementary Pension Fund System:
* restriction on employer contributions from public entities as sponsors to
complementary pension funds to not exceed that of employees (1:1);
* introduction of full disclosure of information about closed pension funds to their
participants; and
* actuarial review of benefit plans and costs of closed pension funds sponsored by
public entities, within two years of publication of the Constitutional Amendment.
25. Along with the Constitutional Amendment on Pension Reform, the Government
intends to adopt emergency measures to reduce the imbalance between the contributions
and benefits in the pension systems of both private and public workers. These measures
will include substantial increases in the contribution rates of public workers, and the
adoption of pension contributions from public-sector retirees and their survivors.
26.   In addition to the above measures, new general rules have been adopted for
public-worker pension plans at every tier of government. The general rules laid out in the
recently approved General Law of Public Pensions (Lei Geral da Previdencia Publica -
No. 9,717 of November 27, 1998) include:



62
*  requirement of a minimum number of participants for a pension plan for public sector
workers to be established. MPAS intends to require that these special regimes have a
minimum of 5,000 participants, eliminating the pension plans of 90 percent of the
municipalities whose workers will affiliate with the RGPS system;
*  establishment of a maximum ratio of employer to employee contributions of 2: 1;
*  prohibition of benefits not offered in the RGPS system, unless specified in the Federal
Constitution;
*  establishment of individual contribution accounts;
*  automatic adjustment of contributions when total pension payment minus
contributions exceed 12 percent of current revenues of states and municipalities; and
*  expansion of the jurisdiction of MPAS to include supervision of pension plans for
public workers at every tier of governrnent.
*  uniform  rules on the operation of the public-worker pension plans, including
valuation of assets, establishment of reserves; institutional, administrative and
financial relationship with the sponsoring government, degree of coverage, regulation
and supervision of the funds.
27. As regards to the Pension Regime of Private Sector Workers, a number of measures
have been adopted to increase the efficiency of the National Social Security Institute
(INSS), to enable it to implement the reforns envisaged in the Government's reform
strategy. The INSS has recently submitted a cost reduction plan for approval by the
MPAS, and is implementing measures to improve the collection of contributions,
including the introduction of individual monthly reports on workers' work and
contribution history. The INSS has also adopted a new system to communicate
electronically with the 10,000 largest employers, who account for about 70 percent of the
RGPS contributions. These measures should save the INSS about R$2 million.
28.  The INSS is also working to complete the integration of the different social security
information systems and expects to have a "Unified Cadaster of Social Information"
ready in the first semester of 1999. The implementation of this consolidated data base
will permit the introduction of individual contribution accounts as foreseen in the
Government's reform strategy.
29.  Regulation of Pension Reform.  Following approval of the Constitutional
Amendment on Pension System Reform, the specific reforms in the Amendment will be
implemented through regulating legislation. The new regulations will follow the
principles of actuarial balance and social justice, as well reduce the public deficit. The
new regulation will also maintain the current system of two, separate pension regimes
private- and public-sector workers. The Government intends to present regulating
legislation for Congressional consideration in February 1999. The new legislation is
expected to come into effect by the end of the year.



63
30.  With respect to the Pension System for Private Sector Workers, the new regulating
legislation will include modifications of the benefit formula in order to achieve a close
relationship between the contributions made and the benefits granted, for every
individual.
31. In this phase of the reform, the Government will submit a new Law on Crimes
Against Social Security to Congress, that will define a number of illegal actions and the
corresponding penalties, and a new regulatory framework for the implementation of
private work insurance schemes.
32. With respect to the Pension System for Public Sector Workers, the new regulating
legislation will maintain the system of defined benefits, with the criteria that contribution
rates will guarantee the actuarial equilibrium between the accumulated contributions and
the retirement benefits.
33.  The Federal Constitution of 1988 allowed states, the Federal District and
municipalities to institute their own pension plans. Although the legislative regulation
described above covers the plan for federal workers, all the public pension plans will
have to conform with criteria established in the General Law of Public Pensions, that
requires the maintenance of actuarial and financial balance. In addition, we expect that
by mid-I999, the public sector pension plans of the states, the Federal District, and
municipalities, will have achieved satisfactory progress in: (i) an actuarial evaluation of
their benefit plans; (ii) an audit of benefits paid to public sector workers; (iii) the
implementation of a system to monitor benefits paid by states and municipalities; and (iv)
a crosscheck of the data bases of different pension plans to identify spurious benefits.
34.  We expect that most workers, both in the private and the public sector, will join the
private system of complementary pension funds. Several provisions in the Constitutional
Amendment are aimed at improving the actuarial viability of the complementary pension
system. These will be implemented through complementary laws, which will be
submitted to Congress within 90 days of promulgation of the Amendment. The
elaboration of these laws will give the Government the opportunity to unify the
regulatory and supervisory framework of the closed and open pension funds. The
Government is also considering the creation of one regulatory agency for all the pension
funds, according to market principles.
35.  With respect to the INSS, new measures will be adopted for its institutional
strengthening. The first step will be an institutional diagnostic to identify INSS's
strengths and opportunities for improvement. The diagnostic, which will be carried out
within the next three months, will form the basis of a Strategic Plan for the INSS. This
plan is essential to effectively reorganize the INSS in the context of the reformn, and to
develop detailed plans for the various components of a program of institutional
strengthening. The future role of the INSS will be determined by: (i) the various services
to be offered by the institution in the context of the reform and its impact on the system;
(ii) the types and quality of the services offered; (iii) the performance targets to be
achieved; and (iv) the desired degree of centralization or decentralization of services and
the geographical coverage that will be achieved.   The next step will be the



64
implementation of the Strategic Plan, which will lead to a new organizational structure
for the INSS and a total reengineering of institutional processes.
36.  We expect to advance rapidly in the institutional strengthening of the INSS and by
the middle of 1999 to have accomplished the following objectives: (i) Executive approval
of a new organizational structure for the INSS; (ii) achievement of efficiency
benchmarks; (iii) administration of disability by INSS according to new rules for the
provision of disability benefits; (iv) full implementation of a fraud control system for
future pensions; (v) achievement of cost control targets; (vi) establishment of a technical
system for the calculation of manpower needs and productivity levels; (vii) improvement
of date processing system according to agreed criteria; and (viii) achievement of
satisfactory progress in re-certification of disability pensions.
Request for Loan
37. The Government - including the Executive, Congressional and Judicial branches -
remains firrnly committed to the modernization of its social security system as outlined
above, and would welcome World Bank financial assistance to complement its prior
technical support to the reforms. We appreciate the prompt consideration that the World
Bank management and staff has given to the Program of Support for Brazil and would
particularly welcome the inclusion of the first US$750 million Social Security Special
Sector Adjustment Loan in the program. We look forward to working together with the
Bank on a proposed future loan as further social security reforms take place.
Dr. Pedro Malan                     Dr. Waldeck Ornelas
Minister of Finance                 Minister of Social Security and Social
Action



65
AnnexVI
Brazil - Key Economic Indicators
J - ~~~~~~~~~~~~.1.W 5 9 4997''      8    t9                      200    20qj .~
National accounts
(as % GDP at current
market prices)
Gross domestic product        100.0   100.0  100.0  100.0   100.0   100.0    100.0   100.0  100.0
Agriculturea                   8.3     7.6    6.8    6.9      6.9      7.2      7.3     7.4    7.6
Industrya                     33.7    31.0   30.0   30.2    30.1    31.5      31.9    32.4   33.0
Servicesa                     42.2   45.9   47.8   48.5    46.2    44.4    44.1    43.6   43.0
Total Consumption              77.5   79.5   81.4   81.4    80.6    80.8        79.5    78.2   78.1
Gross domestic fixed           20.7   20.5   19.1   19.6    20.3    19.0    19.8    21.0   21.0
investment
Government investment          3.6    2.5    2.3    2.2       2.7      1.3      1.5     1.5    2.0
Private investment            18.5    19.8   18.4   19.0    18.6    18.7       19.3   20.5    20.0
(includes increase in
stocks)
Exports (GNFS)b                 9.5     7.7    7.1    7.6       7.4     8.6      9.4     9.9    10.0
Imports (GNFS)                  9.2    9.5    9.2   10.2        9.3     9.4      9.7    10.0   10.1
Gross domestic savings         22.5   20.5   18.6   18.6    19.4    19.2    20.5    21.8   21.9
Grossnationalsavingsc          21.3    19.5   17.3   16.9    17.1    16.3       17.1    18.4    18.6
Memorandum items
Gross domestic product       546486 703912 774946 820381  778292  735944  737808  763765 806251
(US$ million at current
prices)
Gross national product per   3020.0  3670.0  4410.0  4720.0  4790.0  4520.0  4380.0  4380.0  4470.0
capita (US$, Atlas method)
Real annual growth rates
(%, calculated from 1980
prices)
Gross domestic product at    5.9%    4.2%    2.8%    3.2%    0.5%   -1.0%     3.0%    4.0%    4.0%
market prices
Gross Domestic Income        5.6%    4.9%    2.4%    3.7%    1.3%   -1.1%     3.0%    4.0%    4.0%
Real annual per capita
growth rates (%, calculated
from 1980 prices)
Gross domestic product at    4.4%    2.8%    1.4%    1.8%   -1.0%   -2.5%     1.5%    2.5%    2.5%
market prices



66
Total consumption           4.4%    4.9%   2.3%    2.4%   -0.6%   -2.4%    -0.1%    0.9%    2.4%
Private consumption         7.6%   14.8%   0.4%    1.0%   -1.2%   -2.4%    -0.6%    1.0%    2.4%
(Continued)
Brazil - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
Balance of Payments
(US$m)
Exports(GNFS)b            46702.0 49544.0 51853.0 56827.0 57827.4 63321.2  69430.5 75248.6 80474.6
Merchandise FOB         43545.0 46506.0 47747.0 52986.0 53776.6 57685.6  63463.3 68918.0 73752.0
Imports (GNFS)b           40131.0 58749.0 64958.0 74154.0 72164.4 69058.7  71772.2 76689.6 81279.4
Merchandise FOB         33079.0 49858.0 53286.0 61354.0 58859.7 55496.5  57830.5 62028.8 65697.5
Resource balance           6571.0 -9205.0 ###### ###### -14337.1  -5737.6  -2341.7 -1441.0  -804.7
Net current transfers       2588.0  3973.0 2899.0  2220.0  1143.5  1344.0  1344.5  1344.9  1345.4
(including official current
transfers)
Current account balance    -1689.0 ####### ###### ###### -32388.3 -27030.1 -27503.9 -27312.9 #######
(after official capital grants)
Net private foreign direct  2356.0  4778.0 9644.0 17879.0 23900.0 18800.0  15000.0 10000.0 10000.0
investment
Long-term loans (net)      4421.0  6547.0 12681.0 18409.0 31892.7  5798.7  23278.0 14426.3 15247.3
Official                  -2134.2 -1577.3  -534.2  1629.7  2667.0  5232.0   1841.1  1980.3  2141.8
Private                   6555.2  8124.3 13215.2 16779.3 29225.7   566.7  21436.9 12446.0 13105.4
Other capital (net, including  7851.0 20127.0 11039.0 ###### -37850.0  6950.0  -3700.0 12500.0  8000.0
errors and omissions)
Change in reservesd       -12939.0 ####### -9017.0  7810.0 14445.5 -4518.6  -7074.1 -9613.4 -5288.2
Memorandum items
Resource balance (% of        1.2%   -1.3%  -1.7%   -2.1%   -1.8%   -0.8%    -0.3%   -0.2%   -0.1%
GDP at current market
prices)
Real annual growth rates
(1980 prices)
Merchandise exports          7.2%    0.6%   4.3%    1.8%    6.7%    7.1%     7.2%    5.9%    4.4%
(FOB)
Primary                    17.6%   -1.9%   5.6%    6.1%    2.2%    3.8%    4.1%    4.3%    4.4%
Manufactures                2.7%   -2.0%   5.3%    0.0%   13.8%    9.4%    9.3%    6.8%    4.4%
Merchandise imports         25.5%   38.7%   6.1%   14.5%    8.3%   -7.6%     1.0%    4.6%    3.5%
(CIF)
Public finance



67
(as % of GDP at current
market prices)"
Current revenues               32.2    32.9   28.6   29.3    31.5    33.0       33.1    33.1    33.1
Current expenditures           27.4    30.0   29.5   27.8    28.8    30.7       29.4    29.1    29.0
Brazil - Key Economic Indicators
(Continued)
n     r 1X;'994:   1995   1996   1997"  1998    1999    2000    '2l   2UE 
Current account surplus (+)     4.8     2.9   -0.9      1.5     2.7     2.3      3.7     4.0     4.1
or deficit (-)
Capital expenditure             4.8     4.8    5.0    4.9       4.9     3.5      3.6     3.5      3.0
Foreign financing                ..      ..  -0.2   -0.2    -0.1        0.7      1.4     0.5    -0.3
Monetary indicators
M2/GDP (at current market      41.7    29.7   27.7   29.4    29.4    29.4       29.4    29.4    29.4
prices)
GrowthofM2(%)                1211.9   31.9   12.2   18.4        3.9     1.2      5.3     6.3    6.1
Private sector credit growth   81.6   115.9    9.3   42.6   -55.6    34.9       45.3    34.9   113.2
total credit growth (%)
Price indices( 1980 =100)
Merchandise export price      120.3   127.7  125.6  136.9   130.3   130.4    133.8   137.2   140.6
index
Merchandise import price      114.7   124.8  125.5   126.2   111.9   114.2    117.8   120.9   123.7
index
Merchandisetermsoftrade       104.9   102.3  100.1   108.5   116.4   114.2    113.5   113.5   113.6
index
Real exchange rate            142.9   162.6  154.6  146.9   146.6   155.5    163.9   169.1   171.0
(LCU/US$)'
Consumer price index       2075.9%   66.0%   15.8%    6.9%    2.7%    2.3%     2.0%    2.0%    1.9%
(% growth rate)
GDP deflator               2239.1%   77.6%   17.2%    7.8%    3.3%    2.2%     2.2%    2.2%    2.0%
(% growth rate)
a. GDP components are estimated at factor cost
b. "GNFS" denotes "goods and nonfactor services."
c. Includes net unrequited transfers excluding official capital grants.
d. Includes use of IMF resources.
e. Federal Government, States and Municipalities
f. "LCU" denotes "local currency units." An increase in LCU/US$ denotes depreciation.



68
Brazil at a glance                                                           8128197
Latin Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         America  middle-
irzlt  & Carib. Incone       Devlopment diamond'
Population rtlo-199t tmillons)                     161.2      485      479
(.Nl' per capita 1*v (UbS)                         4,360     3,710    4,540               Life expecancy
r.NIP 199t (fhlirons UsE)                           T02.9     1,799    2.173
Aveirage annual growth, 1$90-6
IFopuIatton (7i)                                      1.4       1.7      1.5     GNP                            Grou
Labo lorce                                            1.8       2.3      1.8      p                             Gross
Pe,                           primary
MoSt recent etimate (latest year avadate since 1989)                             capita                      enrollment
Poverty: headcount index(% ot population)             17
Urban population (1b of total populaoton)             78        74       73
Lite expectancy at tirth (years)                      67        69       69
Intant mortality (per 7,uu ave t ibrns)               44        37       35               Access to safe water
Lhtid naltnutntlon (% of cCthtiren under              I  1a
Access to sate water(6 ot population)                 92        80       86
lllteracy(% otpopulation age 7b+)                    17        13       13               BrazD
(3ross pnmary enrollment (% ofscnool-age population)  114      110      107               Upper-middl -n-magroup
Female                                               ..        ..                                         go
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975    1985      1908    19_6
(,UIJ (bdlrons USS)                        121.8   222.9      716.9   748.7      Economic ratlas
GrossdomestUcinvestmenVtGOP                 26.8    19.2       20.1     19.5
Exports of goods and services/GDF            7.5    12.2        8.7      6.6             Openness of economy
Gross domestic savings/GDP                  22.9    24.4       19.2    18.2
Gross national savings/GDP                  21.1    19.3       17.6    16.3
Current account balance/GDP                 -5.8    -0.2       -2.5    -3.2
Interest payments/GDP                        1.7      3.3       1.2      1.7     Savings                    Investment
Total debU/GOP                              22.4    46.5       22.2    23.8
Total debt service/exporti                  43.5    39.1       43.1    46.7
Present value of debtGDP                      ..       ..      22.1
Present value of debt/exportf                 ..       ..    270.7        ..                 Indebtedness
197645  1986-96    199S       199   1997.06
(average anunal growth)                                                             -    razul
GDP                                 3.1      1.2      4.1       2.9      4.8              Upper-middle-inrme group
GNP per capita                      0.2    -0.4       2.8       1.6      4.0
Exports ofgoods and services       10.5      6.5     -1.4       6.1      7.0            _              _____
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
(% of GDJP)                                1976    1986       1995    1996       GrowthrantsofoutputandInvestment%)
Agriculture                                 12.1     11.5      14.4    14.4      15
Industry                                    40.2    45.3       36.5    36.4      10
Manufacturing                             30.3    33.7       23.8       ..      s
Services                                    47.7    43.1       49.1     49.2      o
.0 sz  o_   2    93   94   95   aE
Private consumption                         66.5    65.8       64.9    65.7    .10
General govemment consumption               10.6      9.9      15.9    16.1                     GDl   --GDP
Imports ofgoodsand services                 11.5      7.1       7.6      7.9
197545  1986-96      1095    1996
(average annual growth)                                                          Growth rates of exports and Inports (k)
Agriculture                                  4.3      2.6       4.9      3.1     40
Industry                                     3.0    -1.1        2.1      2.3
Manufacturing                              2.6    -1.5        2.1       ..    20
Services                                     2.9      2.8       5.3      3.3
Private consumption                          3.0      1.8      11.0      4.1      o
General govemment consumption                1.2      0.7       2.4      0.8       .    93                            es
Gross domesbc investment                    -2.9    -0.6        9.4      0.0    .20
Imports of goods and services                4.0      8.9      36.8      5.9
Gross national product                       2.5      1.1       4.2      2.9                  Exports
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates. Figures in italics are for years other than those specified.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. Itf data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
Brazil



69
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975    1985       1995    1906
Oometlc pticz                                                                     Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                       4.000T
Consumer pries                              25.0   226.9       67.0      15.5    30         0 0 b
Implicit GOP deflator                       33.9   231.7       74.9      11.1    2.000 
Government finance                                                               1.0D00
(% of GOP)                                                                          0                               __`O
Current revenue                                                31.5      32.4             91   92   93   94   95   9t
Primary surplusldeficit                                          0.4     -0 1                -GP der  -    CF1
Operational surplusidefici.                                     -4.8     -3.9
TRADE
1975    1985       1995    1996
(mnitlions USS)                                                                   Export and Import levels (mill. USS)
Total exports (fob                                 25,638    46,508   47,746      tiODD
Coffee                                             2,607     1,970    2,059
Other food                                         2,545     3.896    4,665
Manufactures                                      13,356    25,568   26,247     40.000
Total imports (cW ,                                13,153    49,663   53,286           *-
Food                                                  ,   3,535  6,044  20D000L   _L _ll
Fuel and energy                                    6,176     4,649    5,752
Capital goods                                      2,480    19,688   19,804        o    _ _ _ _           ___
txxpon pnce index (79d/-l7U)                  ..       97       128      126            90  91  92  93  94  95  Be
Import pnce index (1.tYd=1UU)                          79       124      125                  aExpoots    *Imports
Iermsottrade(1Iof=CJCJu                               123       103      101
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975    1986       1995    1996
(milions USS)                                                                     Current account batance to GDP ratio I%)
Exports of goods and serviceso             9,418   27.713    47,960   49,558      2
Imports of goods and services             14,323   16,926    54,306   59,355
Resource balance                          -4,905   10,785    -6.346   -9,797      
Net income                                 -2,106  -11,213   -15,419  -17,402     o-
Net current transfers                        -10       16      3,973    2,899    -1       91I2   9    o
Current account balance.                                                         .2
before official capital transfert        -7,021     -412   -17,792  -24,300
Financing items (net)                      5,956    1,826    30,779   32,935
Changes in net reserves                    1,065   -1,414   -12,987   -8,635      4 -
Memo:
Keserves including gold (mil. USS)         4,166   11,613    51,469   59,663
;onversion rate(locavUsU)               3.0E-12  2.3E-09        0.9      1.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976    1985       1995     1996
(millions USS)                                                                    Composition of total debt 1995 (mill, US$)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      27,329  103,601   159,130  178,131                       A
IBRD                                     1.045    5,274     6.038    5,876                      eo38
IDA                                          0        0         0        0               6          142  0
30494
Total debt service                         4,320   11,470    22,328
IBRD                                        98      796      1,868    1,638
IDA                                          0        0         0        0195
Composition of net resource flowt
Official grants                              9       34        64
Official creditors                       1,059      935    -1,378
Private creditors                        4,213      149     9,827
Foreign direct investment                1,302    1,348     4,859
Portfolio equity                             0        0      4,411                               996F
99878
World Bank program
Commitments                                538    1,525       404      858      A - IBRD                    E - Bilaterl
Disbursements                              249      765       838    1,500      a - IDA    0- Other mutilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                        26      406      1,377    1,222     C - IMF                    G - Shot-term
Net fows                                   224      359      -539      278
Interest payments                           72      391       491      416
Net transfers                              152      -32    -1,031     -138
Development Economics                                                                                             8n28r97



MOP Schedulc D
Generated: 10/29918
Status of Bank Group Operations in Brazil
Operations Portfolio
Difference
Between expected
Original Amount in USS Millions                 and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                               disbursements a/
Project ID    Year               Borrower                    Purpose
IBRD       IDA     Cancellations  Undisbursed  Orig    Frm Rev d
Number of Closed Projects: 185
Active Projects
BR-PE-438i4     1999   GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL            DISEASE                   100.00        0.00            0.00        100.00     0.00        0.00
SURVEILLANCE
BR-PE-54120    1999   GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL             AIDS 2                    165.00        0.00            0.00        165.00     0.00        0.00
BR-PE-58129    1999   FEDERAL GOVERNMENT               EMER. FIRg                  15.00       0.00            0.00         15.00     0.00        0.00
PREVENTIO
BR-PE-35728    1998   STATE OF BAHIA                   BAHIA WTR RESOURCES        51.00        0.00            0.00         46.52    13.36        0.00
BR-PE-38895    1998   GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL             FED.WTR MGT               198.00        0.00            0.00        187.50    14.50        0.00
BR-PE-38947    1998   GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL             SC. & TECH 3              155.00        0.00            0.00        144.99    12.49        0.00
BR-PE-39197    1998   STATE OF RIO DE JAP4EIRO         RJ ST.PRIV.               250.00        0.00            0.00        125.00   100.01        0.00
BR-PE-40033    1998   THE STATE OF MINAS GERAIS        MG STATE PRIV.            170.00        0.00            0.00        170.00    40.01        0.00
BR-PE-42565    1998   STATE OF PARAIBA                 PARAIBA R,POVERTY          60.00        0.00            0.00         58.01     5.11        0.00
BR-PE-43420    1998   FED. REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL          WATER S.MOD.2             150.00        0.00            0.00        150.00     7.24        0.00
BR-PE-43421    1998   STATE OF RIO DE JANEIRO          RJ M.TRANSIT PRJ.         186.00        0.00            0.00        186.00    35.00        0.00                                  o
BR-PE-48357    1998   REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL               CEN.BANK TAL               20.00        0.00            0,00         19.80     2.80        0.00
BR-PE-50762    1998   GOV. OF BRAZIL                   FUNDESCOLAI                62.50        0.00            0.00         55.00    -3.75        0.00
BR-PE-51701    1998   STATE OF HARANHAO                MARANHAO R.POVERTY         80.00        0.00            0.00         77.50     7.80        0.00
BR-PE-57910    1998   GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL             PENSION REFORM LIL          5.00        0.00            0.00          5.00     0.00        0.00
BR-PE-6474      1998   STATE OF SAO PAULO              LAND MGT 3(SP)             55.00        0.00            0.00         55.00     3.20        0.00
BR-PE-6549      1998   TBG                             GAS SCTR DEV              130.00        0.00            0.00        130.00     0.00        0.00
PROJECT
BR-PE-6559      1998   THE STATE OF SAO PAULO           (BF-R)SP.TSP              45.00        0.00            0.00         45.00    12.25        0.00
8R-PE-34578    1997   RIO GRANDE DO SUL                RGS HWY MGT                70.00        0.00            0.00         70.00    15.00        0.00
BR-PE-38896    1997   STATE OF RGN                     R.POVERTYIRGN)             24.00        0.00            0.00         17.75     3.15        0.00
BR-PE-39196    1997   STATE OF RIO GRANDE DO SU        RGS ST.REFORM             125.00        0.00            0.00         50.02    40.03        0.00
BR-PE-42566    1997   STATE OF PERNAMBUCO              R.POVERTYJPE)              39.00        0.00            0.00         22.86      1.57       0.00
BR-PE-43868    1997   STATE OF RGS                     RGS LAND                  100.00        0.00            0.00         92.70    13.59        0.00
MGT/POVERTY
BR-PE-43871    1997   STATE OF PIAUI                    (PIAUI)R.POVERTY          30.00        0.00            0.00         14.17    -3.43        0.00
BR-PE-43873    1997   FED.REP.OF BRAZIL                AG TECH DEV.               60.00        0.00            0.00         54.70    13.19        0.00
BR-PE-46052    1997                                    CEARA WTR PILOT              9.60       0.00            0.00          8.46      8.46       0.00
BR-PE-48870    1997   THE STATE OF MATO GROSSO         MT STATE PRIV.             45.00        0.00            0.00         45.00    25.00        0.00
BR-PE-6475      1997   FED. REP. OF BRAZIL             LAND REM PILOT              90.00       0.00            0.00         75.05    11.94        0.00
BR-PE-6532      1997   FEDERAL GOVERNMENT              FED HWY DCCENTR           300.00        0.00            0.00        281.25    46.25        0.00
BR-PE-6562      1997   STATE OF 8AHIA                  BAHIA MUN.DV               100.00       0.00            0.00         98.72    18.72        0.00
BR-pE-37828    1996   STATE OF PARANA                   (PR)R.POVFRTY             175.00       0.00            0.00        149.96    77.56        0.00
BR-PE-40028    1996   FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BR        RAILWAYS                  350.00        0.00            0.00         87.42      7.42       0.00
RESTRUCTUBG
BR-PE-6512      1996   CVRD                            ENV/CONS(CVRD)              50.00       0.00            0.00         25.19      8.58       0.00
BR-PE-6554      1996   FED. REP. OF BRAZIL             HLTH SCTR REFORM           300.00       0.00            0.00        252.57   117.56        0.00
BR-PE-35717    1995   GOVT OF BRAZIL                   RURAL POV. (BANIA)         105.00       0.00            0.00         50.68      9.69       0.00
BR-PE-38882    1995   FED REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL           RECIFE M.TSP               102.00       0.00            0.00         88.19    48.93        0.00
BR-PE-38884    1995   GOVT OF BRAZIL                   RURAL POV,- CEARA           70.00       0.00            0.00         35.36      4.35       0.00
BR-PE-38885    1995   GOVT OF BRAZIL                   RURAL POV.-SERGIPE          36.00       0.00            0.00         16.76      1.66       0.00
BR-PE-6436      1995   STATE OF CEARA        ZIL       CEARA UR.DV/WATER          140.00       0.00            0.00         78.75    57.74      -19.26
CO
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS)                                                                                                                           Page I



MOP Sdcedule D
Generated, 10/29/98
Difference
Between expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                 and actual
Fiscal                                                                                                               disbursements a/
Project 1D    Year               Borrower                    Purpose
IBRD       IDA     Cancellations  Undisbursed  Orig    Frm Rev'd
BR-PE-6564      1995   FED REPUBLIC/BRAZIL             BELO H M.TSP               99.00        0.00            0.00         56.42    32.18        0.00
BR-PE-6452      1994   MINISTRY OF EDUCATION           NE BASIC EDUC III         206.60        0.00            0.00         45.09    34.49        0.00
BR-PE-6522      1994   ST.OF ESPIRITO SANTO            ESP.SANTO WATER           154.00        0.00            4.00         75.09    65.58        0.00
BR-PE-6524      1994   ST.OF MINAS GERAIS              MINAS MNC.DEVELOPMT       150.00        0.00            5.00         32.64    36.61        8.72
BR-PE-6543      1994   GOVERNMENT                      M. GERAIS BASIC           150.00        0.00            0.00         33.18    15.17        0.00
EDUC
BR-PE-6555      1994   STATE GOVTS                     STE HWY MGT Ir            220.00        0.00           36.00         14.25    21.24        3.25
BR-PE-655B      1994   REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL              PARANA 8ASIC EDUC           96.00       0.00            0.00         24.72     5.71        0.00
BR-PE-6378      1993   STATE GOVERNMENTS               STATE HWY MGMT             88.00        0.00           18.00          4.52    22.51         .82
BR-PE-6427      1993   MIN. OF EDUCATION   N           NE BASIC EDUC I1          212.00        0.00            0.00         30.91    26.10        0.00
BR-PE-6540      1993   MINAS GERAIS ST.                WTR Q/PLN(MINAS           145.00        0.00            5.00          7.93    12.92       -3.62
GERA
BR-PE-6541      1993   S.PAULO/PARANA STS.             WTR                       245.00        0.00            9.30         53.55    62.83       38.44
Q/PLN(SP/PARANA)
BR-PE-6547      1993   FED.REP.Of BRAZIL               METRO TRANSP. RIO          128.50       0.00            0.00          7.69     7.70        0.00
BR-PE-6368      1992   GOVERNMENT                      WATER SECTOR               250.00       0.00            0.00         13.75    13.75        0.00
MODERNI
BR-PE-6454      1992   GOB                             RONDONIA NTRL RES.         167.00       0.00            0.00         31.79    31.78        0.00
M
BR-PE-6505      1992   GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL            MATO GROSSO NAT RES        205.00       0.00            0.00         69.16    69.16        0.00
BR-PE-6364      1991   STATE OF SAO PAULO              INNOV BASIC ED             245.00       0.00            0.00         10.05    10.06        0.00
BR-PE-6492      1991   PETROBRAS             BRAZI     NYDROCARBN                 260.00       0.00            0.00          1.60      1.60       0.00
TRNSP/PRO
BR-PE-6446      1990   FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BR       NAT ENVIRONMT              117.00       0.00            0.00         15.65    15.67        0.00
BR-PE-6453      1990   FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BR       NE IRRIG I                 210.00       0.00           69.00         20.80    89.81       20.81
BR-PE-6473      1990   STATE OF SANTA CATARINA         LNo MGMT II-S.              33.00       0.00            0.00          2.39      2.43       -.87
CATAR
BR-PE-6370      1989   FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BR       NE IRRI JAIBA               71.00       0.00            0.00          3.63     3.64        0.00
Total                                                                          7,670.20        0.00          146.30      3,905.69  1,358.        48.29
52
Active Projects                               Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):              3,618.20          15,721.00           19,339.20
of which has been repaid:               312.42           12,863.87          13,176.29
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:              1,211.46           2,859.02           10,070.4%
Amount sold                                      0.00              45.83               45.83
Of which repaid              :                0.00              45.83               45.83
Total Undisbursed               :            3,905.69                1.86           3,907.55
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
Note:
Disbursement data is updated at the end of the first week of the month.
Gcnciated by the Operadions lnfornation System (OIS)                                                                                                                           Page 2



72                                      CAS Amex BS
Brazil
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 30-Sep-98
(In US Dollfte Millions)
Committed                      Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval            Company         Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1973/78/83            CODEMIN                0.00    4.34    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.34    0.00    0.00
1975/96               Oxiteno NE            27.50    0.00    0.00    0.00   27.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1980/87/97            Ipiranga              40.00    6.32    0.00  150.00   40.00    6.32    0.00  150.00
1980/88               OPP                    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1980/92               DENPASA                0.00    1.00    .12    0.00    0.00    1.03    .05    0.00
1981                  Brasilpar              0.00     .04    0.00    0.00    0.00    .04    0.00    0.00
1982/84/86            PISA                   0.00    3.90    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.90    0.00    0.00
1983                  SOCOCO                 0.00    0.00    2.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.50    0.00
1984                  ALQUIM                 0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1987/92/96            MBR                    8.90    0.00   10.00    9.10    8.90    0.00   10.00    9.10
1987/96               Perdi,ao              30.63   10.00    0.00   16.00   30.63   10.00    0.00   16.00
1987/96/97            Duratex               22.00    0.00    0.00   78.00   22.00    0.00    0.00   78.00
1987/97               SP Alpargatas         25.00    0.00    5.00    0.00   25.00    0.00    5.00    0.00
1989                  ELUMA                  0.00    0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.00    0.00
1989/95               Politeno Ind.         16.08    0.00    0.00    0.00   16.08    0.00    0.00    0.00
1990                  ENGEPOL                1.10    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.10    0.00    0.00    0.00
1990                  Ripasa                 4.29    5.00    0.00    0.00    4.29    5.00    0.00    0.00
1990/91/92            Bahia Sul             14.28   20.97    0.00    0.00   14.28   20.97    0.00    0.00
1991                  Bradesco-AL           26.03    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991                  Bradesco-Bahia         4.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    4.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991                  Bradesco-Eucatex       7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991                  Bradesco-Petrofl       7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991                  Bradesco-Romi          1.99     .40    0.00    0.00    1.99    .40    0.00    0.00
1991                  Rhodia-Ster            8.57    5.95    0.00    0.00    8.57    5.95    0.00    0.00
1992                  CRP-Caderi             0.00    1.93    0.00    0.00    0.00    .68    0.00    0.00
1992/93               TRIKEM                 0.00   12.86    0.00    0.00    0.00   12.86    0.00    0.00
1993                  BACELL                12.00   10.70    0.00   21.60   12.00   10.70    0.00   21.60
1993                  CEBRACTEX              1.20    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.20    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993                  Macedo Alimentos      16.08    0.00    0.00    0.00   16.08    0.00    0.00    0.00
1993                  Votorantim            14.29    0.00    0.00    1.14   14.29    0.00    0.00    1.14
1993/96               CEVAL                 53.86   20.00    0.00  118.14   53.86   20.00    0.00  118.14
1994                  GAVEA                 10.00    0.00    5.50    0.00   10.00    0.00    5.50    0.00
1994                  GP Capital             0.00   15.68    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.64    0.00    0.00
1994                  Para Pigmentos        30.00    9.00    0.00   35.00   25.50    9.00    0.00   29.75
1994                  Portobello            14.57    5.00    0.00    0.00   14.57    5.00    0.00    0.00
1994/95/97            Sadia                 50.00   10.00   10.00  200.88   50.00   10.00   10.00  200.88
1994/96               CHAPECO               25.00    0.00    0.00    5.00   25.00    0.00    0.00    5.00
1994/96               S.A.I.C.C.             0.00    7.85    6.87    0.00    0.00    7.70    6.87    0.00
1995                  Bradesco-Herin,        7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995                  Brahma - BRA          30.00    0.00    0.00   73.80   30.00    0.00    0.00   73.80
1995                  Cambuhy/MC            20.63    0.00    0.00    0.00   20.63    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995                  Lojas Americana       28.00    0.00    5.00   16.00   28.00    0.00    5.00   16.00
1995                  LATASA - Brazil       15.67    0.00    0.00    3.00   15.67    0.00    0.00    3.00
1995                  RhodiacofPTA          22.50    0.00    0.00   21.00   22.50    0.00    0.00   21.00
1995/96/98            Globocabo             35.00   27.97    0.00  118.00   35.00   27.97    0.00  118.00
1996                  Banco Bradesco        40.00    0.00    0.00   60.00    9.69    0.00    0.00   14.53
1996                  Mallory                8.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    8.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS) on 10/29/98



73
CAS Annex BS
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval            Company          Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic   Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1996                  TIGRE                  25.00    0.00    5.00   21.36   25.00    0.00    5.00   21.36
1996/97               Lightel                25.00    18.17    0.00    0.00   25.00   18.17    0.00    0.00
1997                  Bompreco               25.00    0.00    5.00    0.00   25.00    0.00    5.00    0.00
1997                  Copesul                40.00    0.00    0.00  180.00   40.00    0.00    0.00  180.00
1997                  Guilmana-Amorim        30.00    0.00    0.00   91.00   30.00    0.00    0.00   91.00
1997                  Rodovia                35.00    0.00    0.00   79.50   26.96    0.00    0.00   61.24
1997                  Samarco                 17.10    0.00    0.00   14.67   17.10    0.00    0.00   14.67
1997                  Sucorrico              15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997                  Wembley                 0.00    10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00
1997/93               Coteminas               15.00    4.00    0.00   20.00   15.00    4.00    0.00   20.00
1998                  Arteb                  20.00    7.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998                  BSC                    14.00    0.00    0.00    7.50   14.00    0.00    0.00    7.50
1998                  Dixie Toga              0.00    15.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.00    0.00    0.00
1998                  Empesca                25.00    0.00   10.00    0.00    5.00    0.00   10.00    0.00
1998                  Icatu Equity            0.00   30.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998                  Saraiva                 15.00    3.00    0.00    0.00   15.00    3.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:                  981.27  266.08   66.99  1,340.   872.39  227.67   66.92  1,271.
69                              71
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1996                  AGUAS LIMEIRA           17.00    1.00    0.00   23.00
1998                  BANCO ICATU            30.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999                  CIBRASEC                0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00
1997                  CTBC                   35.00    0.00    0.00  150.00
1998                  FOSFERTIL              20.00    0.00    0.00   60.00
1998                  FRAS-LE                 10.00   10.00    0.00   15.00
1998                  FSA                    35.00    0.00   10.00   45.00
1996                  GLOBOCABO II            0.00    0.00    0.00   38.00
1998                  GUILMAN BLINC           0.00    0.00    0.00    1.00
1997                  IPIRANGA EXPANS.         0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00
1998                  IPIRANGA-RI 2           0.00     .09    0.00    0.00
1998                  LOJAS RENNER            16.00    4.00    0.00    0.00
1997                  NOVA DUTRA              0.00    0.00    0.00   10.00
BLINC
1996                  OXITENO/ETHYLO          0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00
1998                  RANDON                   7.00    0.00    3.00   15.00
1998                  SANTHER                25.00    0.00   10.00   45.00
1997                  SP ALPARGATAS II         0.00    0.00    0.00   30.00
1998                  TRG (TECON RIO)          7.50    0.00    5.50   26.00
1998                  TRIKEM II              25.00     0.00    0.00    0.00
1998                  UNIBANCO               40.00    0.00    0.00  250.00
Total Pending Commitment:         267.50   27.59   33.50  708.00
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS) on 10/29/98



