Page  1
CONFORMED COPY             
LOAN NUMBER 4431-BR
Loan Agreement
(Social Security Special Sector Adjustment Loan)
between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated March 9, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 4431-BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 9, 1999, between FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank):
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received a letter dated December 9, 1998 from the 
Borrower: (i) describing its macroeconomic framework and a program of actions, 
objectives and policies designed to achieve structural adjustment of the Borrower’s 
social security systems applicable to private and public sector workers (such program 
hereinafter called the Program), which Program consists of actions and policies that 
have already been taken and adopted by the Borrower, as described in Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement (the First Phase of the Program), and actions and policies that the 
Borrower intends to take and adopt in the near future; (ii) declaring the Borrower’s 
commitment to the objectives of the Program; and (iii) requesting assistance from the 
Bank in support of the Program during the execution thereof; and 
(B)
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Bank has decided to 
provide assistance to the Borrower in support of the First Phase of the Program by 
making the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan) as hereinafter 
provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997), with the modifications set forth below (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
Section 2.01, paragraph 18, is modified to read:
“‘Project’ means the first phase of the program, referred to in the 
Preamble to the 
Loan Agreement, in support of which the Loan is made.”;
(b)
Section 4.01 is modified to read: “Except as the Bank and the Borrower 
shall otherwise agree, withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be made in the currency 
of the deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the Loan Agreement.”;
(c)
Section 5.01 is modified to read: “The Borrower shall be entitled to 
withdraw the proceeds of the Loan from the Loan Account in accordance with the 
provisions of the Loan Agreement and of these General Conditions.”; 
(d)
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted;
(e)
Section 9.07 (c) shall be modified to read: “(c) Not later than six 
months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose 
between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank 
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on 
the execution of the first phase of the program referred to in the Preamble to the 
Loan Agreement, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective 
obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Loan.”; and  
(f)
Section 9.05 is deleted and Sections 9.06, 9.07 (as modified above), 9.08 
and 9.09 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and 
(b)
“INSS” means Instituto Nacional do Seguro Social, the Borrower’s 
Institute of Social Security.
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to seven 
hundred fifty-seven million five hundred seventy thousand Dollars ($757,570,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the amount of seven hundred and 
fifty million Dollars ($750,000,000) from the Loan Account in support of the First 
Phase of the Program. 
(b)
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Bank the first 
request for withdrawal from the Loan Account, and thereafter maintain in the 
Borrower’s Central Bank a deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. Except as provided in Section 2.04 of this Agreement, all 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Deposit 
Account.
(c)
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Loan shall not be used 
to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Page  3
Agreement.  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the 
Loan shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank; (i) deposit into the Deposit 
Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment; or (ii) if the Bank shall so 
request, refund such amount to the Bank. Amounts refunded to the Bank upon such 
request shall be credited to the Loan Account for cancellation. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1999 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in the amount of seven 
million five hundred seventy thousand Dollars ($7,570,000).  On or promptly after the 
Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.  
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus 4 (four) percentage points.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date. 
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.07 
of this 
Agreement. 
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for 
value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring 
on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage 
per annum. 
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of the LIBOR Base Rate for each 
Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis.  Such new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on  February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants 
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank on any proposed 
Page  4
action to be taken which would have the effect of materially reversing the objectives 
of the First Phase of the Program, or any action specified in Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.02. Upon the Bank’s request, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(b)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
four (4) months after the date of the Bank’s request for such audit, a certified copy 
of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and 
(c)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the Deposit Account 
and the audit thereof as the Bank shall have reasonably requested. 
ARTICLE IV 
Effective Date; Termination 
Section 4.01. The following event is specified as an additional condition to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions, namely, that the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is 
consistent with the objectives of the Program. 
Section 4.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely, that this Agreement has been validly 
registered with the Borrower’s Central Bank.
Section 4.03. The date May 11, 1999 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE V 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 5.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 5.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministério da Fazenda
Procuradoria Geral da Fazenda Nacional
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco “P” andar
70048-900 Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
With copy to:
Ministério da Previdência e Assistência Social
Assessoria de Assuntos Internacionais
  Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco F - 9( andar
70059-900, Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
Ministério do Planejamento e Orçamento
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco K, 5o. andar
70040-906 Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
Page  5
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the city of Brasília, D.F., Brazil, as of the day and year first above written.
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By /s/ Pedro Sampaio Malan 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Gobind T. Nankani 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Excluded Expenditures
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Loan 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1. 
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower; 
2.
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Bank or the 
Association shall have financed or agreed to finance under another loan or a credit;
3.
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by 
the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or 
any successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by 
the Bank by notice to the Borrower:
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112                     -
Alcoholic beverages
121                     -
Tobacco, unmanufactured, tobacco
refuse
122                     -
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not
containing tobacco substitutes)
525                     -
Radioactive and associated materials
Page  6
667
    -
Pearls, precious and semiprecious
stones, unworked or worked
718                  718.7
Nuclear reactors, and parts thereof; 
fuel 
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, 
for
nuclear reactors
728                  728.43
Tobacco processing machinery
897                  897.3
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum
group metals (except watches and watch
cases) and goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’
wares (including set gems)
971                     -
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold
ores and concentrates)
4.
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
5.
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this paragraph 
the term "environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, use or import 
of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international agreements to 
which the Borrower is a party);
6.
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment 
or import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
7.
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Bank determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or 
of a beneficiary of the Loan during the procurement or execution of such contract, 
without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the 
Bank to remedy the situation.
SCHEDULE 2 
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in Dollars)*
On each February 15 and August 15
beginning August 15, 2002
through August 15 , 2003
189,395,000
on February 15, 2004
189,385,000
Page  7
_____________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except 
as provided 
in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 3
First Phase of the Program
1. Amendment No. 20, of December 15, 1998, to the Borrower’s Constitution, which 
introduced the following reforms for reducing the Borrower’s fiscal deficit and for 
improving:
(a)
the long-term fiscal health of the social security system for private 
sector workers: (i)
elimination, as a constitutional requirement, of the criterion for 
the calculation of the pension benefit (average of the worker’s latest 36 monthly 
salaries before retirement); (ii) elimination of special pension regimes (except those 
applicable to school teachers and to persons working under special risky conditions); 
(iii)
pension benefit eligibility to be based on a minimum period of contribution to 
the system by the worker, instead of being based on the worker’s number of years of 
service; (iv) elimination of the possibility of early retirement with a reduced pension 
benefit, subject to transitional rules applicable to workers already insured under the 
system prior to the constitutional amendment referred to above; (v)
establishment 
of the maximum monthly amount of any pension benefit payable to a retired worker at 
R$1,200 (one thousand and two hundred Brazilian Reais), adjustable by an inflation 
related index; (vi) possibility of coverage of workmen’s compensation risks by private 
sector insurers; (vii) elimination of the constitutional prohibition that pension and 
survivors’ benefits of persons of more than 64 years of age be subject to income tax; 
and (viii)
extension of the basis for the contribution to the social security system 
to all work related earnings;
(b)
the long-term fiscal health of the social security system for public 
sector workers: (i) pension benefit eligibility to be based on a minimum period of 
contribution to the system by the worker, observing criteria that preserve financial 
and actuarial balance of the system, instead of being based on the worker’s number of 
years of service; (ii) eligibility for retirement to include that the worker has been 
working for at least 10 years for the public employer, and has been holding the same 
position for at least 5 years before retirement; (iii) elimination of the possibility 
of multiple pension benefits and of accumulation of pensions and salaries in the 
public sector, subject to a few exceptions; (iv) establishment of a minimum age for 
retirement; (v) establishment of the maximum monthly amount of any pension benefit 
payable to a retired worker at R$1,200 (one thousand and two hundred Brazilian Reais), 
adjustable by an inflation related index, if a fund to provide pension benefits 
complementary to those from the social security system has been established; (vi) 
elimination of the possibility of early retirement with a reduced pension benefit, 
subject to transitional rules applicable to workers already insured under the system 
prior to the constitutional amendment referred to above; (vii) elimination of the 
constitutional prohibition that pension and survivors’ benefits of persons of more 
than 64 years of age be subject to income tax; and (viii) establishment of a cap on 
the highest payable pension benefit payable to a retired worker (not to exceed the 
highest salary payable to a public worker);
(c) the long-term fiscal health of the fund system of pension benefits 
complementary to those from the private and public sector social security systems: (i) 
starting not later than two years from the effective date of such Amendment, the 
contribution of public sector employers to any such fund for the benefit of any worker 
not to exceed the contribution of such worker to such fund, and prohibition on public 
sector employers to make any other contribution to such funds; (ii) elimination of 
fiscal subsidies to such funds; (iii) mandatory revision of the benefit plans of the 
existing funds sponsored by public sector entities, within two years from the 
effective date of such Amendment, for purposes of adjusting such plans actuarially to 
the assets of the respective funds; and (iv) full disclosure of information on the 
Page  8
management of such funds to be available to their respective participants.
2. Adoption by INSS of the following measures to strengthen its capacity to collect 
social security contributions: (a) acceleration of the applicable administrative 
procedures; (b) introduction of new questionnaires to collect individualized 
information about workers’ labor and social security contribution history; and (c) 
implementation of a special system to follow-up on the compliance of social security 
obligations by the largest 10,000 employers which are contributors of the social 
security system for private sector workers.
