                               Document of
                           The World Bank




                                                Report No:ICR-000018




  IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                            ( IBRD-46360 )

                                ON A

                                LOAN

              IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 65 MILLION

                TO THE STATE OF GOIAS, BRAZIL

        WITH THE GUARANTEE OF THE FEDERATIVE

                       REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL

                    FOR THE FIRST PHASE OF A

     GOIAS STATE HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT PROGRAM

                            October 31, 2006




LCF Transport Cluster
WB Office: Brasilia, Brazil CMU
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                         ( Exchange Rate Effective 10/24/2006 )
                              Currency Unit = BRL
                                   BRL 1.00 = US$ 0.47
                                   US$ 1.00 = BRL 2.15


                                       Fiscal Year
                               January 1 to December 31




                     ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ADT    Average Annual Daily Traffic
AGETOP Transport and Public Works Agency of the State of Goias
AGMA   Evironmental Agency of the State of Goias
AGR    Regulation Agency of the state of Goias
APL    Adaptable Program Loan
CAS    Country Assistance Strategy
CELG   State of Goias Power Company
CEMA   State Enviornment Council
CIMOS  Intermunicipal Work Consortia
CRISA  Former State of Goias Intermunicipal Roads Consortium
DER-GO Former State of Goias Roads Department
EIA    Environmental Impact Assessment
EIRR   Economic Internal Rate of Retum
EMP    Environmental Management Plan
FEMA   State Fund for the Environment
HDM    Highway Development Model
ICMS   State Tax on Goods and Services
ICR    Implementation Completion and Results Report
IPASGO State Institute for Welfare of Public Servants
IPHAN  National Institute for Protection of Historical and Archeological Sites
IPVA   Vehicle Registration Tax
IRI    International Roughness Index
M&E    Monitoring and Evaluation
NPV    Net Present Value
PAD    Project Appraisal Document
PCU    Project Coordination Unit
PDO    Project Development Objective
PPA    Pluriannual Investment Plan
QAG    Quality Assurance Group

SEA       Sectoral Environment Assessment
SEINFRA State Secretariat for Infrastructure
SEMARH State Secretariat for the Environment and Hydrological Resources
SEUC      State System of Protected Areas
SGF       AGETOP's Financial Management System
SIOFINET State Financial Management System
STN       National Treasury Secretariat
VOC       Vehicle Operating Costs




          Vice President: Pamela Cox

        Country Director: John Briscoe

         Sector Manager: Jose Luis Irigoyen

     Project Team Leader: Aymeric-Albin Meyer

                                                      Brazil
                BR GOIAS STATE HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT




                                                CONTENTS




1. Basic Information........................................................................................................ 1
2. Key Dates.................................................................................................................... 1
3. Ratings Summary........................................................................................................ 1
4. Sector and Theme Codes ............................................................................................ 2
5. Bank Staff ................................................................................................................... 2
6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design............................................... 3
7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 9
8. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 14
9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 20
10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ................................................... 21
11. Lessons Learned...................................................................................................... 24
12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners......... 25
Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis......................................................................... 26
Annex 2. Restructuring (if any) .................................................................................... 33
Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing.......................................................................... 34
Annex 4. Outputs by Component.................................................................................. 36
Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis).. 44
Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes............. 53
Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance.................................. 56
Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any) .............................................................. 57
Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)...................................... 58
Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR................... 59
Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders..................... 69
Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents .................................................................... 70

1. Basic Information
                                                                      BR GOIAS STATE
Country:                Brazil                Project Name:           HIGHWAY
                                                                      MANAGEMENT
Project ID:             P055954               L/C/TF Number(s):       IBRD-46360
ICR Date:               10/31/2006            ICR Type:               Core ICR
Lending Instrument:     APL                   Borrower:               STATE OF GOI핿
Original Total
                        USD 65.0M             Disbursed Amount:       USD 55.4M
Commitment:
Environmental Category:A
Implementing Agencies


AGETOP
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners


2. Key Dates

     Process              Date            Process         Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                               Date(s)
Concept Review: 11/03/2000           Effectiveness:     03/26/2002        03/26/2002
Appraisal:         03/26/2001        Restructuring(s):
Approval:          08/23/2001        Mid-term Review:                     11/20/2003
                                     Closing:           12/31/2004        12/31/2006


3. Ratings Summary
3.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Low or Negligible
Bank Performance:                               Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Satisfactory


3.2 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
 Implementation Performance       Indicators     QAG Assessments (if any)        Rating:
Potential Problem Project at any
                                No            Quality at Entry (QEA):         Satisfactory
time (Yes/No):
Problem Project at any time
                                No            Quality of Supervision (QSA):   None
(Yes/No):
DO rating before
                                Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:




                                             1

4. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                             Original          Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Sub-national government administration                                 13                13
Roads and highways                                                     87                87
                                                        Original Priority Actual Priority
Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Decentralization                                         Primary           Primary
Infrastructure services for private sector development   Primary           Primary
Rural services and infrastructure                        Secondary         Secondary
Other environment and natural resources management       Secondary         Primary


5. Bank Staff
                         Positions                           At ICR         At Approval
Vice President:                                         Pamela Cox        David de Ferranti
                                                                          Gobind T.
Country Director:                                       John Briscoe
                                                                          Nankani
                                                                          Danny M.
Sector Manager:                                         Jose Luis Irigoyen
                                                                          Leipziger
                                                        Aymeric-Albin
Project Team Leader:                                                      Jacques L. Cellier
                                                        Meyer
                                                        Aymeric-Albin
ICR Team Leader:
                                                        Meyer
ICR Primary Author:                                     Elisabeth Goller




                                                 2

6. Project Context, Development Objectives and Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)
6.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country macroeconomic and structural/sector background, rationale
for Bank assistance)


Note: According to the Bank's processing procedures for Adaptable Program Loans
(APLs), the Implementation and Completion Results Report (ICR) for an APL must be
prepared six months before the final disbursement instead of six months after the closing
of the loan.

Country and sector background
During the 1990s the State of Goias had gradually improved its socio-economic
performance and went through an important phase of modernization, moving away from
agriculture toward provision of services and industry. In that decade the economy had
experienced average annual growth rates of about 2.5%, and in 2001 agriculture
contributed to about 18% of GDP, the service sector to 47%, and industry to 35%. The
State's contribution to the national GDP was 1.75% in 1990 and 2.09% in 2001. There
had been improvements in the social area in line with the average progress made at the
national level: the literacy rate in people above 15 years old increased from 82.8% in
1991 to 88.1% in 2000, the infant mortality rate decreased from 33.9 per 1,000 live-born
infants in 1990 to 21.3 in 2000, and life expectancy increased from 67.5 years in 1992 to
70.1 years in 2002. During the same period the coverage in the provision of basic
services remained stable with about 82% of the population provided with piped water
and 32% with sewage. The Human Development Indicator (HDI) increased from 0.7 in
1991 to 0.77 in 2000.

As in many states in Brazil, the fiscal environment of the State of Goias in the 1990s was
characterized by generous public spending, low levels of fiscal accountability, and
increasingly high indebtedness. This started to gradually change at the end of that decade
with a new state administration that took office in 1999, the signing in 1998 between the
State and the Federal Government of a debt restructuring and fiscal adjustment program,
and the introduction of the federal law of fiscal responsibility of 2000. Some positive
results were already visible at appraisal. While in 1998 the State had reached a peak with
a primary deficit of R$ 732 million, in 2001 it was able to accumulate a surplus of R$
141 million. In the same period the tax revenues of the State increased by 69%. In 2001
the ratio between the consolidated debt and the net current revenue was 3.4, compared to
4.06 in 1999. Public sector staff expenditures amounted to 68.36% of net current revenue
in 1999 and 67.76% in 2001.

The fiscal adjustment measures taken by the new administration consisted mainly of
efforts to curb the increase of public servant wages and pension obligations, reduce other



                                              3

current and capital expenditures, enhance the efficiency of public expenditures, and
increase tax revenues. In parallel, the administration also embarked on an administrative
reform, reducing the number of state secretaries, terminating some of the autonomous
agencies, liquidating several public enterprises, and privatizing others. It also put special
focus on the pension issue aiming at gradually decreasing the weight of pension
obligations on the state budget through the restructuring of the then-insolvent State
Institute for Welfare of Public Servants (IPASGO) and the establishment of a pension
fund for public servants.

Environmental concerns had not been a high priority throughout the 1990s: little focus
was placed on the sustainable use of natural resources and few established areas to
protect biodiversity existed. The new administration, however, recognized the importance
of an effective environmental policy to allow for the development of agriculture to take
place in a sustainable fashion, with due consideration to biodiversity protection and
adequate natural resource management. Goias was the first state in Brazil to establish an
environmental agency (Goias Environmental Agency - AGMA) at the end of the 1990s,
and at appraisal a broad consensus existed that the State's environmental framework
needed to be strengthened.

To increase the competitiveness of its economy, the State was also aware that it had to
improve the efficiency of its transport logistics system. However, a large part of the
system is dependent upon the Federal Government, including the federal road network as
well as transport through rail, port, multimodal, and federal waterways. At appraisal
about 85% of goods and 95% of passengers were transported by road. Rail and inland
waterways played a very limited role and their importance was not expected to increase
in the medium term given the need for large investments, for which the public sector had
no fiscal space and the private sector had no appetite under the prevailing conditions. In
1999 a bonded warehouse was established in Anapolis, and through the railway and
port operation privatizations at the federal level, the operational efficiency of Brazil's
multimodal transport corridors had been enhanced somewhat.

At appraisal, the backbone of the state transport system was (and today still is) the road
sector, which consisted of a network that was insufficiently integrated with the country's
main interstate and export corridors. Moreover, the lack of priority given throughout the
1990s to periodic maintenance and the deficient planning and programming of
expenditures, often influenced by political rather than technical and economic
considerations, had led to the deterioration of the paved network.

The State was not only responsible for its own network, but since the 1970s, given the
very limited financial and administrative capacities of the municipalities, had also
informally assumed road investment and maintenance responsibilities for many
municipal roads. Two entities had shared this responsibility until shortly before appraisal:



                                              4

the Inter-municipal Road Consortium (CRISA) and the Goias Highway Department
(DER-GO). They had carried out the maintenance activities on both networks by force
account and their operational efficiency had been poor.

At appraisal the new administration had already started an ambitious road sector reform.
It had liquidated the previous two entities and had created the Agency for Transport and
Public Works (AGETOP) to absorb their functions. It decided to contract out routine
maintenance on the state network and had introduced a law to restrict the use of certain
State tax revenues, mainly those from the vehicle registration tax (IPVA), to road
maintenance, rehabilitation and upgrading. It also considered the possibility to reassign
the maintenance responsibilities for local roads to the municipalities. However, to embark
on this ambitious program, AGETOP needed major capacity strengthening, in particular
in the field of planning and programming, new and integrated systems, and the
consolidation of its organization and staff.

Rational for Bank assistance and contribution to higher level objectives
The project provided support to the State of Goias at a key moment when the basic
conditions were given for its successful implementation, but when a number of
challenges still needed to be overcome. These challenges mainly consisted in ensuring
that the initial efforts of the new administration could be consolidated and broadened, and
that the new ideas and approaches within AGETOP could be implemented to ultimately
allow for an increase in the efficiency of the state's road transport system within
environmental and fiscal sustainable frameworks.

At that time the Bank had already had a longstanding involvement in the road transport
sector in Brazil and was able to assist the State with a significant experience in terms of
network management, institutional strengthening of road agencies, maintenance policies,
concessioning, fiscal and public expenditure policies, and environmental management.
The Bank support aimed at providing the following value added:

     To increase the efficiency of the state road programs through the application of
        agreed technical, economic and environmental criteria and methodologies and
        their joint review;
     To bring international experience and best practices in highway sub-sector
        management, including administrative decentralization, maintenance by contract
        with the private sector, road agency organization and management, and road-
        related environmental and social safeguard policies and procedures;
     To promote the conservation of the state's natural resources; and
     To bring international experience and best practices in state reform in general and
        in utility regulation in particular.

By focusing on the efficiency of the state's road transport system within environmental
and fiscal sustainable frameworks, the project was expected to help address development


                                               5

challenges in three of the five main areas of the 2000-2002 Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS), i.e. in the fields of renewed growth, sustainable fiscal adjustment and improved
management of environmental assets, which are all closely related to poverty reduction as
the overarching objective. In particular, under the theme of renewed growth the CAS
considered improvements in infrastructure, particularly regional transport systems and
reductions of transport costs as critical to increase growth and reduce the so-called
"Brazil Cost" (Custo Brasil).

Finally, the project was in full coherence with the State's priorities for strategic
development (Pluriannual Plan PPA 2000-2003: Goias 21st Century), which focused on
sustainable economic growth, social equity, regional development and environmental
sustainability, public sector modernization and political unity.


6.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)


The project constitutes the first phase of a Program comprised of two APLs, which aims
at increasing the efficiency of the road transport system in the State of Goias within
environmental and fiscal sustainable frameworks. The project's purpose was to establish
an appropriate policy and institutional framework for the effective management of the
road sector, while restoring the conditions of the most important state highways. In
particular, it was expected to provide an opportunity to test alternative models to
decentralize the road administration, to experiment with private management of highway
maintenance through innovative forms of performance contracts, to strengthen the key
functions of the then newly-created state highway agency, and to identify and map the
environmentally-sensitive areas in the State. In the second phase it is envisaged to
support the completion of the rehabilitation of the state paved road network, to structure
and partially implement a state program to ensure all-weather access on the state unpaved
network, to link selected agro-industrial centers to major highways or multimodal
corridors, and to continue with and consolidate the activities carried out under the
highway policy and institutional development, environmental management, and state
reform components.

The key indicators to measure the project performance were:

     Increase in the proportion of road user distance traveled on good condition
        highways;
     Reduction in average land transport cost for agro-industrial exports;
     Increase of the proportions of paved network length in good and poor conditions;
     Increase of the proportion of state highway network effectively maintained by
        private contractors;
     Increase of the proportion of state capital expenditures on roads with satisfactory
        estimated economic rates of return; and



                                               6

     Increase of total area of established environmental protection areas.


The conditions for the presentation of the second phase of this Program for Bank
approval were (i) a satisfactory project performance to be measured against the project's
key performance indicators and (ii) a satisfactory performance of the State under its
fiscal adjustment and structural reform program to be measured against the following
triggers:

     The State Power Company (CELG) brought to the point of sale, which was scheduled for
        the second semester of 2001;
     The pension fund for public servants capitalized with at least 30% of the revenues from
        the sale of CELG; and
     The State having implemented the Law on Fiscal Responsibility of the Federation.



6.3 Revised PDO and Key Indicators (as approved by original approving authority), and
reasons/justification


No revision of the PDO or the key indicators took place.

6.4 Main Beneficiaries, original and revised
(briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD and as captured in the
PDO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected to benefit from the
project)

The PAD envisaged the following main project beneficiaries:

     Road users, producers and consumers of goods transported by state roads
        since road rehabilitation, resurfacing, paving and more efficient maintenance
        were expected to reduce vehicle operating costs, travel time and accidents;
     Goias' farmers and agro-industries since paving road links between production
        and market/processing areas was expected to improve the competitiveness mainly
        of locally produced grains and derivatives;
     Tax payers since maintenance of municipal roads at the municipal or inter-
        municipal level was expected to lead to a reduction of AGETOP's workforce and
        equipment fleet and consequently to substantial fiscal savings; and similarly since
        outsourcing the maintenance of the state road network to private contractors was
        expected to provide private sector jobs and enable the government to further
        reduce the public sector workforce; and
     Goias' population at large since the policy and institutional development
        components were expected to contribute to the effective management of the
        highway sector, improved conservation of the state's natural resources and
        biodiversity, and to the implementation of structural and administrative reforms.



                                              7

6.5 Original Components (as approved)


The project consisted of the following five components:

     A highway rehabilitation and maintenance component to rehabilitate,
       resurface, and carry out safety and environmental rehabilitation works on a total
       of about 1,500 km of the paved highway network, and related engineering
       studies, designs, environmental and social assessments, and supervision services.
     A highway paving component to pave the road surface and, where necessary, to
       strengthen or reconstruct the road structures, including bridges, on a total of about
       300 km, linking agro-industrial centers to major highway or multimodal
       corridors, and related engineering studies, designs, environmental and social
       assessments, and supervision services.
     A highway policy and institutional development component to provide
       technical assistance, equipment and software, and training of staff:
           o To prepare, monitor and evaluate two pilot road decentralization projects
              to strengthen the road maintenance capabilities of a single municipality
              and of a group of municipalities associated in an inter-municipal road
              partnership, and to transfer all maintenance activities on the municipal
              roads to such municipalities;
           o To monitor and evaluate AGETOP's highway network maintenance
              program carried out through, inter alia, performance-based contracts;
           o To strengthen AGETOP's planning and management capacity through the
              establishment of a road network database and monitoring system, and the
              restructuring and upgrading of its management and control systems;
           o To strengthen AGETOP's capacities to carry out its environmental and
              social safeguard functions and responsibilities;
           o To upgrade the monitoring and evaluation system for the project; and
           o To strengthen the transport planning information system of the State
              Infrastructure Secretariat (SEINFRA).
     An environmental management component to provide technical assistance,
       equipment and software, staff training, and small works:
           o To identify and prepare a map of the environmentally-sensitive areas in
              the State. This map had to be based on a consolidated database on the
              State's natural resources and biodiversity and on the results of their
              analysis, and was expected to serve as a basis to screen the potential
              impacts of projects and to consolidate and expand the state's system of
              protected areas;
           o To strengthen AGMA's capacity to screen the potential impacts of road
              projects, review environmental assessments and license works, supervise
              the implementation of environmental management plans, and monitor and
              evaluate the environmental impacts of the project; and


                                            8

            o To establish the environmental protection areas of Serra das Gales and of
                Serra da Bocaina, including the construction of the areas' necessary basic
                infrastructure.
     A state reform component to provide technical assistance and staff training to
        help implement the state's structural and administrative reform programs,
        including the strengthening of AGR.


6.6 Revised Components


No revision of project components took place.

6.7 Other significant changes
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)

No other significant changes took place.

7. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes
7.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their
mitigations identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable)


In line with the 2002 Quality at Entry Assessment for this operation, the overall quality at
entrance is rated as satisfactory. The key factors during project preparation that
contributed to the success of project implementation and its positive outcomes include (i)
the soundness of the background analyses, (ii) the understanding of the linkages of the
operation with the State's fiscal situation and the use of the APL concept, (iii) the clear
and relatively simple design, (iv) the strong ownership and commitment of the Borrower,
and (v) the readiness of the project.

The background analyses comprised of (i) a comprehensive analysis of the sector-
specific context, in which the project is embedded, (ii) thorough technical analyses, such
as the evaluation of alternative rehabilitation and maintenance strategies, paving options
for gravel roads, and alternative rehabilitation, maintenance and upgrading policies and
standards, and (iii) a detailed analysis of the State's fiscal situation and the Program's
fiscal impact.

The fiscal analysis, inter alia, permitted the government to realize the trade-offs that
were necessary to successfully implement the project. It also led to the APL structure,
which was appropriate not only in the light of the State's fiscal situation, but also because
of the need for reforms to strengthen the sector institutions and the uncertainty about the
rate of progress in implementing these reforms. A constant focus on the State's fiscal
situation was also assured through the fiscal adjustment related triggers for the second


                                                9

phase and a continuous dialogue at government level. All this ensured relatively
successfully the availability of funds for project implementation at a time when Brazil's
tight fiscal management at all government levels drastically limited the scope for public
infrastructure investments.

Overall the project design was appropriate. The project development objective was clear,
realistic, and relevant. It reflected (and still reflects) the Borrower's development
priorities and was in line with the Bank's development priorities for Brazil, as outlined in
the 1999 CAS, confirmed in the 2000-2002 CAS Progress Report, and reiterated in the
2003 CAS and the 2006 CAS Progress Report.

The project scope was comprehensive, but not overly ambitious. The project embraced a
well-formulated investment strategy and placed the fiscal and environmental dimension
at the core of the design. The project components were well targeted to achieve the
overall development objective and their design was technically robust, having been based
on comprehensive financial, economic, technical and fiduciary assessments. The project
design was also relatively simple: two works components and a limited number of well-
defined institutional interventions. It reflected the excellent sector knowledge of the
project team as well as lessons learned, especially in terms of network management,
maintenance policies and environmental aspects.

The risk analysis was somewhat optimistic considering that most beneficiary agencies
had been created only shortly before appraisal, so their capacity was weak, and that the
fiscal situation of the State was still very fragile; however, most problems that occurred
during project implementation had been anticipated and some of the proposed measures
contributed effectively to risk mitigation.

Although the project had five beneficiaries, the centralization of project execution within
AGETOP worked well since the project implementation structure was properly designed,
with fiduciary aspects adequately taken into account, and the project team was
effectively staffed.

Since the decision to use an APL structure came relatively late in the project preparation
cycle, it was agreed that the duration of the two phases should not be considerably longer
than the originally envisaged duration for the whole program of six years. Consequently,
the implementation period for the first phase was set at slightly less than 3.5 years, which
from at technical point of view would have been feasible, considering the readiness of
the project at appraisal. However, the budgetary trade-offs the State had to make
especially in 2003 to remain fiscally responsible caused a slowdown in project
implementation and increased the implementation period to five years, which is still well
below the Brazilian average for investment projects (close to seven years).

Finally, an important success factor was the ownership of the Borrower for this project,


                                                10

with the Governor acting as champion, and the strong commitment, especially to
institutional advances in the road management and maintenance areas from the outset.
This, together with the readiness of the respective background analyses and preparatory
activities at appraisal (the project had no material effectiveness conditions), made it
possible to reach a number of institutional milestones very early in the implementation
process.

7.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and
actions taken, as applicable)


The strong commitment of the government to this project materialized as expected during
implementation. Budget allocations on the whole were sufficient, and, in general,
consultants and contractors performed well. No major problems occurred during project
implementation; however, the project suffered from a reduced implementation pace
during the election period of 2002/2003. It was also affected by delays in the provision of
counterpart funds due to the fiscal difficulties experienced by the State, especially in the
period 2003-2004. Because of the already very tight implementation schedule, these were
the main reasons for the two-year loan closing date extension. Additionally, there were
some procurement and payment delays, mainly in the environmental component, and the
strengthening of AGR and AGMA started later than planned. In the case of AGR this
happened because the agency first needed to define and consolidate its structure. AGMA
instead was struggling at the beginning of project execution to find an agreement with
SEMARH, the newly created environmental secretariat, on their respective roles and
responsibilities.

Some of the measures to overcome or mitigate the implementation problems consisted of
a prioritization of administrative procedures related to the project, the authorization by
the State of additional budgets, and action plans agreed with beneficiary agencies to
accelerate implementation.

The mid-term review held in November 2003 concluded that project implementation had
progressed in a satisfactory manner; consequently, there was no need for project changes
or restructuring. The timing of the target values of the indicators was adjusted at the
moment of the loan closing date extension to reflect the new implementation timeframe.

7.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization


The PAD contains a detailed and well-designed M&E framework. The output indicators
are comprehensive and closely linked to the main activities of the five project
components. The outcome indicators replicate those commonly used in similar Bank
projects. In general the target values for the output and outcome indicators were
realistically set. The PAD also includes a very comprehensive monitoring framework



                                              11

with a series of intermediate targets. This monitoring framework not only permitted the
Bank to regularly track the project implementation progress, but also provided the
Borrower with an instrument to assess sector performance. In the design of the M&E
system, emphasis was given to the fact that data collection should not impose large
additional costs on the project. The goal was achieved with respect to most indicators,
including those on road conditions as such data is primarily used for normal planning and
programming activities in the sector.

No indicators on the progress of the implementation of the State's fiscal and
administrative reform were included because both the Borrower and the Federal
Government objected to it during project preparation. However, a condition for the
preparation of the second phase of the Program was the successful implementation by the
State of Goias of the Federal Law on Fiscal Responsibility, in accordance with specific
fiscal targets annually negotiated between the Federal Government and the State.

With hindsight, one of the outcome indicators, the average land transport costs of Goias'
agro-industrial exports, revealed not appropriate to measure improvements in the
efficiency of the road transport system. Indeed, (i) the road condition is only one
relatively minor and indirect parameter taken into account in land transport cost
determination, (ii) land transport costs vary substantially depending on market and
trucking industry conditions, and (iii) to relate land transport costs to the condition of a
specific category of roads (state vs. federal, Goias's state roads vs. other state roads) is
very difficult as freight rates are determined for routes (from an origin to a destination)
independently of the roads effectively used.

7.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)


In general terms, disbursement by AGETOP was in line with Bank procedures and
norms, and the management and control of the special account was satisfactory. The
annual auditing reports were submitted largely on time and none was qualified. However,
AGETOP has never implemented the computerized self-standing project management
system envisaged at appraisal mainly because it constituted a very ambitious task with
limited usefulness for the agency. The financial control of the project was based on excel
files and the financial management reports were produced using AGETOP's existing
systems (SIOFINET and SGF); this was considered satisfactory to the Bank.

AGETOP carried out its procurement functions in a satisfactory way throughout project
implementation. No major procurement problems occurred and the duration of bidding
processes was generally reasonable. AGETOP submitted all procurement processes to
the Bank for prior review, and a post-review carried out this year has shown that they
respected the respective objections and no-objections. AGETOP prepared project
progress reports for each supervision mission, which included updates on the


                                                12

procurement activities. Project implementation strengthened AGETOP's capacity to carry
out Bank procurement. A computerized procurement system was set up; however, it is
not yet used due to internal resistances.

For environmental impact purposes, the project was rated as a category A project. The
following safeguard policies were triggered at appraisal: Environmental Assessment,
Natural Habitats, Cultural Property, Indigenous Peoples, and Involuntary Resettlement.
Consequently, AGETOP prepared, among others, a Sectorial Environmental Assessment
(SEA), an environmental procedures and guidelines manual for road works, a
resettlement framework, and a manual for stakeholder consultations. The SEA included a
diagnostic of AGMA's and AGETOP's institutional capacities and recommended
measures to strengthen them.

During project implementation safeguard issues were handled in a satisfactory manner:
for all rehabilitations, AGETOP prepared and implemented Environmental Management
Plans (EMPs) and for paving works, AGETOP carried out stakeholder consultations and
prepared and implemented Environmental Impact Assessments (EIAs) and the related
EMPs. On the basis of these documents, AGMA emitted the necessary licenses. There
was no need to use the resettlement framework and no interference with indigenous
peoples areas occurred. On the road section GO-142 Montividiu do Norte Div. GO-TO
archeological artifacts were discovered and the recuperation activities were carefully
handled according to the norms of the National Institute for Artistic and Historic
Patrimony (IPHAN). The project also included specific activities to strengthen
AGETOP's and AGMA's capacity to deal with safeguard issues (for details see annex 4).

7.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by
present operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional
capacity, and next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)


Regular maintenance of the roads rehabilitated and paved under this project is ensured
through the state maintenance program (Programa 3a Via), financed mainly through the
resources of the vehicle registration tax, which are restricted by law to road maintenance,
rehabilitation and upgrading. This is a multiyear program that covers the whole state
network, the second phase of which is currently being bid. Some of the major
institutional reforms and advances succeeded precisely because of the strong ownership
and commitment of the State and are well-consolidated; therefore their sustainability is
likely. The project also focused on strengthening the beneficiary agencies created shortly
before appraisal and provided a valuable contribution to the consolidation of their
organizational structures, capacity strengthening and the improvement of their systems.

No transition arrangements to post-completion operation are necessary. However, as
already mentioned, this project is the first phase of a Program. The triggers for the



                                               13

proposal of the second phase for Bank approval were met, the operation has already been
authorized by the Federal Government and the Bank, and it is under preparation. It is
intended to pursue the Program's objectives, linking closely to the achievements of the
first phase. The second phase, though not essential to guarantee the sustainability of the
first phase, will help to ensure the necessary financial resources to complete the
rehabilitation and extension of the state road network and to provide further support to
institutional strengthening in the road, environmental and state reform areas.

8. Assessment of Outcomes
8.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)


The project development objective, the design and its implementation are fully consistent
with the current development priorities of the State of Goias. To increase the efficiency
of its road transport system continues to be essential to reach a more competitive Goias
and to develop the State as a regional economic center, one of the four strategic priorities
of Goias' Pluriannual Plan 2004/2007 (PPA 2004/2007- "Avancar Mais"). To focus on
environmental sustainability, among others through programs for environment protection
and sustainable production, and to strive for a modern and entrepreneurial public
administration, which emphasizes on public finances, tax collection and state finance
management, are two other strategic priorities in this plan. The State has also remained
strongly committed to fiscal sustainability as shown by its good performance in the
framework of its Fiscal Restructuring and Adjustment Program.

The importance of an efficient transport system is also recognized at the federal level in
strategic documents (Pluriannual Plan 2004-2007 "Plano Brasil Para Todos") and
through increased investments for maintenance and limited expansion of transport
infrastructure, in particular in the road sector, via the Pilot Investment Project (PPI) and a
new Bank loan with a very similar objective (Brazil Road Transport Project P092990).

The project objective continues to be in full harmony with the current CAS since it
directly impacts three of its four pillars: to foster competitiveness, sustainability, and
macroeconomic stability (Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report for the Period
FY2004-2007). The project also meets the current requirements for Bank lending to the
states in Brazil, which are now more selective and require a focus on sustainable growth.
Commitment to reform and public sector management also play an important role in this
respect.

Finally, also the fact that the State of Goias has requested a loan to finance the second
phase of the Program, the preparation of which is already authorized by the Federal
Government and the Bank, clearly shows the high relevance of this project.




                                                14

8.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on
outputs in Annex 4)


The achievement of the project development objective, which was to increase the
efficiency of the state road transport system within sustainable environmental and fiscal
frameworks, is rated satisfactory. These achievements are described below and are based
on results obtained toward meeting or exceeding the target values of the following main
indicators:

 Indicator                              Baseline              Project end target        Actual three
                                                                                       months before
                                                                                         project end
 Proportion of vehicle-km on              54%                         75%                    81%
 good condition paved roads
 Proportion of road network in            64%                         77%                    74%
 good condition
 Proportion of road network in             9%                          3%                    12%
 poor condition
 Percentage of state highway              10%                         60%                    49%
 expenditures with economic
 rates of return above 12%
 Number of additional paved                 0                           6              5 (7 expected by
 roads linked to main agro-                                                              project end)
 industrial centers
 Pilot municipal road agency and      Principles of          1 pilot municipal road   26 inter-municipal
 inter-municipal road consortium  decentralization model    agency and 1 pilot inter-  road consortia
 operational                     agreed and municipalities municipal road consortium     operational
                                         selected                 operational
 Proportion of state highway               0%                         90%                   100%
 network effectively maintained
 by private contractors
 Reduction of AGETOP staff                3,500                      1,000                  1,693
 Increase in total area of                 0%                        100%                   300%
 established environmental
 protection areas
 Identification of potentially    Request for proposals     Identification completed    Identification
 sensitive areas from the               approved                                          completed
 environment standpoint
 completed at the state level


The efficiency of the state road transport system has substantially increased. The ex-
post economic analysis showed that 81% of the traffic on the paved state network
currently travels on roads in good condition, compared to 54% at appraisal and a project
outcome target of 75%. The achievement was possible mainly because up to September
2006 AGETOP restored under the project about 1,250 km or close to 20% of the
extension of its paved network of approximately 7,500 km at appraisal. In addition,
throughout project implementation, the complete state network received regular routine
maintenance under three-year performance-based contracts (Programa 3a Via).

Despite the fact that the proportion of traffic on roads in good condition was higher than



                                                    15

expected, the average unit road user cost on the paved state road network decreased only
by 1%, which is half of what was forecasted at appraisal. The only partial achievement of
this target is due to the delay in the implementation of the first phase and the start of the
second phase of the program, which caused many roads to reach a stage in their life
cycle, when degradation is accelerated, and so to interact negatively with the evolution of
road user costs.

The State has improved the efficiency of its resource allocation through more selective
investment choices in the road sector. While at appraisal only 10% of road sector
expenditures had an economic rate of return of 12% or more, during the period 2002 to
2005 this figure was on average 49%, so the outcome indicator target of 60% at project
end was closely attained.

The average land transport costs of Goias' agro-industrial exports, i.e. freight rates for
export products, increased by approximately 20%, and consequently the outcome
indicator target of a 2% reduction was not reached. However, as explained in section 7.3,
this is a not good indicator to measure the efficiency of the road transport system, and
therefore it is given limited consideration in the assessment of the achievements of this
project.

The project helped to improve the connectivity and so the efficiency of Goias' paved road
network by financing the paving of close to 300 km of road sections, which link the
following five agro-industrial centers to major corridors: Itaberai, Anicuns, Palmerias,
Edeira, and the southern part of the State of Tocantins. If AGETOP completes about 30
km of paving works by project end, two additional agro-industrial centers (Cristalina
region and Parauna region) will be linked to major corridors, and the respective project
output target will be exceeded.

Efficiency gains in the state road transport system have also been attained through the
outsourcing to the private sector of road maintenance on the whole network under
performance-based contracts (through which another output indicator target was
exceeded). As already mentioned, the long-term nature of these contracts has ensured
regular road maintenance over an extended period of time and helped to keep road
conditions stable. Their long-term nature also reduced the number of procurement
processes to be undertaken, and the performance-based payments allowed for simpler but
more efficient supervision of contract execution. The program was implemented and
financed by the Borrower, with the Bank team having contributed to this process through
policy advice at the program design level and follow-up of the program's
implementation.

Similarly, the transfer of the responsibility to maintain the municipal road network to the
municipalities has permitted AGETOP to increasingly focus its time and efforts on its
core business. While the project had envisaged to carry out two decentralization pilots,


                                              16

the State created 26 inter-municipal work consortia (CIMOS), which currently carry out
road maintenance for 127 of the 246 municipalities (the remaining municipalities carry
out their own maintenance), and in 2005, 56,000 km of the municipal network (70%)
were maintained through the CIMOS. This new approach also provides more
transparency in the maintenance of local roads, which previously had often been carried
out in response to political favors, and ensures a more systematic maintenance of local
roads targeted to the real needs on the ground. Thus the respective project output target is
exceeded. As with the Programa 3a Via, this decentralization process was implemented
by the Borrower, with the Bank team having contributed through policy/technical advice
at the design level and follow-up of the program's implementation.

The outsourcing of the maintenance on the state road network and the transfer of the
maintenance responsibility of municipal roads to the municipalities changed AGETOP's
way of operating, transforming it from a relatively inefficient executing agency to a more
efficient contract managing body. The transformation implied important changes in the
agency's organizational structure, its consolidation, a drastic re-dimensioning in staffing
(from 3,500 to 1,693), the gradual acquisition of the necessary technical skills through
training and new hiring, the integration, improvement and modernization of its systems
and processes, and hence efficiency gains as well as substantial attainment of the
project's output targets in this area. This year AGETOP was second in the State's quality
program, which included 40 entities of the state administration.

The enhancement of the State's planning capacity has also contributed to a more efficient
road transport system, at the macro level, through the Road Freight Master Plan and the
respective database financed under this project. Within AGETOP, the creation of a
planning department, the allocation of newly-hired engineers to this department, capacity
strengthening, the introduction of performance-based maintenance contracts, and the
creation of in-house capacity for work supervision have all contributed to structuring a
reasonable planning capacity, to which the project contributed mainly with policy advice
and financing for equipment and training.

Important progress was also made to strengthen the environmental framework. The
State instituted the system of protected areas and established a program to consolidate
and expand the existing environmental protection areas. Since 2001, the environmental
protection areas in the State increased from 400,000 ha to 1,600,000 ha (three times the
project output target), which means that 4.8% of the state territory is currently protected.
Most of these areas are legally created, but have not yet been implemented for two major
reasons: a general problem with land tenure in Brazil and a lack of resources to
indemnify owners. The State is currently undertaking a study on economic incentives and
instruments for environmental management and the creation of a land easement market,
which could allow gradual progress to be made on this issue.

The State's environmental protection system, established in the late 1990s, has been


                                              17

gradually consolidated, with the strengthening of AGMA and SEMARH and
the creation of the council for the environment (CEMA) and the environmental fund
(FEMA). The project contributed to consolidate the relationship between AGMA and
SEMARH and to strengthen AGMA's capacities and skills through financing for (i) the
revision of its environmental licensing procedures and processes and the development of
an internet-based environmental licensing system, (ii) improvements of the management
procedures, practices and systems, (iii) staff training, (iv) the identification and mapping
of the environmentally sensitive areas in the State, and (v) the creation of a geo-
processing laboratory.

The State's fiscal and administrative reform efforts were a success. As a result of the
implementation of the fiscal adjustment program, the State achieved a primary surplus of
R$ 653 million in 2005, compared to a deficit of R$ 732 million in 1998. The
consolidated net debt/net current revenues ratio fell from 313% in 2000 to 184% in April
2006, well below the fiscal responsibility law target of 200%. The debt to current net
revenues decreased from 4.06 in 1999 to 2.64 in December 2005. The public sector
salaries/net current revenues ratio decreased from 66.5% in 1998 to 58.1% in 2005.
Between 1998 and 2005 the State's net revenues in current terms increased by 50%, those
from the main state tax (ICMS) increased by 37%, and the primary expenses increased
by 33%.

On the administrative side, the State enhanced the efficiency in its public administration
through, among others, (i) organizational restructuring, including the termination of some
autonomous agencies, the liquidation of several public enterprises, and the privatization
and/or federalization of others, (ii) the preparation of a long-term development strategy,
the creation of planning units in all government entities, the formation of a planning
network among these entities, and the preparation of two consecutive PPAs, and (iii)
improved reliability in the civil servants' payment system, the creation and capitalization
of a state pension fund, the structuring of an individual performance evaluation system,
and the strengthening of the professional training program. The project contributed
directly to the state administrative reform with activities to support the successful
strengthening of AGR, the State Regulatory Agency.

8.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost,
and comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)


The project's efficiency is considered substantial. At appraisal the economic internal rate
of return (EIRR) for the rehabilitation component was estimated at 94% and the net
present value (NPV) was estimated at R$2,179 million. For the paving component the
EIRR was estimated at 63% and the NPV was estimated at R$204 million. The ex-post
economic analysis for the rehabilitation component resulted in a NPV of R$2,894 million
and an EIRR of 99%, which indicates a very robust economic justification. For the



                                              18

paving component the ex-post economic analysis resulted in an EIRR of 29% and a NPV
of approximately US$ 40 million. The difference between the ex-ante and the ex-post
results for the paving components are explained by higher construction costs (+10.8%)
not compensated by the higher observed traffic levels (+48%) and delays in the
implementation of the project (five years instead of three as initially planned), resulting
in delayed benefits.

The unit costs for the rehabilitation and paving works were, respectively, 20% and 11%,
higher than the appraisal forecasts. These cost increases are due to longer periods of
work execution, mainly due to payment delays, and so the need for larger price
adjustments. They are also partially explained by the strong increase in oil prices, which
since 2000 have augmented the cost of bituminous materials by 215%.

8.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Satisfactory


The overall outcome rating is based on the combined assessment of relevance, efficiency,
and the achievement of the project development objective. As explained in the previous
sections, the relevance of the project is high and its efficiency is substantial. The
achievement of the project development objective is satisfactory given the increase in
efficiency of the state road transport system, the progress made in strengthening the
environmental framework, and the success of the State's fiscal and administrative reform
efforts. Consequently, the overall outcome of the project is rated as satisfactory.

8.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development


                                         Not applicable


(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)


The project's main impacts on institutional change/strengthening have been to (i)
demonstrate to the State of Goias the trade-offs required to successfully implement the
road maintenance and rehabilitation strategy, (ii) facilitate the introduction of a new and
sound management approach for the state road network, (iii) contribute to capacity
strengthening of all project beneficiaries, and (iv) stimulate the discussion on economic
instruments for environmental management.




                                               19

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative, if any)


                                         Not applicable

8.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)


                                         Not applicable

9. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome
Rating: Low or Negligible


The risk that the development outcome will not be maintained is low . The condition of
the state road network has significantly improved and a sound maintenance strategy is in
place, which ensures regularity and efficiency in road maintenance.

The fiscal situation of the State over the last five years has improved and gradually more
resources have been allocated to the road sector. AGETOP's budget allocations for the
road sector, including project and counterpart funds, were as follows: in 2002 R$
219,003,088, in 2003 R$ 210,670,025, in 2004 R$ 263,648,800, and in 2005 R$
386,066,374. In addition, the State has by law restricted the use of tax revenues (mainly
those from the vehicle registration tax - IPVA) to road maintenance, rehabilitation and
upgrading. Consequently, the risk that a change in the economic and political situation of
the State will affect the funds for regular road maintenance is low.

Similarly, the risk that the State and/or AGETOP will reverse the reform efforts in the
road sector is low since AGETOP restructured and consolidated its organizational
structure, reorganized and reduced the size of its local offices, reduced, renewed and
trained its staff, improved and modernized its systems, and clearly outlined its strategic
direction with the switch from an executing to a contract management culture.

The implementation of 26 CIMOS, already grouping together more than half of the
State's municipalities, seems a promising way to maintain the municipal road network;
however, the political process is not fully consolidated and the financing issue has not yet
been resolved in a definitive way (for details see annex 4). Consequently, it is still too
early to assess their long-term sustainability.

In environmental terms, the successful capacity strengthening within AGMA and
AGETOP, the progress achieved in the consolidation of the State's environmental
protection system and the legal creation of 1,160,000 ha of environmental protection
areas since 2002 are important steps toward the establishment of a sustainable


                                                20

environmental framework.

Finally, the request by the government for the second phase of this Program to complete
and consolidate the activities started under this project shows its strong commitment and
provides an additional guarantee that the development outcomes will be maintained and
strengthened.

10. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)
10.1 Bank
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Satisfactory

The Bank team played an important role in project identification, preparation and
appraisal. A multidisciplinary team of experts supported the Borrower in the
identification of key reform requirements in the road transport sector, the preparation of
the overall rehabilitation and paving program, and the definition of the new network
maintenance strategy. The Bank team effectively contributed to the design of the project
components, the M&E system and the implementation structure. Bank support and
supervision were especially strong during the preparation of the comprehensive social,
environmental, financial and economic assessments. The Bank team carried out adequate
fiduciary assessments and satisfactorily reflected lessons learned from previous projects
in the design. The risk analysis, though somewhat optimistic, was realistic; most
problems that occurred during project implementation had been anticipated and some of
the proposed measures contributed effectively to risk mitigation. Consequently, overall
the Bank performance in ensuring quality at entry was satisfactory. This is in line with
the QAG Quality of Entry Assessment, which concluded that the operation was sound
and well-designed to address the key organizational and institutional barriers to effective
resource allocation and efficient resource utilization in the road sector, and rated the
overall quality at entry as satisfactory.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Satisfactory

During implementation the project team maintained a constant and comprehensive
dialogue with the Borrower to identify and assist in the resolution of implementation
issues. It provided technical advice, fostered institutional progress, brought the different
government institutions and agencies closer together and helped to ensure adequate and
largely timely project funding. The team also provided substantial support on fiduciary
aspects, especially in the area of procurement (the Task Team Leader is himself a
procurement accredited staff), where at the request of the Borrower all processes were



                                                21

prior-reviewed. The handling of social and environmental issues was facilitated through
the inclusion in the project of institutional components to strengthen AGMA and the
environmental department of AGETOP.

Supervision focused on the achievement of the development objective and progress was
regularly monitored through the output indicators. Supervision missions were adequate
both in terms of site visits (on average twice a year) and experience and knowledge of
project team members, which have changed little during project implementation. On
average financial management missions took place on a yearly basis. During site visits,
meetings in the Borrower's premises were alternated by visits to project sites and
technical inspections of works. The results of the missions were adequately recorded in
detailed aide memoires and accurately reported to Bank management via the internal
systems. As such, Bank supervision supported the effective implementation of this
project, and consequently Bank performance in supervising the project is rated as
satisfactory.

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Considering the satisfactory Bank performance during lending and supervision, the
Bank's overall performance is also rated as satisfactory.

10.2 Borrower
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

The government performance is rated as satisfactory. The government showed strong
ownership and a high level of commitment during project preparation, especially as far as
some institutional and reform components are concerned, and maintained this
commitment throughout project implementation. The different government agencies
carried out the background analyses necessary for project preparation and the government
facilitated through adequate legislation and other measures the introduction of some
major sector reforms, such as (i) the restructuring of the road agencies, (ii) the restriction
by law of the use of certain State tax revenues, mainly the vehicle registration tax, to road
maintenance, rehabilitation and upgrading, (iii) the outsourcing of road maintenance for
the state network to the private sector, (iv) the creation of the CIMOS, and (v) the
decreeing of environmental protection areas.

Despite the very tight fiscal environment faced by the State, counterpart funds allocated
to the project were mostly sufficient and, with some exceptions, arrived in a largely
timely fashion. An adequate involvement of beneficiaries and stakeholders was ensured
through public consultations and special meetings with key stakeholders, such as
producers and the farmers' union. The changes in the government-appointed key officials



                                               22

involved in project implementation did not jeopardize continuity.

The Borrower largely complied with the legal covenants, except for some temporary
shortcomings/delays in counterpart funds.

(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Satisfactory


Implementing
               Performance
Agency
               The performance of the implementation agency is rated as satisfactory. The
               project coordination unit in this agency was small and, with the exception
               of one consultant, consisted exclusively of staff from AGETOP. It was
               supported by the other departments of AGETOP, especially in the areas of
               planning, procurement, work and contract execution, payments
               and environmental management, as well as by the other project
               beneficiaries. It was already adequately staffed during project preparation,
               during which it made important contributions. AGETOP and its
               coordination unit were very proactive during project implementation,
               monitored progress, carried out the necessary evaluations and analyses, and
               provided the Bank with all necessary data, information and support.

               In general terms, the implementation agency and the other beneficiaries
               appropriately handled the technical issues faced during project
               implementation, especially those related to the implementation of the new
               maintenance strategy in the road sector, the execution of works and
AGETOP
               consulting assignments, and the creation of the system of environment
               protection areas.

               The implementation agency adequately managed the fiduciary aspects of
               the project. No major procurement problems arose and bidding was
               undertaken for the most part in a timely fashion. Financial management
               was carried out in a largely satisfactory way despite some temporary
               shortcoming in the preparation of the financial management reports.
               AGETOP also prepared the agreed environmental and social assessments,
               obtained the necessary licenses, organized stakeholder consultations and
               adequately supervised the compliance with environmental aspects during
               work implementation.

               The communication with the Bank and the overall coordination among
               beneficiary agencies generally revealed efficient and largely successful.




                                             23

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Satisfactory

Considering the satisfactory rating of the government's and the implementation agency's
performances, the overall Borrower performance is rated as satisfactory.

11. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

It is important to factor in fiscal conditions to ensure successful project
implementation. Despite the fact that this project was undertaken under difficult fiscal
conditions, it only sufferee in a limited way from this. The comprehensive fiscal analysis
carried out at appraisal helped the government to understand the trade-offs that the
implementation of the project implied, and so to set its priorities and realistically
determine the project size. It also permitted the Bank to more accurately assess the
riskiness of the operation and to device mitigation measures, including the APL structure,
which alleviated the project's burden on the State's fiscal situation.

Broad consensus, government commitment and realistic targets are some of the
elements that help to speed up institutional reforms. This operation was very
successful in institutional terms, with most reforms under discussion at appraisal and
some taking place already in the early stages of implementation. This success is
attributable to the fact that during project preparation broad consensus existed on the
need for a road transport sector reform and that a number of important steps had already
been taken, such as the liquidation and termination of the previous road agencies and the
creation of a new entity. Such level of commitment was maintained during project
implementation, thanks in particular to the good relationship that the government and the
Bank built over the years. In addition to these external circumstances, an operation can
gain much if project targets are set realistically, for instance, focusing on pilots instead of
envisaging a full scale implementation, and the path to implement the reforms is clearly
traced.

A necessary condition to succeed in the decentralization of municipal road
maintenance to municipalities is to create a framework of positive incentives for
both parties. For the State of Goias the decentralization meant that AGETOP could
become more efficient and focus on its core business. It also meant that the State could
make good use of the equipment, machinery, and staff used prior to the conclusion of the
road transport sector reorganization to carry out road maintenance through force account.
For a large number of municipalities to adhere to the inter-municipal work consortia



                                              24

(CIMOS) meant satisfying their road maintenance needs in a more systematic and
relatively inexpensive way, and decreasing the need for political favors. In addition to
these incentives, the decentralization process in Goias through the CIMOS was facilitated
by (i) the existence of an associative spirit among municipalities, (ii) a committed
government with a strong champion, (iii) a well-structured process, with clearly defined
rights and obligations and the formalization and respect of respective agreements, and
(iv) the existence within AGETOP of small unit that provides technical assistance to the
CIMOS on a continuous basis.

There are certain elements that are likely to facilitate the successful implementation
of an APL approach. A program of APLs is an approach not very frequently used in
Bank operations and few programs have gone beyond the first phase. Some of the factors
that in this project helped to successfully complete the first phase and allowed moving
toward the second one are (i) a solid program, anchored around a politically non-
controversial core investment component of high relevance to the Borrower, (ii) the
identification of policy and institutional bottlenecks to a successful project
implementation and the inclusion of project support to avoid/remove such bottlenecks,
(iii) the establishment of a trustful working relationship with the different beneficiaries,
(iv) a thorough understanding of the medium-term objectives of the different project
beneficiaries and the framework within which they operate, a key factor to design the
project structure, components and triggers in a sufficiently flexible fashion to allow
beneficiaries reaching their objectives through more than one possible path, (v) the
existence of a strong champion, and (vi) the continuity at political level.



12. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies


The Borrower/Implementation Agency informed the Bank that they had no comments on
the Bank's Implementation Completion and Results Report.


(b) Cofinanciers


                                        Not applicable


(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)



                                        Not applicable




                                              25

Annex 1. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)

The project constitutes the first phase of a Program comprised of two APLs, which aims
at increasing the efficiency of the road transport system in the State of Goias within
environmental and fiscal sustainable frameworks. The project's purpose was to establish
an appropriate policy and institutional framework for the effective management of the
road sector, while restoring the conditions of the most important state highways. In
particular, it was expected to provide an opportunity to test alternative models to
decentralize the road administration, to experiment with private management of highway
maintenance through innovative forms of performance contracts, to strengthen the key
functions of the then newly-created state highway agency, and to identify and map the
environmentally-sensitive areas in the State. In the second phase it is envisaged to
support the completion of the rehabilitation of the state paved road network, to structure
and partially implement a state program to ensure all-weather access on the state unpaved
network, to link selected agro-industrial centers to major highways or multimodal
corridors, and to continue with and consolidate the activities carried out under the
highway policy and institutional development, environmental management, and state
reform components.

The key indicators to measure the project performance were:

     Increase in the proportion of road user distance traveled on good condition
        highways;
     Reduction in average land transport cost for agro-industrial exports;
     Increase of the proportions of paved network length in good and poor conditions;
     Increase of the proportion of state highway network effectively maintained by
        private contractors;
     Increase of the proportion of state capital expenditures on roads with satisfactory
        estimated economic rates of return; and
     Increase of total area of established environmental protection areas.


The conditions for the presentation of the second phase of this Program for Bank
approval were (i) a satisfactory project performance to be measured against the project's
key performance indicators and (ii) a satisfactory performance of the State under its fiscal
adjustment and structural reform program to be measured against the following triggers:

     The State Power Company (CELG) brought to the point of sale, which was scheduled for
        the second semester of 2001;
     The pension fund for public servants capitalized with at least 30% of the revenues from
        the sale of CELG; and




                                             26

     The State having implemented the Law on Fiscal Responsibility of the Federation.



Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

No revision of the PDO or the key indicators took place.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)


                              Original Target Values        Formally       Actual Value Achieved
  Indicator       Baseline
                    Value         (from approval         Revised Target       at Completion or
                                     documents)              Values             Target Years
Indicator 1 : Average vehicle operating cost (VOC) on state paved network decreased
Value
(quantitative or 0%           2%                                          1%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/02/2001 12/31/2004                                       09/15/2006
Comments         Due to implementation delays, many roads reached a stage in their useful life
(incl. %        cycle when degradation is accelerated, and so impacts negatively on the
achievement) evolution of VOC (for details see annex 5)
Indicator 2 : Proportion of veh-km on good condition paved roads
Value
(quantitative or 54%          75%                                         81%
Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/02/2001 12/31/2004                                       09/15/2006
Comments
(incl. %         108% achievement
achievement)
Indicator 3 : Average land transport cost of Goias agro-industrial exports decreased
Value
(quantitative or 0%           2%                                          21% increase
Qualitative)
Date achieved 05/02/2001 12/31/2004                                       09/15/2006
Comments
                 This is not an appropriate indicator to measure the efficiency of the road
(incl. %
                transport system (for details see section 7.3)
achievement)
                 Percentage of state highway expenditures with economic rates of return above
Indicator 4 :
                12%
Value
(quantitative or 10%          60%                                         49%
Qualitative)



                                                 27

Date achieved 05/02/2001 12/31/2004                                       09/15/2006
Comments
(incl. %       49% was the average over the period 2002-2005, which is an 82% achievement
achievement)

(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)


                                          Original Target        Formally        Actual Value

  Indicator       Baseline Value           Values (from           Revised         Achieved at

                                       approval documents)        Target    Completion or Target
                                                                  Values             Years
Indicator 1 : Proportion of network length in good condition
Value
(quantitative
              64%                     77%                                   74%
or
Qualitative)
Date
              05/02/2001              12/31/2004                            09/15/2006
achieved
Comments
(incl. %      77% achievement
achievement)
Indicator 2 : Proportion of paved road length in poor condition
Value
(quantitative
              9%                      3%                                    12%
or
Qualitative)
Date
              05/02/2001              12/31/2004                            09/15/2006
achieved
Comments
              Due to implementation delays, many roads reached a stage in their life cycle when
(incl. %
              without periodic maintenance degradation is accelerated (for details see annex 5)
achievement)
Indicator 3 : Number of additional paved roads linked to main agro-industrial centers
Value
(quantitative
              0                       6                                     5
or
Qualitative)
Date
              05/02/2001              12/31/2004                            09/15/2006
achieved
Comments
              It is expected that 7 agro-industrial centers will be linked by project end, which is
(incl. %
              a 117% achievement
achievement)



                                                28

Indicator 4 : Pilot municipal road agency and inter-municipal road consortium operational
                                     1 pilot municipal road
              Principles of          agency and 1 inter-
Value
              decentralization       municipal road
(quantitative                                                           26 inter-municipal road
              model agreed and       consortium operational
or                                                                      consortia operational
              municipalities         and decentralization
Qualitative)
              selected               model revised, if
                                     necessary
Date
              05/02/2001             12/31/2004                         09/15/2006
achieved
Comments
(incl. %      The project end target was exceeded
achievement)
Indicator 5 : Implementation of first maintenance contracts signed and evaluated
Value                                                                   Contracts signed,
(quantitative Bidding document       Contracts renegotiated,            evaluated and bidding
or            ready                  if necessary                       for second phase
Qualitative)                                                            launched
Date
              05/02/2001             12/31/2004                         09/15/2006
achieved
Comments
(incl. %      The project end target was exceeded
achievement)
Indicator 6 : Proportion of state highway network effectively maintained by private contractors
Value
(quantitative
              0%                     90%                                100%
or
Qualitative)
Date
              05/02/2001             12/31/2004                         09/15/2006
achieved
Comments
              100% of the network has been maintained by the private sector since 2001: 111%
(incl. %
              achievement
achievement)
Indicator 7 : AGETOP road network database operational
Value
(quantitative Bidding documents
                                     Database operational               Equipment installed
or            approved
Qualitative)
Date
              05/02/2001             12/31/2004                         09/15/2006
achieved



                                               29

Comments
              The database is not yet fully operational and the project end target has only been
(incl. %
              partially achieved
achievement)
Indicator 8 : AGETOP operations, management and control systems in operation
Value                                AGETOP operations,                   A number of systems
(quantitative                        management and                       in operation and
              Work plan agreed
or                                   control systems in                   modernization and
Qualitative)                         operation                            integration ongoing
Date
              05/02/2001             12/31/2004                           09/15/2006
achieved
Comments
(incl. %      The project end target has been substantially achieved
achievement)
Indicator 9 : Number of AGETOP staff
Value
(quantitative
              3,500                  1,000                                1,693
or
Qualitative)
Date
              05/02/2001             12/31/2004                           09/15/2006
achieved
Comments
(incl. %      72% achievement
achievement)
Indicator 10
              Minimum number of newly-recruited professionals
:
Value
                                                                          Public hiring procedure
(quantitative
              0                      40                                   for 40 engineers
or
                                                                          carried out
Qualitative)
Date
              05/02/2001             12/31/2004                           09/15/2006
achieved
Comments
(incl. %      100% achievement
achievement)
Indicator 11
              AGETOP and state government enter into a management contract
:
Value
              Principles of
(quantitative                        Contract under                       Contract not
              management contract
or                                   implementation                       implemented
              agreed
Qualitative)



                                               30

Date
              05/02/2001           12/31/2004                           09/15/2006
achieved
Comments
(incl. %      Environment favorable for the implementation of a management contract created
achievement)
Indicator 12
             SEINFRA Transport services database operational
:
Value
(quantitative Database concept
                                   Database operational                 Database operational
or            agreed
Qualitative)
Date
              05/02/2001           12/31/2004                           09/15/2006
achieved
Comments
(incl. %      100% achievement
achievement)
Indicator 13
             Map of environmentally sensitive areas completed
:
Value
                                   Map of protected areas               Map of protected areas
(quantitative Request for proposals
                                   completed and used for               completed and used for
or            approved
                                   project screening                    project screening
Qualitative)
Date
              05/02/2001           12/31/2004                           09/15/2006
achieved
Comments
(incl. %      100% achievement
achievement)
Indicator 14 Program of consolidation and expansion of the State's system of legally protected
:            areas agreed
Value
(quantitative Directions for       Implementation plan                  Implementation plan
or            program agreed       ready                                ready
Qualitative)
Date
              05/02/2001           12/31/2004                           09/15/2006
achieved
Comments
(incl. %      100% achievement
achievement)
Indicator 15
             AGMA screening, supervision and monitoring system operational
:



                                             31

Value                                                                    AGMA screening,
(quantitative Request for proposals                                      supervision and
                                    System operational
or            approved                                                   monitoring system in
Qualitative)                                                             test phase
Date
              05/02/2001            12/31/2004                           09/15/2006
achieved
Comments
              System is expected to be fully operational by project end, which will mean a 100%
(incl. %
              achievement
achievement)
Indicator 16
             Total area of established environmental protection areas increased
:
Value
(quantitative
              0%                    100%                                 300%
or
Qualitative)
Date
              05/02/2001            12/31/2004                           09/15/2006
achieved
Comments
(incl. %      300% achievement
achievement)
Indicator 17
             AGR adequately staffed with permanent, trained professionals
:
                                                                         AGR adequately
                                                                         staffed, training taken
Value
              List of                                                    place, equipment
(quantitative
              equipment/training    AGR fully operational                received, and agency
or
              agreed                                                     structure defined and
Qualitative)
                                                                         substantially
                                                                         implemented
Date
              05/02/2001            12/31/2004                           09/15/2006
achieved
Comments
(incl. %      100% achievement
achievement)




                                              32

Annex 2. Restructuring (if any)

                                Not Applicable




                                     33

Annex 3. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)


                                         Appraisal
             Components                Estimate (USD      Actual/Latest     Percentage of

                                            M)          Estimate (USD M)     Appraisal

1. HIGHWAY REHABILITATION
                                                62.20               77.20         124.12
AND MAINTENANCE
2. HIGHWAY PAVING                               40.10               37.60          93.77
3. HIGHWAY POLICY AND
                                                 3.30                3.50         106.06
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
4. ENVIRONMENTAL
                                                 3.70                1.10          29.73
MANAGEMENT
5. STATE REFORM                                  0.80                0.50          62.50
                  Total Baseline Cost          110.10              119.90
Physical Contingencies                          11.20
Price Contingencies                              8.10
                   Total Project Costs         129.40
Front-end fee PPF                                0.00                0.00           0.00
Front-end fee IBRD                               0.60                0.60           0.60
            Total Financing Required           130.00              120.50



(b) Financing


                                                 Appraisal   Actual/Latest
         Source of Funds             Type of                                Percentage of
                                  Cofinancing    Estimate    Estimate (USD
                                                 (USD M)           M)         Appraisal

  Borrower                                            65.00            57.40       88.31
  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND                                    65.00           63.20        97.23
DEVELOPMENT


(c) Disbursement Profile




                                          34

35

Annex 4. Outputs by Component

Project Component 1 - Highway Rehabilitation and Resurfacing (planned US$62.2
million - 55% of baseline project cost; estimate for project end US$77.2 million)
To date, AGETOP had rehabilitated and resurfaced under this component approximately
1,250 km of high priority sections with urgent need for attention. This included also
safety and environmental rehabilitation works, the related engineering studies and
designs, environmental and social assessments, and supervision activities. In general
terms, the quality of the works has been satisfactory and the rehabilitated roads are in
good condition. It is expected that by project end in December 2006 AGETOP will very
closely reach the project target of 1,500 km.

Currently, 74% of the paved state network of 7,500 km is in good condition and 12% is
in poor ones, compared to 64% and 9%, respectively, at appraisal. While the project
output target for roads in good condition was substantially reached, the planned decrease
in the percentage of roads in poor condition did not take place because of the acceleration
of the degradation of roads after 15 to 20 years without adequate periodic maintenance in
conformity with road degradation patterns (for details see annex 5 with the economic
analysis).

Project Component 2 - Highway Paving (planned US$40.1 million - 36% of total
baseline project cost; estimate for project end US$37.6 million)
To date, AGETOP had contracted 480 km of paving works under the project (60% more
than envisaged at appraisal), of which about 270 km were completed. The newly paved
road sections are currently linking five agro-industrial centers to major corridors. By
project end it is expected that AGETOP will have completed the paving works on a total
of four road sections and will very closely reach the project target of 300 km. This will
link two additional agro-industrial centers to major corridors. The Pires do Rio/Caldas
Novas section, which will link the most important tourist region in Goias (Caldas Novas)
to the Federal District, was only partially completed under the project because the
contractor rescinded the contract. AGETOP is currently bidding the conclusion of the
works with its own resources. The component also included the related engineering
studies and designs, environmental and social assessments, as well as supervision
activities. The following table shows the road sections under contract, the extension of
paving works completed, the agro-industrial centers linked or to be linked upon work
completion of the respective sections, and the main corridors.




                                             36

                                                                                With highway/
                                     Ext.                                         multimodal
    Road           Section           contr. Ext. (km)  Centers linked/to
                                                                             corridor/main center
                                     (km)    compl.        be linked


                                                                           Corridor Rio Verde - Jata

  GO-050                                                                   - Mineiros (BR-060, BR-
           PARANA/ENTR. GO-174                       Region of Parana    364) and Goinia
           (MONTIVIDIU)            98       85

                                                      Itabera, Anicuns,   Corridor Itapuranga - Bom

  GO-156                                                                   Jesus
           ITABERA/AMERICANO                         Palmeiras and

           DO BRASIL               34       34        Edia

                                                                           Corridor Campos Belos -
  GO-436                                              Region of Cristalina
           CRISTALINA/DIV. GO-DF   80       70                             Catalo (Minas Gerais)

                                                                           Corridor Distrito Federal -
  GO-309   PIRES DO RIO/CALDAS                        Caldas Novas,
           NOVAS                   58       40        Distrito Federal     Caldas Novas

                                                                           Corridor Mata Azul -
                                                                           Anpolis - Goinia (GO-
           MONTIVIDIU DO                              State of Tocantins   142  BR 153)
  GO-142   NORTE/DIV. GO-TO        32       32
                                                                           Corridor Rio Verde - Jata

  GO-410                                              Region of Porteiro  (BR-060- BR-364), Minas
                                                                           Gerais and So Paulo
           EDIA/PORTEIR홒         60       5
                                                                           Anpolis
  GO-437   AN핻OLIS/GAMELEIRA/                        Region of
           SILV홐IA                55       1         Gameleira

                                                      Regions of           Corridor Jata - Rio Verde

  GO-206                                                                   (BR-060) and So Paulo
           CHAPAD홒 DO                                Chapado do Cu      (BR-158)
           CU/ITUMIRIM            64       0         and Itumirim

  Total                            481      267


Project Component 3 - Highway Policy and Institutional Development (planned
US$3.3 million - 3% of total project cost; estimate for project end US$3.5 million)
This component contributed with policy advice, experience and good practice, technical
assistance, staff training, equipment, hardware and software and provided support to
AGETOP to (i) reassign the responsibility for road maintenance activities on the
municipal network to municipalities, (ii) outsource the maintenance of the state road
network to the private sector, (iii) consolidate AGETOP's administrative reorganization
and strengthen its capacity and systems, (iv) strengthen environmental management in
the road sector, and (v) coordinate project implementation. The component also assisted
SEINFRA to strengthen its transport planning and policy functions. Details on these
project outputs are provided below.

(i) Maintenance of Municipal Roads
When AGETOP absorbed CRISA and DER-GO in 2000, it took over the responsibility
to maintain and/or improve municipal roads, which conflicted with the type of
organization it wanted to become, i.e. a contract manager instead of an executing agency.
Consequently, the State decided to reassign this responsibility to the municipalities.

During project preparation the Bank team discussed with the Borrower several
maintenance options for local roads, and it was decided to launch two pilots under the
project; one with a single municipality, which had the capacity to maintain its own


                                             37

network, and one with an association of municipalities. AGETOP created a special unit
to advance in this process and started the dialogue with all 246 municipalities in the
State. Instead of the two pilots, these discussions led to the creation of 26 inter-municipal
consortia for works (Consorcios Intermunicipais de Obras - CIMOS), geographically
coinciding with the former 26 regional offices of AGETOP. The municipalities have
gradually been joining the CIMOS in their region. Currently 127 municipalities are part
of these consortia, which in 2005 maintained 70% of the municipal road network. With
this the respective project output target was largely exceeded.

AGETOP transferred to these consortia, free of charge, its road maintenance equipment,
machinery, and the premises of its former regional offices. It is providing technical and
operational assistance through its special unit and its regional staff, which is at the
exclusive service of the consortia. The municipalities contribute with a fee for the use of
the machinery and equipment, and pay for fuel, other operating costs, and the subsistence
of staff. The decision making body of the CIMOS is the Council of Mayors. An engineer
of AGETOP acts as technical director. The CIMOS decide their maintenance priorities,
prepare an annual program based on the needs and requests of individual municipalities,
and agree on a work plan.

The creation of the CIMOS and the reassignment of the responsibility to maintain local
roads to the municipalities have not only allowed AGETOP to focus on its core business,
but also ensured a more transparent, efficient and systematic maintenance of local roads
targeted to the real needs on the ground. However, despite the fact that this process is
well underway, it is not yet fully consolidated. So far not all municipalities use the
CIMOS to maintain their roads (the others carry out their own maintenance), not all
CIMOS work equally well, the technical staff at the service of the CIMOS is still on
AGETOP's payroll, part of the machinery and equipment transferred has been
confiscated to pay past labor obligations, more machinery and equipment is approaching
the end of its useful life, and the financing issue is not yet fully resolved.

(ii) Contract Maintenance Monitoring and Evaluation
During project preparation the Bank team discussed with the State different maintenance
alternatives and brought in its experience with performance-based contracts in Brazil and
in Latin America. Initially it was envisaged that AGETOP would start with a pilot for
performance-based contracts; however, it went ahead, and by the end of 2001 the
complete paved and unpaved state network was covered with three-year performance-
based contracts, which since then have been ongoing. With this the respective project
output target has been exceeded.

In these contracts, known as the Third Lane Program (Programa 3a Via), payments are
based on outputs (km of pavement maintained), and penalties are applied if the contractor
does not comply with agreed quality standards. AGETOP's staff is responsible for
contract management, including supervision, payments and the application of penalties.


                                              38

AGETOP hired a consulting firm to assist its contract managers to harmonize standards
and procedures, supervise contractors, and monitor and assess the results on the ground.
AGETOP also implemented an information system to monitor the financial and physical
performance of contracts. Financing for the program is ensured through tax revenues
(mainly from the vehicle maintenance tax), the use of which is restricted by law for road
maintenance, rehabilitation and upgrading.

AGETOP's evaluation of the performance of its maintenance program at the end of the
three-year period was positive. The program had shown good results on the ground and
was cost effective: the current maintenance cost per km of the paved network is R$ 8,000
(US$ 3,500) and of the unpaved network is R$ 2,400 (US$ 1,100). In terms of
shortcomings, the inclusion of the maintenance of the horizontal signaling in the scope of
each contract, which required subcontracting, and the severity of penalties, which made
an efficient enforcement more difficult, were highlighted. Based on the results of its
evaluation, AGETOP made improvements and changes to the program, which include
the following:
     Re-dimensioning of the contract areas to increase efficiency and create similar
        contract sizes (now 20 instead of 26 contracts);
     Broadening of the service scope to include light rehabilitation, such as slurry seal
        (six new contracts for light rehabilitation, covering the whole state);
     Inclusion of three contracts to support road management activities (one contract
        to supervise the program, one to collect data on road conditions and one to collect
        traffic information, each covering the whole state); and
     Inclusion of a separate contract to maintain the horizontal signalizing in the whole
        state.
The bidding for the second phase was significantly delayed because of legal problems
and AGETOP extended the existing contracts several times. This uncertainty reduced the
motivation of the contractors and decreased their performance. The bidding is now
ongoing.

(iii) AGETOP's Reorganization
This subcomponent provided support to the reorganization of AGETOP through policy
advice, technical assistance, equipment, hardware, software and training services to (i)
restructure and upgrade AGETOP's key systems, including the development of a network
planning and pavement management system and database, (ii) strengthen its capacity,
and (iii) review and simplify its administrative and technical processes.

The Bank team provided policy advice for the definition of a strategy to reorganize,
modernize and integrate AGETOP's operational, management and control systems,
including, among others, the financial management system (SGF), the measurement
system for works (SMO), the system for costing and budgeting of works (SCO), the
system to control administrative processes (CPA), the customer service system (SAT),
the procurement system, the system for complaints (modulo 0-800), the system to


                                              39

authorize the transport of dangerous goods, and the system to manage road rights of way.
The project financed the modernization of hardware (new servers, computers and other
equipment) and the acquisition of software. The project also financed office and
computer equipment for AGETOP's then newly created planning department and
supported the design, structuring and development of the network management system
and database, which is not yet fully operational, and so the respective output indicator
targets have been considered only as partially reached.

In the framework of its reorganization, and mainly as a consequence of its new network
maintenance strategy, AGETOP reduced its staff from 3,500 to 1,693 and so closely
reached the respective output target. AGETOP also carried out a public hiring for 40
engineers, 22 of which have started working. With this another output target
was attained. The project supported AGETOP in the consolidation of the efforts
undertaken in this field by financing training in areas, such as road engineering,
engineering designs for rehabilitation, environmental management of roads, road
maintenance, structural calculations for bridges and viaducts, procurement, auditing and
financial management. With the support of the project, AGETOP also prepared a new
salary structure and carrier plan to maintain its skilled staff and attract new ones and
reviewed and simplified all administrative and technical processes.

The process of reorganization transformed AGETOP from an executing agency to a
contract manager and created an environment favorable for discussions on a management
contract with the State; however, these discussions have not yet materialized since the
timing has not been appropriate. The State has only very recently signed the first two
management contracts with non-profit organizations in the health sector, and it is
currently discussing the draft of a standard model for management contracts.
Consequently only limited progress has been made with respect to this output target.

(iv) AGETOP's Environmental and Social Management
This subcomponent provided AGETOP's environmental and social units with equipment,
mainly computer hardware, to more effectively carry out their activities. At appraisal
AGETOP's environmental unit prepared a manual of environmental norms and
procedures, which they are currently revising. Together with AGMA, they also reviewed
the road work licensing processes and procedures, and prepared, in consultation with
contractors and consulting firms, a technical manual for road work licensing. The
originally envisaged environmental management information system was not
implemented; however, once AGMA's environmental system developed under this
project is fully operational, AGETOP's environmental unit will be able to directly access
it and so improve its efficiency in this area.

(v) Project Management
This subcomponent supported AGETOP's project coordination unit (PCU) to
successfully coordinate project execution, monitor and evaluate project implementation


                                              40

and results, and prepare project reports. It provided the PCU with technical assistance
and equipment and financed training activities for AGETOP's staff involved in project
execution, in particular in the areas of financial management and procurement. As
already mentioned, a self-standing monitoring and evaluation system for the project was
not developed because of its limited usefulness for the agency.

(vi) Transport Planning
This subcomponent provided the Secretariat of Infrastructure (SEINFRA) with computer
equipment and software. It also financed the preparation of the Road Freight Transport
Master Plan and the respective database, which have been completed and so the
respective output target was reached.

Project Component 4 - Environmental Management (planned US$3.7 million - 4%
of total baseline project cost; estimate for project end US$1.1 million)
This component assisted the State's Agency for Environment (AGMA) to implement,
consolidate and expand the state system of protected areas (Sistema Estadual de
Unidades de Conservacao - SEUC), which was created with Law no. 14,247 of 2002.
While an exact knowledge about environmentally sensitive areas in the State is
fundamental to plan and expand this system in an integrated and acceptable manner, the
introduction of economic incentives, currently under study, will ensure the sustainability
of the same. The project also strengthened AGMA in institutional and operational terms
and provided it with tools to improve the efficiency of its environmental screening,
licensing and monitoring activities. Since appraisal the protected areas in the State
increased by 300% and a number of activities to ensure the implementation and
sustainability of these areas are ongoing. More details on the outputs of each of these
subcomponents are provided below.

(i) Mapping of Environmentally Sensitive Areas
This subcomponent provided technical assistance to identify the environmentally
sensitive areas in the State. Digitalized thematic maps on land use, deforestation, flora,
fauna, environmental degradation, and other environmental variables were elaborated
and a consolidated geo-referenced database of natural resources, biodiversity and other
environmental aspects established. Through the geo-processing laboratory financed
through the project, AGMA is able to manipulate and update the digitalized maps. It has
been using them to screen environmental impacts, license activities, monitor compliance,
control deforestation, register legal environmental reserves of property owners, and to
plan, consolidate and expand the state system of protected areas in an integrated way.
Consequently the respective output target has been attained. Additionally, the wide
dissemination of the results of the mapping exercise through a high-level conference, the
publication of a book on the biodiversity in the State, and an atlas is expected to create
greater awareness and acceptance of the State's environmental protection policy.




                                              41

(ii) Strengthening of AGMA
The project provided technical assistance, including study trips, to revise the
environmental licensing processes and procedures and to develop a new licensing
system, which at the time of preparation of this report was in the test phase. This system
includes an internet-based module for users of AGMA's environmental licenses, allows
for collecting environmental inspection, fishing and other license fees and will greatly
improve the efficiency of AGMA's environmental licensing process, including screening,
the emission of licenses, and compliance monitoring. The system is expected to be fully
operational by the end of the year, and so the respective output target will be achieved.

The project supported AGMA's institutional strengthening, including an assessment of its
organizational structure, the development of a salary structure and carrier plan, the
strengthening of its strategic planning, and the elaboration of a quality program, statutes,
procedures, norms and standards, with the overall objective to prepare AGMA for the
ISO certification. At the moment of the preparation of this report a number of these
activities were still in the contracting stage. The project also supported system
improvements and modernization through the provision of hardware, software and other
equipment.

(iii) Establishment of protected areas
Under this subcomponent it was envisaged to create two priority protection areas located
in critical biodiversity hotspots of the Cerrado eco-region: Serra das Gales (Parauna)
and Serra da Bocaina (Crixas/Uirapuru). In the first region, a protected area of 30,000
ha (Parauna Area de Protecao Ambiental) and a state park of 3,250 ha (Parque Estadual
de Parauna) were created. The project financed technical assistance to identify and
delimit the boundaries of the specific areas to be included in the protected area of Serra
da Bocaina and a draft decree to declare an environmental protection area of about
70,000 ha was prepared. This decree has not yet been approved due to resistance from
affected farmers. Even though only one of the areas identified at appraisal was legally
created and has not yet been implemented, with the creation of 1,160,000 ha of protected
areas between 2001 and 2006 the State largely exceeded the output target in terms of
establishment of such areas.

Most of these areas are legally created but not yet implemented. To implement them, it is
necessary, among others, to carry out property surveys and land delimitation, assess the
values of these properties, indemnify the owners, prepare management plans, and build
the necessary infrastructure. Under the project AGMA launched a number of activities
that will support the implementation of these areas, including managing plans for four
state parks and six environmental protection areas, property surveys and land
delimitation in two state parks, and the property evaluation in two state parks. However,
the main problems remains the regularization of land ownership in the protected areas
due to the general problem of land tenure in Brazil and since the State does not have the
necessary resources to indemnify all owners. As a possible way out a study was launched


                                               42

to develop economic environmental management instruments, such as exchange of
environmental reserves and the creation of legal reserves outside the property of owners
legally obliged to create an environmental reserve, as well as to create the respective
market (a land easement scheme). The study is currently ongoing.

Project Component 5 - State Reform (planned US$0.8 million - 1% of total project
cost; estimate for project end US$0.5 million)
This component supported the implementation of the State's administrative reform
programs by strengthening AGR to effectively carry out its most important and urgent
regulatory functions and responsibilities. During project implementation AGR defined
and consolidated its organizational structure, recruited new staff, prepared a carrier
structure and salary plan, provided staff training and strengthened its strategic planning,
technical and managerial capacity. Consequently, the agency's operational capacity has
gradually been improving, with sections fully operational in the power, water and
sewage, resource management and passenger transport sectors. The project financed a
post-graduation course in regulation for 40 staff, the participation in conferences on
regulation and a number of consulting services. It also provided computer hardware,
software and equipment, including vehicles for the regional units responsible for
inspection.




                                             43

Annex 5. Economic and Financial Analysis (including assumptions in the analysis)



Summary of Methodology and Results

The ex-ante cost-benefit analysis included the two main components of the project: (i) the highway
rehabilitation and maintenance component; and (ii) the highway paving component. Both analyzed
with the Highway Development and Management Model (HDM-4), which simulates highway life
cycle and vehicle operating conditions and costs for multiple road alternatives.

The design and evaluation of the highway rehabilitation and maintenance component consisted in a
comparative analysis of alternative rehabilitation and maintenance strategies for the entire paved
network. Up to 17 project alternatives were considered for each road class that considered various
types of possible road works executed at different moments during the program execution. The
network strategy with the highest Net Present Value (NPV) was selected as the basis for the design of
the component.

Under the paving component it was envisaged to pave 300 km of road sections with a total cost of
about US$40 million. Initially, four road sections with a total length of 256 km and a cost of about
US$27 million equivalent were included. The economic evaluation of the paving of each of these
sections was carried out by analyzing the streams of benefits to road users and the savings on
maintenance costs (as compared to the without project case), net of the cost of paving works. To
estimate the NPV and the ERR of the whole component it was assumed that the additional 50 km of
road sections would have comparable NPV's per km.

The ex-post cost-benefit analysis followed the same methodology applied to the ex-ante analysis.

Rehabilitation Component

Road Works Costs
The following table presents the road works evaluated at appraisal, their unit costs at appraisal
(2000), the actual ex-post unit costs (2006), and the ratio between the 2006 and 2000 costs. All costs
are actualized to 2006 Real per km. Surface dressing and resurfacing actual costs are 1% lower than
the appraisal estimates, asphalt mix resurfacings actual costs are 6% higher than the appraisal
estimates, strengthening actual costs are 1% higher than the appraisal estimates, and reconstruction
actual costs are 58% higher than the appraisal estimates.




                                            44

                           Unit Maintenance and Rehabilitation Costs (Real per km)
 Work Class       Work Type          Predominant Work Activity                    2000       2006     Ratio
 Periodic         Surface Dressing   Slurry Seal 4 mm                            29,232     30,500     1.04

                  Resurfacing        Single Surface Treatment 10 mm              33,040     34,000     1.03

                                     Double Surface Treatment 25 mm              66,416     60,600     0.91

                  Asphalt Mix        Overlay 30 mm                              120,736    132,000     1.09

                  Resurfacing        Overlay 40 mm                              157,920    167,000     1.06

                                     Overlay 50 mm                              195,328    202,000     1.03
 Rehabilitation   Strengthening      Overlay 60 mm                              232,512    237,000     1.02

                                     Overlay 70 mm                              269,808    272,000     1.01

                  Reconstruction     Reconstruction 5cm AC/200mm GB             265,888    378,000     1.42

                                     Reconstruction TSD/200mm GB                136,752    236,600     1.73

 All costs expressed in 2006 Real    Cost for 7.0 m wide road




Road User Costs
The following table presents typical road user costs, composed of vehicle operating costs and
passenger and cargo time, estimated at appraisal (2000) and current estimates of road user costs
(2006), for a road in good condition and flat terrain, all costs actualized to 2006 Real per vehicle-km.
The current road user costs are on average 14% lower than the appraisal estimates due mainly to
lower current estimates for the new vehicle prices.

          Unit Road User Costs Composition, Flat Terrain and Roughness 2.0 IRI (Real per vehicle-km)

                                                                       Medium      Heavy        Articulated

 Year                                                  Car     Bus      Truck       Truck         Truck
 2000     Fuel and Oil                                 0.16   0.14      0.16         0.32          0.45

          Tires                                        0.00   0.06      0.05         0.10          0.16

          Maintenance Parts and Labor                  0.11   0.34      0.53         0.88          1.18

          Crew Time                                    0.00   0.18      0.18         0.18          0.19

          Depreciation and Interest                    0.11   0.37      0.32         0.18          0.26

          Passenger and Cargo Time                     0.10   0.59      0.00         0.00          0.00

          Total                                        0.50   1.68      1.23         1.65          2.24
 2006     Fuel and Oil                                 0.13   0.18      0.20         0.39          0.55

          Tires                                        0.01   0.05      0.06         0.17          0.29

          Maintenance Parts and Labor                  0.09   0.26      0.39         0.68          0.91

          Crew Time                                    0.00   0.15      0.14         0.14          0.16

          Depreciation and Interest                    0.09   0.29      0.22         0.13          0.19

          Passenger and Cargo Time                     0.08   0.48      0.00         0.00          0.00

          Total                                        0.40   1.40      1.01         1.51          2.10
 Ratio    Total                                        0.81   0.83      0.82         0.91          0.94

 All costs expressed in 2006 Real




                                                             45

The following table presents the sensitivity of road user costs to roughness, estimated at appraisal and
current estimates, expressed in 2006 Real per vehicle-km.

    Unit Road User Costs Roughness Sensitivity (Real per vehicle-km)

          Roughness                    Medium    Heavy     Articulated
 Year        (IRI)       Car    Bus     Truck    Truck        Truck
 2000          2         0.50   1.68    1.23      1.65         2.24

               3         0.50   1.70    1.25      1.66         2.26

               4         0.51   1.76    1.31      1.76         2.38

               5         0.53   1.84    1.36      1.86         2.51
 2006          2         0.40   1.40    1.01      1.51         2.10

               3         0.40   1.41    1.01      1.52         2.12

               4         0.41   1.46    1.06      1.60         2.22

               5         0.42   1.54    1.11      1.69         2.35

 All costs expressed in 2006 Real


The following table shows the current 2006 vehicle fleet economic unit costs and basic
characteristics.

                                    2006 Vehicle Fleet Characteristics and Economic Unit Costs

                                                                                 Light   Medium    Heavy  Articulated

                                                    Car   Pickup          Bus   Truck      Truck   Truck       Truck

       Economic Unit Costs
       New Vehicle Cost (US$/vehicle)            19,500   45,500      136,500   68,250    97,500  136,500   195,000
       New Tire Cost (US$/tire)                  195.00   520.00       668.85   520.00    780.00  1300.00   1300.00
       Fuel Cost (US$/liter)                       1.26      0.95        0.95     0.95       0.95   0.95        0.95
       Lubricant Cost (US$/liter)                  5.73      5.73        5.73     5.73       5.73   5.73        5.73
       Maintenance Labor Cost (US$/hour)          20.00     20.00       20.00   20.00       20.00  20.00       20.00
       Crew Cost (US$/hour)                        0.00      0.00       12.10   12.10       12.10  12.10       12.10
       Overhead (US$)                                  0         0          0        0          0      0           0
       Interest Rate (%)                             12        12          12       12         12     12          12
       Working Passenger Time (US$/hour)           4.00      4.00        1.00     0.00       0.00   0.00        0.00
       Non-working Passenger Time
       (US$/hour)                                  0.00      0.00        0.00     0.00       0.00   0.00        0.00
       Cargo Delay (US$/hour)                      0.00      0.00        0.00     0.00       0.00   0.00        0.00

       Utilization and Loading
       Kilometers Driven per Year (km)           23,000   30,000       70,000   30,000    40,000  86,000      86,000
       Hours Driven per Year (hr)                   550     1,300       1,750   1,300       1,200  2,050       2,050
       Service Life (years)                          10          8          7        8         12     14          14
       Percent of Time for Private Use (%)          100          0          0        0          0      0           0
       Number of Passengers                            2         1         40        0          0      0           0
       Work Related Passenger Trips (%)             100       100         100     100           0      0           0
       Gross Vehicle Weight (tons)                 1.20      1.50        6.00     2.00       7.50  13.00       28.00
       ESA Loading Factor                          0.00      0.01        0.70     0.10       1.25   2.28        4.63

       Traffic Composition
       Average Traffic Composition (%)             60%        4%           5%      8%         5%      7%        11%

       All costs expressed in 2006 Real


Network Condition and Traffic
The ex-ante analysis considered the network condition and traffic data in 2000 that was obtained
through specific surveys. The ex-post analysis considers an estimate of the actual network condition
and traffic data in 2006. The following table presents the evaluated network length and the estimated
network utilization in 2000 and 2006. The ex-post evaluation evaluated the same network evaluated



                                                             46

at appraisal, without considering the roads that were paved from 2000 to 2006, to allow for a proper
comparison of the results. The overall network utilization, in million vehicle-km traveled, increased
from 2000 to 2006 by 9% (1.4% per year).

                    Network Length and Utilization

                          Network Length              Utilization

                                (km)                (Million Veh-km)
  Surface Type         2000     2006   Ratio     2000     2006    Ratio
  Asphalt Concrete      756     756    1.00       798      873    1.09
  Surface Treatment    6,733   6,733   1.00      2,360    2,560   1.08
  Total                7,489   7,489   1.00      3,158    3,433   1.09




The average annual daily traffic in 2006 for asphalt concrete roads is around 3,164 vehicles per day
and for surface treatment roads is 1,042 vehicles per day. The ex-ante estimate of the annual traffic
growth rate from 2000 to 2006 was 3% per year for all vehicles. The estimated actual annual traffic
growth rate from 2000 to 2006 is 5% for cars, 6% for buses, 8% for light and heavy trucks, 9% for
medium trucks, and 6% for articulated trucks.

The following table presents the network length (km) and network utilization (vehicle-km) per
roughness ranges in 2000 and the actual condition in 2006. The percentage of the overall network
length in good condition (defined as roughness < 3.0 IRI) has increased from 64% in 2000 to 74% in
2006. The percentage of the overall network utilization in good condition (roughness < 3.0 IRI) has
increased from 54% in 2000 to 81% in 2006.

                         Network Length and Utilization
                                                                         Network
                                                 Network Length         Utilization

                       Roughness                      (%)                  (%)
 Surface Type          Range                     2000       2006      2000       2006
 Asphalt Concrete      IRI < 2.5                 27.2%     65.0%     29.1%      80.8%

                       2.5 <= IRI < 3.0          35.2%     16.6%     25.7%      13.4%

                       3.0 <= IRI < 4.0          21.7%     16.9%     31.9%       5.4%

                       IRI >= 4.0                15.9%      1.5%     13.2%       0.5%

                       Total                    100.0%     100.0%   100.0%     100.0%
 Surface Treatment     IRI < 2.5                 16.9%     42.6%     18.1%      49.8%

                       2.5 <= IRI < 3.0          47.6%     30.8%     35.7%      27.3%

                       3.0 <= IRI < 4.0          27.6%     13.9%     33.3%      10.3%

                       IRI >= 4.0                7.9%      12.7%     13.0%      12.6%

                       Total                    100.0%     100.0%   100.0%     100.0%
 Total                 IRI < 2.5                 18.0%     44.9%     20.9%      57.6%

                       2.5 <= IRI < 3.0          46.3%     29.3%     33.2%      23.8%

                       3.0 <= IRI < 4.0          27.0%     14.2%     32.9%       9.1%

                       IRI >= 4.0                8.7%      11.6%     13.0%       9.5%

                       Total                    100.0%     100.0%   100.0%     100.0%




                                                         47

The following table presents the average network roughness (IRI, m/km) and the percent of the
network with deflection less than 0.4 mm (%) in 2000 and 2006. The average overall network
roughness has decreased from 2.95 IRI in 2000 to 2.73 IRI in 2006. The percent of the overall
network with less than 0.4 mm deflection has increased from 35% in 2000 to 61% in 2006.

                          Network Roughness and Deflections

                        Average Network            Network With

                         Roughness (IRI)      Deflection < 0.4mm (%)
 Surface Type        2000    2006     Ratio   2000     2006    Ratio

 Asphalt Concrete     3.01   2.48       0.82  16%       98%     6.12

 Surface Treatment    2.94   2.76       0.94  38%       57%     1.49

 Total                2.95   2.73       0.93  35%       61%     1.74




Evolution of Network Condition
The following graph shows (i) the network condition in 2000, (ii) the predicted network condition by
the ex-ante cost-benefit analysis for the 2001 to 2006 period, and (iii) the actual network condition in
2006, expressed in terms of percent of the network in good, fair and poor condition and the average
network roughness. This graph considers the same network evaluated at appraisal, without
considering the roads that were paved from 2000 to 2006, for a matter of comparison. The actual
2006 percentage of the network in good condition (74%) matches well with the predicted network
percent in good condition for 2006 estimated at appraisal (76%), but the actual 2006 percentage of the
network in poor condition (12%) is higher than the percent estimated at appraisal (4%). This is in line
with the findings at the appraisal stage which were forecasting a slight increase of the percentage of
roads in bad conditions starting in 2003, after a decrease in the first years of implementation of the
rehabilitation program. This forecasted increase of roads in bad conditions corresponds to the
expected acceleration of the degradations on the roads after 15 to 20 years without adequate periodic
maintenance, in conformity with road degradation patterns. In the case of Goias, many roads were
paved in the mid-eighties, thus reaching their life expectancy between 2000 and 2005. As the
program was implemented with delays, the actual degradations of the roads in bad conditions were
higher than initially forecasted by approximately 7%.




                                                    48

Net Benefits of Rehabilitation and Maintenance Component
The ex-ante Net Present Value (NPV) of the rehabilitation and maintenance program was estimated at
appraisal at Real 2,179 million at a 12% discount rate over a 20 year evaluation period, expressed in
2006 Real. The ex-ante economic rate of return (ERR) of the program was estimated at appraisal at
94%. The ex-post cost benefit analysis was done considering the updated road works unit costs, road
user costs, annual traffic growth rates and the current network condition in 2006. The ex-post cost-
benefit analysis estimates the actual NPV at Real 2,894 million, expressed in 2006 Real, and the ERR
at 99%, which indicates that the program had a robust economic justification.

The vehicle fleet unit road user costs, i.e. total road user costs divided by total vehicle km, are
estimated to be in 2006 Real 0.80 per vehicle-km, expressed in 2006 Real, which matches well with
the predicted unit road user costs at appraisal for 2006 (Real 0.50 per vehicle-km, expressed in 2001
Real).




                                              49

The following table presents the sensitivity of unit road user costs to roughness, expressed in 2006
Real.

        Unit Road User Costs Roughness Sensitivity (Real/vehicle-km)

   Roughness                   Medium    Heavy       Articulated   Vehicle
     (IRI)      Car     Bus      Truck    Truck           Truck     Fleet
      2.0     0.400    1.400     1.009    1.506            2.099    0.793
      2.2     0.400    1.401     1.010    1.508            2.101    0.794
      2.4     0.400    1.402     1.010    1.510            2.105    0.795
      2.6     0.400    1.403     1.011    1.511            2.107    0.795
      2.8     0.401    1.404     1.012    1.514            2.111    0.796
      3.0     0.401    1.408     1.015    1.520            2.119    0.799
      3.2     0.403    1.417     1.023    1.535            2.140    0.805
      4.0     0.409    1.457     1.057    1.597            2.223    0.828
      5.6     0.422    1.557     1.128    1.710            2.388    0.877
      8.0     0.457    1.790     1.261    1.862            2.662    0.969


The table shows that, if only the reduction in roughness and not the changes in the characteristics or
the vehicle fleet are taken into account, on average, unit road user costs have decreased by 1% from
2000 to 2006. Indeed, the average network roughness, weighted by vehicle-km, was 3.2 in 2000 and
is currently 2.6, which corresponds to an average road user cost per vehicle-km of 0.805 R$ and R$
0.795, respectively. The estimated decrease of unit road user costs at appraisal for the period 2000-
2003 was 2%. This slower than expected decrease of unit road user costs (or VOC) is explained by
the actual evolution of the network conditions (see previous section). Due to the delays in the
implementation of the rehabilitation program and the average age of the state paved network, the
deterioration of an important proportion of roads not included in the rehabilitation program
(approximately 6000 km) reached a phase of rapid acceleration, affecting negatively the VOC.



Paving component

The ex-ante economic evaluation of the paving component was based on a HDM evaluation,
individually analyzing the streams of benefits to road users and the savings in maintenance costs net
of the paving costs of the four road sections identified at appraisal: GO-040, GO-050, GO-156 and
GO-436. These sections amounted to a total length of 256 km. Approximately 50 km of road sections
to complete the 300 km paving program was not identified at that stage and to evaluate the entire
program it was assumed that these remaining sections had comparable NPVs.

Due to delays in the implementation of this component, AGETOP financed the paving of road section
GO-040 with its own resources and replaced it in this component with the section GO-142. In
addition, the following three roads sections identified at appraisal were paved: GO-050, GO-156 and
GO-436. A fifth road section was not completed[1].

To allow for a comparison, the ex-post evaluation of the four roads paved under the project was made
following the same methodology as used at appraisal.



                                                           50

The table below shows (i) the road sections evaluated at the ex-ante and ex-post stages, (ii) the
estimated and actual: (a) total and unit costs, (b) average daily traffic, (c) IRR, (d) NPV, (iii) the
results of the ex-ante analysis for the four identified road sections, (iv) the results of the ex-post
analysis for four completed road sections, and (v) the results of the ex-ante and ex-post analysis for
the three common road sections.




When comparing the three common road sections (GO-50, 156 and 436), both the observed NPV and
the IRR are lower than the predicted ones, respectively US$ 28 million vs. US$ 61 million as
predicted and 29% vs. 53% as predicted. This is explained by (i) higher construction costs (+10.8%)
not compensated by the higher observed traffic levels (+48%) and delays in the implementation of the
project (5 years instead of 3 as initially planned), resulting in delayed benefits. The higher
construction costs are likely due to longer periods of work execution, mainly caused by payment
delays, and so the need for price adjustments, and the strong increase in oil prices, which since 2000
has augmented the cost of bituminous material by 215%.

Using the methodology applied at appraisal, i.e. assuming that the non common sections of the 300
km of paving works implemented under this project component have a common NPV per km, the



                                              51

economic evaluation of the total paving component results in a NPV of approximately US$ 40
million and an IRR of 29%, to be compared respectively to US$ 102 and 63% at the appraisal stage.
This still remains a very positive result.




[1] The paving component included an additional road section (GO-309 Pires do Rio/Caldas Novas), which was only partially completed (approximately 60 km or

about 80%) because the contractor rescinded the contract. AGETOP agreed to finance the conclusion of the paving works on this section with its own resources.

This road section was not taken into account in this economic analysis because the works have not yet been completed and consequently the traffic characteristics

on the paved road are impossible to observe and their simulations is not compatible with an ex-post evaluation.




                                                                      52

Annex 6. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team members


        Names                   Title              Unit   Responsibility/Specialty
Lending
Rodrigo Archondo-
                       Highway Engineer       TUDTR       Economic Analysis
Callao
Vitor Bellia            Consultant            LCSPS       Environmental Aspects
Jose Augusto Carvalho Consultant              LEGLA       Legal Aspects
Jacques L. Cellier      Consultant            LCSFT       Team Leader
Tulio Henrique Lima    Financial Management
                                              LCSFM       Financial Management
Correa                 Specialis
Ademildes De
                       Operations Officer     LCSHE       Operational Aspects
Mendonca Dantas
                       Lead Public Sector
William R. Dillinger                          ECSPE       Public Sector Mgt
                       Management
Teresa Genta-Fons      Lead Counsel           LEGLA       Legal Aspects
Daniel R. Gross        Consultant             LCSEN       Safeguards
                       Lead Procurement
Efraim Jimenez                                LCSPT       Procurement
                       Specialist
Aymeric-Albin Meyer Sr Transport. Spec.       LCSFT       Technical Aspects
Adriana Moreira         Sr Biodiversity Spec. LCSEN       Environmental Aspects
Robert Mosse            Consultant            EAPCO       Environmental Aspects
Catarina Isabel Portelo Counsel               LEGLA       Legal Aspects
Jean-Claude Sallier     Consultant            LCSFT       Technical Aspects
Supervision/ICR
Rodrigo Archondo-
                       Highway Engineer       TUDTR       Economic Analysis
Callao
                                                          Inst. & Economic
Jacques L. Cellier      Consultant            LCSFT
                                                          Aspects
Flavio Chaves          Research Analyst       LCC5C       Environment Aspects
Tulio Henrique Lima    Financial Management
                                              LCSFM       Financial Management
Correa                 Specialis
                                                          General Project Mgt &
Elisabeth Goller        Transport. Spec.      LCSFT
                                                          ICR
                       Sr Financial
Jose C. Janeiro                               LCSFM       Financial Management
                       Management Specia
Eric R. Lancelot       Transport. Spec.       LCSFT       Technical Aspects



                                             53

Aymeric-Albin Meyer Sr Transport. Spec.       LCSFT                Team Leader
Jean-Claude Sallier    Consultant             LCSFT                Technical Aspects
Tatiana Cristina O. de
                       Finance Assistant      LOAG1                Financial Management
Abreu


(b) Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs


No. Date ISR Archived          DO              IP         Actual Disbursements (USD M)
1   11/19/2001              Satisfactory   Satisfactory                              0.00
2   05/18/2002              Satisfactory   Satisfactory                              1.65
3   05/30/2002              Satisfactory   Satisfactory                              1.66
4   11/27/2002              Satisfactory   Satisfactory                              8.38
5   05/28/2003              Satisfactory   Satisfactory                              9.60
6   12/02/2003              Satisfactory   Satisfactory                             17.82
7   05/26/2004              Satisfactory   Satisfactory                             23.32
8   11/10/2004              Satisfactory   Satisfactory                             30.54
9   05/04/2005              Satisfactory   Satisfactory                             37.92
10 09/16/2005               Satisfactory   Satisfactory                             39.63
11 02/06/2006               Satisfactory   Satisfactory                             46.12
12 06/16/2006               Satisfactory   Satisfactory                             49.15


(c) Staff Time and Cost
                                                Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

            Stage of Project Cycle                                     USD Thousands
                                                No. of staff weeks   (including travel and
                                                                       consultant costs)
Lending
                     FY98                                                            4.98
                     FY99                                                            5.64
                     FY00                                         9                 64.28
                     FY01                                       42                 168.98
                     FY02                                       18                  25.67
                     FY03                                                            0.16
                     FY04                                         2                  0.78
                     FY05                                                            0.00
                     FY06                                                            0.06
                     FY07                                                            0.00
                                        Total:                  71                 270.55
Supervision/ICR



                                            54

FY98                      0.00
FY99                      0.00
FY00                      0.00
FY01                      0.00
FY02              11     71.77
FY03              12     53.81
FY04              14     83.32
FY05              28     92.83
FY06              20    110.17
FY07              12     39.78
        Total:    97    451.68




            55

Annex 7. Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

        Bank                    Ratings        Borrower             Ratings
Ensuring Quality at
                        Satisfactory      Government:       Satisfactory
Entry:
                                          Implementing
Quality of Supervision: Satisfactory                        Satisfactory
                                          Agency/Agencies:
Overall Bank                              Overall Borrower
                        Satisfactory                        Satisfactory
Performance:                              Performance:




                                         56

Annex 8. Beneficiary Survey Results (if any)

                               Not applicable




                                       57

Annex 9. Stakeholder Workshop Report and Results (if any)

                              Not applicable




                                   58

Annex 10. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR

             GOIAS STATE HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT PROGRAM 
                                       LOAN 4636-BR
          EVALUATION REPORT  Implementation Results and Conclusions

I. Introduction

The Evaluation Report  Implementation Results and Conclusions of the Goias State
Highway Management Program, Loan 4636-BR, elaborated by the Program
Implementation Agency (AGETOP), follows the World Bank's guidelines for
implementation completion and results reports and will be annexed to the report
elaborated by this financial institution. The following information aims to objectively and
frankly reflect all the obtained experience and the lessons learned during the First Phase
of the Program.

The main objective of the Goias State Highway Management Program was to enhance
the efficiency of the Goias State highway transport system. By analyzing the current
situation of the highways in the State, we can affirm with certainty that there was a
substantial improvement in their conditions. The institutional and management capacity
of AGETOP and its partners, SEINFRA, AGMA and AGR, was also strengthened.

Already at the beginning of the discussions to prepare the 1st Phase of the Goias State
Highway Management Program, it was recognized that in the road sector different
entities doing the same activities existed. This implied high costs for the government
without satisfactory results in terms of highway rehabilitation and maintenance, which
led to the necessity of an administrative reform to eliminate the dichotomy between
entities and to find alternatives to reduce the state highway maintenance costs.


The administrative reform was implemented at the end of 1999, when AGETOP was
created, after the extinction of DER-GO and the liquidation of CRISA, both highway
management and execution entities.

AGETOP was created following a modern vision of management, and actions were
undertaken to rationalize the management of services executed by the public sector at
state level. These actions, which included among others the creation of the CIMOS 
Inter-municipality Work Consortia, reduced the demands that had overloaded AGETOP.
The State provided the CIMOS with equipments and technical assistance to carry out
maintenance of the municipal roads.

Another daring but effective action was the outsourcing of the maintenance of the paved
and unpaved highway network through output-based contracts, the so-called 3rd Lane



                                              59

Program, which improved enormously the state highway conditions with a cost reduction
of about 50%. To cover the cost of the 3rd Lane Program a Transport Fund was created
with tax revenues from the IPVA (Tax on Property of Automotive Vehicles).

Therefore, there is an understanding that the general objectives of the project were
reached: important improvements in the state highway conditions took place and
AGETOP strengthened its management capacity for both internal and external demands.

The design of the program/project is adequate since it covers both physical and
institutional components. Highway paving was included in the physical components to
connect production centers. Rehabilitation services were also included, allowing
recovering highways that did not offer adequate traffic conditions.


The institutional components allowed, with the participation of other partners, the
modernization of both procedures and equipments of important state entities and mainly
of AGETOP itself.

During the implementation of the project, AGETOP had alternated both good and not so
good moments due to internal and external factors, mainly when depending on other
entities or resources for counterpart funds.

However, the execution of the 1st phase was successful and provided the implementation
team of AGETOP with important lessons, which will be observed in the execution of the
2nd phase.



II. Assessment of the operation's objectives, project design, operational experience and
implementation

The Program and the Project contain five components:

a) Highway maintenance and rehabilitation component  consists of rehabilitation,
resurfacing, safety and environmental rehabilitation works of 1,500km of paved highway.

Initially, 1,500km of state paved highway network rehabilitation was envisaged,
including engineering designs and other studies necessary to execute the services. During
the implementation, the rehabilitation goal was increased to 1,980km due to the variation
of the exchange rate. Subsequently, this goal was again decreased due to the increase in
value of the Real against the Dollar, leading to the conclusion that it would be possible to
execute only the initial 1,500km.

Within the original established schedule, AGETOP contracted 926.87km of rehabilitation



                                            60

works (Groups I and II), but only concluded approximately 85% of the total, which
corresponds to approximately 790km, a bit more than half of the initial goal. The lack of
counterpart funds in 2003 and 2004 and the short work execution periods were the
predominant causes of this limited performance in completing the works.

After postponing the closing date of the 1st phase of the Loan to December 15, 2006,
AGETOP contracted 1,060.80km of additional rehabilitation works, surpassing the
previously established target. The rehabilitation works were divided into three groups.
Group I has been totally concluded (434.49km); an extension of 471.62km has been
concluded in Group II, which has a total extension of 492.38km. AGETOP has not
accepted 64.48km of the total of Group II. Group III has a total extension of 1,060.80km,
and 315.49km have been concluded.


Therefore, 1,221.61km of rehabilitation have been executed, corresponding to 81% of the
estimated total.

It is possible to complete the original target of 1,500km until loan closing (at the end of
the year) since all works of Group III have been contracted.

The delays in work execution were partially caused by the contract addenda, which were
necessary because of the time that elapsed between the preparation of engineering
designs and the effective beginning of works. Rehabilitation works of Groups I and II
had their engineering designs financed by the borrower without World Bank
contribution. The Group II (492.38km) had most contract addenda; nevertheless, the
overall costs increased only by 10.6%. The conclusion date of the rehabilitation contracts
were also postponed because of uncertainties in the availability of counterpart funds,
which led to a cost increase due to price readjustments. It is estimated to spend an
amount of 9.5% of the contract price in adjustments.

b) Highway paving component  consists in paving approximately 300km of highways to
connect agro-industrial centers to main roads or to multimodal corridors in the
borrower's territory, including engineering studies, plans and designs, social and
environmental appraisals and supervising services.

Paving services of approximately 300km of highways were envisaged, connecting agro-
industrial centers to main roads or to multimodal corridors in the State of Goias,
including engineering designs and other studies necessary to bid and execute the works.
Subsequently, this goal was also increased to follow the exchange rate variation.

Paving services were divided into two groups. Until 2003, 301.57km of paving work
were contracted for Group I. During the loan closing date extension period more
178.76km were contracted for Group II, surpassing the established goal. Initially, Group



                                              61

II contained 5 lots, but two of them were excluded of the project and will be executed
with resources of the State Treasury. The other three remaining lots have been already
bid, and the works for two of them have begun: lot 02, GO-410, section Edeia/Porteirao,
with 60.03km, and lot 03, GO-437, section Silvania/Gameleira/Anapolis, with 54.85km.

By December 2006, it is expected that 280km of works of Group I and approximately
10km of works of Group II will be concluded, which corresponds to more than 90% of
the predicted total.

c) Highway Policy and Institutional Development  execution of a highway policy and
institutional development program, consisting of technical assistance, equipment,
software and personnel training, respectively, for:

(1) the preparation, monitoring and evaluation of two pilot projects to strengthen the
highway maintenance capacity, one for a big municipality and the other for small
municipalities associated in an inter-municipality highway consortium in the borrower's
territory, and to transfer to those municipalities all maintenance activities of the
respective highways;
Still before the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement, AGETOP carried out in an
unprecedented way the bidding for the maintenance of the whole state highway network
with the State's own resources. Through this bidding 26 companies were contracted and
began the activities of the 3rd Lane Program.


After that, AGETOP began to transfer to the municipalities all road maintenance
machinery. At the same time, AGETOP transferred, on a voluntary basis, the public
servants of its local offices to the municipalities, which have joined the CIMOS. Initially,
6 municipalities have joined the CIMOS, and the obtained experience was very useful in
the program development. At present, 127 municipalities joined the CIMOS, and the
remaining municipalities have been restructured to absorb the program activities.

With this the targets of the 1st phase have been largely surpassed. The programs have
been very successful and have become a model for other states in the country.

(2) the monitoring and evaluation of the borrower network highway maintenance
program, executed, inter alia, through performance-based contracts;
Another point to be highlighted is the undeniable advantage provided by the 3rd Lane
Program, which consists in outsourcing of Goias' state paved and unpaved highway
network maintenance.

The monitoring and evaluation activities of the maintenance program were designed and
executed by a consulting company contracted to monitor the highway network and to
establish a database for the pavement management system. This company already had a
system and has adapted it to AGETOP's reality, by transferring the existing data on the


                                             62

highway network into the system, complementing some information and training
AGETOP's staff to carry out monitoring activities on highways, including those relating
to the 3rd Lane Program. This system also generates outputs to be used for HDM4. In
1999/2000, the State of Goias spent about R$ 10 millions/month on state highway
maintenance, which was done through force account by CRISA and DER-GO, and the
highway was not always in good conditions, especially during the rainy period.

The State of Goias currently spends about R$ 5 millions/month for the implementation of
the 3rd Lane Program, in which rehabilitation and maintenance activities were
outsourced and services are measured on the basis of performance targets. This
represents cost savings of 50%, and the highways are in good maintenance conditions all
over the year.

(3) the strengthening of AGETOP's capacity in terms of planning and management,
through: (i) the establishment of a database and a highway network monitoring system;
and (ii) the restructuring and improvement of its management and control systems;
(i) The database and the highway network monitoring system were built by the
contracted consulting company mentioned in item (2). The database contains previously
existent data and was complemented with data from field surveys and from specific
analyses during rehabilitation engineering design preparation.

The update of 2002 initial data collection was not done as envisaged in the Loan
Agreement. Despite the project management unit's (GEUGP) efforts, another sectors of
AGETOP, mainly the Pavement Management Sector, were not able to comply with this
requirement because they had lost a great part of its public servants to other areas of
AGETOP and in the beginning AGETOP's restructuring had not covered the Pavement
Management Sector, which only now is receiving public servants trained in highway
management and will be in the condition to carry out the necessary surveys.

Several training courses were carried out, such as the Specialization Course in Highway
Engineering taught by the Brasilia University Foundation. A consultant company was
contracted, OMS Consultants, to implement a change management system, aiming at
reducing bureaucracy and time and optimizing AGETOP's activities.

(ii) In the beginning of the 1st phase of the Program, AGETOP already had two
management systems: SGF  Financial Management System, and SMO  Work
Measurement System. Both systems were further developed during the 1st phase, when
new types of reports were created and the database was corrected. All double records and
incorrect information were eliminated, and problems due to data import from the General
Goias State System  SIOFNET - were corrected. Information related to contracts
financed by the World Bank received an identification, which allows to select
information only of the financed contracts.



                                              63

Other systems were acquired with World Bank financing: (i) SIC  Integrated System for
Acquisitions and Purchasing, which covers all acquisitions of AGETOP and includes a
control of the procurement activities under the project; (ii) AET  Special Traffic
Authorization, which manages the transport of dangerous goods; (iii) GFD 쵲anagement
of Rights of Way, which allows to manage the use of the right of way along state
highways. These systems are already implemented and used by AGETOP's staff, with the
exception of the SIC, which is not yet suitable to control the procurement activities under
the project. GEGEL (Executive Bidding Group) and GEUGP are responsible for the
maintenance of this system, but it has not yet been made available to GEUGP, and
GEGEL has not yet used the system. This is an internal problem that can only be solved
through awareness rising among involved staff.

(4) the strengthening of AGETOP capacity to perform its functions and its social and
environmental responsibilities;
AGETOP, in partnership with State's Agency for Environment, had prepared and
launched a Technical Manual for Highway Work Licensing for companies, technicians
and consultants in the environmental area.

There had been a close collaboration between UEA  Environmental Study Unit  and
GEUGP to monitor the environmental activities envisaged in the Loan Agreement
environmental and to advise GEUGP. AGETOP's environmental department had
prepared a Manual of Environmental Norms and Procedures for Highway Undertakings,
which is currently being updated according to the results in this area. The World Bank
financed the acquisition of vehicles and information technology equipments, training and
software for staff involved in environmental geo-referencing and mapping activities.


(5) the improvement of AGETOP's computerized system for project monitoring;
The computerized system to assist in project monitoring and evaluation was not totally
implemented. Two programs were implemented to assist in a part of the management
functions: (i) MIG  Management Information Module, which supplies contract
payments data separately for the State and World Bank resources and the values in dollar
of the payments carried out by the State; (ii) UGP, which allows the generation of the
quarterly financial reports R1-A and R1-B.

Systems for the other activities, such as generating of SOEs and monitoring the Special
and the Operative Accounts movements, are not available. AGETOP is considering the
acquisition of a complete system to be used in the 2nd phase of the Program.

(6) the strengthening of the information system of SEINFRA to support transportation
planning.
SEINFRA developed the Master Plan for the Development of the Goias State Freight
Transportation System (PDTG) with World Bank resources, which was successfully
concluded in mid-2006. Among the main recommendations, the PDTG proposes to


                                             64

establish:

            Spaces for joint federal-state planning and among state entities,
            Integrated system of pavement management
            Economic and technical criteria for work prioritization.

New information technology equipments were also acquired to modernize SEINFRA and
equip it with the necessary tools to use the system generated by the PDTG.

Therefore, the Goias State Highway Management Program, being an integrated work of
SEINFRA/AGETOP, will allow the State of Goias to achieve an organized growth, with
the necessary resources allocated to the sector being used in the most efficient and
effective way possible.

d) Environmental Management.
(1) identification and elaboration of a map of environmentally sensitive areas in the
borrower's territory, through a consolidated database of the borrower's natural
resources and biodiversity, as well the results of the respective analyses. This map
should supply the base to evaluate potential impacts of highway designs and to
consolidate and expand the system of borrower's natural areas protected for
environmental purposes;
Initially, the Environmental Agency of the State of Goias (AGMA) contracted two
consultants to develop the initial studies on geo-referencing and biodiversity in the State
of Goias and to advise AGMA in the execution of the relevant activities. This initial
work led to the development of the Terms of Reference to map the environmentally
sensitive areas in the State of Goias.

The international bidding took place at the end of 2002, and in 2003 a consortium of
Brazilian companies was contracted to elaborate the maps. During contract execution,
AGMA realized that there was a need to contract again the two consultants to audit the
products generated by the consortium. This was very important to guarantee the quality
of generated products. The elaboration of the maps of environmentally sensitive areas
was successful, and the results were released to the Brazilian scientific community
through a workshop financed by the Bank. The Bank also financed the publication of the
proceedings of the workshop and the maps.

The maps provided a complete view of the State's environmental situation, and, based on
this information, AGMA could plan the necessary actions to preserve the environmental
reserves and evaluate the environmental degradation caused by the expansion of the
agricultural boundaries. Conservation units, environmental protection areas and future
parks were defined. The environmental damage was evaluated and, based on this study,
economic actions to be implemented to mitigate environmental damage in protection
areas were defined jointly by AGMA and the World Bank. These ideas are under


                                              65

development through a contract with FUNAPE  National Foundation of Research,
which will carry out the studies and establish methodologies for economic compensation
mechanisms for damaged areas.

(2) strengthening of AGMA's capacity to identify potential impacts of highway projects,
review environmental evaluations, authorize works, supervise the implementation of
environmental management plans, and monitor and evaluate the environmental impacts
of the Project;
To strengthen AGMA's capacity several individual consultants were contracted to
provide support in the implementation, adaptation and training in the use of management
systems for several activities of the Agency, such as issuing of authorizations for works,
environmental licence control, integration of the information from several sectors to a
single database, and monitoring of criminal procedures and compensation measures.

One of the consultants was contracted to develop the Manual of Procedures and Norms
for Highway Undertakings envisaged in the Loan Agreement. This manual was presented
to and discussed among AGMA, AGETOP, consulting companies and engineering
designers. The first version of the manual was modified based on those discussions, and
AGMA published copies of the manual to be distributed for free to the interested sectors.
The manual is a part of AGETOP's works bidding document.

The institutional strengthening of AGMA was also part of this component. Several
individual consultants were contracted to elaborate the carrier and salary plan, prepare a
quality control system, monitor the legal reserves, prepare the organizational
restructuring of AGMA, elaborate studies on economic environmental measures, publish
a book on Environmental Conservation, Biodiversity and Sustainability in the State of
Goias, prepare environmental management plans, and carry out land property surveys in
several conservation units.

(3) implementation, based on the identification referred to item (1) above, of protection
areas in the regions of Serra das Gales and Serra da Bocaina, including the construction
of the necessary basic infrastructure.
The environmental protection areas of the Serra de Gales and the Serra de Bocaina have
not yet been implemented, but between 2001 and 2006, the conservation areas of the
State (federal and state areas) increased by 357.6%, from 450,239ha to 1,610,264ha.
Moreover, initial implementation activities in several environmental protection areas are
ongoing: (i) land property surveys, measurements and demarcations in the Serra Dourada
Park and the Parauna Park; (ii) feasibility studies to implement the Serra da Bocaina
Park; (iii) elaboration of the management plans of several environmental protection areas
(APAs) in the State of Goias.

Delays in this component were mainly caused by the requests of AGMA to use the
World Bank loan to finance the expropriations of areas decreed as parks, and delays in
the definition of the areas to be subject to land property surveys.



                                              66

e) State Reform  technical assistance and personnel training to assist in the
implementation of a part of the State Reform Program, including the strengthening of the
State Regulatory Agency (AGR).

The Agency for Regulation, Control and Inspection of Public Services of the State of
Goias considers that the objectives proposed in the Loan Agreement signed between the
State of Goias and the World Bank have been reached in a satisfactory way, mainly as far
as the institutional strengthening of the Regulatory Agency is concerned.

The strengthening of the Regulatory Agency has occurred in two stages: (i) the
elaboration of the terms of reference necessary to the carrier and salary plan by an
individual consultant, the implementation of the quality system and institutional and
functional development of the Agency; (ii) the implementation of the activities envisaged
in the terms of reference through a consulting company.

To strengthen the technical staff of the agency, the Brasilia University Foundation (FUB)
was contracted to hold a course on Economic Regulation for 43 public servants of AGR.

Information technology equipments and vehicles were acquired to assist the
accomplishment of internal and external activities.

Therefore, AGR is satisfied with the achievement of the objectives envisaged in the Loan
Agreement, and expressed its interest in continuing with the implementation of the
Program.

With regard to the performance evaluation of AGETOP, during the preparation and
implementation of the first phase there have been a few shortcomings, which hindered an
even better performance of the project. Those shortcomings were due to several factors,
such as:

     Lack of experience and knowledge related to Bank procedures in the beginning of
        the project. This problem still persists mainly for the other project beneficiaries
        and the control entities of the State, which bureaucratize actions, and so delay
        contracting and payments.
     AGETOP also faced difficulties in the beginning of the project due to the lack of
        integration among its different sectors and departments. These difficulties caused
        by a lack of knowledge and prioritization sometimes led to delays that could be
        avoided.
     In the beginning of the project, the State of Goias faced a temporary difficulty in
        making available the counterpart funds for the project because of the need to
        comply with the fiscal adjustment targets agreed with the Federal Government in
        the framework of the Fiscal Responsibility Law and the economic instability of
        the country. Currently the country's economy is solid, with considerable exchange




                                               67

       reserves and the compliance with the fiscal agreements.


The World Bank performance during the project preparation and implementation phases
was highly positive. The Bank acted as a partner, believing in State's and AGETOP's
potential and helping to reach the objectives proposed in the Loan Agreement. It was
severe when necessary, but showed the necessary flexibility to understand difficult
moments.




                                            68

Annex 11. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

                              Not applicable




                                    69

Annex 12. List of Supporting Documents

Basic Economic Statistical Indicators, in Economia & Desenvolvimento, Conjuntura
Socioeconomica de Goias, Year VII, no . 23 April/June 2006
Restructuring and Fiscal Adjustment Program, State of Goias, Period 2002-2004
Restructuring and Fiscal Adjustment Program, State of Goias, Period 2001-2003
Brazilian Law of Fiscal Responsibility, Supplementary Law 101 of May 4, 2000
Pluriannual Plan PPA 2000-2003, Goias 21st Century, SEPLAN
Pluriannual Plan PPA 2004-2007, Goias 21st Century, Avancar Mais, SEPLAN
Pluriannual Plan (PPA) 2004/2007, in Gestao Publica, October - December 2003
World Bank Country Assistance Strategy for the Federative Republic of Brazil FY2000-2002
World Bank Country Assistance Strategy for the Federative Republic of Brazil FY2004-2007
World Bank Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report FY2004-2007, May 2006
Goias State Highway Management Program Staff Appraisal Report of July 19, 2001
Audit Reports
PSRs and ISRs
Legal Agreements
Project Progress Reports
Aide Memoires




                                              70

