Report No. PID10005
Project Name                     Brazil-Goias State Highway Management (@)
Region                           Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                           Highways
Project ID                       BRPE55954
Borrower(s)                      STATE OF GOIAS
Implementing Agency
Address AGENCIA DE TRANSPORTE E OBRAS
PUBLICAS, AGETOP
Address: Av. Governador Jose Ludovico de
Almeida, No. 20, Conjunto
Cai6ara, CEP74623-160, Goiania-GO
Contact Person: Eng. Joao Skaf Filho
Tel: (062) 265-4070/4190
Fax: (062) 245-4018
Email: joaoskaf@agetop.goias.gov.br
Environment Category             A
Date PID Prepared                March 21, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         March 26, 2001
Projected Board Date             July 24, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
Road transport accounts for over 60% of domestic freight and 90% of
passenger movements in Brazil. Total road transport expenditures are
estimated at about 18% of GNP, and over half of the country's non-urban
traffic is on state roads. The trunk highway networks, which have been
built in the 1960s and 1970s, used more heavily than expected, and
inadequately maintained, are in a process of rapid deterioration. The
secondary highway and feeder road systems remain of poor standards and
conditions in most states, after two decades of drastically curtailed road
expenditures. The poor condition of the highway networks and the heavy
reliance of the economy on road transport are resulting into excessive
land transport costs, which are hindering Brazil's export competitiveness
(see Report No. 15663-BR: The Custo Brasil since 1990-92, and Report No.
16361-BR: Brazil Multimodal Freight Transport, Selected Regulatory
Issues). In order to increase the efficiency and modal shares of railway
and waterborne intermodal transport, the Government of Brazil (GOB) has
recently restructured and concessionned its railways to private operators
(Federal Railway Restructuring and Privatization Project, Loan No.
4046-BR), and privatized the operation of the major port terminals (see
Report No. 19569-BR AReforma Portuaria Brasileira). The congress is now
debating a proposal to establish a regulatory agency for transport and to
restructure the sector administration in order to improve the regulatory
framework for private sector participation (see Report No. 20702-BR,
Brazil Public-Private Partnerships in Transport Infrastructure). But road
transport will retain a very important role in Brazil's economy. The
decentralization of fiscal revenues, including road user taxes, determined
by the 1988 Constitution left the federation with insufficient resources
to meet its expenditure responsibilities on the extensive federal highway



network (see Report No. 9473-BR: Brazil, Medium-Term Strategy for the
Infrastructure Sectors). Recently, GOB has undertaken to decentralize the
responsibilities for about 15,000 km of highways to the states. GOB and
some state governments are also in the process of concessioning
high-traffic highways to private operators; about 5,000 km are already
privately operated, and another 3,000 km are scheduled for concessioning.
But most highways do not have enough traffic to justify tolling and
therefore will remain funded from federal and state general revenues. In
many states, public road expenditure programs are still highly influenced
by political rather than technical and economic considerations. Also, road
maintenance activities, which are carried out mostly by force account, are
often ineffective. Through the Federal Highway Rehabilitation and
Decentralization Project and the State Highway Management Projects, the
Bank has been assisting the federal and several state governments in
carrying out the above decentralization and concession programs, in
implementing efficient expenditure strategies and programs with adequate
priority for maintenance, and in contracting out the maintenance of the
networks through new forms of performance contracts. Most states in
Brazil are highly indebted, and Goias has one of the highest debt compared
to its revenues. Through a series of rescheduling agreements with the
Federal Government, Goias has reduced its legal debt service obligations
to about 15t of net revenues.   This has permitted the state to run a
modest current account surplus over the last four years. But the stock of
debt has continued to grow, due in large part to the capitalization of
deferred interest. However, the current administration of the state which
came into office in 1999, undertook a number of fiscal adjustment and
structural reform measures which led to a remarkable improvement of the
state's fiscal situation in 2000. In the first semester of 2000, the
state ran a substantial current account surplus, and the overall balance
was only slightly negative. Although the stock of debt may not be reduced
in the foreseeable future, these results suggest an ability to sustain the
debt service of the proposed loan. But since the project's implementation
and results, including their sustainability, will depend on the state's
future fiscal performance, the project documents would provide for a
framework for monitoring the implementation of the state's fiscal
adjustment and structural reform programs, as defined in a Policy Letter
from the State Governor to the Bank, and would make satisfactory progress
under these reform programs a condition for financing paving subprojects
under the loan.
2. Objectives
The project development objective is to increase the efficiency of the
state's road transport system. To achieve this objective, the project
components will respectively:restore and maintain the condition of the
main highway network; pave highway sections linking agro-industrial
centers to major highway or multimodal corridors; andimprove the
management of the highway system through increased private sector
participation, administrative decentralization, and effective public
expenditure planning, management and control systems. In order to ensure
that the project development objective is achieved within sustainable,
environmental and fiscal frameworks, the project will also include
components to:strengthen the state's environmental planning and monitoring
capacities, and establish a system of environmental protection areas in
the state; and help, with technical assistance and staff training, to
effectively implement the state's fiscal adjustment and structural reform
-2 -



programs.Also, the implementation of the project will be linked to
satisfactory progress under the state's fiscal adjustment and structural
reform programs.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The Bank will help: increase the efficiency of the state road programs
through application of agreed technical, economic and environmental
criteria and methodologies included in the PIP and the HDM 4 model, and
through joint reviews of the annual programs;bring international
experience and best practices in highway subsector management, including
administrative decentralization, maintenance by contract with the private
sector, road agency organization and management, and road-related
environmental and social safeguard policies and procedures;facilitate the
process of decentralization of federal highways to the jurisdiction of the
state, which is to assume responsibility for several decentralized
highways; promote the conservation of the state's natural resources;
andbring international experience and best practices in state reform in
general and in utility regulation in particular.
4. Description
The project consists of the following five components: the highway
rehabilitation and maintenance component consists of rehabilitation and
resurfacing works on about 1,500 km of paved highways, and related
engineering services, to restore and maintain the condition of the state's
paved highway network in line with the proposed indicators;the highway
paving component consists of the works and engineering services needed to
pave about 300 km of highway sections linking agro-industrial centers to
major highway or multimodal corridors;the highway policy and institutional
development component consists of the technical assistance, staff training
and equipment needed to formulate and/or monitor implementation of new
highway policies and programs, and to strengthen AGETOP's planning,
management and control systems; the environmental management component
consists of the technical assistance, staff training, equipment and
services needed to: (i) prepare the state's environmental protection plan;
(ii) strengthen the environmental management function in AGETOP; (iii)
strengthen the licensing, supervision and monitoring capacities of the
state environmental agency (AGMAR); and (iv) implement the first phase of
the proposed system of environmental protection areas; andthe state reform
component will consist of technical assistance and staff training to help
implement the state's structural and administrative reform, and in
particular to strengthen the new utility regulation agency (AGR). Project
Cost and Financing TableComponentSector Indicative Cost (US$M)t of
TotalBank- financing (US$M)t of Bank- financingi. Highway Rehabilitation
and MaintenanceHighways8O.0061.540.0061.52. Highway
PavingHighways4l.0031.520.5031.53. Highway Policy and Institutional
Development Institutional Developmentl.000.81.001.54. Environmental
ManagementNatural Resources Management6.354.91.852.85. State
ReformInstitutional Developmentl.000.381.01.5Total Project
Costsl29.3599.564.3599.OFront-end FeeO.650.50.651.OTotal Financing
Requiredl30.00100.065.00100.0
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Total Project Cost       130
-3-



6. Implementation
The State of Goias will be the Borrower, and the Federative Republic of
Brazil the Guarantor. The government of the state will be responsible for
implementing the project through its roads, transport and public works
agency, AGETOP (the executing agency), in accordance with the conditions
of the loan and project agreements, the project design and monitoring
indicators, and with the Project Implementation Plan (PIP). A special task
force, to be established under the coordination of the State
Infrastructure Secretariat (SEINFRA) with representatives of other State
Secretariats and agencies including AGETOP, will be responsible for
designing and/or monitoring the implementation of the highway
decentralization and maintenance policies and plans, and AGETOP's
management contract, with technical assistance financed under the project.
The State Environmental Agency (AGMAR), under agreement with AGETOP, will
prepare the state environmental protection plan, review subproject
environmental assessments, supervise environmental management plans, and
monitor environmental impacts. A special task force, established under the
coordination of the State Planning and Development Secretariat (SEPLAN)
with representatives of other State Secretariats and agencies, is
responsible for coordinating the state privatization program, including
the privatization of the power distribution company and the
operationalization of the state regulatory agency (ARG). AGETOP has
assigned project execution responsibilities to its relevant departments
and units, and has established and will maintain a Project Coordination
Unit (PCU), with terms of reference and staff satisfactory to the Bank, to
coordinate the execution of the project. The PCU is headed by an
experienced project manager who reports directly to the President. AGETOP
will contract a Consultant to assist the PCU in coordinating the execution
of the project and in preparing periodic progress reports and financial
management reports, and to provide specific technical assistance to the
departments to strengthen the planning, management and control systems, in
accordance with agreed terms of reference.
7. Sustainability
The project is designed to ensure effective and sustainable operation and
maintenance of the state highway network. The procedures and methodologies
to be established for planning, programming, budgeting, contracting and
supervision of contracts, which are consistent with the administrative
capacity of AGETOP, are designed to ensure appropriate priority for
maintenance. The long-term, performance-based maintenance contracts, in
addition to private management, are expected to provide incentives to
private industry to ensure that sufficient resources for road maintenance
are allocated in the state budget.    The formal and on-the-job training
will contribute to sustainability by improving the competence and
motivation of AGETOP staff. The maintenance of rural roads will be
decentralized to local administrations, which are more directly
accountable to user communities. Finally, by linking the implementation of
the paving component to state fiscal performance, the project is expected
to contribute to a sound fiscal framework, which is a precondition for
project sustainability.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The following important lessons learned from the experience with the
above projects have been incorporated into the design and preparation of
the project:n Expenditure Policies, Network Management. The lack of a
- 4 -



network management perspective led in the past to over-dimensioning
individual investments and to letting entire portions of the highway
networks deteriorate. The project incorporates recent experience in
network monitoring and analysis and in optimizing expenditure programs
within actual resources constraints in order to effectively improve and
maintain the condition of the entire network;n Highway Concessions.
Experience with highway concessions in Argentina demonstrates the
feasibility of concessioning the operation and maintenance of existing
highways with uncontrolled accesses. But it also emphasizes the needs for
thorough traffic, economic and financial studies, for a transparent
bidding process with a single award criterion, and for flexible contracts
to reduce the risk of re-negotiation. Recent experience in Brazil and
elsewhere also shows the need for appropriate regulation and risk sharing
to attract private debt financing for highway investments. The analyses
of Goias state network have shown no real scope for concessioning state
highway sections at this stage, because of insufficient traffic;n
Maintenance Policies.    Highway agencies worldwide, with few exceptions,
have demonstrated their inability to effectively manage the numerous
activities, personnel and equipment required for maintaining a road
network. Since the early 1980s, the maintenance of Brazil's federal
highway network was contracted out with some success, but the input-based
forms of contracts require extensive supervision from DNER. The project
would experiment with long-term performance-based maintenance management
contracts, which have been recently tested in Argentina;n Environmental
Management. Past experience with the Northwest Region Development Program
in Brazil showed that highway investments can lead to significant long
term environmental damage by enabling destructive and disorderly
colonization and economic activities, if the necessary measures to prevent
or mitigate the potential adverse impacts are not promptly implemented.
Also road works can have direct adverse environmental effects such as soil
erosions. The project incorporates recent experience with highway
projects in Brazil and elsewhere, which emphasizes the integration of
environmental aspects early in the project planning and design stages, and
includes an environmental management subcomponent to strengthen the
environmental functions of the state highway agency and the review and
supervision functions of the state environmental agency; n Institutional
Components.   The institutional components of projects have often fallen
short of achieving their objectives. The frequent changes of sector
administrations have been an important factor. But the scope and timetable
of these components have often been over-optimistic. The institutional
component of the project focuses on a few essential issues. It will be
monitored against clear indicators and targets which, if not
substantially met, could lead to suspension of new commitments under the
civil works components; andn Counterpart Funding, Budgets. Counterpart
funding problems have been recurrent in Brazil. In order to reduce this
risk, the project was designed as a sector operation, incorporating only
the highest priority components of the larger state road program.
Appropriate budgeting will be ensured through joint annual reviews of the
state's road programs and budgets. In addition, the counterpart funds
needed for this project have been secured through a state law by the
receipts from the proposed sale of the state power distribution company.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
- 5 -



Issues        1.  The state of Goias is located in the high
central plains of Brazil known as the cerrados. The region's natural
vegetation consists mainly of savannah, or open pasture with brush
vegetation, with very few remains of forest along the main rivers. The
state's economy has traditionally been based on extensive cattle farming.
But over the past three decades, the region has seen a very rapid
development of agriculture, particularly corn and soybean. The state has
few established areas to protect its natural resources and biodiversity.
But the state's environmental agency (AGMAR) has recently initiated a
systematic inventory of its natural resources and related sensitive areas.
And there is now a broad consensus within the administration that the
state's natural habitats must be protected more effectively. As a first
step, AGMAR will, under the project, complete the survey of the state's
natural resources and biodiversity, consolidate such information into a
geographical information system, maintain an inventory of environmental
risks and sensitive areas, and prepare a plan to establish a system of
environmental protection areas (SEAP). Two identified such areas will be
established with project funds. The state administration is actively
seeking supplemental funding from the GEF in order to consolidate the
existing protection areas and to establish new areas. 2. AGMAR, in
accordance with federal and state legislation and regulations, authorizes
all road construction and major upgrading works on the basis of a review
of environmental impact assessments (EIAs); and it authorizes
rehabilitation and improvement works on the basis of environmental
management plans (EMPs). These documents are prepared by consultants
under AGETOP's supervision. For this purpose, AGETOP has developed and
has been using an environmental manual and a set of environmental norms
and instructions, which incorporate many of the best practices developed
under Bank-financed and other highway projects. But the terms of
reference for the preparation of the EIAs are often too generic since
there is little initial screening of the potential impacts of the proposed
projects. Also, AGMAR's review, supervision, and monitoring functions
lack specific procedures for roads projects. The project will include a
subcomponent to strengthen AGMAR's key functions. This subcomponent will
consist of the installation of computerized geographic information and
mapping systems, and related procedures and training of staff for the
screening of potential impacts of projects, for the review of EIAs,
supervision of EMP implementation, and monitoring of impacts in the areas
of influence of the roads projects. 3. AGETOP has recently established an
environmental unit, responsible for coordinating the agency's
environmental work and communications with AGMAR, and for supervising
implementation of the agency's environmental norms and EMPs. The unit,
which has been assigned four experienced professionals, has supervised the
preparation of the project's EIAs and EMPs and revised AGETOP's general
specifications for road works to incorporate adequate environmental
management requirements. But the unit is not yet fully operational,
particularly for screening potential impacts of AGETOP's projects and for
field supervision work. The project will include a subcomponent to
strengthen AGETOP's environmental functions. The subcomponent will
include consulting services to help with certain aspects of AGETOP's
environmental work program, the installation of a computerized geographic
information system linked with AGMAR's systems, a vehicle and other field
equipment, and training of environmental and of other relevant staff of
AGETOP.
-6-



11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Jacques L. Cellier
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 202-473-9326
Fax: 202-676-9594
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending March 20, 2001.
- 7 -



