E452
Volume 1
BRAZIL
GOIAS STATE HIGHWAY
MANAGEMENT PROJECT
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
February 16, 2001
I f§FI X   Y II
211.1  4  ,A    }



Brazil
Goias State Highway Management Project
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Table of Contents
Page
A.  Introduction
B.  Policy, Legal and Administrative Framework                           3
B.   Description                                                         3
B. 2  The Licensing Process                                              4
B. 3  Environmental Policy of the State of Goias                         5
C.  Project Description                                                  6
C. ]  General Description                                                6
C. 2  Physical Component                                                 6
C. 3  Institzutional Conmponent                                          7
D.  Collection of Baseline Data                                          7
E.  Public Consultations                                                 8
F.   Environmental Impacts                                               8
F. ]  Overview                                                           8
F. 2  %egative Environmental Impacts and Mitigation Measures             8
F. 3  Positive Environmental Impacts                                     9
G.  Analyze of Alternatives                                              9
H.  Environmental Management Plan                                        9
H. ]  Preparation and Mlfonitoring of EMPs                               9
H. 2  Institutional Strengthening                                       10
H.2.1 StrengtheningofAGMAR                                         10
H2. 2. Strengthening ofAGETOP                                      I I
Appendices



Brazil
Goias State Highway Management Program
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
A.  Introduction
1.   The State of Goais is presently implementing a fiscal adjustment and structural
reform program, in order to restore a robust fiscal health, increase the efficiency of the
administration, and further foster economic growth. The proposed Goias State Highway
Management Project aims at increasing the efficiency of the State road transport system
within a sustainable environmental and fiscal framework. The Project is considered an
important component which will support the State in achieving the state fiscal adjustment
and structural reform program's goals. The Project's institutional components will lead
to increased efficiency of public expenditures in the road sector, strengthen the State's
environmental and road management capacity. while pursuing the decentralization of the
responsibility for the local road network to communities.  The Project's physical
component will lead to a more efficient conservation of the State's road assets, and
contribute to economic growth through better road connections state-wide.
B.  Policy, Legal and Administrative Framework
B. 1  Description
2.   The main legal steps in the environmental licensing system in Brazil originate from
Law 6938 dated August 31, 1981, which establishes Environmental National Policy.
Article nbr. 10, establishes Preliminary, Installation and Operational Licenses for
activities considered to be polluting or have impacts. Normally these are issued by state
organizations that belong to SISNAMA (National System of Environment). The same
law created CONAMA (National Board of Environment) and gave to this Board power to
regulate pertinent environmental issues. Thus, CONAMA issued Resolution 001/86,
which included among the works to be licensed "roads with two or more traffic lanes."
This Resolution was modified by another, number 237/97, which currently is in force,
and keeps the restrictions that previously existed for road works. The Law of
Environmental Crimes (Law 9605, dated February 12, 1998), which was added to these
regulations, defines environmental crimes and establishes severe penalties to those who
commit them, whether individuals (imprisonment for periods that can be more than 4
years and fines that can be over RS$ 50 million), or companies (subject to even higher
fines, even closing and liquidation of the company). According to this law. the execution
of road works without each of these required environmental licenses is a crime. Laws
and regulations related to environment in the State of Goais include, inter alia:
*  Federal Law N. 6.93 8, dated August 3 1, 1981, on the National Environmental Policy
* Federal Law N. 9.605, dated February 12, 1998 on Environmental Crimes
* Forestry Law of Goias, N. 12.596, dated March 14, 1995, on the Protection of the
State's Natural Resources
*  Resolution CONAMA N. 001, dated January 23, 1986, establishing CONAMA



- 4 -
* Resolution CONAMA N237, dated December 19, 1997, revising procedures and
criteria used in the provision of environmental licenses.
B. 2  Th7e Licensing Process
3. .AGMAR, in accordance with federal and state legislation and regulations,
authorizes all road construction and major upgrading works on the basis of a review of
environmental impact assessments (EIAs); and  it authorizes rehabilitation  and
improvement works on the basis of environmental management plans (EMPs). These
documents are prepared by consultants under AGETOP's supervision. AGMAR charges
a fee for analysis, licensing and inspection (approximate amount currently is
USS45O0.00/km, for highways). AGMAR. based on requirements presented by AGETOP,
determines the Terms of Reference for the studies and identification of necessary basic
projects requirements for the licensing of each particular stretch of road. Once those
studies and project requirements are concluded and commitments are made (PBAs -
Basic Environmental Plans), the licenses required by law are issued (Preliminary License,
or LP. Installation License, or LI, and Operational License, or LO). Terms of Reference
are normally required to carry out more extensive studies (EIA-RIMA) for the
implementation of new roads and for the enlargement and paving of existing roads in
sensitive areas. For the restoration of roads alreadv paved, a more focused environmental
impact evaluation is normally required; it is called PCA - Environmental Control Plan.
The flow diagram below shows the licensing process as a whole.
Basic Project and
EIA-RIMA
Preliminarv License (LP)
Requirements
Executive Projects and
Environmental Basic Projects
(PBAs)
Installation License
(LI)
Work Implementation and
PBAs
Operational License
(LO)



B.3 Environmental Policy of the State of Goias
4.   The State of Goias has few protected areas and it does not have a systematic
inventory of its natural resources and related sensitive areas. But there is now a broad
consensus, including within the state administration. that the state's natural resources and
biodiversity need to be protected more effectively. As such, the state has designed a
State System of Protected Areas (SEAP), which aims at identifying and protecting, a
minimum 10% of the State's surface which would zoned as environmentally sensitive
areas, including priority sites for conservation of the Cerrado in the state of Goias, and
protection of cultural sites and indigenous people. The SEAP will be implemented by the
State Environmental Agency (AGMAR) and will consist of identification and protection
of the State's sensitive areas. In order;to ensure an effective implementation of the
SEAP, the State is also looking for support to strengthen its capacity in terms of
enforcement and monitoring of environmental regulations, both at the level of AGMAR
and of the State Road Administration (AGETOP).
5.   AGETOP  has recently established an environmental unit, responsible for
coordinating the agency's environmental work and communications with AGMAR. and
for supervising implementation of the agency's environmental norms and Environmental
Management Plans (EMPs). The unit, which has been assigned four experienced
professionals, has supervised the preparation of the Environmental Impact Assessments
and EMPs and revised AGETOP's general specifications for road works to incorporate
adequate environmental management requirements. AGETOP has developed and has
been using an environmental manual and a set of environmental norms and instructions
compiled in a volume called "Environmental Norms and Procedures for Road Activities"
of .the State Road Administration (AGETOP). These norms and procedures include
specific mitigation instructions both at project design and implementation stages. and
define the obligations of designers, contractors and AGETOP, including:
ISMA-0 1: Mitigation measures at the Preliminary Design Stage
ISMA-02: Study of Road Alignment Alternatives
ISMA-03: Guidelines for Environmental Impact Assessments
ISMA-04: Report on Environmental Impacts
ISMA-05: Preparation of Environmental Management Program
ISMA-06: Preparation of Environmental Monitoring Plan
ISMA-07: Impacts at the Design Stage: Issues/Mitigation/Elimination
ISMA-08: Impacts at the Works Implementation Stage: Issues/Mitigation/Elimination
ISMA-09: Impacts during Roads Operational Phase
ISMA- 10: Design of Environmental Mitigation Measures
ISMA-1 1: Environmental Supervision of Works
ISMA-12: Rehabilitation of Areas Plane or with Gentle Slopes through Plantation of
Legumes and Graminaceae.
ISMA-13: Rehabilitation of Areas with Stronger Slopes through Plantation of Legumes
and Graminaceae.
ISMA-14: Rehabilitation of Areas Plane or with Gentle Slopes through Plantation of
Shrubs and Trees
IS MA- 15: Treatment of Wet Areas



- 6 -
6.   Finally, in accordance with the Brazilian legislation, in case the contractor will
need to access areas outside of the road righlt-of-way or outside existing borrow pits
extract materials from new sites, the contractor will be able to do so only following the
delivery of a license from IPHAN, the Brazilian National Institute for the Protection of
Historical and Archeological Sites.
C.  Project Description
C.  General Description
7.   The project consists of the following five components:
*  a highway rehabilitation and maintenance component consists of rehabilitation and
resurfacing works on about 1,500 km of paved highways, and related engineering
services, to restore and maintain the condition of the state's paved highway network
in line with the proposed indicators;
*  a highway paving component consists of the works and engineering services needed
to pave about 330 km of highway sections linking agro-industrial centers to major
highway or multimodal corridors;
* a highway policy and institutional development component consists of the technical
assistance, staff training and   equipment needed to formulate and/or monitor
implementation of new highway policies and programs, and to strengthen AGETOP's
planning, management and control systems;
*  a environmental management component consists of the technical assistance, staff
training, equipment and services needed to: (i) prepare the state's environmental
protection plan; (ii) strengthen the environmental management function in AGETOP;
(iii) strengthen the licensing, supervision and monitoring capacities of the state
environmental agency (AGMAR); and (iv) implement the first phase of the proposed
system of environmental protection areas; and
* a state reform component will consist of technical assistance and staff training to help
implement the state's structural and administrative reform, and in particular to
strengthen the new utility regulation agency (AGR).
C. 2 Physical Component
8.   The state of Goias is located in the high central plains of Brazil known as the
cerrados. The region's natural vegetation consists mainly of savannah. or open pasture
with brush vegetation. with very few remains of forest along the main rivers. The state's
economy has traditionally been based on extensive cattle farming. But over the past three
decades, the region has seen a very rapid development of agriculture, particularly corn
and soybean. The road sections to be included under the project are located in areas in
which intensive agriculture (especially focused on cattle farming and production of wheat
and soybean) and human establishment are significantly developed. As such. little of the
original biodiversity remains. In addition, the indigenous population of the state is very
small, less than 200 individuals. Nearly all of them occupy areas demarcated and
regularized by FUNAI. There are three small Karaja Reserves near Aruana. and the Ava
Canoeiro Reserve near the Serra da Mesa reservoir.  There are also a few small
communities of Quilombos in the northern part of the state, who are descendents of
slaves and seek to preserve their culture. Works foreseen to be included in the project at



- 7 -
this stage would not require involuntary resettlement. nor would have an impact on
indigenous populations.
9.   Roads to be maintained under the project include about 1,500 km of paved road
sections on the main network of the State. These road sections connect the main cities of
the State and have high level of traffic (typicallv above 2.000 vehicles a day). Roads to
be paved under the project include about 330 km of existing gravel roads, split in 5
different sub-projects (about 2% of the non-paved network of the State of Goias). These
roads have been selected in accordance to their economic importance for the areas they
deserve. As such, these roads already have substantial levels of traffic (relatively to
average traffic on non-paved roads), typically above 300 vehicles a day.
C.3  Inistitutional Component
10.  The project will support the implementation of the SEAP. It will provide support
to AGMAR to identify, in the form of digitalized maps. environmentally sensitive areas,
based on available spatial inventories, field studies and satellite picturing s-ystems. It will
also support the establishment of protected areas through:
(a) the Bank loan, in two areas, located in critical biodiversity hotspots of the Cerrado
ecoregion, will be established through the Bank loan, namely the State Park of Ponte Rio
das Pedras, and Serra das Gales (Parauna), and Serra da Bocaina Park (Crixds/Uirapuru).
Specifically, the Bank loan will fund the build up of the parks' basic infrastructure,
including administrative buildings and visitor's centers; and
(b) a GEF grant, currently being discussed, which would: (i) set up a network of Private
Reserves of the Natural Heritage (RPPN), Areas of Permanent Preservation (APP) and
Private Legal Reserves (according to the Forest Code) that will maximise connectivitv
among core areas of the Goyaz-Cerrado Biosphere Reserve and ensure the consolidation
of the critical biological corridors in the area; (ii) provide for the basic infrastructure,
management plans, governing bodies, as well as a consultative and participatory fora in
place in at least the following critical protected areas: area of environmental protection of
Pouso Alto, buffer zone of the Veadeiros National Park, and Terra Ronca State Park; and
(iii) create a number of effective fiscal, financial, and economic incentives - translated
into laws, regulations, and credit lines - that enhance nature conservation and sustainable
use of resources in the area of the Biosphere Reserve.
D.   Collection of Baseline Data
11.  The baseline data was collected using a combination of existing available published
information and documentation, interviews with key individuals, and site visits to obtain
environmental baseline data on each of the road sections included -in the Project.
Collected information includes feedback from public meetings organized for
collectivities living in the areas surrounding those roads to be paved under the Project.
Data collection was focused to obtain sufficient information to identify. evaluate and
mitigate direct and indirect impacts that activities to be funded under the project could
have on the environment. The study areas for each road section included under the
Project stretch to encompass, in addition to the areas immediately surrounding the road
sections, those "areas which could be indirectly affected by the project activities. The



- 8 -
baseline data for the foreseen activities include location of material sources. estimated
quantities required for the works The baseline environmental data includes climatic
conditions, surface geology, water resources, description of fauna and flora, and
identification, if any, of sensitive areas. Social data includes localization of human
activities and living areas, heritage, cultural and archeological resources and existing
infrastructure.
E.   Public Consultations
12.  Public hearings were organized to inform collectivities of the scope of the paving
works, to gather the prospective of the collectivities on the impacts that such works
would have on their life, and to discuss tieasures to mitigate potential negative impacts.
In total, 8 consultation meetings gathering about 1.000 persons have been organized. In
addition, informal consultations were held during the preparation of the designs and EIAs
and EMPs for the paving and rehabilitation activities to be funded under the project, in
order to seek inputs on specific, local issues from relevant stakeholders. Finally, the
EIAs and EMPs have been presented and discussed in subsequent public meetings.
F.   Environmental Impacts
F 1 Overview
13.  The project will include a road maintenance/rehabilitation and a road paving
component. A Sectoral Environmental Assessment (SEA) has been prepared with the
help of a specialist consultant. The SEA includes a diagnostic of AGMAR and AGETOP
institutional capacities to carry out their road-related environmental functions, and
recommends measures for strengthening them as needed to ensure compliance with the
Bank's safeguard policies on the environment and on natural habitats.  In addition,
specific Environmental Management Plans (EMPs) have been prepared for the road
sections to be included in the first year's maintenance and rehabilitation program, and
specific Environmental Impact Assessments (EIAs) have been prepared for 4 out of 5
paving subprojects. Both the road maintenance/rehabilitation and paving components
will focus on existing roads, which implies that the project will have limited
environmental impacts, such as those resulting from new road construction. In particular,
no resettlement, no direct impact on the habitat of indigenous population or on cultural or
historic sites are envisaged at this stage. However, should this become an issue at a latter
stage, a resettlement framework consisting of a policy statement, terms of reference for
the preparation of resettlement plans, and an operational manual for dealing with
resettlement and indigenous people issues. have been elaborated in collaboration with the
Bank, and this framework will apply in particular to works funded under the project.
14.  With respect to the project's paving component, the road sections to be paved are
already well established gravel roads with substantial traffic levels along their existing
alignments, in regions that are already under use for agriculture or cattle raising, the
potential indirect impacts on the environment have been found to be limited to relatively
small areas. Actually, four sensitive areas have been identified close to the roads to be
paved, including: (i) two archeological sites along the road section on GO-156, from
Itaberai to Americano do Brasil; and (ii) geological formations within the Serra das Gales



-9-
and around the rio Ponte de Pedra, along the road section on GO-050, between the roads
GO-164 and GO-174.
F 2  Negative Environmental Impacts and .11Iitigation lVeasures
15.  Negative environmental impacts are expected to be relatively minor. Negative
impacts during construction would be restricted to direct impacts of road works related to
quarries, asphalt plants, borrow pits, drainage. disposal of wastes and activities of road
crews. Longer-term potential negative impacts are related to air and water quality, fauna
and flora, traffic safety, and the like. Mitigation measures for these negative impacts are
well known and included in AGETOP's environmental manual and set of environmental
norms and instructions.  The civil works contracts will incorporate appropriate
requirements to comply with AGETOP's relevant norms and instructions and will subject
payments to contractors to actual compliance. In addition, the supervision contracts will
include appropriate requirements to supervise the contractors' compliance with the
environmental norms and instructions. Finally, the EMPs identify a number of measures
which will be included in the road maintenance/rehabilitation contracts so as to provide
for environmental enhancement. In the EMPs reviewed so far, measures include:
reshaping of and plantations on embankments and levees on road right-of-way,
installation of additional drainage, protection of fauna and flora, and cleaning.
15.  With respect to the archeological sites on GO-156 (see para. X above), these have
just been identified, and will be explored before the Bank no-objection to the works on
this road will be issued, so as to ensure that the extension of the archeological sites are
precisely defined and protected. With respect to the Serra das Gales, and rio Ponte de
Pedra. while it is not expected that the project will have any significant negative
environmental impact on them, the Bank no-objection to the works will be conditional
upon the State of Goias classifying the areas as State Protected Areas (APA Estadual), as
the paving of these road sections could facilitate access to these sensitive areas.
Following the classification, the project will provide funding for goods and works
necessary to establish the APAs.
F. 3 Positive Environmental Impacts
16.  The lack of adequate prevention measures in building the roads to be treated under
the Project has resulted into environmental damage, particularly erosion of cuts,
embarikments and adjacent land. Also the lack of signalization where the roads intersect
with know corridors for native fauna has led to accidents and the death of wild animals.
As such, on those road sections included in the Project, the works contracts will include
the necessary environmental rehabilitation works and prevention measures. including
appropriate signalization. After completion of the works, maintained/rehabilitated roads
will have positive impacts on human health and safety through decreased number of
accidents; reduced air pollution resulting as a result of more even travel speeds on
rehabilitated road sections; reduced water pollution resulting from rehabilitated drainage
systems; and reduced noise pollution for those collectivities located close to the
rehabilitated road sections. Paved roads are also expected to have positive impacts on
economic development, through decreased transport costs, increased economic activity,
and increased land value.



- 10 -
1 7. The institutional component of the project will yield substantial positive
environmental impacts through the establishment of protected areas aiming at preserving
fauna and flora, and through the strengthening of the State's capacity to enforce
environmental regulations and to monitor impacts on environment of human activities.
G.  Analyze of Alternatives
18.  Different alternatives have been considered during the preparation of the EIAs, and
compared to the original design proposed by AGETOP. In one case, the alternative
proposed by the EIA has completly replaced the original design, as this alternative
involved cost savings and a significant diminution of the negative environmental impacts
of the works. In other cases, the alternatives proposed have allowed modifications to
original design to mitigate as much as possible negative environmental impacts.
H.  Environmental Management Plan
H 1 Preparation and Mlonitoring of EMPs
19.  EMPs have been completed for those maintenance/rehabilitation subprojects to be
implemented in 2001 and 2002. EIAs have been completed for 3 out of 5 paving
subprojects foreseen to be included under the project. For all additional subprojects,
AGETOP will prepare EIAs and/or EMPs in accordance with AGETOP's environmental
norms. The EMPs and EIAs will be reviewed by AGMAR, on the basis of which the
environmental license will be given. All paving subprojects will be screened for potential
impacts on the environment, in accordance with agreed procedures and criteria, with the
help of the information system to be established by AGMAR under the project. For all
such subprojects, AGETOP will prepare EMvfPs targeted to the specific issues identified at
the screening stage on the basis of terms of reference reviewed by AGMAR and approved
by the Bank. The Bank will approve financing of the works on the basis of the final
subproject application. which will include a summary of the EIAs and EMPs reviewed
and approved by AGMAR. The implementation of the EMPs will be supervised by
AGETOP, with technical assistance, AGMAR and the Bank in accordance with the
agreed norms and instructions and with the Bank's relevant policies.
H. 2 Institutional Strengthening
20. 'To ensure that the preparation, implementation and monitoring of the EMPs are
conducted in accordance with internationally accepted standards, the project will support
strengthening of both AGMAR and AGETOP. as described below.
H.2.1 Strengthening ofAGMAR
21. The project will strengthen AGMAR  licensing, supervision and monitoring
capacities. Specifically, the project will: (i) supply the necessary equipment and training
to allow AGMAR staff to manipulate and update the digitalized mapping system set up in
(a) above; (ii) provide equipment and technical assistance (including training) to allow
AGMAR to analyze, license and monitor exploitation of natural resources and activities
which may have a negative impact on the environment; and (iii) provide technical
assistance to AGMAR and AGETOP to develop a fully efficient and systematic licensing
mechanism for road-related activities in areas such as earth works, paving, restoration,
extraction and processing of materials.



H. 2.2.    Strengthening of A GETOP
22.  To get the recently created AGETOP s environmental unit (AEA) fully operational,
the project will support the activities described hereafter. through provision of technical
assistance and provision of equipment. First. the project will support the supply of
equipment to AEA, including the set-up of an information collection and dissemination
system, and other equipment (such as cars) to allow AEA to carry out its functions.
Second, following the overall revision of AGETOP technical specifications undertaken in
1998. environment-related clauses of all enaineering and civil works contracts need to be
conformed to AGETOP's general technical specifications and AGMAR regulations.
Third, while AGETOP's environmental norms, instructions and guidelines for state road
engineering and works are generally adequate, they need to be complemented by several
regulations, including regulations for: the preparation of involuntary resettlement or
indigenous people development plans; the processing of public hearings; and the
systematic issuing of environmental permits in collaboration with AGMAR. Fourth, the
efficiency of AEA's monitoring procedures need to be increased, through review and
simplification of the procedures.



- 12 -
Appendices
*  Sector Environmental Plan
*  Environmental Management Plans and Environment Impact Assessments available to
date (Synthesis)
*  Compilation of Public Consultations Held for Paving Subprojects
*  "Environmental Norms and Procedures for Road Activities" of the State Road
Administration (AGETOP)
*  Framework for dealing with Involuntary Resettlement and Indigenous People Issues



