Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 21920-BR
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$65 MILLION
TO THE
STATE OF GOIAS, BRAZIL
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR THE FIRST PHASE OF A
GOIAS STATE HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
July 19, 2001
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Department
Brazil Country Management Unit
Latin Amezica and the Caribbean Regional Office



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 07/17/01)
Currency Unit = Real (R$)
R$ 1.0 = US$0.4
US$1.0 = R$2.5
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 -- December 131
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADT:             Average Annual Daily Traffic
AGETOP:          Transport and Public Works Agency of the state of Goias
AGMA:            Environmental Agency of the state of Goias
AGR:             Regulation Agency of the state of Goias
APL:             Adaptable Program Loan
APP:             Areas of Permanent Preservation
CAS:             Country Assistance Strategy
CRISA:           State of Goiats Intermunicipat Roads Consortium (in liquidation)
DER-GO:          State of Goias Roads Department (extinct)
DNER:            National Roads Department
ELJA             Environmental Impact Assessment
EMP:             Environmental Management Plan
GEF:             Global Environmental Facility
GOB:             Government of the Federative Republic of Brazil
HDM:             Highway Design and Maintenance Standards Model
ICB:             International Competitive Bidding
ICMS:            Tax on Circulation of Goods and Services
IPHAN:           National Institute for Protection of Historical and Archeological Sites
IPVA:            Vehicle Registration Tax
IRI:            International Roughness Index
IRR:             Intemal Rate of Return
NCB:             National Competitive Bidding
NPV:             Net Present Value
PCU:             Project Coordination Unit
PMC:             Project Management Consultant
PML:             Project Monitoring Letter
QCBS:            Quality- and Cost- Based Selection
RPPN:            Private Reserves of Natural Heritage
SEA:             Sector Environmental Assessment
SEAP:            State System of Protected Areas
SEINFRA:         State of Goias Infrastructure Secretariat
SEPLAN:          State of Goias Planning and Development Secretariat
SIM:             Sector Investment and Maintenance Loan
TA:              Technical Assistance
TF:              Transport Fund
VOC:             Vehicle Operating Costs
ZEE:             Economic and Ecological Zoning
Vice President:     David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:        Gobind T. Nankani
Sector Manager/Director:       Danny Leipziger
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Jacques L. Cellier



BRAZIL
GOIAS STATE HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT
CONTENTS
A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective                                   Page
1. Program purpose and program phasing                                                  3
2. Project development objective                                                        3
3. Key performance indicators                                                           3
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project       4
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                           4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                   7
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans                    9
C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                  I 1
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       12
3. Benefits and target population                                                      13
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                       13
D. Project Rationale
I. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                           14
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies          15
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                                 15
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                    16
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                         16
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                            17
2. Financial                                                                           17
3. Technical                                                                           18
4. Institutional                                                                       18
5. Environmental                                                                       20
6. Social                                                                              22
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                  24



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                      25
2. Critical risks                                                                      25
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                      26
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                             26
2. Other                                                                               26
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                           28
1. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         28
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                           29
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                     37
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                          44
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary                                                    45
Annex 5: Financial Summary: Goias Fiscal Analysis, Project Fiscal Impact                  52
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                       61
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                      68
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                    69
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                  71
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                             75
Annex I 1: Program Letter                                                                 77
MAP(S)
IBRD 31348



BRAZIL
GOIAS STATE HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and Caribbean Region
LCSFT
Date: July 19, 2001                               Team Leader: Jacques L. Cellier
Country Manager/Director: Gobind T. Nankani       Sector Manager/Director: Danny Leipziger
Project ID: P055954                               Sector(s): TH -Highways
Lending Instrument: Adaptable Program Loan (APL)    Theme(s): Transport
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data
Estimated
APL            Indicative Financing Plan         Implementation Period          Borrower
(Bank FY)
IBRD            Others       Total    Commitment   Closing
US$ m     %      US$ m       US$ m        Date        Date
APL 1       65.00    50.0   65.00        130.00    09/01/2001  12/31/2004 State of Goias with the
Loan/                                                                guarantee of the Federal
Credit                                                                Government
APL 2        65.00    50.0   65.00       130.00    01/01/2004   12/31/2006 State of Goias with the
Loan/                                                                guarantee of the Federal
Credit                                                                Govemrnent
Total       130.00          130.00      260.00
[XI Loan     1 Credit     [ ] Grant    [I  Guarantee     [ ] Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 65
Proposed Terms (IBRD): Variable Spread & Rate Single Currency Loan (VSCL)
Grace period (years): 5                           Years to maturity: 15
Commitment fee: 0.75%                             Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
Financing Plan (US$m):    Source                             Local         Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                       65.00           0.00          65.00
IBRD                                                            0.00          65.00          65.00
Total:                                                         65.00          65.00         130.00
Borrower: STATE OF GOIAS
Responsible agency: AGSNCIA GOIANA DE TRANSPORTES E OBRAS, AGETOP
Address: Av. Governador Jose Ludovico de Almeida, No. 20, Conjunto Caigara, CEP 74623-160, Goiania-GO
Contact Person: Eng. Joao Skaf Filho
Tel: (062) 265-4070/4190           Fax: (062) 245-4018           Email: joaoskaf@agetop.goias.gov.br



Estimated disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY;        2002 I   2003 -    2004         2005   I  2006
Annual   15.50       26.40     17.80       5.30
Cumulative   15.50      41.90      59.70     65.00
Project implementation period: 2001-2004
Expected effectiveness date: 11/30/2001  Expected closing date:  12/31/2004
OCS API PAD F- RW M.nP. 2000
-2-



A. Program Purpose and Project Development Objective
1. Program purpose and program phasing:
The purpose of the program is to increase the efficiency of the road transport system in the state of
Goias. The program consists of two phases, the first phase being the project. The first phase aims at
establishing an appropriate policy and institutional framework for the effective management of the road
sector, while restoring the condition of the most important highways. It will particularly provide for testing
alternative models for decentralizing road administration, experimenting with private management of
highway maintenance through innovative forms of performance contracts, strengthening the key functions
of the recently-created state highway agency, and for identifying and mapping the environmentally-sensitive
areas in the state. The second phase would then aim at effectively decentralizing road administration and
maintaining the highway network using the experience gained under the first phase, consolidating and
expanding the state's system of environmental protection areas, and at paving important road corridors
consistently with the environmental protection plan developed in the first phase.
The program is expected to be implemented over six years. The first phase is scheduled to be
completed over three years. The APL instrument will allow the state to adequately sequence the
institutional development actions and the works as described above. It will also allow the Government of
Brazil (GOB) to decide whether to guarantee - and the Bank to decide whether to approve - the second
loan, depending on the state's performance under the first phase and under its fiscal adjustmnent and
structural reform programs (section B.2. 1).
2. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The project development objective is to increase the efficiency of the state's road transport system.
To achieve this objective, the project components will respectively:
*  restore and maintain the main highway network in good condition;
*   pave several highway sections linking agro-industrial centers to major highway or multimodal
corridors; and
*   strengthen the management of the highway system  through private sector participation,
administrative decentralization, and the establishment of effective public expenditure planning,
management and control systems.
In order to ensure that the project development objective is achieved within sustainable
environmental and fiscal frameworks, the project will also include components to:
*  strengthen the state's environmental licensing and monitoring capacities, and plan its system of
environmental protection areas; and
*  help, with technical assistance and staff training, to effectively implement the state's reform
program.
3. Key performance indicators: (see Annex I)
*  proportion of road user distance travelled on good condition highways increased from 54% to 75%
by the end of 2003;
*   average land transport rates for grain exports reduced by 2% by the end of 2003;
*  proportions of paved network length in good and poor conditions respectively increased from 64%
to 75%, and reduced from 9% to 3% by the end of 2003;
*  proportion of state highway network effectively maintained by private contractors increased from
0% to 80% by the end of 2003;
*  proportion of state capital expenditures on roads with satisfactory estimated economic rates of
- 3-



return increased to 50% by the end of 2003; and
*   total area of established environmental protection areas increased 70% by the end of 2003.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 20160-BR           Date of latest CAS discussion: 05/24/2001
The project will support renewed growth and fiscal adjustment, which are the two major goals of
the CAS and preconditions for effective poverty reduction. Improvements in infrastructure, particularly
regional transport systems, and reductions of transport costs are critical to increase growth and to reduce
the Custo Brasil. Bank support focuses on lending for reforms aimed at: (i) increasing private sector
participation; (ii) providing services to the poor; and (iii) reducing the fiscal burden of infrastructure
services. In regional transport, the Bank will now support: (i) further fiscal efficiency improvements in the
highway sector at federal and state levels; (ii) road investments critical for poverty reduction; and (iii)
facilitation of multimodal transport systems (para. 124 of the CAS).
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
2.1    Goias fiscal situation and Government fiscal adjustment and structural reform programs:
The state of Goias, like most states in Brazil, is highly indebted. Goias debt has grown in the past
as a result of inefficient public spending, an oversized public service, insufficient tax collection efforts, and
of the capitalization of large sums of deferred interest. The present administration of the state, which took
office in January 1999, undertook a series of fiscal adjustment and structural reform measures which led to
a remarkable improvement of the state's fiscal situation in 2000. The number of state secretariats was
reduced from 17 to 10. Ten autonomous agencies were terminated, and several public enterprises were
liquidated. Expenditures with public servant wages and pensions were contained within 65% of the state's
revenues, net of transfers to municipalities. Capital expenditures were reduced to below 10% of net
revenues. By entering into a debt rescheduling agreement with the Federal Government, which closely
monitors the state's fiscal adjustment program, Goias has reduced its legal debt service obligations to 15%
of net revenues.
On the revenue side, measures were taken to reduce tax evasion and, more recently, to increase the
state's vehicle registration tax and its value added tax on automotive fuels and telecommunications. These
measures, together with the sustained growth of the Brazilian economy, have resulted into a sustained
growth of the state's revenues of almost 20% annually in 1999-2000. As a result, the state's primary
balance improved substantially, from large deficits in 1996-98 to a small deficit in 1999 and to a surplus of
5% of net revenues in 2000. An analysis of the state's fiscal situation is presented in Annex 5.
The state administration also undertook a far-reaching structural reform program, which, if
effectively implemented, should ensure a satisfactory and sustainable fiscal framework in the medium term.
The Bank of the state of Goias (BEG) was transferred under the control of the Central Bank. It is
scheduled for privatization in the second semester of 2001. The revenues from its sale will be applied
entirely to reducing the state's stock of debt. Following the privatization of the large hydroelectric plant
under the previous administration, the present administration, with assistance from BNDES and financial
advisors, is preparing for the privatization of the Goias power distribution company (CELG), which is also
scheduled for the second semester of 2001. The revenues from CELG privatization will be applied, as
determined by state law, to the capitalization of a newly-established pension fund for public servants, as
well as to social programs and to counterpart financing of the proposed highway management program.
- 4 -



Several other public companies are also being prepared for privatization, including the Metrobus system in
the state capital of Goiania. The pension fund was established to reduce and eventually eliminate the state's
obligations to retired public servants, which currently represent approximately 25% of the state's net
revenues. The state government intends to capitalize the funds with revenues from CELG privatization,
shares of the state water and sanitation company, and with contributions from public servants and, if
permitted by federal legislation currently before the national congress, from retired public servants.
The Governor of the state of Goias, in a letter to the Bank (the Program Letter), confirmed the
deternination of his administration to carry out the above-mentioned fiscal adjustment and structural
programs. In particular, the Governor confirmed the commitments of his administration to: (1) privatize
CELG in the second semester of 2001; (2) capitalize the public servants pension fund with at least 30% of
the revenues from CELG privatization; and (3) reduce the public servants wage and pension bill to below
the lirnits specified in the Federation's Fiscal Responsibility Law, i.e. 60% of the state's net revenues by
2002. He also indicated his determination to implement a remarkable set of social programs (section 2.2)
and further reforms to streamline the public administration and turn it more effective, in particular the road
sector administration (section 3). A translation of the Governor's letter is presented in Annex 11.
Since the implementation and results of the highway management program and their sustainability
will depend on the state's future fiscal performance, it was agreed that: (i) GOB, through the National
Treasury Secretariat (STN), will regularly inform the Bank on the progress made by the state under its
fiscal adjustment and structural reform program, which is monitored by STN; and (ii) the Bank will not
authorize new commitments under the paving component of the project unless the state submits satisfactory
annual State Road Programs which should be, inter alia, compatible with the state's fiscal situation.
2.2    Goias Government strategic plan and social programs:
The Government's strategic plan for development (Goias 21st Century, PPA 2000-2003)
emphasizes sustainable economic growth, and social equity. Increasing the productivity of the agricultural
and agroindustrial sectors by improving workers' skills and technology, and reducing transport costs is a
major objective. Reducing poverty, social inequities and regional disparities through improved education
and health services, and social inclusion is another major objective. Sound fiscal management and
conservation of the state's natural resources and biodiversity are also two of the highest priorities. A total
of 125 programs have been structured around these objectives. Special effort were made to coordinate them
with federal programs, to identify synergies with private sector initiatives, and to involve nongovernmental
organizations. About half of the investments were expected to come from private sources, a third from the
state budget, and the rest from the federal budget. The state resources are allocated primarily and equally to
the social and infrastructure programs (about 40% each), to support economic growth (15%), and to public
administration and safety, and to conservation of biodiversity (5%).
The social programs have effectively been receiving the highest priority. A microfinance program
managed by an association of nongovernmental organizations (Banco do Povo), has been providing loans
to small businesses as well as training to their owners, contributing to the creation of an estimated 12,000
jobs. Programs aimed at eradicating illiteracy (which still affects 8% of the state population), and at
improving labor qualification, implemented in partnership with a national program, comunidade solidaria,
and the Ayrton Senna private foundation, respectively, are also starting to show good results. Programs to
further increase schooling (which is already above Brazil average at 97% for 7-14 year-olds) and
vaccinations by paying half a minimum salary to the poorest families, mostly single mothers, who cannot
afford to send their children to school, are benefiting about 112,000 families. Several other programs are
aimed at improving the quality of primary education through teacher training and motivation programs;
-5-



decentralizing the public health system and strengthening community preventive care; and at improving
urban living conditions with water supply and sanitation systems and street paving, and rural living
conditions with sanitation kits.
2.3    Brazil's transport sector issues and Government strategy:
Road transport accounts for over 60% of domestic freight and 90% of passenger movements in
Brazil. Total road transport expenditures are estimated at about 18% of GNP, and over half of the
country's non-urban traffic is on state roads. The trunk highway networks, which have been built in the
1960s and 1970s, used more heavily than expected, and inadequately maintained, are in a process of rapid
deterioration. The secondary highway and feeder road systems remain of poor standards and conditions in
most states, after two decades of drastically curtailed road expenditures. The poor condition of the
highway networks and the heavy reliance of the economy on road transport are resulting into excessive land
transport costs, which are hindering Brazil's export competitiveness (see Report No. 15663-BR: The Custo
Brasil since 1990-92, and Report No. 16361-BR: Brazil Multimodal Freight Transport, Selected
Regulatory Issues).
In order to increase the efficiency of the transport system, particularly railway and waterbome
intermodal transport, the Government of Brazil (GOB) has recently restructured and concessioned its
railways to private operators (Federal Railway Restructuring and Privatization Project, Loan No.
4046-BR), and privatized the operation of the major port terminals (see Report No. 19569-BR A Reforma
Portudria Brasileira). In June 2001, the Congress approved a law for a broad restructuring of the
transport sector administration including, inter alia, the establishment of regulatory agencies for land and
water transport, to improve the regulatory framework for private sector participation (see Report No.
20702-BR, Brazil Public-Private Partnerships in Transport Infrastructure). But road transport will retain a
very important role in Brazil's economy.
The decentralization of fiscal revenues, including road user taxes, determined by the 1988
Constitution left the federation with insufficient resources to meet its expenditure responsibilities on the
extensive federal highway network (see Report No. 9473-BR: Brazil, Medium-Term Strategy for the
Infrastructure Sectors). Recently, GOB undertook to decentralize the responsibilities for about 15,000 km
of highways to the states. GOB and some state governments are also in the process of concessioning
high-traffic highways to private operators; about 5,000 km are already privately operated, and another
3,000 km are scheduled for concessioning. But most highways do not have enough traffic to justify tolling
and therefore will remain funded from federal and state general revenues.
In many states, public road expenditure programs are still highly influenced by political rather than
technical and economic considerations. Also, road maintenance activities, which are carried out mostly by
force account, are often ineffective. Through the Federal Highway Rehabilitation and Decentralization
Project and the State Highway Management Projects, the Bank has been assisting the federal and several
state governments in carrying out the above decentralization and concession programs, in implementing
efficient expenditure strategies and programs with adequate priority for maintenance, and in contracting out
the maintenance of the networks through innovative forms of performance contracts.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
3.1    Decentralization of road administration:
Goias' state highway network, with about 20,000 km, of which 7,500 are paved, is the country's
- 6 -



second largest after Minas Gerais. Several federal highways totaling about 700 km in the state are expected
to be transferred to the state's jurisdiction in the near future, as part of the highway reclassification
supported by the Federal Highway Rehabilitation and Decentralization Project. In the 1970s-1980s,
however, because municipios had very limited financial and administrative capacities, state administrations
have assumed road investment and maintenance responsibilities on many local roads. But since the fiscal
reform of 1988 substantially improved the municipios' finances, the present state administration plans to
gradually decentralize public expenditure and financing responsibilities for municipal roads to local
governments while, at the same time, assisting them in strengthening their technical, operational and
administrative capacities to carry out their responsibilities.
In the first phase, the state government, through AGETOP, will monitor and evaluate two pilot
projects of decentralized road maintenance administration, including a municipal road agency in a single
municipio, and an inter-municipal road partnership in a group of other municipios. AGETOP will transfer
road maintenance equipment to the pilot units, and assist with their staffing. The project will provide
training for local road staff, and technical assistance for the monitoring and evaluation of the pilot projects.
With the experience gained under the pilot projects, the government plans to decentralize the maintenance
of all local roads under the second phase of the program. For this purpose, it intends to transfer to the
decentralized units its equipment which will become unnecessary as a result of its contracting out of
highway maintenance (section 3.2).
3.2    Private management and public financing of highway maintenance:
The responsibilities for maintaining the state highway network were in the past shared between the
two former road agencies, DER-GO and CRISA. Both agencies were operating and maintaining large fleets
of equipment to carry out their maintenance activities essentially by force account. Like other state highway
agencies in Brazil, Goias agencies' poor operational efficiency and the unreliable funding for road
maintenance led to the poor maintenance condition of the network, and to its deficient horizontal and
vertical signalization, which are responsible for numerous road accidents.
The state administration terninated DER-GO, liquidated CRISA, and it has established the
Agencia Goiana de Transportes e Obras (AGETOP), responsible for all the state's transport and public
works programs, including maintenance of the highway network. Since concessioning and tolling of state
roads is not feasible due to insufficient traffic, the government recently established a Transport Fund (TF)
to ensure reliable funding for the maintenance of the highway network. The TF will receive a share
(initially 50%) of the state's revenues from the recently-increased vehicle registration tax. The TF is
managed by a public-private management council, with a broad representation of the private sector. In
order to efficiently use the TF resources, AGETOP is preparing to contract out to the private sector the
routine maintenance and signalization of the entire state network through new forms of performance
contracts. The project will include technical assistance to AGETOP for monitoring and evaluating the
effectiveness of the new performance contracts, and for identifying the necessary improvements for
implementation under the second phase of the program.
- 7 -



3.3    Reorganization and strengthening of the state highway administration:
As part of its administrative reform, the Government consolidated the former Secretariats of
Mines, Energy and Telecoms and of Transport and Public Works into a Secretariat of Infrastructure. The
Government also terminated DER-GO, liquidated CRISA, and created AGETOP, which incorporated the
functions, equipment and most of the staff of its predecessors. But AGETOP's organization and staff have
not yet been consolidated, and its systems still need to be integrated. AGETOP management, with
assistance from a management consulting institution, recently prepared a plan for the reorganization of the
agency, including the strengthening and integration of its management, operations, financial and control
systems. The plan also calls for important reductions of its staff and equipment fleet, as a consequence of
the above-mentioned decentralization and contract maintenance strategies, and for the recruitment of young
professionals for staff renewal. The project includes a subcomponent for consolidating and integrating
AGETOP's key systems, and for training management personnel and professional staff.
In the second phase of the program, the administration intends to gradually provide AGETOP with
substantial operations management autonomy within a framework of clear objectives, targets and
resources, which would ultimately be consolidated into some form of management contract (contrato de
gestdo), with a view to contain Government interference in the agency's operations, which have been a
main cause of the former agencies' inefficiencies.
3.4   Planning and programming of public expenditures on the highway network:
In the recent past, the state has been spending about US$200 million on roads annually, which is
about one third of its total capital expenditures. But like many other states, Goias' public expenditures have
been influenced by political rather than technical and economic considerations. In particular, the lack of
priority given to periodic maintenance has led to an accelerating deterioration of the highways which have
been built more than 15 years ago. Almost 10% of the paved network length is already in poor condition
and requires urgent rehabilitation. Over 20% of the paved network length has reached a level of
deterioration which already requires, or will soon require resurfacing in order to avoid the higher costs of
rehabilitation works in the future. With the establishment of the TF and the recent strengthening of
AGETOP's Planning Department, the state administration and AGETOP management have demonstrated
their commitment to effective planning and management of the highway network. AGETOP developed a
strategy and a multi-year program for the rehabilitation and maintenance of the highway network, which
were optimized with the Highway Development and Maintenance model (HDM4). The project includes a
component with the highest priority rehabilitation and resurfacing works, and a subcomponent for
establishing AGETOP's pavement management system.
In the absence of effective planning, the state's highway network has developed overtime on the
basis of the priorities of the successive administrations. Although the network is relatively dense compared
to other frontier states, it is poorly integrated with the country's main interstate and export corridors. This
situation adversely affects the state's economy, which is based on agriculture and a rapidly developing
agroindustry (the state's production of grains, which increased by 150% over the last decade, now exceeds
8.5 million tons or 10% of Brazil's production). In order to contribute to increasing the competitiveness of
the state's agriculture and industry in the interregional and international markets, the project includes a
component for paving several gravel roads linking major production areas or centers to the main interstate
and export corridors.  Since the operational efficiency of multimodal transport corridors has been
increasing following the recent privatization of railways and port terminals, it is expected that with the
- 8 -



proposed paved road accesses, a substantial share of Goiis' exports and imports would be shipped through
efficient multimodal alternatives rather than by truck. The project also includes a subcomponent to
strengthen AGETOP's planning and programming functions.
3.5    Protection of Goiis' natural resources:
The state of Goias is located in the high central plains of Brazil known as the cerrados. The
region's natural vegetation consists mainly of savanna, or open pasture with brush vegetation, with very
few remains of forest along the main rivers. The state's economy has traditionally been based on extensive
cattle farming. But over the past three decades, the region has seen a very rapid development of
agriculture, particularly corn, soybean and more recently cotton. The state has few established areas to
protect its natural resources and biodiversity. But the state's environmental agency (AGMA) has recently
initiated a systematic inventory of its natural resources and related sensitive areas. And there is now a
broad consensus within the administration that the state's natural habitats must be protected more
effectively. As a first step, AGMA will, under the project, complete the survey of the state's natural
resources and biodiversity, consolidate such information into a geographical information system, identify
environmental risks and map sensitive areas, and prepare a program to consolidate and expand the system
of environmental protection areas (SEAP). Two identified such areas will be established with project
funds. The project also includes a subcomponent to strengthen the licensing, supervision and monitoring
functions of AGMA. The state administration is actively seeking supplemental funding from the GEF in
order to consolidate the existing protected areas and to establish new areas. The map of protection areas
will also serve as a basis for screening the potential impacts of future public investments, including roads.
3.6   Implementation of state reform program:
The implementation of the state reform program, particularly the privatization program, will
require significant changes in the role and functions of the state. An important new function will be the
regulation of the privatized public utilities. In order to implement this new function, a state regulatory
agency (AGR) has recently been established. The state government requested that a component be included
in the project to assist with the organization and strengthening of AGR, with the preparation of appropriate
regulatory instruments, and with the training of the agency staff.
4. Program description and performance triggers for subsequent loans:
The program is comprised of five components:
1. a highway rehabilitation and maintenance component, which consists of rehabilitation,
resurfacing, safety and environmental rehabilitation works on a total of about 2,500 km of the
paved highway network, to restore and maintain the condition of the state's paved highway network
in line with the proposed indicators;
2. a highway paving component, which consists of paving works on a total of about 1,000 km of
gravelled highway sections linking agro-industrial centers to major highway or multimodal
corridors;
3. a highway policy and instituional development component, which consists of the technical
assistance, equipment and training of staff needed for preparing, monitoring and evaluating the
road administration decentralization program and the highway network maintenance program
carried out through, inter alia, performance-based contracts, for strengthening AGETOP's
planning, management, and control systems, and its capacity to carry out its environmental and
-9 -



social safeguard functions and responsibilities, and for strengthening the transport planning
information system of the State Infrastructure Secretariat (SEINFRA);
4. an environmental management component, which consists of the technical assistance, equipment,
training of staff, and small works needed for preparing a map of environmentally sensitive areas in
the state; for consolidating and expanding the state's system of protected areas; and for
strengthening the licensing, supervision and monitoring capacities of the state environmental
agency (AGMA); and
5. a state reform component, which consists of the technical assistance and training of staff needed
to help implement the state's reform program, and in particular to strengthen the new utility
regulation agency (AGR).
The second loan will be proposed for Bank approval when about 90% of the first loan amount is
committed and 75% is disbursed, provided that the state's performance under the first phase of the highway
management program as well as under its fiscal adjustment and structural reform program is satisfactory.
Performance under the first phase will be measured against the indicators included in Annex 1.
Performance under the fiscal adjustment and structural reform program which will be monitored by the
National Treasury Secretariat (STN), in particular against the following performance triggers: (1) CELG
should have been brought to the point of sale, which is scheduled for the second semester of 2001; (2) the
pension fund for public servants should have been capitalized with at least 300/o of the revenues from the
sale of CELG; and (3) the state should have implemented the Law on Fiscal Responsibility of the
Federation.
Program Cost and Bank Financing Table
Component                           Sector    Indicative  % of   Bank-    % of Bank-
Cost    Total financing    fmancing
(US$M)           (uS$M)
1. Highway Rehabilitation and     Highways      125.00    48.0    60.5         46.5
Maintenance
2. Highway Paving                  Highways     115.00    44.2    55.9         43.0
3. Highway Policy and Institutional    Institutional  6.30  2.5    6.3         4.8
Development                      Development
4. Environmental Management         Natural      10.40     4.0    4.00          3.1
Resources
Management
5. State Reform                   Institutional    2.00    0.8     2.0          1.6
Development
Total Program Costs               258.70    99.5   128.70        99.0
Front-end Fee                1.3      0.5    1.30          1.0
Total Financing Required              260.00    100.0  130.00        100.0
- 10-



C. Program and Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
The project is comprised of the following five components:
1.    a highway rehabilitation and maintenance component, which consists of rehabilitation,
resurfacing, safety and environmental rehabilitation works on a total of about 1,500 km of the
paved highway network, and related engineering studies, designs, environmental and social
assessments, and supervision services;
2.    a highway paving component, which consists of paving of road surface and, where necessary,
strengthening or reconstruction of road structures, including bridges, on a total of about 300 km
linking agro-industrial centers to major highway or multimodal corridors, and related engineering
studies, designs, environmental and social assessments, and supervision services;
3.    a highway policy and institutional development component, which consists of the provision of
technical assistance, equipment and software, and of training of staff to:
(1) prepare, monitor and evaluate two pilot road decentralization projects for strengthening the
road maintenance capabilities of a single municipality and of a group of other municipalities
associated into an intermnunicipal road partnership, respectively, and for transferring all
maintenance activities on the municipal roads to such municipalities;
(2) monitor and evaluate AGETOP's highway network maintenance program, which will be carried
out through, inter alia, performance-based contracts;
(3) strengthen AGETOP's planning and management capacity through the establishment of a road
network database and monitoring system, and the restructuring and upgrading of its management
and control systems;
(4) strengthen AGETOP's capacity to carry out its environmental and social safeguard functions
and responsibilities;
(5) upgrade the monitoring and evaluation system for the project; and
(6) strengthen the transport planning information system of the State Infrastructure Secretariat
(SEINFRA).
4.    an environmental management component, which consists of the provision of technical
assistance, equipment and software, training of staff, and of small works to:
(1) identify and prepare a map of the environmentally-sensitive areas in the state, which will be
based on a consolidated database on the state's natural resources and biodiversity and on the results
of their analysis, and will serve as a basis for screening the potential impacts of projects and for
consolidating and expanding the state's system of protected areas (SEAP);
(2) strengthen AGMA's capacity for screening the potential impacts of road projects, reviewing
- 1 1 -



environmental assessments and licensing the works, supervising the implementation of
environmental management plans, and for monitoring and evaluating the environmental impacts of
the project; and
(3) establish the environmental protection areas of Serra das Gales and of Serra da Bocaina,
including the construction of the areas' necessary basic infrastructure.
5.    a state reform component, which consists of the provision of technical assistance and of training
of staff to help implement the state's structural and administrative reformn programs, including the
strengthening of the new public utility regulation agency (AGR).
Project Cost and Financing Table
Indicative            Bank-      % of
Component                  Sector        Costs     % of   financing   Bank-
{US$M)   Total    (US$M)  financing
1. Highway Rehabilitation and     Highways           73.00      56.2     34.30      52.8
Maintenance
2. Highway Paving                 Highways           47.10      36.2     22.00      33.8
3. Highway Policy and Institutional  Institutional    3.90       3.0      3.90       6.0
Development                       Development
4. Environmental Management       Natural             4.35       3.3      3.15       4.8
Resources
Management
5. State Reform                   Institutional       1.00       0.8      1.00        1.5
Development
Total Project Costs                129.35      99.5     64.35      99.0
Front-end fee                   0.65       0.5       0.65       1.0
Total Financing Required                  130.00     100.0     65.00     100.0
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
The project will support the following policy and institutional reforms:
* decentralization of road administration in the state;
* private management of highway network maintenance through performance-based service contracts;
*  rationalization and optimization of state highway expenditure strategies and programs consistently with
fiscal constraints;
* organization of new state highway agency with clear goals, objectives and performance targets,
management autonomy and accountability for results, and with effective planning, management and
control systems;
* strengthening of environmental management and supervision in the road subsector;
* consolidation and expansion of state's system for protecting natural resources and biodiversity; and
* implementation of state reform, including operationalization of state regulatory agency.
- 12 -



3. Benefits and target population:
The rehabilitation and resurfacing, and the paving components of the project will reduce vehicle
operating costs, travel time and accidents, thus benefiting road users, and producers and consumers of
goods transported by road. The paving component will also improve the competitiveness of Goias' farrners
and agroindustries in the inter-regional and international markets, particularly grains and derivatives. The
decentralization program, by transferring the responsibilities for local roads and equipment to municipal
governments will enable to reduce AGETOP's workforce and equipment fleet, resulting into substantial
fiscal savings. The contract maintenance program, by transferring highway maintenance activities to
private contractors, will provide private sector jobs, and enable the government to further reduce the public
sector workforce. The policy and institutional development components, by contributing to the effective
management of the highway sector, improved conservation of the state's natural resources and biodiversity,
and to the implementation of structural and administrative reforms, will benefit Goias' population at large.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The State of Goias will be the Borrower, and the Federative Republic of Brazil the Guarantor. The
government of the state will be responsible for implementing the project through its transport and public
works agency, AGETOP (the executing agency), in accordance with the conditions of the loan and project
agreements, the project design and monitoring indicators (Annex 1), and with the Project Implementation
Plan (PIP). AGETOP will be directly responsible for implementing the highway rehabilitation and
maintenance, highway paving, and the highway policy and institutional development components, with
SEINFRA, under a cooperation agreement with AGETOP, responsible for implementing the small
transport planning subcomponent. The State Environmental Agency (AGMA), under a cooperation
agreement with AGETOP, will be responsible for implementing the environmental management component,
and for screening the potential impacts of subprojects, reviewing environmental assessments, licensing
subprojects, supervising the implementation of environmental management plans (EMPs), and for
monitoring the environmental impacts of the project. The State Planning and Development Secretariat
(SEPLAN), under a cooperation agreement with AGETOP, will be responsible for implementing the state
reform component, including strengthening the state regulatory agency (AGR).
AGETOP has assigned project implementation responsibilities to its relevant departments and
units. The Planning department will be responsible for preparing annual programs and subproject designs,
and for monitoring and evaluating the rehabilitation and paving components, the contract maintenance
program, and the pilot decentralization projects. The Works department will be responsible for supervising
rehabilitation and paving works. The Environmental unit will be responsible for coordinating the
environmental work and communications with AGMA, and for supervising the implementation of the
environmental norms and EMPs. The Expropriation and Resettlement unit will be responsible for
coordinating and supervising the implementation of the agreed policies and guidelines for resettlement and
indigenous people (comunidades indigenas) issues, and for public consultations. AGETOP has established
and will maintain a Project Coordination Unit (IPCU), with adequate structure, responsibilities and staff to
coordinate the execution of the project. The PCU is headed by an experienced project manager who reports
directly to the President. AGETOP will contract Consultants to assist the PCU in coordinating the
execution of the project and in preparing periodic progress reports and financial management reports, and
to provide specific technical assistance to the departments to strengthen the planning, management and
control systems, in accordance with agreed terms of reference.
- 13-



D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The traditional Sector Investment and Maintenance Loan (SIM) has been rejected, since it would
not offer the flexibility needed to support reforms in an uncertain fiscal context. The program structure
would provide increased leverage to the Federal Government and the Bank in the discussions surrounding
the implementation of the State's fiscal adjustment and structural program, and of the reforms in the road
sector. In addition, a SIM would have represented for the Federal and State Governments a commitment
incompatible with the prevailing fiscal situation in the state.
The project was first considered as a time-slice of the state's entire road program. But because of
the state's fiscal constraints, the project scope was limited, besides the entire rehabilitation component, to
the highest priority preventive maintenance (resurfacing), and paving components of the state road
program, and a routine maintenance program designed to experiment with new forms of performance-based
contracts. The remaining paving works, which would be fully funded by the state government, would be
undertaken only if the state's fiscal situation permits.
A large number of alternative rehabilitation, maintenance and upgrading policies and standards
have been evaluated for the various categories of roads with the help of the Highway Design and
Maintenance Standards model (HDM-4). As an example, the alternative rehabilitation and maintenance
strategies considered for a given category of roads include applying surface treatments or overlays of
different thickness when pavement deterioration reaches different levels. The set of policies and standards
(the strategy) selected for designing the project maximizes the present value of the net economic benefits of
the state road program under the selected resource constraint, taking into account road agency and road
user costs (Annex 4).
- 14 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project                 (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                  Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
. Rehabilitation, decentralization &  Federal Highway Rehabilitat-  S           S
concessioning of federal highways  ion & Decentralization (L4 188)
. Optimization of state highway  State Highway Management          S            S
programs, private sector participation  (L3547-3548)
in maintenance, agency restructuring,  State Highway Management II
environmental management         (L3713-3714-3715)
Rio Grande do Sul State High-    S             S
way Management (L4 165)
. Performance-based maintenance  Argentina Road Maintenance &      S            S
contracts                        Rehabilitation Projects
(L3611-4295)
Other development agencies
. Rehabilitation and paving of state    IDB highway projects in the
highway                           states of Bahia and Ceara
. Dualization of federal highways  IDB Belo Horizonte - Sao
Paulo - Florian6polis highway
dualization projects
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The following important lessons learned from the experience with the above projects have been
incorporated into the design and preparation of the project:
*     Expenditure Policies, Network Management. The lack of a network management perspective led in
the past to over-dimensioning individual investments and to letting entire portions of the highway networks
deteriorate.  The project incorporates recent experience in network monitoring and analysis and in
optimizing expenditure programs within actual resources constraints in order to effectively improve and
maintain the condition of the entire network;
*     Highway Concessions.  Experience with highway concessions in Argentina demonstrates the
feasibility of concessioning the operation and maintenance of existing highways with uncontrolled
accesses. But it also emphasizes the needs for thorough traffic, economic and financial studies, for a
transparent bidding process with a single award criterion, and for flexible contracts to reduce the risk of
re-negotiation. Recent experience in Brazil and elsewhere also shows the need for appropriate regulation
- 15 -



and risk sharing to attract private debt financing for highway investments. The analysis of Goias state
network have shown no real scope for concessioning state highway sections at this stage, because of
insufficient traffic;
*     Maintenance Policies.  Highway agencies worldwide, with few exceptions, have demonstrated
their inability to effectively manage the numerous activities, personnel and equipment required for
maintaining a road network. Since the early 1980s, the maintenance of Brazil's federal highway network
was contracted out with some success, but the input-based forms of contracts require extensive supervision
from DNER. The project would experiment with long-term performance-based maintenance management
contracts, which have been recently tested in Argentina;
*     Environmental Management. Past experience with the Northwest Region Development Program in
Brazil showed that highway investments can lead to significant long term environmental damage by
enabling destructive and disorderly colonization and economic activities, if the necessary measures to
prevent or mitigate the potential adverse impacts are not promptly implemented. Also road works can have
direct adverse environmental effects such as soil erosion. The project incorporates recent experience with
highway projects in Brazil and elsewhere, which emphasizes the integration of environmental aspects early
in the project planning and design stages, and includes an environmental management subcomponent to
strengthen the environmental functions of the state highway agency and the review and supervision
functions of the state environmental agency;
*     Institutional Components.  The institutional components of projects have often fallen short of
achieving their objectives. The frequent changes of sector administrations have been an important factor.
But the scope and timetable of these components have often been over-optimistic. The institutional
component of the project focuses on a few essential issues. It will be monitored against clear indicators and
targets which, if not substantially met, could lead the Bank not to approve the second phase of the
Program; and
*     Counterpart Funding. Budgets. Counterpart funding problems have been recurrent in Brazil. In
order to reduce this risk, the project was designed as a sector operation, incorporating only the highest
priority components of the larger state road program. Appropriate budgeting will be ensured through joint
annual reviews of the state's road programs and budgets. In addition, the counterpart funds needed for this
project have been secured through a state law by the receipts from the proposed sale of the state power
distribution company.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The borrower selected this project as its highest priority for external financing and obtained the
support of the federal government. In spite of the delays in Bank processing resulting from the state's
difficult fiscal situation, the successive state administrations have confirmed the priority for this project.
The current administration has already implemented difficult fiscal and administrative reforms which have
been advocated by Bank missions, including the termination of the two former state highway agencies and
creation of a new agency which consolidates the state highway functions. Also, a project coordination unit
has already been established in the new highway agency to coordinate the project's preparation and its
subsequent implementation.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The Bank will help:
*   increase the efficiency of the state road programs through application of agreed technical, economic
- 16-



and environmental criteria and methodologies included in the PIP and the HDM 4 model, and through
joint reviews of the annual programs;
*  bring international experience and best practices in highway subsector management, including
administrative decentralization, maintenance by contract with the private sector, road agency
organization and management, and road-related environmental and social safeguard policies and
procedures;
*   facilitate the process of decentralization of federal highways to the jurisdiction of the state, which is to
assume responsibility for several decentralized highways;
*  promote the conservation of the state's natural resources; and
*  bring international experience and best practices in state reform in general and in utility regulation in
particular.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$782 million; ERR = 85 % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
Alternative strategies for the rehabilitation and maintenance of the paved highway network and for
the paving of gravel roads have been evaluated with the Highway Development and Management Model
(HDM-4), which compares life cycle road costs and vehicle operating cost and passenger time savings.
The selected rehabilitation and maintenance strategy maximizes the net present value (NPV) of the
corresponding component, estimated at US$680 million for a 12% discount rate. The economic internal
rate of return (IRR) of the rehabilitation and maintenance component is estimated at 94%. The selected
paving strategy maximizes the NPV of the corresponding component, which was estimated at US$102
million for a 12% discount rate on the basis of the results of the economic analyses of four subprojects
totaling 256 km. The IRR of the paving component is estimated at 63%, and the IRR of the two
components combined at about 85%.
Without the project, the proportion of traffic (measured in vehicle-kin) on poor condition highways
(IRI>4) would increase from 11% in 2000 to about 45% in 2006; and the proportion of traffic on good
condition highways (IRI<3) would decrease from 55% to 37% over the same period. As a result, road user
costs would increase by about 9%. With the retained policies and program, the proportion of traffic on
good condition highways (IRI<3) will be increased from 55% in 2000 to about 85% by 2006, and the
proportion of traffic on poor condition highways will be reduced from 11% to about 1%. As a result, road
user costs would decrease by about 2.6%.
The risk and sensitivity analyses have shown that the economic return of the project is robust.
Assuming that project costs are 20% higher than estimated and that benefits are 20% lower than estimated,
the IRR of the maintenance and rehabilitation component would still be a high 84%. Maintenance and
rehabilitation costs would have to be increased by about 2000% or benefits reduced by about 95% for the
NPV to become negative.
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR= % (see Annex 4)
In the past five years, Goias total highway expenditures have averaged about US$200 million
equivalent annually, distributed as follows: personnel and administration (8%); pension payments to
retirees (3%); maintenance (9%); rehabilitation (5%); and new construction and paving (75%/o). These
expenditures have been funded essentially through transfers from the state treasury, and transfers from the
- 17 -



federal treasury through DNER under delegated work programs on federal highways. Over the next five
years, the state's annual road expenditures are expected to be contained below US$150 million equivalent in
order to help achieve the government fiscal adjustment objectives. Within this overall envelop, total annual
expenditures under the program, including this and the follow-up projects, are expected to account for
about US$50 million equivalent starting in 2002.
Fiscal Impact:
By ensuring appropriate and timely rehabilitation and maintenance of the paved network over the next
five years, the project will reduce the need for rehabilitation expenditures thereafter by at least U$10
million per year, and avoid about US$16 million per year of heavy rehabilitation in the future. The new
design standards introduced through the project are expected to reduce the cost of rehabilitation and paving
works by about 30%, resulting in annual savings of at least US$15 million equivalent. Other savings are
expected from the institutional component, in particular from personnel and administrative costs, which are
expected to be reduced by about US$10 million per year starting 2003. In addition, the paving of the
proposed road sections is expected to consolidate road traffic into fewer major corridors and make truck
inspections more effective in combatting tax evasion.
3. Technical:
The rehabilitation and maintenance policies and standards, which are included in the catalogue of
technical solutions and will be implemented under the project, have been optimized with the HDM4 model.
They range from slurry seals through surface treatments to asphalt concrete overlays of 3 to 7 cm (Annex
2). The rehabilitation of environmental damage resulting from past road works will be incorporated into the
highway rehabilitation subprojects. The pilot maintenance program will enable AGETOP to experiment
with long-term, performance-based maintenance contracts, which have been successfully tested in
Argentina and in other countries. The pavement design solutions have also been optimized with the HDM4
model. They generally consist of a granular base and sub-base courses totaling about 30 to 40 cm. and a
double surface treatment.
4. Institutional:
The state's road sector was, until recently, managed by two separate agencies: the State Roads
Department (DER-GO) and the Intermunicipal Roads Consortium (CRISA). DER-GO was an agency
under the jurisdiction of the former State Transport Secretariat, responsible for capital investments on the
state's road network and for the maintenance of state roads in the central region of the state. CRISA was a
state company created to assist municipalities in improving and maintaining their road networks. Although
all municipalities had a share in the Consortium, they never actually contributed to its funding, which was
entirely left to the state's Treasury. The maintenance of unpaved state roads, and later of all state roads
outside the central region was subsequently transferred from DER-GO to CRISA. The two agencies have
been relatively effective, compared to many other state road agencies, in carrying out their road
construction programs. But since they were affected by the Government's direct intervention in their
investment and operations decisions, they never developed effective planning and management capacities.
In the course of project preparation, the government terminated DER-GO, liquidated CRISA, and, in early
1999, established the new Agency for Transport and Public Works (AGETOP), which is the project's
executing agency.
More recently, in early 2001, the state government established a Transport Fund (TF) with a view
to ensure reliable funding for the maintenance of the road network, and efficient use of the resources
allocated to the sector. The TF will be funded from various sources. The state's contribution will be
determined by the state's Governor and the State Secretary for Finance, and it will come out of the state's
- 18 -



revenues from the recently-increased vehicle registration tax (IPVA) and value-added tax (ICMS) on road
transport services and automotive fuels. But the state's revenues from these taxes will not be earmarked for
road expenditures. Annual road expenditure programs will be determined by the Management Council of
the TF, whose members are: the State Infrastructure Secretary, as its President; the State Planning, Finance
and Agriculture Secretaries; the Presidents of the state's associations of agriculture, industry, freight
transport, and shippers; and the President of AGETOP, as its Secretary.  For this purpose, the
Management Council will review the programs proposed by AGETOP's President and the related
justifications.
4.1 Executing agencies:
AGETOP will be responsible for implementing the project. AGETOP is an autonomous agency
(autarquia) under the State Infrastructure Secretariat. Though recently-established, its organization is
modeled on the predecessor agencies (DER-GO and CRISA). Similar to most other highway agencies in
Brazil. It is a large, rather centralized organization, designed to administer road construction programs and
to maintain the road network -ssentially by force account. Its organizational structure includes the offices
of the President, with a large number of support units (assessorias), six headquarter departments headed by
Directors, and 25 regional districts (gerencias regionais). The number of highway sector staff was
reduced substantially from a total of about 4,500 (in both DER-GO and CRISA) to the current 3,500. But
AGETOP will need to streamline its organization in line with the proposed decentralization of local road
maintenance to municipios and with the proposed new contract maintenance policy. AGETOP, with
support from Fundaqao Getuilio Vargas (PGV),and with the broad participation of its staff, has completed
a comprehensive diagnostic of its institutional capacity and gaps in relation to its proposed new mission,
objectives and policies, and a plan for its reorganization, for strengthening its essential functions and
systems, and for adjusting and training its staff (Piano de ReorganizaSao e Novo Modelo de Gestdo da
AGETOP). AGETOP will implement the reorganization plan with technical support from management
consultants under terms of reference which have been reviewed by the appraisal mission and found
satisfactory. It is expected that AGETOP staff would not exceed 1,000 by the end of 2003.
AGETOP is a recently-established agency, but it incorporated the functions and some of the staff
and systems from the former two highway agencies, including DER-GO, which has implemented feeder
roads and highways projects partly financed by the Bank and the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB),
respectively. Although several key implementation functions and management and control systems need
strengthening (see below), a number of key managers and professional staff have experience with
implementing Bank and IDB-financed projects.
4.2 Project management:
In order to effectively coordinate and monitor the implementation of the project, AGETOP has
established a project coordination unit (PCU), headed by an experienced project manager who reports
directly to the President, and staffed with two experienced professionals. AGETOP will establish a
computerized project management system, which will extract and consolidate appropriate information from
its existing technical and administrative systems, collect the additional information needed to monitor
performance against the agreed indicators, and produce adequate management reports. AGETOP will
contract a project management consultant (PMC) to assist the PCU in coordinating the execution of the
project and in preparing the periodic project management and financial management reports, and to provide
specific technical assistance to the departments. The terms of reference for the PMC have been reviewed
by the appraisal mission and found satisfactory.
4.3 Procurement issues:
AGETOP has a computerized procurement planning and monitoring system, and an
- 19 -



adequately-staffed procurement group. A large number of procurement staff from AGETOP and other
relevant agencies has participated in a procurement training program organized by the Bank in early 2001,
and can now effectively implement the Bank's procurement policies and guidelines.
4.4 Financial management issues:
The project satisfies the Bank's minimum financial management requirements, and as such is
certified as 4-B for purposes of OP/BP10.02. The quality of AGETOP's financial management system
has been reviewed during project preparation. AGETOP's financial management system provides reliable
information. However, the system is set up so as to meet the Government's budgeting, accounting and
information requirements, rather than as an efficient tool for management purposes. In addition, AGETOP
systems are not set up to generate easily Project Monitoring Reports (PMRs). During project preparation,
a system has been set up to generate transitional PMRs. This system will be integrated within AGETOP's
budgetary and financial management system, which will be upgraded under the project, with the objective
of having a system ready for PMR-based disbursements 180 days following project effectiveness.
AGETOP's internal control unit has traditionally had more of an inspection rather than an auditing
function. With the support from consultants, AGETOP is in the process of modifying the terms of
reference of its internal control unit and of setting up a training program so that they can fulfill the
traditional responsibilities of internal auditors, i.e. assessing the adequacy of accounting and internal
control systems and verifying whether the accounting, financial, budgetary procurement and operational
procedures being used provide a reasonable basis for safeguarding AGETOP's assets and ensuring that all
assets and liabilities are adequately recorded. With respect to external project auditing, AGETOP has
prepared acceptable Terms of Reference for hiring auditors. The auditors will be hired by December 31,
2001, under a multi-years contract.
5. Environmental:                 Environmental Category: A (Full Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
A Sectorial Environmental Assessment (SEA) has been prepared with the help of a specialist
consultant. The SEA includes a diagnostic of AGMA and AGETOP institutional capacities to carry out
their road-related environmental functions, and recommends measures for strengthening them as needed to
ensure compliance with the Bank's safeguard policies on the environment and on natural habitats. In
addition, specific Environmental Management Plans (EMPs) have been completed for all the rehabilitation
subprojects which will be implemented in 2001 and for some of those which will be implemented in 2002.
Environmental Impact Assessments (EIAs) and the related EMPs have been completed for all four
identified paving subprojects which will be implemented in 2002 and 2003. Key stakeholders, including
local governments and communities, villagers and farmers leaving in the vicinity of the subprojects have
been consulted in the course of the preparation of the subproject designs, EIAs and EMPs, through both
informal meetings and interviews organized by design engineers and environmental and social specialists,
and formal public hearings in accordance with federal and state legislation and regulations.
AGMAR, in accordance with federal and state legislation and regulations, authorizes all road
construction and major upgrading works on the basis of a review of environmental impact assessments
(EIAs); and it authorizes rehabilitation and improvement works on the basis of environmental management
plans (EMPs). These documents are prepared by consultants under AGETOP's supervision. For this
purpose, AGETOP has been using an environmental manual and a set of environmental norms and
instructions, which incorporate many of the best practices developed under Bank-financed and other
highway projects. AGETOP's Environmental Norms and Procedures, which have been reviewed by the
- 20 -



Bank and found satisfactory, have been officially put into effect by a Resolution of AGETOP's Board of
Directors dated May 30, 2001, and will apply to all road sector activities of AGETOP. But AGMA's
initial screening, review, supervision, and monitoring functions lack specific procedures for roads projects.
The project will include a subcomponent to strengthen AGMA's key functions. This subcomponent will
consist of the installation of computerized geographic information and mapping systems, and related
procedures and training of staff for the screening of potential impacts of projects, for the review of ELAs,
supervision of EMP implementation, and monitoring of impacts in the areas of influence of the roads
projects.
AGETOP has recently established an environmental unit, responsible for coordinating the agency's
environmental work and communications with AGMA, and for supervising implementation of the agency's
environmental norms and EMPs. The unit, which has been assigned four experienced professionals, has
supervised the preparation of the project's ELAs and EMPs and revised AGETOP's general specifications
for road works to incorporate adequate environmental management requirements. But the unit is not yet
fully operational, particularly for screening potential impacts of AGETOP's projects and for field
supervision work. The project will include a subcomponent to strengthen AGETOP's environmental
functions. The subcomponent will include consulting services to help with certain aspects of AGETOP's
environmental work program, the installation of a computerized geographic information system linked with
AGMA's systems, a vehicle and other field equipment, and training of environmental and of other relevant
staff of AGETOP.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
The EMPs for the first groups of rehabilitation and resurfacing subprojects essentially include
measures to prevent or reduce the direct impacts of the road works. These roads have been paved at least
15 to 20 years ago, and therefore their indirect impacts on land use and natural habitats in their areas of
influence have become permanent. The direct impacts of road works on the environment are primarily
related to quarries and borrow pits, drainage and related erosion problems, disposal of used pavement
materials and other wastes, and the activities of road crews. The EMPs include the necessary measures to
prevent such impacts and to ensure the environmental quality of the works. The civil works contracts
incorporate appropriate requirements to comply with AGETOP's relevant norms and instructions and will
subject payments to contractors to actual compliance. The supervision contracts include appropriate
requirements to supervise the contractors' compliance with the environmental normns and instructions. In
addition, the lack of adequate prevention measures in building these roads has resulted into environmental
damage, particularly erosion of cuts, embankments and adjacent land. Also the lack of signalization where
the roads intersect with know corridors for native fauna has led to accidents and the death of wild animals.
The necessary environmental rehabilitation works and prevention measures, including appropriate
signalization, have been incorporated into subproject designs and will be part of the contracts.
The EMPs for the first group of paving subprojects, in addition to the above-mentioned measures
related to the direct impacts of road works, include actions and investments to prevent, mitigate or
compensate the possible indirect adverse impacts on the environment and natural habitats in the roads'
areas of influence, which have been identified in preparing the EIAs. Since these subprojects consist of
paving sections of already well established gravel roads with substantial traffic levels along their existing
alignments, in regions that are already under use for agriculture or cattle raising, the potential indirect
impacts on the environment have been found to be limited to relatively small areas. In the case of GO-050
subproject, it was found that the paving of the road could facilitate access to an area of rare natural beauty,
the Serra das Gales, with interesting geological formations, natural stone bridges, and waterfalls, therefore
increasing the risks of degradations. The EMP for this subproject includes the establishment of a
protection area, with appropriate installations and access limitations to effectively protect the area. The
- 21 -



startup of the bidding process for road works will be subject to completion of the legal and regulatory
measures needed to establish the protection area. The EMP for the GO-156 (Itaberai - Americano do
Brasil) subproject include the detailed survey and preservation of two arqueological sites which were
identified in the vicinity of the road. All the above documents have been reviewed by the Bank and found
adequate.
During project implementation, AGETOP will prepare environmental management plans in
accordance with agreed terms of reference for all subsequent rehabilitation or resurfacing subprojects. The
EMPs will be reviewed by AGMA, on the basis of which the environmental license will be given. All
subsequent paving subprojects will be screened for potential impacts on the environment, in accordance
with the procedures and criteria, and with the help of the information system to be established by AGMA
as indicated above. For all such subprojects, AGETOP will prepare environmental assessments and
management plans targeted to the specific issues identified at the screening stage on the basis of terms of
reference reviewed by AGMA and approved by the Bank. The Bank will approve financing of the works on
the basis of the final subproject application, which will include a summary of the environmental assessment
and management plan reviewed and approved by AGMA. The implementation of the environmental
management plans will be supervised by AGETOP, with technical assistance, AGMA and the Bank in
accordance with the agreed Environmental Norms and Procedures and with the Bank's relevant policies.
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: 02/25/2001
The first draft of the SEA report, including the EIAs and EMPs for the first groups of subprojects,
was completed in September 2000, reviewed and discussed by the pre-appraisal mission in October 2000.
Following the preparation and review of subsequent drafts, the final draft of the SEA report, including the
Summary of the EIAs and EMPs and the Executive Summary in English was received in February 2001.
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
AGETOP, with the assistance of environmental and social communications consultants, organized
public hearings in the cities and main villages along the road sections to be paved. There was a broad
participation of local authorities and communities of farmers and villagers, as a result of extensive public
dissemination efforts. After the presentation of AGETOP's subproject, the organizers sought the
participants' views on the preliminary designs and on the expected environmental and social impacts as
inputs to the preparation of the detailed designs and of the environmental and social assessments.
Subsequently, in the course of the preparation of the designs, ELAs and EMPs for the paving and
rehabilitation subprojects, the consultants have sought inputs on specific, local issues from relevant
stakeholders through informal consultations. The draft EIAs and EMPs have then been presented and
discussed in subsequent public meetings.
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
The Government will, under the loan agreement, be committed to monitor and evaluate, on a
regular basis, the impact of the project on the environment. AGMA will, under the project, build up its
capacity to carry out this monitoring function.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
- 22 -



The project is not expected to require any significant resettlement of people since it consists of the
rehabilitation or resurfacing of existing paved roads, and of paving already well established gravel roads
with substantial traffic levels along their existing alignments. AGETOP's survey of the vicinity of all the
road sections to be paved under the project confirmed that there are no resettlement needs. The project team
also visited the road sections proposed for paving, and some of the sections to be rehabilitated, and did not
identify any resettlement need. Nevertheless, in the event that such need would materialize in subsequent
subprojects, AGETOP has prepared a Resettlement Framework, which consists of a policy statement,
procedures and terms of reference for the preparation of resettlement plans. These documents have been
reviewed by the Bank and found adequate. They were put into effect through a decree issued by the state
Governor on March 30, 2001. AGETOP will, under the project agreement, be committed to implement the
Resettlement Framework under the project. Bank supervision missions will supervise its implementation.
The indigenous population of the state is very small, less than 200 individuals. Nearly all of them
occupy areas demarcated and regularized by FUJNAI. There are three small Karaja Reserves near Aruana,
and the Ava Canoeiro Reserve near the Serra da Mesa reservoir. There are also a few small communities
of Quilombos in the northern part of the state, who are descendents of slaves and seek to preserve their
culture. At this stage, the state administration has no plans to pave or to rehabilitate roads in the vicinity of
these peoples. But in the event that they would have such plans in the future, AGETOP has prepared
procedures and terms of reference to address any indigenous people issue which might arise, and
incorporated them in the above-mentioned Resettlement Framework. AGETOP will be comnmitted under the
project agreement to carry out the necessary surveys and negotiate the appropriate measures with the
interested parties in accordance with the terms of reference of the Resettlement Framework.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
AGETOP prepared a normative instruction for public consultations (the Public Consultation
Framework) on the basis of the experience obtained with the above-mentioned consultations for the first
group of subprojects. The document has also been reviewed by the Bank, found satisfactory and put into
effect through a decree issued by the State Governor on March 30, 2001. Local communities living in the
areas of influence of the roads sections to be paved or rehabilitated are consulted first through public
hearings at the preliminary design and impact; screening stage to provide the necessary inputs to the
contents of the engineering designs and EIAs. More inforrnal consultations on specific, local issues are
maintained during the preparation of subprojecl designs, EIAs, and EMPs. The draft ELAs and EMPs are
then presented and discussed in public hearings to ensure that the needs of the local communities,
particularly those of the lowest income groups, are taken into account. AGETOP will, under the project
agreement, be committed to implement the Public Consultation Framework for all subprojects.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
As specified in the Public Consultation Framework, local groups and NGOs working with
indigenous people (comunidades indigenas) and/or low-income groups in the regions where roads will be
paved will be consulted.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
AGETOP has strengthened its expropriation and resettlement unit (CDR) with two experienced
and trained social scientists to effectively implement the above-mentioned policies and the Resettlement and
Public Consultation Frameworks.
-23 -



6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
An independent institution or consultant will be hired to monitor and measure the project social
development outcomes.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                    Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)            0 Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                    0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                     0 Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                       0 Yes 0 No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                   * Yes O No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                    0 Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                              * Yes O No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                               0 Yes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)    0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)          0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Under the loan agreement, the state government, through AGMA and other relevant institutions,
will be committed to carry out effective screening of subprojects for potential impacts, to review EIAs,
supervise implementation of EMPs, and monitor subproject impacts on the environment, natural habitats,
cultural property, indigenous peoples (comunidades indigenas) and families affected by involuntary
resettlement. Under the project agreement, AGETOP will be committed to carry out public consultations
and prepare ElAs, EMPs, Resettlement and other plans as necessary in accordance with agreed procedures,
criteria and methodologies specified in the relevant documents previously mentioned. The project will
provide technical assistance and training services to develop the necessary institutional capacities in
AGMA and AGETOP as defined in the previous paragraphs. The Bank will not approve subprojects for
financing under the loan unless subproject financing applications include evidence that the required
surveys, assessments and plans have been completed and are satisfactory. The Bank will also supervise the
implementation of the agreed plans or measures.
- 24 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The project is designed to ensure effective and sustainable operation and maintenance of the state
highway network. The procedures and methodologies to be established for planning, programming,
budgeting, contracting and supervision of contracts, which are consistent with the administrative capacity
of AGETOP, are designed to ensure appropriate priority for maintenance.   The long-term,
performance-based maintenance contracts, in addition to private management, are expected to provide
incentives to private industry to ensure that sufficient resources for road maintenance are allocated in the
state budget and the transport fund. The formal and on-the-job training will contribute to sustainability by
improving the competence and motivation of AGETOP staff. The maintenance of rural roads will be
decentralized to local administrations, which are more directly accountable to user communities. Finally, by
linking the implementation of the paving component to the preparation of satisfactory State Road
Programs, and approval of the second loan to satisfactory progress on the state fiscal performance, the
program is expected to contribute to a sound fiscal framework, which is a precondition for project
sustainability.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
New local administrations not responsive   M         State government to organize a forum to debate
to the state administration's                        on this issue and implement two pilot
decentralization objective                           decentralization agreements under the Project
Contractors not responsive to new form of  M         AGETOP to invite contractors to comment on
performance contracts for highway                    bidding documents and evaluate, after one year,
maintenance                                          performance to identify necessary adjustments
AGETOP staff does not participate in       M         Internal seminars with help of management
change implementation and training                   consultant
Planning not fully taken into account      M         State and project team to jointly review the State
during budget discussions                            Road Program
State government commitment to             M         GOB to monitor the state reform program under
implement state reform program                      the Debt Rescheduling Agreement, and inform
weakened                                            the Bank
From Components to Outputs
State government does not provide          M         Funds secured by receipts from sale of CELG
counterpart funds                                    through legislation, and by allocation of IPVA
to the Transport Fund; also, joint reviews of
annual programs and budgets
State Road Programs may not be             M         Financing of paving subprojects subject to
compatible with, inter alia, the state's             satisfactory State Road Programs
fiscal situation
Overall Risk Rating                        M
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
- 25 -



3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
The implementation of the project is not expected to result into controversies, since: (i) most of the
project components are relatively standard, and have been discussed with all major stakeholders involved in
the different areas covered by the project; (ii) appropriate procedures, guidelines and monitoring procedures
have been agreed upon with respect to subprojects selection, design and execution; and (iii) public
consultations have been held for all appraised subprojects, and will be held for all future subprojects in
accordance with the agreed Public Consultation Framework; and (iv) the relations established during
project preparation with the main stakeholders will be maintained and reinforced during project
implementation, to provide a forum through which controversies could be avoided, or at least detected as
early as possible and remedied in a consensual fashion.
G. Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
None.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Project Coordination and Monitoring: The Borrower shall carry out the project through AGETOP
in accordance with contractual arrangements satisfactory to the Bank, the Project Implementation Plan
(PIP), and with the monitoring indicators (Annex 1) set forth in a Project Monitoring Letter. AGETOP
shall: (a) maintain a project coordination unit (PCU) headed by an experienced project manager for
coordinating and monitoring the execution of the project, for supervising the procurement of goods, works
and consultant services, and for preparing Project Management Reports (PMRs) in the agreed format; (b)
by not later than 60 days after the Effective Date, employ a project management consultant for assisting the
PCU in coordinating the execution of the project; and (c) by not later than 180 days after the Effective
Date, establish a project management system for planning, monitoring and reporting on project
implementation, and furnish the information for the quarterly project management reports (PMRs) to the
Bank. In the month of June 2003 or whenever 50% of the loan amount is disbursed, whichever is earlier,
the Borrower will review with the Bank (the mid-term review) the overall progress in the execution of the
project and take any agreed remedial action.
Road Decentralization Program: AGETOP shall: (a) by not later than December 31, 2001, present
the designs of the two pilot projects for the decentralization of the maintenance of municipal roads to the
Bank for comments, and thereafter implement them, taking into account the comments of the Bank, and
monitor and evaluate the road maintenance operations of the municipalities under the two projects; and (b)
by not later than June 30, 2003, present a plan, including a timetable, which takes into account the results
of the two pilot projects, to transfer all maintenance activities on municipal roads to municipal governments
statewide.
Highwav Maintenance Program: AGETOP shall: (a) by December 31 2001, invite bids for
maintaining the state's highway network on the basis of, inter alia, performance contracts, and contract a
consultant for monitoring and evaluating the execution of the contracts; and (b) by June 30, 2003, present
to the Bank for conmments a report on the results of such evaluation.
Strengthening of AGETOP's Planning and Management Systems: AGETOP shall: (a) not later
than 60 days after the Effective Date, employ consultants for assisting in strengthening its planning,
management and control systems; and (b) adjust and train its staff in a manner consistent with the
- 26 -



applicable indicators set forth in the Project Monitoring Letter.
Strengthening of AGETOP's Environmental and Social Management Functions: AGETOP shall,
during the execution of the project: (a) maintain an environmental unit with adequately trained
professionals responsible for coordinating the implementation of its environmental obligations under the
State Road Programs, and for enforcing the Environmental Norms and Procedures; (b) maintain a
resettlement and social unit with adequately trained professionals responsible for coordinating the
implementation of its social obligations under the Project including resettlements, indigenous peoples
(comunidades indigenas) and public consultations, as specified under the Resettlement and Public
Consultation Frameworks; (c) include the provisions in all its contracts for road engineering and works
under the project whereby consultants and contractors will have to comply with all the requirements of the
Environmental Norms and Procedures, and of the Resettlement and Public Consultation Frameworks; and
(d) ensure the effective implementation of the Environmental Norms and Procedures, Resettlement and
Public Consultation Frameworks with respect to any subproject, including the carry out of environmental
or social impact assessments and/or environmental mitigation and/or resettlement plans that may have to be
approved by the Bank.
Strengthening of AGMA's Environmental Licensing. Supervision and Monitoring Functions: The
Borrower shall cause AGMA to: (a) enter into an Agreement with AGETOP to perform its obligations
under the project; (b) by June 30, 2002, prepare the map of environmentally sensitive areas in the state; (c)
by December 31, 2001, prepare, in consultation with AGETOP, and furnish to the Bank, for comments, a
manual of procedures and guidelines for: (i) screening the potential impacts of road projects in the state; (ii)
licensing such projects; (iii) supervising the implementation of the environmental management plans; and
(iv) monitoring the impacts of such projects; and thereafter put such manual into effect, taking into account
the Bank's comments; (d) evaluate, with the assistance of an independent specialized firm or institution the
environmental and social impacts of the project in accordance with the above manual; and (e) by November
30, 2003, present to the Bank for comments, an action program to consolidate and expand the Borrower's
system of environmental protected areas, and the documentary evidence of the legal and regulatory
measures required for the implementation of such program.
Preparation and Review of State Road Programs and Budgets: AGETOP will: (a) by April 30 of
each year, carry out a survey of its road network's surface and structural condition, traffic and accidents in
accordance with the procedures and guidelines set forth in the PIP, and organize the results of such surveys
in a computerized road database; and (b) by August 30 of each year, present to the Bank for comments the
State Road Program for the subsequent year prepared on the basis of the results of the surveys and of the
physical and funding indicators set forth in the PML, and in accordance with the criteria and methodologies
set forth in the PIP. The Borrower will take into account the State Road Program and the Bank's comments
in preparing its budget proposal for the subsequent year.
*     Preparation and Review of Subprojects: AGETOP will: (a) select the road segments to be included
in the project on the basis of the results of the economic analysis referred to in the preceding section and
appropriate technical, social, environmental and economic criteria and methodologies specified in the PIP;
(b) prior to initiating the detailed engineering designs of each subproject, prepare and submit to the Bank
for review and approval an application in a form specified in the PIP providing information on the
subproject, including the rationale for selection, the results of the screening for potential impacts or
resettlement needs, and the proposed terms of reference for the preparation of any required impact
assessments and/or management plans; and (c) when presenting a subproject to the Bank for review and
approval, provide an application which updates the above information on the basis of the final engineering
designs and other relevant studies, includes any required environmental impact assessment and/or
- 27 -



indigenous peoplg (comnwidades indigenas) devgloprantt plan, atisfactory to the Batic, and/or ary
rcuiT4 metaernent acton plan ppwpt in accodance with the ageed reetlemient frnwo*k.
H. Readiness for Implementation
1. a)?he engT nring design documents for the fiasr yeaes activitics amo complev and ready for the sW
of project impleneation.
I 1. b) Not applicable.
1 2. The procuwment documents for the first yWs acevites are complete and ready for the start of
project aipIemeputaon.
1 3 The Project Implemneation Pla ha been appraised and found to be realistic 4nd of satisfactory
quality.
0 4. The followmg iterm are lacking and are di4cussed undat loan conditions (Sgction G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
' 1. Tib project complics wih all applicable Banu policies.
02. The following excaptions to Bank policies am Tecom=ded for apprval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Dannye LCiier 
Team Leader                       Sector Manager petor              Country M nager/lir.ctor
28-



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
BRAZIL: GOIAS STATE HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT
Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
. Increase growth through  . Growth rate up to 5% and    Bank CAS updates       . Brazil's economic stability,
reductions of Custo Brasil   exports doubled by 2002                            fiscal adjustment sustained in
and related transport costs                                                     order to reduce poverty
Program Purpose:          End-of-Program Indicators: Program reports:          (from Purpose to Goal)
. Increase efficiency of state   . Average vehicle operating   Quarterly Progress Reports    . Federal Government
highway transport system  cost on state paved network   and Missions' Aide Memoires maintains current trade and
reduced by 3% by 12/06                               transport policies, including
competition among ports,
railroads and the unregulated
trucking industry
. Proportion of veh-kim on                           . State Government maintains
good paved roads increased                           current fiscal, structural and
from 54% to 85% by 12/06                             administrative reform
objectives
. Average land transport cost
of Goias agroindustrial
exports reduced by 6% by
12/06
. Percentage of state highway
expenditures with economic
rates of return above 12%
increased to 75% by 12/06
Project Development       Outcome / Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Purpose)
Objective:                Indicators:
. Increase efficiency of state   . Average vehicle operating    First-quarter reports to  Federal Government
highway transport system  cost on state paved network  include estimates based on    maintains current trade and
reduced by 2% by 12/03    annual network survey and   transport policies, including
HDM4 model analyses       competition among ports,
railroads and the unregulated
trucking industry
. Proportion of veh-km on  Quarterly progress reports   . State Government maintains
good condition paved roads   and Mission's Aide-Memoires current fiscal, structural and
increased fom 54% to 75% by                          administrative reform
12/03                                                objectives
. Average land transport cost  . First-quarter reports to
of Goias agroindustrial export include estimates based on
reduced by 2% by 12/03    surveys of transport rates
. Percentage of state highway  . Third-quarter reports to
expenditures with economic  include economic analyses of
rates of return above 12%  state highway programns/
increased to 50% by 12/03    projects of subsequent year
- 29 -



Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Output from each          Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
1. Condition of paved      Proportion of network length . First-quarter reports to  Trucking and bus industries
highway network restored and in good condition increased   include results of annual  remain efficient through
resurfaced                from 64% to 75% by 12/03    network survey            competition
. Proportion of paved road
length in poor condition
reduced from 9% to 3% by
12/03
2. Main agroindustrial    . Number of additional paved  . First-quarter reports
centers' links to highway and  roads linked to main
multimodal corridors paved   agro-industrial centers: 5 by
12/03
3. Management of highway
system strengthened, incl.:
3.1 decentralization model    . Pilot municipal road agency  . Quarterly progress reports   . New local administrations
tested                    and inter-municipal road                              are responsive to state govt.
consortium operational by                            decentralization objectives
12/02 and evaluated by 12/03
3.2 state network maintained  . First maintenance contracts  . Quarterly progress reports   . Private contractors are
by private contractors    signed by 12/01, evaluated by                         responsive to new forms of
12/02                                                contracts
. Proportion of state highway
network effectively
maintained by private
contractors increased from 0%
to 80% by 12/03
3.3 AGETOP reorganized and . AGETOP road network      Quarterly progress reports   . AGETOP staff participates
streamlined               database operational by 12/02                         in change implementation and
training
*AGETOP operations,       . Quarterly progress reports
management and control
systems in operation by 12/02
. AGETOP staff reduced
from 3,500 to 1,650 by 12/01,
1,300 by 12/02, 1,000 by
12/03
. Minimum number of
newly-recruited professionals:
20 by 12/02, 40 by 12/03
- 30 -



3.4 AGETOP given           . AGETOP management        . Quarterly progress reports   . State Government complies
operations management      contract with state                                    with contract obligations
autonomy within strategic    government in effect by 12/'03
framework
3.5 State transport planning   . Transport planning   . Quarterly progress reports   . Planning taken into account
capacity strengthened      information system                                     during budget discussions
operational by 12/03
4. State environmental     . Map of protected areas                               . TA contracted by 11/01
planning and monitoring    completed by 06/02
systems strengthened
. Program of consolidation                             . State Government takes
and expansion of the state's                          legal and regulatory measures
system of legally protected                           required for program
areas agreed prepared by                               implementation
12/03
. AGMA staff participates in
. AGMA screening,                                     training
supervision and monitoring
systems fully operational by
6/02
. AGMA effectively enforces
. Total area of established                            protected areas regulations
environmental protection
areas increased 70% by 12/03
5. State reforn under effective . AGR adequately staffed with . Quarterly progress reports   . State Government effectively
implementation             permanent, trained                                     implements the state reform
professionals by 12/03                                 program
Project Components I       Inputs: (budget for each   Project reports:            (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                             Outputs)
1. Highway Rehabilitation   US$60.0 million (54.5%)    . Quarterly progress reports   . State Government transfers
& Resurfacing                                                                     counterpart funds as planned
1.1. rehabilitation works  Cumulated length of sections
(see attachment):
. contracted
. rehabilitated
1.2. rehabilitation engineering Cumulated length of sections
and supervision services   with engineering designs
completed (see attachment)
2. Highway Paving          US$38.9 million (35.6%)    . Quarterly progress reports   . State Government transfers
counterpart funds as planned
2.1 paving works           Cumulated length of sections                           . State Government agrees on
(see attachment):                                     satisfactory annual State Road
. contracted                                          Programs compatible with the
. paved                                               state's fiscal situation
- 31 -



2.2 paving engineering and   Cumulated length of sections
supervision services      with engineering designs
completed (see attachment)
3. Highway Policy and     US$4.6 million (4.1%)     . Quarterly progress reports
Institutional Development
3.1 decentralization program: . TA contracted by 12/01                        . New local administrations
design of pilot municipal road  . design completed by 6/02                    are responsive to state govt.
agency & partnership,     . evaluation report completed                       decentralization objectives
monitoring and evaluation    by 12/03
3.2 contract maintenance  . TA contracted by 12/01                            . Private contractors are
program: monitoring and   . evaluation report completed                       responsive to new forms of
evaluation                by 12/02                                            contracts
3.3 AGETOP reorganization: . TA contracted by 12/01land                       . AGETOP staff participates
development and           completed by 12/03                                  in change implementation and
establishment of planning,    . equipment and software                        training
operations, management and  purchased by 12/02
control systems           . Training staff-week: 600 by
12/03
3.4 AGETOP environmental  . TA contracted by 12/01 and                        . AGETOP staff participate in
and social units strengthened  completed by 12/03                             environmental training
. Equipment and software
purchased by 12/02
. Training (incl. above)
3.5 Project management    . TA contracted by 60 days
following Loan Effectiveness
. Equipment and software
purchased by 12/02
3.6 State transport planning   . TA contracted by 6/02                        . SEINFRA maintains current
capacity strengthened     . Equipment and software                            priority to strengthen
purchased by 12/02                                 transport planning
. Training staff-weeks: 125
weeks by 12/03
4. Environmental          US$5.5 million (5.0%)     . Quarterly progress reports   . AGMA management and
Management                                                                    staff fully involved in project
. Preparation of a map of  . TA contracted by 11/01,                          activities
protected areas           completed by 6/02
. Strengthening of AGMA   . Equipment and software
capacity                  purchased by 12/01
. Training staff-weeks: 130
by 12/04.
Set up of two protection  . Works contracted by 6/02,
areas                     completed by 6/03.
- 32 -



5 State Reform             US$1.1 million (1.0%)       . Quarterly progress reports   . AGR staff participates in
change implementation and
. TA contracted by 12/01 and                           training
completed by 12/03
. Equipment and software
purchased by 12/02
. Training staff-weeks: 130 by
12/04.
- 33 -



ATTACHMENT
BRAZIL: GOIAS STATE HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT PROJECT
PROJECT MONITORING INDICATORS
PROJECT                          Monitoring Indicators           Baseline      12/31/01     Mid-term     12/31/03      End of project
DEVELOPMENT
OBJECTIVE
Increase efficiency of state    Decrease of average vehicle operating  0%        0%           1%            2%             2%
highway transport system        cost on state paved network
Proportion of veh-km on good       54%           58%          65%           75%            75%
condition paved roads
Decrease of average land transport cost  0%          0%            I %          2%              2%
Of Goias agroindustrial exports
Increased percentage of state highway  10%          15%          35%           50%             60%
expenditures with economic rates of
return above 12%
OUTPUTS                          Monitoring Indicators           Baseline      12/31/01     Mid-term     12/31/03      End of project
1. Condition of paved      Increased proportion of network length  64%          65%           70%          75%             77%
highway network restored           in good condition
and resurfaced
Reduced proportion of paved road      9%           8%           6%            3%              3%
length in poor condition
2. Main agroindustrial      . Number of additional paved roads      0             1            2            5               6
centers' links to highway  linked to main agro-industrial centers
and multimodal corridors
paved
3. Management of highway
system strengthened, incL.: | 
3.1 decentralization model   . Pilot municipal road agency and  Principles of  Decentrali-z  In operation   In operation   Decentralization
tested                       inter-municipal road associations  decentrali-zatio    ation                             model revised if
operational and evaluated     n model agreed  agreement                                 necessary
and       ready for
municipalities   signature
selected
3.2 decentralization model   . Operation of pilot municipal road  Need of     Terms of    Consultant   Evaluation    Decentralization
evaluated                     agency and inter-municipal road   evaluation    Reference     services     completed    model revised if
associations evaluated        recognized    (including    contracted               necessary and first
evaluation                            phase municipalities
criteria)                                identified
agreed upon
3.3 state network maintained    . Implementation of first maintenance  Bidding  Contracts    Evaluation   Modifica-tio   Contracts
by private contractors         contracts signed and evaluated  document ready   signed      completed   ns proposed,   renegotiated, if
if necessary    necessary
Proportion of state highway network   0 %           0%           40%          80%             90%
effectively maintained by private
contractors increased
3.4 AGETOP reorganized and . AGETOP network database operational    Bidding   Equipment   In operation   In operation   In operation
streamlined                                                      document   installed and
approved     training
completed
. AGETOP operations, management and    Work plan    Systems    In operation   In operation   In operation
control systems operational       agreed       design
completed
. Minimum number of newly-recruited      0            5            20           40              40
professionals (cumulated)
. Number of AGETOP staff          3,500         1,650        1,300         1,000           1,000
- 34 -



OUTPUTS                          Monitoring Indicators           Baseline      12/31/01     Mid-term    12/31/03     End of project
3.5 AGETOP given          . AGETOP and state govemment enter   Principle of a  Draft contract   Contract   Contract in    Contract under
operations management          into a management contract     management        under       ready for    effect     implementation
autonomy within strategic                                       contract     preparation    signature
framework                                                        agreed
3.6 State transport planning    Transport services database operational    Database    Draft bidding    Training    Database   Database operational
capacity strengthened                                         concept agreed document ready  completed,  operational
equipment
installed   ___
4. State environmental    | Map of environmentally sensitive areas   Request for    Consultant  Map    Map used      Map used for
planning and monitoring                completed                proposal    services hired   completed  for screening  screening projects
systems strengthened                                            approved                                projects
Program of consolidation and   Directions for    Terms of    Consultant   Program   Implementation plan
expansion of the Borrower's system of  program   Reference and   services   agreed upon      ready
legally protected areas      preparation   draft request for    hired
_      agreed     proposal ready
AGMA screening, supervision and   Request for    Training/   In operation In operation  In operation
monitoring systems operational    proposal      equipment
approved    being procured
Total area of established environmental  0%          10%          30%         70%            100%
protection areas increased from 2000
base (4,000 kin2)
5. State reform under         . AGR adequately staffed with      List of       Bidding      Training    Training      AGR fully
effective implementation     permanent, trained professionals  equipment/   document for  underway,  completed        operational
training agreed   equipment/   equipment
training    installed
__ __ ___ __ ___ __ ___ _ _ _  _approved
INPUTS                           Monitoring Indicators          Baseline       12/31/01    Mid-term    12/31/03      End of project
1. Highway Rehabilitation
and Resurfacing                                                          _
.I rehabilitation works        Cumulated length of sections:
. contracted                 0            434          915         1,501          1,501
. rehabilitated               0            150          634        1,201           1,501
1.2 rehabilitation engineering  Cumulated length of sections with  434           915         1,501       1,501           1,501
and supervision services       engineering designs completed
2. Highway Paving
2.1 paving works               Cumulated length of sections:
. contracted                 0             35          256         300             300
.rehabilitated                0             0            35         200             300
2.2 paving engineering and   Cumulated length of sections with     35            256          300         300             300
supervision services           engineering designs completed_
3. Highway Policy and
Institutional Development
3.1 decentralization program:    Implementation schedule       ToRs drafted   TA contracted    Design    Evaluation
design of pilot municipal road                                                              completed    report
agency & partnership,                                                                                  completed
monitoring and evaluation
3.2 contract maintenance         Implementation schedule       ToRs drafted  TA contracted  Evaluation
program: monitoring and                                                                      report
evaluation                                                                                  completed
3.3 AGETOP reorganization:       Implementation schedule       ToRs drafted   TA contracted  Equipment    TA
development and                                                                            and software  completed
establishment of planning,                                                                  purchased
operations, management and
control systems
Training staff-week (cumul.)        0              0           200         600
3.4 AGETOP environmental         Implementation schedule       ToRs drafted   TA contracted  Equipment    TA
and social units strengthened                                                              and software  completed
purchased  .
- 35 -



INPUTS                            Monitoring Indicators           Baseline       12/31/01     Mid-term    12/31/03       End of project
3.5 Project management            Implementation schedule       TA contracted                 Equipment                  TA completed
60 days after               and software
effectiveness                purchased
3.6 State transport planning     Implementation schedule        ToRs drafted   TA contracted   Equipment
management capacity                                                                          and software
purchased
Training staff-week (cumulated)        0              0            60          125
4. Environmental
Management
. Preparation of a map of        Implementation Schedule        ToRs drafted  TA contracted,     TA
protected areas                                                               Equipment and  completed
software
purchased
. Strengthening of AGMA
capacity                                                                            _
. Setup of two protection        Implementation schedule                                       Works        Works
areas                                                                                         contracted   completed
Training staff-week (cumulated)        0              0            60          130
5. State Reform                  Implementation schedule        ToRs drafted   TA contracted  Equipment      TA
and software  completed
purchased       _         __
Training staff-week (cumulated)  0_                                60 _                 _
- 36 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
BRAZIL: GolAS STATE HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT
The project comprises five components:
1. a highway rehabilitation and resurfacing component, to restore about 1,500 km of paved roads on
the main network. The component includes works, studies and engineering and supervision services
(works and services);
2. a highway paving component, to pave about 300 km of roads linking agro-industrial centers to major
highway or multimodal corridors. The component includes works, studies and engineering and
supervision services (works and services);
3. a highway policy and institutional development component, to strengthen the state's road
management capacity. The component includes provision of technical assistance, training of staff, and
supply of equipment and software (goods and services);
4. an environmental management component, to support the strengthening of the state's environmental
agency, the preparation of the state's environmental protection plan, and the implementation of the first
phase of this plan. The component includes small works to set up protected natural areas, technical
assistance, training of staff, and supply of equipment and software (works, goods and services); and
5. a state reform component, to help implement the state's structural and administrative reform, and in
particular to strengthen the new utility regulation agency. The component includes provision of
technical assistance, training of staff, and supply of equipment and software (goods and services).
By Component:
Project Component i - US$61.00 million
Highway Rehabilitation and Resurfacing (55% of baseline project cost)
The component consists of rehabilitation and resurfacing works, including safety and
environmental rehabilitation works, on a total of 1,500 km of the paved network. The component also
includes related engineering studies, designs, and environmental and social assessments, as well as
supervision activities. The sections to be rehabilitated have been selected on the basis of a comparative
technical and economic evaluation of altemative network rehabilitation and maintenance strategies with the
help of HDM IV model (Annex 4). They consist of: (i) resurfacing works on sections which would
otherwise soon reach a level of deterioration requiring extensive rehabilitation, through appropriate slurry
seal, surface treatment, or asphalt concrete overlay techniques, depending upon traffic levels; and (ii)
pavement rehabilitation works on sections which have already reached or exceeded their lifetime, through
appropriate techniques ranging from asphalt concrete overlays to complete reconstruction of pavement.
The catalogue of optimal technical solutions for asphalt concrete and surface treatment pavements is
summarized in the following tables. The safety works consist of upgrading horizontal and vertical signaling
to adequate standards. The environmental works consist of rehabilitation and prevention or mitigation
works at sites which have suffered from major environmental damage, mainly soil erosion, resulting from
past road works at sites which are located on sections of highways included in the project.
- 37 -



Asphalt Concrete
Traffic                                         Pavement Condition
IRI<2.5           2.5SIRI<3.0         3.0SIRI<4.0            4.0<IRI
Class   ADT   D <0.4mm D 0.4mrr D<D0.4m         0      D<0.4m D< 0.4rnrnD20.40rn D< mm D0.4mm
I    < 1500                      10307        0307      0303       0303                0401
2   1500-2500   0307      0307                                                         0401
3  2500-3500   0307       0307                0303
4   3500-5500   0307      0307  j0405         0401                 0401                0401
5    > 5500            1 0307       0503      0301                 0401                0501
Legend : 03 = Overlay 30 mm; 04 = Overlay 40 mm; 05 = Overlay 50 mm; 01, 02, 03, 04, 05, 06, 07: year of
intervention (2001, 2002, 2003...)
Surface Treatment
Traffic                                        Pavement Condition
IRI <2.5          2.5 IRI <3.0       3.0 IRI <4.0          4.0 JRI
Class   ADT  D < 0.4 mm D 2 0.4 mm D < 0.4 mm|D 2 0.4 mm D < 0.4 mm|D 2 0.4    D < 0.4 mm|D 2 0.4 mm
I    < 400    Base       Base      Base       Base      Base      Base      0403      Base
2   400-600   LM03        Base      Base      Base      0407      0405      0403      0403
3    600-800   LM07       Base      Base      Base      0405      0405                0403
4     800-    LM07        Base     LM07      LM07       0405      0405      0403      0403
1000
5     1000-    ST07      ST07      ST07       ST07      0405      0403      0403      0401
5_   1-       S01800    ST07      ST07       ST07      0405      0403      0403      0401
6    > 1800    0405      LMOI      0405      0405       0403      0401                0403
Legend: LM = Slurry Seal 4 mm.; ST = Surface Treatment; Base = Routine Maintenance and patching of all potholes;
03 = Overlay 30 mm; 04 = Overlay 40 mm; 01, 02, 03, 04, 05, 06, 07: year of intervention (2001, 2002, 2003 ...)
The project includes three groups of rehabilitation works on the highest priority road sections
which need urgent attention. The first two groups of road sections to be rehabilitated have been identified.
The engineering studies have been completed for the first group. The road sections to be included in the
third group will be identified following: (i) an update of the road data on the main network, which is
scheduled to be carried out later this year; and (ii) the prioritization and scheduling, according to
technic-economic criteria, of the rehabilitation activities to be carried out on the main network, starting
2003.  The first two groups, which are listed in the table hereafter, consist of 21 sub-projects, totaling
about 900 km in length and a total estimated cost of about US$41 million.
- 38 -



Rehabilitation Subprojects
Estimated Cost
Road No. Road Sections                 Ext. (km)   (USS, 000)     ADT
Group I  Rehabilitation Subprojects
GO-01 0  Vianopolis - Luziana             98         3,465        1,731
GO-010  Goiania/ Leopoldo de Bulhoes      50         1,505        2,350
GO-330  Anapolis/Rodrigo Nascimento       12          338         2,041
GO-080   Br-1 53/Goianesia                53         3,944        1,564
GO-1 18  Sao Joan Alianca/ Alto Paraiso   68         2,708         730
GO-217  Goi39/Piracanjumba/Br-I53         53         2,185        2,127
GO-320   Ent. GO-040(p goiatuba)/Joviana  26         1,321        1,550
GO-320  Joviana Nicentopolis              24          875         1,361
GO-320  Vicentopolis I Ent.Go-215 Edeia   51         1,735        1,361
Sub-total Group 1               434        18,074
Group 2  Rehabilitation Subprojects
GO-060  Trindade/Santa Barbara            24         1,344        6,427
Go-060   Goiania/Trindade 2x1 8=36 km     36         3,600       14,000
GO-080   Goiania/Neropolis                27         1,512        1,900
GO-215   Ent.BR 153/Pontalina             27          810          739
GO-080   Neropolis/Petrolina              39         2,184        4,680
GO-080   Petrolina/Br153                  28         1,568        5,952
GO-139   Caldas NovasfCorumbaiba          53         2,120        4,612
GO-010   Leopoldo Bulhoes - Vianopolis    21          735         4,000
GO-320   Ent.GO 040/Goiatuba/BR1 53       33         1,535        1,608
GO-330   Pires do Rio/Ipameri/Catalao     110        4,455        2,518
GO-326  Anicuns - Sancrelndia             51         1,785        1,840
GO-070  Inhumas - Entr. GO-154            32          1,792       1,908
___   Sub-total Group 2                   481        23,440
Project Component 2 - US$40.00 million
Highway Paving (36% of total baseline project cost)
This component consists of paving works on about 300 km of roads linking agro-industrial centers
to major highway or multimodal corridors. The component includes related engineering studies, designs,
and environmental and social assessments, as well as supervision activities. The sections to be included in
this component and the pavement design standards were selected on the basis of a comparative economic
evaluation of altemative design and maintenance standards using the HDM model. Works will include
paving of road surface, and when necessary, strengthening/reconstruction of road structures such as
bridges. Pavement structures generally consist of granular base and sub-base courses totaling about 30 to
40 cm and a double surface treatment. Engineering studies, designs, environmental and social assessments
have been completed for four subprojects totaling about 256 km in length and an estimated cost of about
US$26 million. The paving subprojects are listed hereafter.
- 39 -



Paving Subprojects
Estimated Cost
Road No. Road Sections                       Ext. (km)   (US$, 000)
GO-040   Bom Jesus de Goias - lnaciolandia      44         4,004
GO-050   Entr.GO-164 (Parauna) - Entr.GO-174    98         10,292
GO-156   Entr.GO-070 - Americano do Brasil      34         4,250
GO-436   Cristalina - Divisa GO/DF              80         8,316
________ Sub-total paving works                256        26,862
Project Component 3 - US$ 3.70 million
Highway Policy and Institutional Development (3% of total project cost)
The component consists of technical assistance, training of staff, equipment and software to help
AGETOP to start the decentralization of road maintenance activities on the municipal network to
municipalities; monitor and evaluate the maintenance program on the main network; implement its
administrative reorganization, and strengthen its planning and management systems; strengthen
environmental management in the road sector; and manage the project. The component will also assist
SELNFRA in strengthening its transport planning information system. It includes the following six
subcomponents:
(a) decentralization program.
The project will support the first phase of an administrative decentralization program for the
management of the municipal road networks in the State of Goias  In the past, the State assumed
responsibility to improve and/or maintain municipal roads through CRISA, sometimes in partnerships with
municipalities. With the ongoing reform of the State and the decentralization of federal roads to the states,
the Government of Goias decided to revert to the municipalities the responsibility for maintaining the
municipal network.  Two models are being considered, involving: (i) the strengthening of the road
maintenance capacity of individual municipalities, including through the transfer of AGETOP equipment:
or (ii) the establishment of intermunicipal road associations, which would be responsible for the road
networks of a group of municipalities. Under the project, AGETOP will launch two pilot projects, one
with a single municipality which would have the capacity to maintain its own network, and one with an
association of municipalities. To increase the municipalities' knowledge on the management of road
maintenance activities, AGETOP will make technical staff available to advise on the maintenance and
operation of equipment, as well as on road maintenance techniques. In addition, the project will provide
technical assistance and training to: (i) conduct a survey of the municipalities' financial and technical
capacities and identify participating municipalities; (ii) prepare the contractual documents and network
maintenance plans; and (iii) establish or strengthen the road maintenance capacity of the selected
municipality and consortium, including the operation and maintenance of the transferred equipment.
(b) contract maintenance monitoring and evaluation.
This subcomponent will help AGETOP to monitor and evaluate the proposed contract maintenance
program on the main network. The network maintenance plan has been prepared; it basically consists of 26
innovative three-year performance-based contracts. It is expected that the contracts will be signed by the
- 40 -



end of 2001. The subcomponent will consist of a consultant contract for the monitoring and evaluation of
the maintenance contracts during the first year of implementation. The main objective is to assess the
efficiency with which the private sector carries out road maintenance, and to identify potential
improvements to contract documents and supervision processes.
(c) AGETOP reorganization.
This subcomponent will support the reorganization of AGETOP, including: (a) the restructuring
and upgrading of AGETOP's key planning, management, control and monitoring systems, including its
network planning and pavement management system; (b) training of staff to strengthen technical,
management and supervision capabilities; and (c) the preparation of a management contract between
AGETOP and the State. AGETOP, with support from management consultants, has prepared a strategic
directions paper and reorganization plan. The first phase of the reorganization consists of the restructuring
and upgrading of AGETOP's key systems, which will be carried out in parallel with a redefinition of
business lines and tasks to take into account the effect of the contracting of maintenance on the main
network and the transfer of maintenance responsibilities for the municipal network to the municipalities.
The upgrading of the planning system will consist of network condition monitoring surveys, the
development and establishment of a new network database, the strengthening of the pavement management
system, using the HDM4 model, and the preparation of the annual road programs with the improved
system. The project also includes technical assistance, computer equipment and software, and staff training
to restructure and upgrade AGETOP's management, operation and contiol systems. It is expected that, as a
result of the decentralization, maintenance contracting, and reorganization, AGETOP's staff will be
reduced gradually. A training program will be implemented for the remaining technical and administrative
staff in the areas of road sector policies and standards, network monitoring and planning, quality assurance,
supervision and monitoring of road maintenance, rehabilitation and construction activities. The technical
assistance included in this subcomponent will also assist in preparing a management contract between the
state and AGETOP.
(d) AGETOP environmental and social management.
This subcomponent includes technical assistance, equipment and training to strengthen AGETOP's
environmental unit (AEA) and social unit (CDR) and make them fully operational to effectively carry out
their responsibilities under the project and other programs. In particular, AEA, with technical assistance,
will: (i) establish an environmental management information system, compatible with AGMA's systems, to
support AGETOP's environmental functions and responsibilities; and (ii) permanently review and assess
the effectiveness of AGETOP's environmental norms and procedures in order to improve them as
necessary. The two units will be provided with the necessary equipment, including necessary vehicles, to
effectively carry out their functions and responsibilities. The subcomponent also includes funds to contract
an independent firm or institution to monitor and evaluate the impacts of the paving activities on the living
conditions of the communities, in particular the low-income groups and, if any, the indigenous peoples
(comunidades indigenas) living in the areas of influence of the roads to be paved.
(e) project management.
This subcomponent will assist AGETOP's project coordination unit (PCU) in coordinating the
execution of the project, in monitoring and evaluating project implementation and results, and in preparing
periodic progress reports and financial management reports. It consists of provision of technical assistance
and equipment to the PCU, as well as training services to AGETOP's various departments involved in
project execution.
-41 -



(f) transport planning.
This subcomponent will assist the State's Secretariat of Infrastructure (SEINFRA) in strengthening
its transport planning function. It consists of the provision of technical assistance, computer equipment and
software, and training of SEINFRA staff to develop and establish a computerized information system to
effectively monitor transport services and infrastructure in the state, and assist SEINFRA in carrying out
its transport policy and planning functions and responsibilities.
Project Component 4 - US$4.80 million
Environmental Management (4% of total baseline project cost)
This component will assist the State's Agency for Environment (AGMA) under the State's
Secretariat of Environment and Water Resources (SEMARH) to prepare a program to consolidate and
expand the State's System of Protected Areas (SEAP), with a view to improve the conservation of the
state's natural resources and biodiversity. It will also help strengthen the capacity of AGMA to screen the
potential impacts of road projects, review environmental assessments and license the works, supervise the
implementation of environmental management plans, and monitor the environmental impacts of the project.
It will finally help start up the implementation of the SEAP program with the establishment of two
high-priority protection areas.
(a) mapping of environmentally sensitive areas.
This subcomponent is the first phase of the preparation of the above-mentioned program to expand
and consolidate the State's System of Protected Areas (SEAP). It consists of identifying environmentally
sensitive areas in the state, in the form of digitalized.maps and on the basis of a consolidated database of
the state's natural resources and biodiversity derived from available spatial inventories, processing of
satellite images, and field surveys. This mapping exercise will also be an important contribution to the
Economic-Ecological Zoning (ZEE) of the State which SEMARH and AGMA are preparing. The maps
will then be used as a basis for screening the potential impacts of road projects and preparing an action
program to consolidate and expand the state's system of legally protected areas.
(b) strengthening of AGMA.
This subcomponent will help strengthen AGMA's screening, licensing, supervision and monitoring
capacities. Specifically, the project will: (i) supply the necessary equipment and training to allow AGMA
staff to manipulate and update the digitalized maps referred to in (a) above; (ii) provide equipment and
technical assistance (including training) to enable AGMA to effectively analyze, license and monitor
exploitation of natural resources and activities which may have a negative impact on the environment; and
(iii) provide technical assistance to AGMA and AGETOP to jointly develop a fully efficient and
systematic licensing mechanism for road-related activities in areas such as earthworks, paving, restoration,
extraction and processing of materials.
(c) establishment of protected areas.
This subcomponent consists of the establishment of two priority protection areas located in critical
biodiversity hotspots of the Cerrado ecoregion: the protection areas of Serra das Gales (Parauna), and
Serra da Bocaina (Crixas/Uirapuru). Specifically, the subcomponent includes building up the necessary
- 42 -



basic infrastructure in these areas, including administrative buildings and visitors centers.
It is expected that the implementation of the program to consolidate and expand the SEAP will be
continued under the second phase of the State Highway Management Program with the support of the
Global Environment Facility (GEF). The second phase of the program would, inter alia: (i) establish a
network of Private Reserves of the Natural Heritage (RPPN), Areas of Permanent Preservation (APP) and
Private Legal Reserves (according to the Forest Code) that will maximize connectivity among core areas of
the Goyaz-Cerrado Biosphere Reserve and ensure the consolidation of the critical biological corridors in the
area; (ii) provide for the basic infrastructure, management plans, governing bodies, as well as consultative
and participatory fora in at least the following critical protected areas: area of environmental protection of
Pouso Alto, buffer zone of the Veadeiros National Park, and Terra Ronca State Park; and (iii) create a
number of effective fiscal, financial, and economic incentives - translated into laws, regulations, and credit
lines - that enhance nature conservation and sustainable use of resources in the area of the Biosphere
Reserve.
Project Component 5 - US$1.00 million
State Reform (1% of total project cost)
This component will support the implementation of the state's structural and administrative reform
programs. In a first phase, it will help strengthen the recently-created state regulatory agency (AGR) in
order to enable it to effectively carry out its more important and urgent functions and responsibilities. The
agency's responsibilities include enforcing concession contracts, supervising concessionaires' compliance
with regulations and norms, and administering tariff adjustment rules. The most urgent tasks relate to the
regulation of: (i) public transport in the metropolitan region of Goiania, the state's capital; (ii)
internunicipal public transport; (iii) water resource management, water supply and sanitation; and (iv)
depending on the results of ongoing discussions on cooperation agreements with the relevant federal
agencies, the power and telecommunications sectors.
In the first phase, the technical assistance will in particular help to: (i) review the functions and
responsibilities of AGR, propose revisions as appropriate, and prepare a detailed work program on the
basis of short and medium term priorities; (ii) make a diagnostic of the current status of AGR organization,
including structure and staff numbers and skills in the light of its essential responsibilities and the proposed
work program, prepare a reorganization plan, including a staffing plan and a staff training program,
ensuring the stability of the agency and insulating it from day-to-day political pressure, and start up
implementation; (iii) design the necessary information systems and other regulatory instruments necessary
to effectively carry out the most urgent regulatory functions; (iv) purchase the necessary equipment and
software, establish the information systems, and provide relevant training to AGR technical staff and
management personnel; and (v) provide technical expertise on specific regulatory issues as required.
-43 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
BRAZIL: GOIAS STATE HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT
Local       Foreign        Total
:Project CostByComponent                  US $million    US $million    US $million
1. Highway Rehabilitation and Resurfacing                39.10         23.10        62.20
2. Highway Paving                                        25.20         14.90        40.10
3. Highway Policy and Institutional Development           1.70          1.60         3.30
4. Environmental Management                               2.80          0.90         3.70
5. State Reform                                           0.30          0.50         0.80
Total Baseline Cost                                      69.10         41.00       110.10
Physical Contingencies                                   7.00          4.15        11.15
Price Contingencies                                      5.10          3.00         8.10
Total Project Costs             81.20         48.15       129.35
Front-end fee                    0.65         0.65
Total Financing Required              81.20        48.80        130.00
Local       Foreign        Total
PrOJctCosBy]Category                    US $million   US $million   US $million
Goods                                                       1.10          2.40          3.50
Works                                                      69.00         44.75        113.75
Services                                                   11.10          1.00         12.10
0.00
Total Project Costs     81.20         48.15       129.35
Front-end fee                    0.65         0.65
Total Financing Required     81.20         48.80        130.00
- 44 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
BRAZIL: GOIAS STATE HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT
Summary of Methodology and Results:
The cost-benefit analysis included the two main components of the project: (i) the highway
rehabilitation and maintenance component; and (ii) the highway paving component. Both components were
analyzed using the most recent version of the Highway Development and Management Model (HDM-4).
The design and evaluation of the first comnponent consisted in a comparative analysis of alternative
rehabilitation and maintenance strategies (or sets of policies, as defined hereinafter) for the entire paved
network . The strategies were compared in terms of benefits to road users and savings on network
maintenance costs net of the corresponding rehabilitation and periodic maintenance costs. The network
strategy with the highest Net Present Value (NPV) was selected as the basis for the design of the
rehabilitation and maintenance component.
The paving component includes road sections of economic importance for the state and with high
levels of traffic. The four paving subprojects which have been identified and analyzed, have an aggregated
length of about 256 km, and a total cost of about US$27 million equivalent. Each subproject was analyzed
by assessing the streams of benefits to road users and savings on maintenance costs (as compared to a
without project case) net of the costs of the paving works. The evaluation of the entire paving component,
which is expected to have an aggregated length of about 300 km and a total cost of about US$40 million,
was based on the assumption that the unidentified subprojects would have comparable NPVs per km. The
results of these analyses are presented in the table below.
- 45 -



[For projects with benefits that are measured in monetary terms]
Present Value of Flows                      Fiscal Impact
Economic    Financial Analysis'
Analysis                              Taxes          Subsidies
Benefits:
User Cost
Savings
. rehabilitation              740               925               135
. paving                      122               163               41
Agency Savings
. rehabilitation               25                34                 9
. paving                       10                13                 3
total benefits
Costs:
. Rehabilitation               85               114                29
. Paving                     30                40                10
total costs                   115               154                39
Net Benefits:
. Rehabilitation              680               845               165
. Paving                    102               136                34
total net benefits            782               981               199
IRR:                          85%               n.a.
. Rehabilitation             94%
. Paving                     63%
Note: all amounts are expressed in US$ million equivalent
I
If the difference between the present value of financial and economic flows is large and cannot be explained by
taxes and subsidies, a brief explanation of the difference is warranted, e.g. "The value of financial benefits is less
than that of economic benefits because of controls on electricity tariffs."
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
The main benefits of the project, which have been quantified, are the savings to be made by road users
on vehicle operating costs and on passenger time. Additional benefits to road users, which have not been
quantified, include reduced accidents (which will gradually lead to reduced insurance costs), and improved
driving and riding comfort. A large portion of the savings on trucking costs (which represent over 70% of
the total savings) will be passed on to producers and consumers of goods transported by road. Paving
subprojects, in particular, are expected to result into higher commodity prices paid to producers in the areas
of influence of the newly-paved roads, and into lower prices of consumer goods sold. These price changes
will in turn contribute to generating additional economic activities and related generated traffic and
benefits. Paving subprojects are also expected to improve the living conditions of the local communities, in
particular their access to health, education and other social services, which have not been quantified. Both
the rehabilitation and the paving components of the project will also result into reduced highway
- 46 -



maintenance costs, which will benefit AGETOP and the state treasury. The costs to the road agency are the
project costs.
The benefits and costs of the project were estimated using the Highway Development and Management
Model (HDM-4), which simulates highway life cycle and vehicle operation conditions and costs for
multiple road design and maintenance alternatives.
Road Costs:
The most recent unit costs of road works are shown on the graph below:
Unit Maintenance and Rehabilitation Costs
Reconstrudion TSD/200mm GB
Reconstruction Scm AC/200mm GB 
Overlay 70 mm
Overlay 60 mm
Overlay 50 mm                                             Rehabilitation
Overlay 40 mm
Overlay 30 mm
Double Surface Treatmeant 25 mm                                            Maintenance
Single Surface Treatmeant 10 mm  020       4      6
Slurry Seal 4 mm   _                               
0    20    40    60    80   100   120   140   160   180
Thousands
Reais/km
Vehicle Operating Costs:
The vehicle operating cost component of the HDM model was calibrated to include commercial vehicle
loading characteristics (equivalent standard axles coefficients) that reflect the state's policy on axle load
control and enforcement. The following table presents typical road user costs and daily traffic composition.
Medium       Heavy    Articulated
Car        Bus       Truck       Truck         Truck
Typical Road User Costs for Roughness = 2.0 IRI, Rs/veh-km
Fuel & Lubricants                 0.10        0.09        0.10       0.20          0.28
Tires                             0.00        0.03       0.03        0.06          0.10
Maintenance                       0.07        0.21       0.33        0.55          0.74
Crew                              0.00       0.11        0.11        0.11          0.12
Depreciation & Interest           0.07        0.23       0.20        0.11          0.16
Time                              0.06       0.37        0.00        0.00          0.00
Total                             0.31        1.05       0.77         1.03         1.40
Typical Road User Costs at Different Roughness Levels, Rs/veh-km
TypicalRUCfor2.01R1               0.31        1.05       0.77         1.03         1.40
Typical RUC for 3.0 IRI           0.31        1.06       0.78         1.04         1.41
TypicalRUCfor4.01R1               0.32        1.10        0.82        1.10         1.49
Typical RUC for 5.0 IRI           0.33        1.15       0.85         1.16         1.57
Typical Average Daily Traffic Composition
Traffic Composition              73%          4%          7%          9%            7%S
-47 -



Current Network Condition and Traffic:
The current network condition and traffic data were obtained through specific surveys carried out from
1996-2000. The table below present paved network statistics in terms of surface type, traffic and road
condition expressed both in terms of roughness and deflections.
Asphalt Concrete Roads
Condition
Traffic                 A       B        C       D        E       F       C        H  Total Percent
<1500AADT                              44      159       9       45                3   260      34%
1500-2500 AADT         18      71                                                99   188      25%
2500-3500 AADT         14      59                8                                      82      11%
3500-5500AADT          11       6       6       16               65               13   116      15%
>5500 AADT                     26       16      16               45                6   110      15%
Total                  43     163       66     200       9      155       0      120   756
Percent                6%     22%       9%     26%       1%     21%      0%/o    16%           100%/0
Surface Treatment Roads
Condition
Traffic                 A       B        C       D        E       F        G       H  Total
<400 AADT             108      60      115      87     171       59       3        2   605       9%/
400-600 AADT           90      50     293       84     324       63      38        6   948      14%
600-800AADT           127     107      186    1844      35      178               33  2508      37%
800-1000 AADT         208      40     253       90     145      181      23       68  1006      15%
1000-1800 AADT        21      148     108       88      78      184      70      94   791       12%
>I800 AADT             79     101       24      35      32      408              196   874      13%
Total                 633     506      978    2226     784    1072      133      399  6733
Percent                9%      8%      15%     33%     12%      16%      2%      6%            100%/0
Asphalt Concrete and Surface Treatment Roads
Condition
Total                 675     669    1044    2426      793    1228      133      520  7489
Percent                9%      9%      14%     32%      11%     16%      2%       7%           100%
Condition Class  Description                              Roughness        &       Deflection
A         Very Low Roughness / Low Deflection       IRI < 2.5                D < 0.4
B         Very Low Roughness / High Deflection      IRI < 2.5                D >= 0.4
C         Good Roughness / Low Deflection           2.5 <= IRI < 3.0         D < 0.4
D         Good Roughness I High Deflection          2.5 <= IRI < 3.0         D >= 0.4
E         Fair Roughness / Low Deflection           3.0 <- IRI < 4.0         D < 0.4
F        Fair Roughness / High Deflection           3.0 <= IRI < 4.0         D >= 0.4
G         Poor Roughness / Low Deflection           IRI >= 4.0               D < 0.4
H         Poor Roughness / High Deflection         IRI >= 4.0                D >= 0.4
Network Rehabilitation and Maintenance Strategies:
The following rehabilitation and maintenance works were analyzed and compared for the evaluation of
the network rehabilitation component:
. strategy I consisting of 4 mm slurry seal when roads are in good to fair condition;
. strategy 2 consisting of double surface treatments when roads are in fair condition;
. strategy 3 consisting of 3 to 7 cm thick asphalt concrete overlays when road are in fair to poor
condition.
The base altemative consisted in routine maintenance with 100 percent pothole patching followed by
reconstruction when roughness reaches 8 IRI (Intemational Roughness Index). Up to 17
project-alternatives were considered for each road class, which consisted in routine maintenance with 100
percent pothole patching and the works described above occurring at different years during the duration of
the program, followed by 5 cm overlays when the roughness reaches 4.0 IRI.
-48 -



The resulting catalogue of optimal maintenance policies and overlay standards as a function of traffic
and pavement condition was used as a basis for the design of the project's rehabilitation and maintenance
component (Annex 2).
Evolution of Network Condition:
Without the program, the proportion of the network length in poor condition (IRI>4) would increase
from 9% in 2000 to about 30% in 2006, and the proportion in good condition (IRI<3) would decrease from
64% to about 44%. The network average roughness would increase from the current 2.7 to 4.1 (graph on
left side below). With the retained policies and program, the proportion of the network length in good
condition (IRI<3) will be increased from 64% in 2000 to about 76% by 2006, and the proportion in poor
condition will be reduced from 9% to about 2% (graph on right side below).
Without Project Scenario - Network Length          With Project Scenario - Network Length
100%  T -.0                                       100%                                     5.0
90%                            20%
80%                                      48 0%                                             4.5
70%                                  _                                Y
J0O                                          4.0 
10%                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10%
0%                            ~~~      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~25  0%                  2.5
2000  2001  2002  2003  2004  200  2006           200  2001  2002  2003  2004  2005  2008
Year                                              Year
|=GodO30RIR EIFa,r3.0 IRI'4 0 0Pooro40IRI N.t ooo Roioess  iodO3.0iRI = Fair 30< IRI c 4.i  PooDr 4.0 IRI -Neitw Roushoncs
Evolution of Network Performance:
Without the program, the proportion of traffic (measured in vehicle-km) on poor condition highways
(IRI>4) would increase from 11% in 2000 to about 45% in 2006; and the proportion of traffic on good
condition highways (IRI<3) would decrease from  55%  to 37%  over the same period (graph on left side
below). As a result, road user costs would increase by about 9%. With the retained policies and program,
the proportion of traffic on good condition highways (IRI<3) will be increased from 55% in 2000 to about
85% by 2006, and the proportion of traffic on poor condition highways will be reduced from 11% to about
1% (graph on right side below). As a result, road user costs would decrease by about 3%.
Without Project Scenario - Network Utilization    With Project Scenario - Network Utilization
100%                                     50      '00%T                                 50
90%                                             00%
80%                                      .0   -  0%                                    4.5
08                                       2 00    0%                                   2s
20% 0  2000  U2                             603  2004  2-  2M.  22  2D3  2004  2005  20,
.6    50%                                00    .6~-Yer  IEI G- 04%    FW Y
|_G2a .3 oIRI CFair I  IRI < 4:~.0 Pa- 4 0 IRI -Net-ork R-,17nss .. God 3.1R r230- IRI <4.0 FWr-4DRI -N.-wiRu_l-
Net Benefits of the Rehabilitation and Maintenance Component:
With the program, road user costs savings are estimated at about R$553 million during the 2001-2006
period. The unit road user costs will be reduced by about 3%, as an average over the same period, to reach
- 49 -



a level of R$0.5 per vehicle-km. The graph on the left side below presents the network road user costs,
with and without the program. The net present value (NPV) of the rehabilitation and maintenance
component is estimated at R$1,362 million at a 12% discount rate over a 20 year evaluation period. The
economic internal rate of the return (IRR) of the rehabilitation and maintenance component is estimated at
94%. The graph on the right side below presents the estimated network NPV for different budget
scenarios, expressed as average annual capital expenditures per year. The selected budget scenario of R$38
million per year, which maximizes the net benefits to society, is consistent with the state road expenditure
capacity.
Network Road User Costs (Million Reais)  Network Net Benefits to Society, NPV (Million Reais)
w    2100                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1350.     
13000
2                                      1I 1000
ZCt. So!O  R.         11,00 ,
1400                                  00   
2001  2002  2003  20D4   2X5   2006
Year                1000
10   15    20   25     30    00   40
W--kWh ProCet -  Without pr  Ct        Capital ExpeitUdres per Year (M Reais)
Net Benefits of the Paving Component:
For the paving component, the four identified subprojects, totaling about 256 kin, were identified
on the basis of the results of traffic surveys and an analysis of the main commodity flows in the state.
Average daily traffic on the selected sections currently range between 300 and 400 vehicles per day. Four
alternative pavement design standards were analyzed and compared to the reference solution (maintenance
and periodic regraveling of the gravel road) using the HDM-4 model. The selected pavement solution
maximizes the net present value of the subproject net benefits. With the proposed paving solutions, road
surface condition will be improved from a current average of about 7 IRI to an average 3 IRI on the paved
surface. Average vehicle operating costs will be reduced by as much as one-third, and road maintenance
costs will be reduced by almost 50%. The NPV of the paving component is estimated at R$204 million on
the basis of the results of the economic analyses of the four identified subprojects (table below). The IRR
of the paving component is estimated at 63%.
Economic Analysis of the Identified Paving Subprojects
Estimated Cost Cost per km                 NPV (US$,
Road No. Road Sections           Ext. (km)   (US$, 000)    (US$, 000)  ADT IRR          million)
Bom Jesus de Goias -
GO-040  InacioIlndia                44          4,004           91       373    85        17.8
Entr.GO-1 64 (Parauna) -
GO-050  Entr.GO-174                 98         10,292          105       297    57        28.7
Entr.GO-070 - Americano
GO-1 56  do Brasil                  34          4,250          125       414    36        5.0
GO-436  Cristalina - Divisa GO/DF   80          8,316          104       386    83        27.6
_   Sub-total paving works  256        26,862          105              63       79.1
Main Assumptions:
The project is assumed to be implemented in accordance with the agreed 3-year schedule and the
- 50 -



program over six years, which is a realistic assumption, considering the institutional capacity of AGETOP
and the experience with the state highway project portfolio in Brazil. The costs of the rehabilitation and
maintenance works have been estimated on the basis of the results of the network survey, the catalogue of
optimal policies and standards, and recent unit prices for similar works. The cost estimates for the paving
component are based on the detailed engineering designs for the four subprojects, and recent unit prices for
similar works. Project cost estimates also include physical contingencies (about 10% of base cost) and
price contingencies estimated on the basis of the disbursement schedule and a 3% average annual price
increase for both local and foreign expenditures expressed in US dollars. The normal growth of traffic was
estimated at a conservative 3% per annum. The traffic generated by the paving subprojects was estimated
to reach about 50% of the base traffic by the fourth year after completion of the works. The vehicle
operating costs were estimated through the HDM-4 model on the basis of vehicle characteristics, operating
conditions and prices in effect in Brazil in 2000.
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
The risk and sensitivity analyses have shown that the economic return of the project is robust.
Assuming that project costs are 20% higher than estimated and that benefits are 20% lower than estimated,
the IRR of the maintenance and rehabilitation component would still be a high 84%. Maintenance and
rehabilitation costs would have to be increased by about 2,000% or benefits reduced by about 95% for the
NPV to become negative.
- 51 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
BRAZIL: GOIAS STATE HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT
Years Ending
December 31
IYearlI    Year 2  I Year 3  I Year 4  1 Year 5             Year 6      Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs            8.9       51.4       47.0       22.0         0.0        0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs             0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs           8.9       51.4       47.0        22.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Front-end fee     0.7        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Financing               9.6       51.4       47.0        22.0        0.0        0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                   5.5        25.8       23.1       10.5        0.0       0.0        0.0
Government                 4.1        25.6       23.9       11.5        0.0       0.0        0.0
Central                 0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0
Provincial              4.1       25.6       23.9        11.5       0.0        0.0        0.0
Co-financiers              0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries    0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                     0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing      9.6        51.4       47.0       22.0        0.0       0.0        0.0
Main assumptions:
T-he Project is approved in August 2001, and the loan becomes effective in October, 2001.
GOIAS FISCAL SITUATION
Introduction
Although Goias remains one of the most highly indebted states in Brazil, its fiscal performance in
cash flow terms has been improving , particularly under the current administration. The state ran a small
primary deficit (excluding the costs of recapitalizing the state bank) in the first year of the current
administration (1999). Preliminary data for 2000 show a primary surplus equal to five percent of net
current revenues. Debt service, however, remains a major claim on the state's finances. Under the terms of
its recent debt agreement, the state's debt service obligations to the federal government are fixed at 15% of
its net revenues. If this obligation is treated as a recurrent cost, Goias' operational deficit in 2001 will be
equal to about ten percent of its net revenues.
Provided the state's economy continues its recovery and the state finds a means to address its
growing pension liabilities, Goias will be able to eliminate its operational deficit-although not its debt-
within the decade. The proposed bank project would have only a minor impact on the state's finances.
Counterpart financing would equal about 17% of projected capital spending during the implementation
- 52 -



period and interest on the loan would total about 0.6% of net current revenues once the loan is fully
disbursed.
Revenues
Goias derives 75 percent of its gross revenues Gross of mandatory state tax sharing with local
governments (municipios). from taxes, nearly all of it from a state value added tax (ICMS). Transfers
from the federal governnent account for most of the remainder. As shown in Table 1, the state's revenues
stagnated in real terms between 1996 and 1998. Revenues from taxes and charges declined slightly in
absolute terms. This was offset by increases in collections from overdue taxes, fines, and miscellaneous
sources of revenue. Current revenues began to rebound in 1999, due to growth in both ICMS and federal
transfers.
Table I Trends in Current Revenues
(R$ Mn of June 2000)
1996       1997       1998       1999       2000
Current          2,327      2,468      2,518      2,669      3,010
Revenue
taxes and       1,805      1,833       1,788     1,986       2,249
charges
icms            1,694      1,728      1,682      1,886      2,142
transfers        426         427        443        487        574
fpe              303        319        344        369        408
other current     96         208        287        195        148
lInflation index: Ipca
ICMS
While ICMS revenues increased sharply after the introduction of the Plano Real (due to Tanzi
effects and a consumer spending boom that followed the stabilization of prices) growth slowed after 1995.
This was due in part to slow growth in the underlying economic base. There was a particularly dramatic
decline in the retail sector, with revenues falling at an average annual rate of 18 percent in real terms
between 1997 and 1999. Agriculture, manufacturing, and wholesaling also failed to grow significantly.
Trends in ICMS Revenues
2200 -
,- 1600-                     -
o 1400
E1200                   .                           i
1000-
1996    1997      1998     1999     2000
The subsequent turnaround in tax revenues is largely due to growth in three sectors: fuels, energy,
and telecommunications. These are major components of the ICMS, accounting for 40% of total receipts in
- 53 -



1999 (Table 2). Growth in revenues from fuels was partly due to an increase in the price of diesel, which
is federally controlled. The maximum retail price of diesel increased 60% between February 1999 and July
2000. Increases in the price of gasohol were also important. Although gasohol is not subject to price
controls, the price charged to retailers reflects the pricing policies of Petrobras, which in turn reflects
international market prices and federal fiscal policies. The retail price on gasohol increased by nearly 60%
between March 1999 and July of 2000. Goias, like all other states, imposes the retail gasohol tax through
tax substitution-i.e., the tax is collected from Petrobras on the basis of a imputed retail price. The 60%
increase reflects the increase in the imputed price. Electric energy prices are federally controlled, and
showed a marked increase in the second half of 1999. Between June and August of 1999, power prices
were increased 17.5%. Telecom prices (for fixed-as opposed to mobile service) are also federally
controlled. Prices may have increased for this service as well.
Table 2 Principal sources of ICMS Revenues
(R$ Mn of June 2000)
1997      1998       1999      % total  Avg. change
1997-99
Fuels              283        307        432        22%        23%
Electric energy     190       152        192        10%        1%
Telecom             125       137        157         8%        12%
Agriculture         221       203        218        11%        -1%
Manufacturing      376        345        399        21%        3%
Wholesale          276        288        296        15%        4%
Retail             334        270        224        12%        -18%
Services            35         34         29         1%       -10%
Total              1841       1738       1947       100%        3%
source: Secretaria da Fazenda
Inflation index: Ipca
This is not a sustainable source of growth, unless demand for fuel, energy and telecommunications
is completely price inelastic. Over the longer term, growth in ICMS will require growth in the underlying
economy. In the interim, the state has been attempting to improve several aspects of tax administration. To
reduce evasion, the state is expanding the use of tax substitution--the practice whereby value added at the
retail level is taxed at the producer level through the use of imputed retail prices. At present, tax
substitution covers only nonalcoholic beverages and tobacco products, fuels, and certain manufactured
goods imported from other states. The state intends to extend it to alcoholic beverages, auto parts, shoes,
oil, and sugar. To reduce evasion through false invoicing, the state is stepping up roadside inspections. The
state is also adopting new technology to improve enforcement of delinquent accounts. The state has now
linked up with the federal Cerasa system which will allow it to freeze the bank accounts of any firm that is
delinquent on its ICMS payments. The impact of these measures has not been quantified.
Revenue sharing
Increases in federal transfers also account for the increase in current revenues. By far the largest
federal transfer-accounting for 71% of the total --is the fundo de participacao dos estados. FPE
resources are derived from fixed shares of the federal income- and industrial products taxes and are
distributed among the states and the federal district according to a formula. As a result, growth from this
- 54 -



source will depend upon growth in the two federal taxes, which in turn will require growth in the economy.
Expenditures
Primary expenditures (i.e., all spending other than debt service) fell in 2000, largely due a sharp
drop in capital spending.
Personnel
Personnel is the largest single item of state expenditure in Goias, other than deferred interest. As
shown in Table 3, staff costs were equal to about two-thirds of net current revenues during the 1996-1999
period, but appear to have started to fall in 2000.
Table 3 Personnel Costs as Percent of Net Current Revenue
1996       1997       1998       1999       2000
Active        40%        40%        40%        41%        34%
Retired       25%        24%        25%        25%        22%
Total         65%        64%        65%        66%        56%
Note: The numbers exclude intra-Govemment transfers to indirect administration for personnel costs, social contributions, and payments on
alTears.
The state's ability to control personnel costs is constrained by the 1988 Constitution. This restricts
dismissal of civil servants (estatutairios) and forbids reductions in nominal salaries. Until this year, the
state was in violation of the Federal Complementary Law 96 of 31/5/990 (Lei Camata), which sets the
ceiling for personnel expenditures at 60% of net current revenues and was therefore prohibited from hiring
any new staff or conceding any increases in salaiies. This prohibition was reiterated in the state's recent
debt agreement with the federal government, the Programa de Reestruturacao. Spending on active
personnel has fallen slightly in real terms in 2000.
Pensions
Pension costs are a large and growing proportion of personnel bill. Nearly forty percent of the
personnel bill is spent on payments to retirees and dependent survivors. Between 1996 and 2000, payments
to retirees rose at twice the rate of payments to active staff. A recent actuarial study estimated that the
state's existing pension liabilities total R$9.6 billion.
The pension problem arises from two facts. First, the majority of pensions are unfunded. Except for
staff employed under private sector legislation, retirement benefits are paid directly out of current general
revenues. Staff employed under private sector legislation are paid by the federal social security system, to
which to state contributes 21% of wages. Second, the level of benefits is untenable. Under Federal law,
benefits are fixed at 100% of exit salaries, and are subject to indexation. Civil servants are permitted to
retire after 35 years of employment (five years less for women, and additional five years less for teachers of
either sex). In an attempt to provide additional funding for retirees, the state has decided to establish a
pension fund. This would be funded from an increase in employee contributions and income from assets.
The assets to be transferred to the fund are part of the proceeds from the sale of the state power company,
and shares of the State's water and sanitation company. As documented in recent Bank sector work Brazil:
Critical Issues in Social Security, Report 19641-BR, June 2000, these measures will probably not be
sufficient to offset the growth in pension liabilities. The solution to the pension problem lies in reducing the
benefit levels now guaranteed to existing active staff. This will require changes in the federal Constitution.
Recent changes in the federal Constitution will allow the state to reduce its pension obligations in the long
- 55 -



run. The 19th Amendment allows the state to hire staff under private, rather than public sector law, shifting
the eventual burden of their retirement onto the federal social security system. The 20th Amendment
toughened retirement criteria for statutory employees. Neither amendment will have an immediate impact,
however, as both apply only to newly hired staff.
Capital spending
Spending on physical investments has fluctuated considerably over the last four years, largely
according to the availability of financing. In the 1998 election year, spending on capital works reached R$
821 million. Most of this was financed by the sale of the state electricity generation company. In 1999, with
privatization receipts exhausted, expenditures on physical investment dropped to R$ 219 million. In the
first two years of the current administration (1999 and 2000) spending on physical works has averaged
only about twelve percent of net current revenues, and has been financed by current account savings and
grants. Spending on financial investments soared in 1999, due to costs associated with the transfer of the
state bank to the federal government. These expenditures, totaling roughly R$ 500 million, were financed
by a federal loan.
Trends in Capital Spending
1200
N  80                         0X             financial investments|
0o          i                            E | \ |3 physical investment|
400
c 1000
0
1996   1997   1998   1999   2000
.Debt Service
Goias' debt obligations are immense. As shown in Table 4, the state had an outstanding
contractual debt of R$8.4 billion at the end of 2000. V7irtually all the state's contractual debt is owed to
the federal government. It consists of several distinct blocks. The first is compn'sed of debt originally
contracted from foreign banks, and assumed and rescheduled by the federal govenment in 1990 and
1996-97. As of December 2000, this totaled R$1.1 billion. The nominal interest rate on this debt is
relatively low: Libor plus 0.8125%. Becaus e iee debt is denominated in dollars, however, it is highly
susceptible to exchange rate fluctuations.
- 56 -



The second block of debt (R$ 4.5 billion) consists of loans from federal development banks dating
as far back as 1969. These debts were rescheduled in 1993. Under the terms of the rescheduling agreement,
the debt was transformed into loan from the federal treasury, with twenty years to maturity, and an interest
rate based on the weighted average of the rates established in the original contracts.
Table 4 Trends in Stock of Debt
(RS Mn current, end of year)
debt stock                                   1999       2000
domestic contractual debt                   7,459      8,370
to federal treasury                         6763       7609
rescheduled foreign debt (Lei 7976/BEA)     1138       1171
rescheduled debt to federal banks (Lei 8727)  4003     4458
bonds/state bank (Lei 9496)                 1622       1980
to social security system (INSS/FGTS)        687        741
to Caixa Economica                            9         20
to IBRDIIDB                                   51         50
other extemal                                 38         27
Total                                        7548       8447
The third block (totaling nearly R$ 2 billion) consists of refinanced state bonds and loans to
recapitalize the state bank. The bonds were originally floated in 1987-91 in order to pay off arrears and
finish a municipal paving program. Interest was capitalized and the bonds were rolled over at maturity.
Due to the high interest rates prevailing during the mid- l990's, the stock of this debt nearly doubled over
the following decade. In 1998, the bonds were transformed into a 30-year debt to the treasury at a fixed
real interest rate of six percent. In 1998, the federal government lent another $500 rnillion to the state to
finance the recapitalization of the state bank prior to its sale. This debt was consolidated with the
refinanced bond debt on identical terms.
The final major block of contractual debt consists of long-standing arrears on social contributions
owed to the federal government. This has been consolidated into a single debt to the treasury, at an interest
rate based on the federal overnight (selic) rate.
The entire stock of contractual debt owed to the federal government is subject to a debt service cap.
This was set at 11% of net current revenues in 1997, rising to 13% in 1998, 14% in 1999 and 15% in
2000 and all subsequent years. In 1999 and 2000 the state was authorized to divert up to 4% of net current
revenues to make severance payments to redundant public servants under a retrenchment plan. Any debt
service in excess of the ceiling is to be capitalized into the stock of debt. If Goias were to service the entire
stock of debt without a cap, it is estimated that its interest payments would be R$ 750 million, or about
thirty percent of net current revenue. With interest payments (and amortization) confined to 15% of net
current revenue, the state is able to meet its cash flow obligations, but is not expected to achieve a
sustainable level of debt (defined as a 1:1 debt revenue ratio) for several decades.
- 57 -



Outlook
The combination of growing revenues, restraint on personnel spending, and debt rescheduling, has
permitted Goias to reduce its deficit. Excluding the one-time costs of privatizing the state bank, the state's
primary deficit in 1999 was equal to three percent of revenues. In 2000, the state achieved a primary
surplus of five percent of revenues. The state's debt service obligations remain a significant claim on
resources, however. If the full 15% of revenues due under the Law no. 9496 agreement is treated as
interest, the state's operational deficit in 2001 will be about ten percent of revenues. The Law no. 9496
cap applies to debt service, including both interest and amortization. Goias can therefore amortize some of
its rescheduled debt while continuing to accumulate deferred interest on the rest. Because amortization is
not included in the calculation of the operational deficit, this understates the carrying costs of the debt. For
purposes of this analysis, the entire 15% is treated as a recurrent cost. This correction results in the sharp
increase in the operational deficit shown in the chart below.
In the short term, the outlook for the state's finances will be affected by the sales of the state bank
and the power distribution company. While the bank has been federalized, it has not been sold. Proceeds
from the sale of the bank have therefore not been received. The sale of the bank is scheduled for the second
half of 2001. Any proceeds will be used to reduce the stock of rescheduled debt. The power distribution
company is scheduled to be privatized in June of 2001. The proceeds from the sale will be used to finance
capital works, including the project, and to capitalize the state pension fund.
The outlook for the state's finances beyond 2000 depends largely on two factors. The first is the rate
of growth in the state's economy. With little flexibility to increase the rate of the ICMS, the state will
largely depend on growth in the underlying tax base to increase its resources. In the last two years, growth
has been dependent on federal pricing policies, rather than growth in underlying economy. As noted earlier,
this is not sustainable.
The second is the state's ability to resolve its pension liabilities. While the costs of active
personnel have been reduced, the state still confronts looming pension liabilities. Given the present
Constitutional guarantees on pension benefits, there is little the state can do to address this problem on its
own. Because state pension funding is a problem throughout Brazil, some form of resolution at the federal
level is not out of the question.
Projections
To estimate the state's fiscal prospects over the implementation period of the project and its ability
to service the resulting debt, a medium term fiscal projection was prepared. The results are illustrated in
the chart below. These show a steady increase in the primary balance after 2000, as the rate of growth in
current revenues outstrips growth in the wage bill of active staff. Pension costs, as described in the footnote
below, are projected to increase at 4% annually in real terms. Spending on capital works, including the
proposed project, is assumed to remain a constant percent of net current revenues. The operational deficit
would increase sharply in 2001, due to the previously-mentioned change in definitions. In the following
years, both the primary and the operational surplus are projected to gradually improve, although the state
would not achieve an operational surplus until 2010.
- 58-



Trends in Fiscal Balances
20%
10%
0%         I
-10%      O   0)  0)                                uprimary surplus
-20%       \                                         - operational surplus
-30%
-40%
-50%- 
* projected
Note: The projection is based on results for 2000, and assumes: (1) 4% annual growth in net current revenues; (2) no growth in
spending on active personnel; (3) 4% annual growth in spending on retirees; (4) interest on rescheduled debt limited to 15% of
net current revenues, with the remaining interest capitalized into the stock of debt; and (5) operating costs and capital
expenditure fixed at their 2000 proportions of net current revenues. All growth rates are in real terms. Inflation is projected at
4% per year. The proposed project is assumed to cost U$ 260 million (R$ 586 million in prices of December 2000) with the
World Bank financing a total of US$ 130 million in two separate operations (with disbursement over five years, 15 years to
maturity and five years grace). The remainder would be financed from general revenues of the state.
Project Financial Impact
The project's counterpart financing and debt service requirements will be minor. Counterpart
financing would equal about 17% of projected capital spending during the implementation period. Annual
interest on the two loans (in nominal terms) would total about R$ 24 million once they are fully disbursed,
or 0.6% of net current revenues.
Due to cost savings resulting from the project, its overall fiscal impact will be positive. By
ensuring appropriate and timely rehabilitation and maintenance of the paved network over the next six
years, the Program will reduce the need for maintenance expenditures thereafter by about U$ 10 million per
year, and avoid the costs of heavy rehabilitation in the future, estimated at about US$40 million per year.
The new design standards introduced through the project are expected to reduce the cost of rehabilitation
and paving works by about 30%, resulting in annual savings of at least US$15 million equivalent. Other
savings are expected from the institutional component, in particular from personnel and administrative
costs, which are expected to be reduced by about US$10 million per year starting 2003. Overall, the
Program is expected to result into cost savings of the order of about US$200 million over the next eight
years. In addition, the paving of the proposed road sections is expected to consolidate road traffic into
fewer major corridors and make truck inspections more effective in combatting tax evasion.
- 59 -



Table 5: Program Fiscal Impact
Costs with Program (USS million)                 Costs without Program (USS million)
Personnel &                                        Personnel &
Mainte-   Rehabi.             Adminis-             Mainte-   Rehabi-              Adminis-
Years  nance    litation   Paving 1/   tratlon    Total    nance    litation   Paving 1/   tration   Total Net impact
2000   22.25     11.2      197.5       19.3      250.2     22.3      11.2     197.5       19.3      250.2     0.0
2001   20.0      13.1       0.0        17.9      51.0      20.0      11.2      0.0        19.3      50.5    -0.6
2002   20.0      34.6       11.1       16.9      82.6      20.0      14.6      14.4       19.3      68.2    -14.3
2003   19.0      24.1       21.2       9.6       73.9      22.0      14.6      27.6       19.3      83.4      9.4
2004   18.1      24.6       24.5       9.6       76.7      24.2      14.6      31.9       19.3      89.9     13.1
2005   17.1      30.0       31.8       9.6       88.6      26.6      14.6      41.3       19.3      101.8    13.2
2006   18.0      10.0       11.6       9.6       49.2      29.3      50.0      15.1       19.3      113.6    64.4
2007   18.9      10.0       0.0        9.6       38.5      32.2      50.0      0.0        19.3      101.5    62.9
2008   19.9      10.0       0.0        9.6       39.5      23.0      50.0      0.0        19.3      92.3    52.8
TOTAL      500.2                                   TOTAL    701.0    200.8
1/: To estimate the Program net fiscal impact in a conservative fashion, it has been assumed that the technical improvements
introduced under the Program will not have any effect on the paving activities managed by AGETOP outside of the Program
scope. As such, the "Paving" column above includes only paving on road sections included in the Program.
- 60 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
BRAZIL: GOIAS STATE HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT
Procurement
Assessment of Project Procurement and Contract Management System
An assessment of AGETOP's procurement and contract management system has been carried out.
AGETOP's procurement and contract management system is adequate. AGETOP has a computerized
procurement planning and monitoring system, and an adequately-staffed procurement group. But the
procurement staff was not familiar with the Bank's procurement policies and guidelines. In addition, while
AGETOP has in place reliable procurement methods and bidding procedures, there is no arrangements to
systematically prepare consolidated procurement progress reports for monitoring purpose.
The Bank organized a procurement seminar in Goiania in January 2001, to familiarize AGETOP
and other relevant agencies' staff with the Bank's procurement guidelines. In addition, staff will be invited
to assist to the Bank procurement training organized on regular basis by SEAIN. With respect to the
preparation of consolidated procurement progress reports, as a first step, the project will require AGETOP
to produce progress reports based on transitional PMRs (see section on Project Reporting below). As a
second step, the project will provide technical assistance to assist AGETOP in restructuring and improving
its management and control systems, which will allow AGETOP to prepare adequate PMRs.
In summary, the overall procurement risk assessment is estimated as AVERAGE.
Assessment of Project Financial Management System
An assessment of AGETOP's financial management system has also been carried out. AGETOP's
financial management system provides reliable information. However, the system is set up so as to meet
the Government's budgeting, accounting and information requirements, rather than as an efficient tool for
management purposes. AGETOP will enhance its overall budgetary and financial management with the
support of consultants to be hired under terms of reference acceptable to the Bank. The project will include
funds to support the upgrading of AGETOP's information and management system.
In order to bring its financial management of the project to the level required by the Bank for
SOE-based disbursements, AGETOP has prepared: (i) the chart of accounts to be used in project
accounting and balance sheet; (ii) a flow chart indicating how project management information will be
collected and extracted from the systems AGETOP now has in place and from SIOF; and (iii) a draft
transitional PMR, including financial, budgetary, progress, and procurement management reporting. In
addition, AGETOP has agreed to revise its internal audit system (see below). In order to effectively
manage its entire operations, AGETOP will then further improve its budgetary and financial management
systems with technical assistance financed under the project. AGETOP will be committed to carry out the
upgrade with the objective of having the system ready for PMR-based disbursements.
The capacity of AGETOP's internal control unit has been reviewed. The unit has traditionally had
more of an inspection rather than an auditing function. With the support from consultants, AGETOP is in
the process of modifying its internal control unit terms of reference and of providing training to the internal
control unit staff so that they can fulfill the traditional responsibilities of internal auditors, i.e. assessing the
adequacy of accounting and internal control systems and verifying whether the accounting, financial,
- 61 -



budgetary procurement and operational procedures being used provide a reasonable basis for safeguarding
AGETOP's assets and ensuring that all assets and liabilities are adequately recorded.
The project satisfies the Bank's minimum financial management requirements, and as such is
certified as 4-B for purposes of OP/BP10.02. AGETOP has been adequately implementing the action plan
agreed during project preparation (table below) so that its procurement, contract and financial management
systems be enhanced to reach eligibility for PMR-based disbursements during the course of project
implementation.
Action Plan
Area                                Action                      Deadline
Procurement          Procurement seminar held for AGETOP  January 2001 (Actual)
and relevant agencies' staff
Procurement seminar held by SEAIN    Regularly throughout
_project implementation
Project monitoring   Chart of accounts, chart showing flow of  April, 2001 (Actual)
information necessary for project
reporting
_______________  Sample PMR prepared        May 2001 (Actual)
Computerized monitoring system set-up   June, 2001 (Actual)
Financial management   Intemal Control Unit TORs modified   December, 2001
Intenmal Control Unit staff trained   June, 2002
TORs for exteral audit completed   May, 2001 (Actual)
External auditors hired        December, 2001
Consultants hired for upgrade of   December, 2001
AGETOP's information system
Upgraded information system designed  December, 2002
Upgraded information system       December, 2003
______________________    perational             _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Project Reporting
For the purposes of project reporting, AGETOP will set up a stand-alone computerized project
management system which will extract and consolidate appropriate information from its existing technical
and administrative systems, collect the additional information needed to monitor performance against the
agreed indicators, and produce transitional PMRs.
Procurement
Procurement will be carried out in accordance with World Bank "Guidelines: Procurement Under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", published in January 1995 (revised January/August 1996, September 1997
and January 1999); and "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers"
published in January 1997 (revised in September 1999 and January 1999), and the provisions stipulated in
the Loan Agreement.
- 62 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category           ICB              NCB          Other2       N.B.F.   Total Cost
1. Works                           96.35            14.00         3.50         0.00       113.85
(44.00)         (7.00)        (1.75)        (0.00)     (52.75)
2. Goods                            1.20            1.20          0.70         0.00        3.10
(1.20)          (1.20)        (0.70)       (0.00)      (3.10)
3. Services                         0.00            0.00          12.40        0.00        12.40
(0.00)          (0.00)        (8.50)       (0.00)      (8.50)
4. Miscellaneous                    0.00            0.00          0.00         0.00        0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
5. Front-end fee                    0.00            0.00          0.65         0.00        0.65
(0.00)          (0.00)        (0.65)       (0.00)      (0.65)
Total                            97.55           15.20         17.25         0.00       130.00
(45.20)         (8.20)        (11.60)       (0.00)     (65.00)
" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2' Includes civil works to be procured by small works procedures (US$3,500,000); goods to be procured by
national and international shopping (US$700,000); and for services, see table below.
- 63 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Selection Method
Consultant Services
Expenditure Catgory   QCBS    QBS0   SFB   LCS        CQ     Other   N.B.F. Total Cost
A. Firms              10.00    0.00    0.00    1.50    0.00    0.10    0.00     11.60
(6.10)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (1.50)   (0.00)  (0. 10)  (0.00)   (7.70)
B. Individuals        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.80    0.00     0.80
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.80)  (0.00)   (0.80)
Total  10.00    0.00    0.00    1.50    0.00    0.90    0.00     12.40
1 (6.10)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (1.50)   (0.00)  (0.90)  (0.00)   (8.50)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Single Source Selection and Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of
Consultants Guidelines)
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan.
- 64 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract Value                                Contracts Subject to
Threshold              Procurement             Prior Review
Expenditure Category     (US$ thousands)              Method                (US$ millions)
1. Works                       >5,000                    ICB                     97.8
>350 and <5,000               NCB                     5.8
< 100                   IS-NS                     0.2
2. Goods                        >350                     ICB                      1.2
<350                    NCB                      0.2
3. Services
Firms                           >100                    QCBS                      10.0
Individuals                     >50                      LCS                      1.5
Individuals                0.8
Qualifications
Single Source Selection         0.1
4. Miscellaneous
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:   US$117.6 million
equivalent
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Average
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 12 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Procurement Methods
(a) International Competitive Bidding (ICB).  All works and goods contracts estimated to be above
US$5,000,000 equivalent per contract will be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of ICB
procedures.
(b) National Competitive Bidding (NCB). Goods and works estimated to cost $350,000 and $5,000,000
equivalent or less per contract, respectively, up to an aggregate amount of $2,000,000 equivalent in the
case of goods and $15,500,000 in the case of works, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis
of NCB procedures.
(c) International or National Shopping (IS or NS). Goods estimated to cost less than US$350,000
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$1,500,000, may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of IS or NS procedures.
(d) Procurement of Smal Works (SW). Works estimated to cost less than US$350,000 equivalent per
- 65 -



contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$3,500,000 million, may be procured under
lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from at least three qualified
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation.
(e) Quality-and Cost-Based Selection (QCBS) procedures will be used for consultant services and
training contracts up to an aggregate amount of US$ 10,000,000 million equivalent.
(f) Least-Cost Selection (LCS) procedures will be used for consultant services and training contracts up
to an aggregate amount of US$1.5 million equivalent.
(g) Individual Consultant based on Qualification procedures will be used for assignments which meet
the criteria specified in Section V of the Guidelines, up to an aggregate amount of US$800,000 equivalent.
(h) Single-Source Selection procedures will be used to provide technical assistance for the mapping of the
Borrower's environmentally sensitive areas, a highly specialized task.
Notification of Business Opportunities
A General Procurement Notice (GPN) has been published in the United Nations Development Business
magazine in March, 2001, and will be updated annually if there are any outstanding ICB tenders thereafter.
The invitation to bid for the works and goods contract procured following ICB procedures, the expression
of interest for consultants' contracts above US$200,000 will be advertised in the Development Business
magazine, in the Official Gazette of the State of Goias as well as in appropriate newspaper of national
circulation. When appropriate, other invitations for tender will be published in the Official Gazette of the
State of Goias as well as in appropriate newspaper of national circulation.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Scheduling of Procurement. Procurement plans will be prepared on an annual basis, and agreed with the
Bank, prior to the submission of road sector budget proposals to the State. The procurement plan for the
first year will be agreed to by project appraisal.
Prior review. The following tendering processes will be subject to the Bank's prior review:
(i) all ICB tender processes;
(ii) the first 2 NCB tender processes for procurement of works;
(iii) the first 2 NCB and IS-NS tender processes for procurement of goods;
(iv) all tender processes for procurement of services for contracts estimated above US$50,000 for
individual consultants and US$100,000 for firms. The following documents will be reviewed: terms of
reference, request for proposals, short lists, terms and condition of contracts as well as evaluation reports
and recommendation for award
Ex-post review. All tenders, regardless of value, are subject to ex-post review. All documentation,
including, but not limited to: terms of reference, bidding documents or requests for proposals, bids or
proposals received, correspondence on all bids either prior to or following award of contract including
Bank no objections, contracts and any subsequent amendments should be maintained until at least two
years following the close of the Project. During Bank supervision missions, not less than 1 in 5 tenders not
subject to Bank prior review will be examined ex-post.
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 66 -



Disbursement
Allocation of loan proceeds (Table C)
T he Loan is expected to be disbursed over a period of four years. Retroactive financing will be allowed up
to US$1,000,000 for eligible expenditures incurred after April 1, 2001.
Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Amount in US$million         Financing Percentage
WORKS
Rehabilitation and Resurfacing             28.70                        50%
Paving                                     18.60                        50%
Establishment of protected areas           1.00                         50%
GOODS                                      2.60           100% of foreign expenditures; 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost); and
85% of local expenditures for other items
procured locally
SERVICES
Engineering and supervision                3.10                         50%
Technical assistance and training          3.10                         100%
UNALLOCATED                                7.25
Total Project Costs                        64.35          ___        _     _          __
Front-end fee         0.65                         100%
Total                                      65.00
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis of SOEs for
expenditures under contracts for: (i) goods costing less than US$350,000 equivalent; (ii) works costing less
than US$350,000 equivalent (other than the two first contracts for works to be awarded); (iii) services of
consulting firms costing less than US$100,000 equivalent; and (iv) services of individual consultants
costing less than US$50,000 equivalent; all under such terns and conditions as the Bank shall specify to the
Borrower.  All other expenditures will be fully documented when submitted to the Bank.  All
documentation relevant to SOEs will be available at AGETOP for review by Bank missions and auditors.
Special account:
To facilitate timely project implementation, the Borrower will establish, maintain and operate,
under conditions acceptable to the Bank, a Special Account in US Dollar in a commercial bank acceptable
to the Bank. An initial authorized Special Account allocation of US$2.0 million will be established. An
authorized allocation of the Special Account will be US$6.5 million once the aggregate disbursements of
the loan total US$8.0 million or more. The minimum amount of each application should be 20% of the
authorized allocation. Replenishment applications should be submitted by the Borrower at least every four
months, and must include reconciled bank statements as well as other appropriate supporting documents.
- 67 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
BRAZIL: GOIAS STATE HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT
Project Schedule                                  Planned                      Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      13
First Bank mission (identification)             11/06/2000                   11/06/2000
Appraisal mission departure                     03/07/2001                   03/28/2001
Negotiations                                    05/15/2001                   05/21/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   07/30/2001
Prepared by:
AGETOP, AGMA and Bank staff/consultants
Preparation assistance:
None
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Jacques Cellier                   Lead Transport Economist, Team Leader
Aymeric-Albin Meyer               Transport Specialist
Rodrigo Archando-Callao           Highway Economics Specialist
Ademildes Dantas                  Operations Officer
William Dillinger                 Lead Urban Economist
Adriana Moreira                   Environmental Specialist
Efraim Jimenez                    Lead Procurement Specialist
Tulio Correa                      Financial Management Specialist
Jose Augusto Carvalho             Senior Counsel
Teresa Genta-Fons                 Senior Counsel
Catarina Portelo                  Counsel
Daniel Gross                      Lead Anthropologist
Jean-Claude Sallier               Senior Highway Engineer, Consultant
Roberto Mosse                     Financial Management Specialist, Consultant
Vitor Bellia                      Environmental Specialist, Consultant
- 68 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
BRAZIL: GOIAS STATE HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT
A. Project Implementation Plan
1. Plano de Implementacao do Projeto Volumes I e II, AGETOP, May, 2001
2. Project Monitoring Letter, Governo de Goias, May 25, 2001
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1. Procurement and Contract Management Assessment, April 2001
2. Financial Management Assessment, April 2001
3. Economic Analysis, April 2001
C. Other
1. Resettlement and Public Consultation
1. Decreto N. 5396, Govemo de Goias, de 30 de Margo de 2001
2. Politica de Reassentamento Involuntario, Diretrizes Basicas, AGETOP, Novembro de 2000
3. Manual de Consulta Popular, AGETOP, Margo de 2001
2. Environment
1. Resolucao No. 10/2001 de Diretoria de AGETOP, AGETOP, 30 de Maio de 2001
2. Normas e Procedimentos Ambientais para Empreendimentos Rodoviarios, AGETOP, 25 de Margo
de 2001
3. Relatorio Setorial de Meio Ambiente, AGETOP, 15 de Fevereiro de 2001
4. Environmental Executive Summary, AGETOP, February 16, 2001
5. Sintese dos Estudos Ambientais, AGETOP, Novembro de 2000
6. Relatorio de Audi8ncias P'iblicas, DERGO, Junho de 1998
3. A GETOP's Reorganization
1. Novo Modelo de Gestao, AGETOP, Setembro de 2000
2. Estrutura Organica Projetada, AGETOP, Marco de 2001
3. Proposta de Fortalecimento Institucional, AGETOP, Maio de 2001
4. Apresentacao do Plano de Reorganizacao, AGETOP, 28 de Junho de 2001
4. Decentralization and Contracting out of Road Maintenance
1. Plano de Trabalho para a Descentralizacao, AGETOP, Margo de 2001
2. Descentralizacao e Terceirizacao das Atividades de Manutencao do Sistema Rodoviario Estadual e
Municipal em Goias, AGETOP, Marco de 2001
5. Procurement and Auditing
1. Auditoria Externa ao Programa BIRD/AGETOP, Termo de Referencia, AGETOP, Maio 2001
2. Final Bidding Document for Procurement of First Phase Road Rehabilitation Activities, AGETOP,
May 2001
3. Especificacoes Gerais para Obras Rodoviarias, DERGO, Novembro de 1998
6. Programs of the State of Goias
1. Goias Seculo XXI, Plano Plurianual - PPA 2000/2003, Govemo de Goias, Outubro de 1999
- 69 -



2. Relat6rio de PrivatizagAo da CELG, Governo de Goias, Setembro de 2000
3. Orgamento Geral do Estado, Exercicio de 2000, Govemo de Goias, 29 de Dezembro de 1999
4. Goias em Nova Diregao, Governo de Goias, 25 de Outubro de 1999
5. 13ma Nova Mentalidade na Administravao Publica, Governo de Goias, 25 de Outubro de 1999
Including electronic files
- 70 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
BRAZIL: GOIAS STATE HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT
May-2001
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                               disbursements
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                        IBRD          IDA                  GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.        Orig   Frm Rev'd
P060575        2001  SR PRGM.FISCAL REFORM SAL                       757.58       0.00                  0.00       0.00      7.58    -250.00       0.00
P059566       2001 BR- CEARA BASIC EOUCATION                          90.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00     90.00       0.00       0.00
P059565       2001 BR- BA BASIC EDU PROJECT (PHASE Ij                 69.60       0.00                  0.00       0.00     67.04       -0.56      0.00
P050772       2001 LAND-BASED POVERTY ALLEVIATION I                  202.10       0.00                  0.00       0.00    204.19       0.00       0.00
PD73294       2001 BR Fiscal & Fin. Mgmt. TAL                          8.88       0.00                  0.00       0.00      8.88       0.13       0.00
P070840       2001 Prgrm Financial Sector Adj I                      404.04       0.00                  0.00       0.00    404.04       0.00       0.00
P050776        2000 NE Microfinance Development                       50.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00     42.00       -8.00      0.00
P035741        2000 NATLENV2                                           15.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00      13.40      2.64       1.44
P062619       2000 INSS REF LIL                                        5.05       0.00                  0.00       0.00      3.21       1.49       0.00
P047309       2000 BR ENERGY EFFICIENCY (GEF)                          0.00       0.00                 15.00       0.00      13.86      0.92       0.00
P039199        2000 PROSANEAR 2                                       30.30       0.00                  0.00       0.00     30.00       -0.30      0.00
P008449       2000 CEARAWTRMGT(PROGERIRH)                            136.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00     131.65     29.36       0.00
P039200       2000 ENERGY EFFICIENCY (ELETROBRAS)                     43.40       0.00                  0.00       0.00     42.97       2.90       0.00
P054120        1999 BR- AIDS & STD Control II                        165.00       0.00                  0.00       3.50     72.70      43.29       0.00
P043874        1999 BR- DISEASE SURVEILLANCE -VIGISUS                 100.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00     82.66      69.75       0.00
P048869        1999 SALVADOR URBAN TRANS                              150.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00     138.45     57.29       0.00
P050763        1999 BR- Fundescola 2                                 :202.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00     61.45      -62.71      0.00
P055388        1999 ANIMAL&PLANT DIS. CO                              44.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00     44.00      20.94       0.00
P058129        1999 BR EMER. FIRE PREVENTION                           15.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00      12.15     11.82       3.46
P043420        1996 WATER S.MOD.2                                    150.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00     148.29    125.10      87.23
P043421        1998 RJ M.TRANSIT PRJ.                                 186.00      0.00                  0.00      17.17     150.97    164.56       0.00
P050762        1998 BR- Fundescola I                                  62.50       0.00                  0.00       0.00      0.12       -1.75      0.00
P038947        1998 BR- SC. & TECH 3                                  155.00      0.00                  0,00       0 00     127.09    122.09       0.00
P048357        1998 CEN.BANKTAL                                       20.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00      7.31       7.31       0.00
P006474       1998 BR LAND MGT 3 (SAO PAULO)                          55.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00     53.00      28.17      13.66
P035728        1998 BAHIA WTR RESOURCES                               51.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00     32.72      26.67       1.80
P006559        1998 (BF-R)SP.TSP                                      45.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00     40.13      39.80       0.00
P051701        1998 MARANHAO R.POVERTY                                80.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00      15.78     -1168       0.00
P057910        1998 BR PENSION REFORM LIL                              5.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00       3.33      3.33      -1.50
P042565        1998 PARAIBA R.POVERTY                                 60.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00     32.53       8.70       0.00
P038895        1998 FED.WTR MGT                                      198.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00     123.51     96.97      23.51
P038896        1997 R.POVERTY(RGN)                                    24.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00      3.83       3.83       0.00
P048870        1997 BR MT STATE PRIV.                                 45.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00      5.00       5.00       3.33
P042566        1997 R.POVERTY(PE)                                     39.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00       5.76      5.76       0.00
P006475        1997 LAND RFM PILOT                                    90.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00     24.23      23.07       0.00
P034578        1997 RGS HWY MGT                                       70.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00     54.97      44.97      22.31
P006532        1997 FED HWY DECENTR                                  300.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00    156.55     156.55       0.00
P006562        1997 BAHIA MUN.DV                                      100.00      0.00                  0.00       0.00     68.05      57.72      -2.64
P046052        1997 CEARA WATER PILOT                                  9.60       0.00                  0.00       0.00      4.62       4.62       1.32
P043873        1997 AG TECH DEV.                                      60.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00     37.82      31.63      10.28
P043871        1997 (PIAUI)R.POVERTY                                  30.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00      2.28       2.28       0.00
P043868       1997 RGS LAND MGT/POVERTY                              100.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00     70.47      39.08      -1.31
P040028       1996 RAILWAYS RESTRUCTURG                              350.00       0.00                  o.00      50.00     43.42      93.42      43.42
P006210        1996 NAT'L BIODIVERSITY                                 0.00       0.00                 10.00       0.00      3.57       4.83       5.45
P006554        1996 BR- HEALTH SECTOR REFORM - REFORSUS              300.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00    146.67     146.67       0.00
P037828        1996 BR (PR)R.POVERTY                                 175.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00    102.48      93.52      -1.88
P044597       1996 BR BIODIVERSITY FUND                                0.00       0.00                 20.00       0.00      0.65       2.57       0.00
P006436       1995 Ceara Urban Development & Water Resource          140.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00     23.64      23.64       3.73
P035717        1995 RURAL POV. (BAHIA)                               105.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00      1.66       1.66       0.00
P038862        1995 RECIFE M.TSP                                     102.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00     37.66      37.16       0.00
P006564        1995 BELO H M.TSP                                      99.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00     24.01      23.51       0.00
P006558        1994 BR- PARANA BASIC EDUC                             96.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00      3.41       3.41       0.00
P006543        1994 BR- MINAS GERAIS BASIC EDU.                      150.00       0.00                  0.00       0.00      10.68     10.68       0.00
P006522        1994 ESP.SANTO WATER                                   154.00      0.00                  0.00      54.00      18.29     72.29       4.13
- 71 -



Difference between
expected
Original Amount in US$ Millions                                 and actual
disbursements
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                       IBRD          IDA                    GEF    Cancel.   Undisb.         Orig  Frm Rev'd
P006524        1994 BR MINAS MNC.DEVELOPMT                            150.00      0.00                 0.00        9.70     20.75      30.45       25.45
P006541        1993 BR WTR QIPLN(SP/PR/FED)                          245.00       0.00                 0.00        5.15      6.05      11.20        0.53
P006454        1992 RONDONIA NTRL RES. M                              167.00      0.00                 0.00        0.00     25.66      25.66        0.00
P006505        1992 MATO GROSSO NAT RES                              205.00       0.00                 0.00        0.00     34.36      34.36        0.00
Total:     6861.05       0.00               45.00      139.53     3139.54    1517.77     243.73
- 72 -



BRAZIL
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
May-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                       Loan  Equity   Quasi   Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1987/96            Perdigao                     21.88    0.00    0.00    8.00   21.88    0.00    0.00    8.00
1989/95            Politeno Ind.                 8.77    0.00    0.00    0.00    8.77    0.00    0.00    0.00
1994/00            Portobello                   16.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   15.29    0.00    0.00    0.00
2000               Puras                         5.00    0.00    0,00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1998               Randon                        7.00    0.00    3.00    0.00    7.00    0.00    3.00    0.00
1991               Rhodia-Ster                   1.43    5.95    0.00    0.00    1.43    5.95    0.00    0.00
1995              Rhodiaco/PTA                  12.50    0.00    0.00    9.00   12.50    0.00    0.00    9.00
1990              Ripasa                         0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00
1997               Rodovia                      31.11    0.00    0.00   63.60   31.11    0.00    0.00   63.60
S.A.I.C.C.                    0.00    0.00    6.87    0.00    0.00    0.00    6.87    0.00
1994/96           SP Alpargatas                 20.00    0.00    5.00    0.00   20.00    0.00    5.00    0.00
1987/97           Sadia                         24.00    0.00    8.00  128.00   24.00    0.00    8.00  128.00
1994/95/97        Samarco                       13.50    0.00    0.00    9.33   13.50    0.00    0.00    9.33
1997               Samaritano                   20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2000               Saraiva                      12.69    3.00    0.00    0.00   12.69    3.00    0.00    0.00
1998              Sucorrico                     10.50    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1997              TIGRE                         17.31    0.00    5.00   10.68   17.31    0.00    5.00   10.68
1996              TRIKEM                         0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1992/93           Tecon Rio Grande               7.50    0.00    5.50   18.00    6.65    0.00    5.50   15.95
1998              Votorantim                     5.86    0.00    0.00    0.43    5.86    0.00    0.00    0.43
1993               Vulcabras                    20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   20.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1999              Wembley                        0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00
1997              Wiest                          0.00    0.00    8.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    8.00    0.00
1999              Arteb                         20.00    7.00    0.00   20.00   20.00    7.00    0.00   20.00
1998               AutoBAn                      35.00    0.00    0.00   31.00   22.84    0.00    0.00   20.23
1999               BACELL                        6.00   15.70    0.00   16.20    6.00   15.70    0.00   16.20
1993              BBA                           40.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
2000               BSC                          11.53    0.00    0.00    6.18   11.53    0.00    0.00    6.18
1998              Bahia Sul                      0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1990/91/92         Banco Bradesco               13.00    0.00    0.00   16.77   13.00    0.00    0.00   16.77
1996              Bompreco                      20.83    0.00    5.00    0.00   20.83    0.00    5.00    0.00
1997              Bradesco-Bahia                 1.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991              Bradesco-Eucatex               5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991              Bradesco-Hering                7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995              Bradesco-Petrofl               7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    7.50    0.00    0.00    0.00
1991              Bradesco-Romi                  0.00    0.40    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.40    0.00    0.00
1991              Brahma - BRA                  12.50    0.00    5.00   12.30   12.50    0.00    5.00   12.30
1995               CEVAL                         0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00
1993/96           CHAPECO                       15.00    0.00    0.00    5.00   15.00    0.00    0.00    5.00
1994/96           CODEMIN                        0.00    0.40    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.40    0.00    0.00
1973/78/83        CRP-Caderi                     0.00    0.68    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.68    0.00    0.00
1992               Cambuhy/MC                   11.25    0.00    0.00    0.00   11.25    0.00    0.00    0.00
1995              Copesul                       30.00    0.00    0.00  128.57   30.00    0.00    0.00  128.57
1997              Coteminas                      0.00    0.53    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.53    0.00    0.00
1993/97/00
Total Portfolio:      763.81   145.07  132.21   852.27  667.74  117.01   128.91  809.80
- 73 -



Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                           Loan    Equity     Quasi    Partic
2000               Sepetiba                         27.00      0.00      6.00     18.00
2001               Tecon Salvador                    3.50      0.00      1.00      5.00
2000               BBA                               0.00      0.00      0.00     50.00
1997               CTBC                             35.00      0.00      0.00    150.00
1999               Cibrasec                          0.00      0.00      7.50      0.00
1998               FSA                              35.00     10.00      0.00     45.00
1996               Globocabo 11                      0.00      0.00      0.00     38.00
1998              Ipiranga-RI 2                      0.00      0.00      0.09      0.00
1999               MBR LTDP                         20.00      5.00      0.00    115.00
Total Pending Commitment:       120.50     15.00     14.59    421.00
- 74 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
BRAZIL: GOIAS STATE HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT
Latin    Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                          America   middle-
Brazil  & Carib.  Income       Development diamond
1999
Population, mid-year (millions)                      168.1       509       573                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                   4,420     3,840     4,900
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                     742.7    11,955     2,811
Average annual growth, 1993-99
PoDulation (%)                                         1.4        1.6       1.4
Labor force (%)                                        2.1       2.5        21      GNP                              Gross
per    '                       primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1993.99)                               capita             /         enrollment
Povertv (% of Population below national Poverty line)
Urban population (% of total population)                81        75        76
Life expectancy at birth (veers)                        67        70        70
Infant mortalitv (per 1,000 live births)               33         31        27
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)               6         8         7                Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (I6 of population)      ..        75        78
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                    15        12        10
Gross Primary enrollment (% of school-age Dopulation)  125       113       109        -     rezd
Male                                                                                      Upper-middle-income group
Female
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989      1998      1999
Economic ratios
GDP (USS billions)                          225.0    448.8     787.1      791.4
Gross domestic investmentlGDP                22.8     24.8      21.3      21.0                     Trade
ExDorts of goods and services/GDP             7.1      8.2        7.4       9.7
Gross domestic savings/GDP                   20.7     28.0       18.6      21.7
Gross national savings/GDP                   18.0     25.0       16.3      18.8
Current account balancelGDP                  -4.7      0.4       -4.3      -3.1     D/oSt                       I t
Interest DavmentslGDP                         2.1      0.9        1.4       1.5           s                      Investment
Total debt/GDP                               27.3     25.5      29.5       28.0     Savings
Total debt service/exports                   62.8     36.3       73.5     120.8
Present value of debt/GDP                                       27.9
Present value of debt/exports                                  337.5
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99     1S98      1999   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  2.9      2.6     -01         1.0       4.0        -     Brazf/
GNP per capita                       0.9      0.7     -1.4       -2.6       2.8               Upper-middle-income group
Exports of qoods and services        8.9      4.2      0.2       -6.5       5.6
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
i979     1989      1998      1999      Growth of Investment and GOP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                            i,
Agriculture                                  11.0      8.5        8.4       8.4
Industry                                     40.6     42.7      28.8      31.7 
Manufacturing                              31.0     29.5       22.7      22.7
Services                                     48.3     48.8      62.8       59.9            94   9s
Private consumption                          69.5     57.8      63.6       62.8    l10
General oovernment consumption                9.7     14.3       17.8      15.6             -G o[           e-GOP
Imports of goods and services                 9.2      5.0      10.1       9.0
1979-89  1989-99      1998      1999     Growth of exports and Imports (Y)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                   3.4      2.9        0.0       9S     40 
Industry                                      2.3      2.1       -1.3      -1.7
Manufacturing                               1.9      1.1       -2.0      -0.7    20
Services                                      3.4      2.7       0.8        1.3
Private consumption                           1.9      5.8       -3.4       9.44                                  o
General government consumption                6.4     -2.0        2.1      -9.3                                        b
Gross domestic investment                    -0.1      2.4       0.1       -6.9    20
Imports of goods and services                -1.4     12.4       8.9    -17.4                 Eport5    -      mports
Gross national Product                        2.9      2.2        0.0      -1.3
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the countrv (In bold) compared with its income-grotuD average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 75 -



Brazil
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                             1979    1989       1998     1999      inflation (%)
(% chanoe)                                                                       2 500
Consumer prices                               ..  1,430.7       2.7       8.6    2,000
Implicit GDP deflator                       56.5  1,322.5       3.9      11.3    1,500o
1,000
Govemment rinance                                                                 500
(O% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                0
Current revenue                                ..      ..      20.4      21.9             94   95   96   97   93
Current budget balance                         ..      ..      -4.4      -5.2             -     GDP deflator  *-CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                       ..       ..      -5.5      -6.2
TRADE
(US$ millions)                             1979    1989        1998     1999      Export and Import levels (US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                            ..  34,375    51,140   48,011     75.000
Coffee                                      ..   1,803       2,576    2,441
Soybeans                                    ..   3,647      4,755    3,784    95e00
Manufactures                                ..  17,575    31,964   30,251
Total imports (cif)                           ..  18,264    57.733   49,219            *               _ _ _
Food                                        ..   1,249       3,057    2.078    25,000
Fuel and energy                             ..   3,753       1,965    2,169
Capital goods                               ..   4,873    25,283   21,157          0_                          _
93  94  95  9r,  97  98  99
Export price index (1995=100)                 ..      98         92       86
Import price index (1995=100)                 ..      85         84       89                  * Exports     * Imports
Termsof trade (1995=100)                       ..    115        108       97
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(UJSS millions)                            1979    1989        1998     1999      Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services             16,708   36,394    55,473   51,887      0
Imports of goods and services             21,724   21,486    69,650    57,5163
Resource balance                          -5,016   14,908   -14,177   -5,629      -
Net income                                -5,479  -13,265   -21,217  -20,786      2
Net current transfers                          5     249      1,778    2,040                   1 1 1 1 1
Current account balance                  -10,490    1,892   -33,616  -24,375
Financing items (net)                      7,703   -7,087    16,331    13,634
Changes in net reserves                    2,787    5,195    17,285   10,741      s X
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)     9,045    7,672    43,971    35,725
Conversion rate (DEC, loca#lUS$)        9.79E-12  1.03E-6       1.1       1.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989       1998     1999
(USS millions)                                                                    Composition of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed      61,327  114,532   232,004  221,792
IBRD                                     1,790    8,311     6.298    6,822                       A: 6,822
IDA                                          0       0          0        0             G: 25,641       C: 10,262
Total debtservice                         11,310   14,122    47,867   73,694                                    E 9,804
IBRD                                      234    1.475      1,373    1,380
IDA                                          0       0          0        0
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                             10      44         97
Official creditors                        436      223      4,911    -1,077
Private creditors                        5,236   -3,716    21,930  -15,796
Foreign direct investment                2,419    1,267    31,913   26,916
Portfolio equity                             0       0        542    3,234                  F: 157,433
Worid Bank program
Commitments                                674     933      1,290    1,465      A- IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                             302      819      1,240    1,533      B - IA    D - Other mulblateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                        74     871        995      952      C - IMF                    G - Short-terrm
Net flows                                 228      -52        245      580
Interest payments                         160      604        378      428
Net transfers                               67    -656       -133      153
Development Economics
- 76 -



Additional
Annex 11
BRAZIL: GOIAS STATE HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT PROGRAM
PROGRAM LETTER (TRANSLATION)
GOIAS STATE GOVERNMENT
OFFICE OF THE GOVERNOR
Goiania, May 31, 2001
LETTER No. 309/2001-GAB.GOV
Mr. Gobind Nankani
World Bank Country Director for Brazil
Brasilia, DF
Dear Sir:
Subject: Submittal of Proposal
In 1999, on assuming office as Governor of Goias, I inherited a huge primary deficit which forced
me to take severe expenditure-containment measures while also adopting tax and fiscal policies aimed at
increasing revenue. These measures produced the desired effect and we were able to turn the primary
deficit irito a surplus.
In 2000, in similar fashion, we were able to achieve a sizable primary surplus thanks, once again,
to increased revenues coupled with reduced current expenditures. This made it possible to cover the
servicing (principal and interest) of the public debt.
Notwithstanding the formidable obstacles encountered, I have succeeded, with the help of my staff
and of the people of Goias, in meeting the targets of the Fiscal Adjustment Program Agreement signed with
the Federal Government. In this context, my government is determined to lower the debt-to-revenue ratio
and to maintain the increasing trend of the primary surplus in the coming fiscal years, while at the same
time keeping personnel costs within the limits and time frames set in Complementary Law 101/00.
The changes that have been made in the administration of the state are proving successful and
contributing decisively to the desired modernization. It is worth noting that in the area of transportation,
with a view to better management of the entire state highway system, I have abolished the Goias Highways
Department (DERGO), liquidated the Intermunicipal Road Consortium (CRISA), and have consolidated
the functions of both in the Goias Transport and Public Works Agency (AGETOP).
In this new phase, AGETOP has had its functions redefined and its role strengthened, primarily for
- 77-



the purposes of carrying out the State Highway Safety, Maintenance and Paving Programs, and delivering
better service to the public.
I have established the Goias Environmental Agency (AGMA), which is responsible for
implementing the government's policy of compliance with the environmental protection regulations, for
mapping sensitive areas, identifying and implementing a program to expand the state's protected areas, and
therefore educating, surveying and supervising the actions of the state itself in the implementation of the
highway project, which will lead to its strengthening and also that of AGETOP in this respect.
The Goias Agency for Regulation, Control and Supervision of Public Services (AGR) needs
support and investments in order to efficiently and effectively perform its duties as far of the state public
administration's policy to improve the public services provided to the people of Goias. The Goias
Government is seeking partnerships that will make implementation of this project possible.
I would also emphasize the State Privatization Program, which is transforming the structure of the
government and decentralizing it. This will ensure that the privatization of state assets will generate better
economic and social benefits for the people of Goias.
Privatization is moving ahead on schedule. I would like to draw special attention to the offering for
privatization in the second half of 2001, of the Goias Electric Company (Companhia Energetica de Goias
S/A - CELG). The bidding process is being conducted by the National Bank for Economic and Social
Development (BNDES). The proceeds from the sale of CELG will be allocated in accordance with Law
13,707 of August 11, 2000, which provides, inter alia, that 30% shall go to the State Pension Fund.
With the administrative restructuring completed, I was able to consider its impacts on the state's
finances, and especially on the prevailing administrative mentality as a whole, and I have prepared the
Strategic Plan for Twenty-First Century Goias, which includes 125 important programs in priority sectors.
While my government is using every possible approach to restore the state's public finances, pay
its civil servants on time and meet its monthly debt-service commitments, substantial investments are still
needed in the transportation sector in order to bring our roads up to standard by paving new sections and
also by rehabilitating existing roads built for the most part over 15 years ago.
The considerable monthly expenditures my government is making in the social sector are also
something that I would like to underscore. There are 44 programs included in the 2000/2003 Multiyear
Plan, with among them a core set of 14 programs for combating poverty, which aim at social inclusion by
means of integrated actions in education, employment and income, vocational training, sanitation, housing,
health and social assistance. It is a fact that the scale of the spending in this area prevents the state from
undertaking more effective action in the maintenance and improvement of the highway system.
The State of Goias, which is a large state, has an economy focused principally on agroindustry.
The State is a supplier of goods, products and inputs to other states, especially those of the southeast
region, a circumstance that obliges us to ship all our products out by road.
It is imperative that the state highway system, which is included in the strategic initiative known as
"Competitive Goias, Regional Economic Center", be efficient because it is essential for the development of
agriculture, ranching and industry. An efficient highway system will contribute decisively to reducing the
costs of transportation and to increasing production, thereby making us competitive in the domestic and
external markets, attracting more resources from the private sector and, additionally, increasing the rural
- 78 -



population's access to a better quality of life and employment opportunities.
It is a priority of the Government of Goias to maintain the highway system in good traffic and
safety conditions, in order to support the current development process. We propose to gradually reduce the
burden of highway maintenance activities carried out by the State by contracting them out to the proceeds
sector. We may be able to extend maintenance by contract to the entire network. This process also
includes decentralization of the maintenance of local roads, for which the municipalities will be provided
with the technical support necessary for them to perform the tasks entrusted to them.
In this context, the actions and programs in the transportation sector included in the 2000/2003
Multiyear Plan, the Highway Maintenance and Safety Program, and the State Highway Paving and
Maintenance Program  are of vital importance.  In the circumstances, an efficient State Highway
Management Program is essential to accomplish the objectives set in two stages and within a maximum
time frame of six years. During the first stage, attention will be focused on strengthening AGETOP to
better manage the highway sector. As a result, the government will then be in a position in the second stage
to implement the Paving Program, in order to meet the needs of the Goias' growing economy, with special
emphasis on the rural communities.
The Highway Program plans to rehabilitate sections of roads that have deteriorated or are in a
process of rapid deterioration, since they impose high costs on users and the state economy. We intend to
rehabilitate or resurface some 1,500 km during the first phase and a further 1,000 km in the second phase.
In accordance with the agreements in effect with the Federal Government, and since our state's
roads are an asset of great value and importance for our economy, I have sought approval and guarantee
for a loan of US$130 million from the World Bank for the Goias State Highway Management Project.
As indicated above, the measures implemented to date are consistent with the objectives proposed
in my Program of Government to promote a sustainable development of the State of Goias, with fiscal and
environmental responsibility.
Thank you in advance for your consideration of our partnership proposal.
Yours truly,
(signed)
MARCONI FERREIRA PERILLO JJNIOR
Governor of the State of Goias
- 79 -



C0
C)



MAP SECTION






BRAZIL
STATE OF GOIAS
HIGHWAY MANAGEMENT PROGRAMBOVI
PROJECT ROADS                                                                          LE       AAQA
-     FIRST GROUP TEHAR LIAT 01N
FIRST5 GROUP PAV NO                                                                        E
----SECOND GROUP RRHAR LITATION
SRCOND GROUP PAT NO
SECONDARY ROADS
MAO N ROADS                                                                   A    25.4
URRAN AREAS
SELECTED I TIE',
4 STATE CAPITAL
I I.ATIONAE CAP TAL                                                       b'44p44425444 ,. m 4 D-   444444 4P4ilAT4.,
-STATE ROJNDAR ES                                                                A
1 4~~~~~~~~~44
I'     J-'-..,~~~C.     
4444                    '          NC)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d.1
IA'                       /   /                                                                 S41~J           ~            k0oE44,     4
4'   P'44          ~             IES  "'                      Y~TC~  ~-M
MATO  GRQSO   ,      K'                        4444 44444 G  6 t44 A, 7                                                BS
P' 4~      F404
CAM'"AA
4                                 of
A- 1,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4(0 
2   j  ~~~~~~44404444440~~~~~~~~~~~~~4             5,                       -~~~R.                                    17~3
/     A4   ,  6                             4                                                  444
-              4144>             '140444          /       2                         5       '
I'  I                                  G014S                        42~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ IN      -     AV
52 4444%0No4                                                      ,4 



