Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4636 - BR
Loan Agreement
(Goiás State Highway Management Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
and
STATE OF GOIÁS
Dated January 16 , 2002
LOAN NUMBER 4636 - BR
Page  2
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 16, 2002, between the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and the STATE OF GOIÁS (the 
Borrower). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower delivered to the Bank the letter, dated April 25, 2001 (the 
Program Letter), describing, 
inter alia,
 the Borrower's programs: (i) for the management of its 
highways during the period 2001-2006 (the Highway Management Program); and (ii) for 
administrative and structural reforms during the same period (the State Reform Program);
(B)
the Federative Republic of Brazil (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, having been 
satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
(the Project), which Project constitutes the first phase of the Highway Management Program, 
have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; 
(C)
the Project will be carried out by AGETOP (as such term is defined in Section 
1.02 (a) of this Agreement), which is responsible for the management of the Borrower’s highway 
network;
(D)
by an agreement of even date herewith between the Guarantor and the Bank (the 
Guarantee Agreement), the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the payment obligations of the 
Borrower in respect of the loan provided for in Article II of this Agreement (the Loan); and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to extend the 
Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement, and in the 
agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and AGETOP (the Project Agreement);
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01.  The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements 
for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended through October 6, 
1999), with the modification set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part 
of this Agreement:
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions is modified to read in its entirety 
as follows:
"(c) Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
Page  3
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare 
and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall 
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the Project, its cost and the 
benefits derived and to be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the 
Bank of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment 
of the purposes of the Loan."
Section 1.02.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“AGETOP” means 
Ag·ncia Goiana de Transportes e Obras
,
the Borrower’s 
transport and works agency established and operating pursuant to the provisions of the 
Borrower’s Law No. 13.550 dated November 11, 1999, as amended to the date of this 
Agreement, and any successor or successors thereto; 
(b)
“AGMA” means 
Agência Goiana de Meio Ambiente
,
the Borrower’s 
environmental protection agency and any successor or successors thereto; 
(c)
“AGMA Arrangement” means the arrangement to be entered into between 
AGETOP and AGMA pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.01 (c) (ii) of the Project 
Agreement;
(d)
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (3) set forth in the table in 
Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(e)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works, consultants’ 
services and training activities referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(f)
“Environmental Norms and Procedures” means 
Manual de Normas e 
Procedimentos Ambientais para Empreendimentos Rodoviários
,
the norms and procedures 
approved by Resolution No. 10/2001 of AGETOP’S Board of Directors, dated May 30, 2001, for 
purposes of preventing, reducing or mitigating the environmental impacts of AGETOP’s road 
projects, including the design, construction, operation and maintenance of roads under the 
Borrower’s jurisdiction;
(g)
“Highway Paving Subproject” means any of the projects under Part B of the 
Project;
(h)
“PCU” means the unit referred to in Section 2.05 (a) of the Project Agreement;
(i)
“PIP” means the Project implementation plan, prepared by AGETOP and 
furnished to the Bank on May 21, 2001, which contains the operational procedures and 
Page  4
timetables to be followed in the carrying out of the Project;
(j)
“Project Management Report” means any of the reports prepared in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 3.03 of the Project Agreement;
(k)
“Project Monitoring Letter” means the letter, dated May 25, 2001, delivered by 
the Borrower to the Bank, setting forth the monitoring indicators that will be used for purposes of 
assessing the performance and impact of the Project; 
(l)
“Public Consultation Framework” means the document entitled 
Manual de 
Consulta Popular
,
put
into effect by the Borrower’s Decree No. 5391, of March 30, 2001, 
published in the Borrower’s official gazette (
Diário Oficial do Estado
)
of
April 4, 2001, which 
contains the principles, policies and procedures for public consultation that shall apply to the 
preparation and implementation of AGETOP’s road projects;
(m)
“Resettlement Framework” means the document entitled 
Política de Reassentamento 
Involuntário, Diretrizes Básicas, 
put into effect by the Borrower’s Decree No. 5391, of March 
30, 2001, published in the Borrower’s official gazette (
Diário Oficial do Estado
) of April 4, 
2001, which contains the principles and policies that shall apply to the preparation and carrying 
out of any resettlement action plan that may be required under any AGETOP road project;
(n)
“Rehabilitation and Maintenance Subproject” means any of the projects under 
Part A of the Project;
(o)
“SEINFRA” means 
Secretaria de Estado de Infraestrutura
,
the Borrower’s 
Secretariat of Infrastructure, established and operating pursuant to the provisions of the 
Borrower’s Law No. 13.550, of November 11, 1999, as amended to the date of this Agreement, 
and any successor or successors thereto;
(p)
“SEINFRA Arrangement” means the arrangement to be entered into between 
AGETOP and the Borrower, through SEINFRA, pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.01 (c) (i) 
of the Project Agreement;
(q)
“SEPLAN” means 
Secretaria do Planejamento e Desenvolvimento
,
the 
Borrower’s Secretariat of Planning and Development and any successor or successors thereto;
(r)
“SEPLAN Arrangement” means the arrangement to be entered into between 
AGETOP and the Borrower, through SEPLAN, pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.01 (c) 
(iii) of the Project Agreement;
(s)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement; 
(t)
“State Road Program” means the program referred to in Section 2.06 (b) of the 
Page  5
Project Agreement; and
(u)
“Subproject” means either a Rehabilitation and Maintenance Subproject or a 
Highway Paving Subproject.
Section 1.03.  Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project implementation 
entity shall be deemed as a reference to AGETOP.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01.  The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to sixty-five million Dollars 
($65,000,000).
Section 2.02.  The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the 
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works, consultants’ 
services and training activities required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, and in respect of the front-end fee referred to in Section 2.04 of this Agreement.
Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower, the Guarantor and AGETOP 
of such later date.
Section 2.04.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount equal to 
one per cent (1%) of the amount of the Loan.  On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount 
of said fee. 
Section 2.05.  The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate of 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not 
withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.06.  (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR 
Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the date of 
this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and 
Page  6
including an Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the next following 
Interest Payment Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.07 of this 
Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value the 
first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest 
Period, for value the Interest Payment Date occurring on or next 
preceding the first day of such Interest Period), as reasonably determined 
by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) three-fourths 
of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the weighted average 
margin, for such Interest Period, below (or above) the London interbank 
offered rates, or other reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect 
of the Bank’s outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by 
the Bank to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it 
that include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of LIBOR Base Rate and 
LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the determination of 
the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank determines that it is in the interest of 
its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest rates 
applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for 
determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to 
the Borrower and the Guarantor of the new basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry 
of the notice period unless the Borrower or the Guarantor notifies the Bank during said period of 
its objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07.  Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in arrears on 
February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.08.  The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in accordance 
with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09.  The President of AGETOP, and any person or persons whom he or she 
shall designate in writing, are designated as representatives of the Borrower for the purposes of 
taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
Page  7
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01.  (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objective of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without limitation or restriction 
upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause AGETOP to 
perform all its obligations set forth in the Project Agreement, shall take or cause to be taken all 
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources, necessary or 
appropriate to enable AGETOP to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be 
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with the carrying out of the Project as 
provided in this Agreement and the Project Agreement.
(b)
As and when required for the timely execution of the Project, the Borrower shall 
make available to AGETOP, through annual budgetary transfers, the proceeds of the Loan and 
the counterpart funds required for the Project. 
Section 3.02.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03.  The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set forth in 
Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, 
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by AGETOP, pursuant to Section 2.03 of the 
Project Agreement.
Section 3.04.  For the purposes of Part D of the Project, the Borrower shall cause 
AGMA:
(a)
to enter into the AGMA Arrangement and to perform all its obligations under the 
AGMA Arrangement in accordance with the terms thereof;
(b)
to furnish to the Bank, for comments:  (i) by not later than December 31, 2002, 
the map referred to in Part D(1) of the Project; and (ii) by not later than November 30, 2003, an 
action program to consolidate and expand the Borrower’s system of legally protected areas for 
environmental purposes, and the documentary evidence of the legal and regulatory measures 
required for the implementation of such program, in accordance with the indicators set forth in 
the Project Monitoring Letter;
(c)
in consultation with AGETOP, to prepare and furnish to the Bank, not later than 
June 30, 2002, for comments, a manual of procedures and guidelines for: (i) the screening of the 
potential impacts of road projects in the territory of the Borrower; (ii) licensing of such projects; 
(iii) supervision of the implementation of environmental management plans; and (iv) monitoring 
of the impacts of such projects, and thereafter put such manual into effect after taking into 
Page  8
account the Bank’s comments thereon; and
(d)
to evaluate, with the assistance of an independent specialized firm or institution, 
the environmental and social impacts of the Project in accordance with the provisions of the 
manual referred to in (c) above.
Section 3.05.  (a) For purposes of Part C(6) of the Project, the Borrower shall, through 
SEINFRA, enter into the SEINFRA Arrangement and cause SEINFRA to perform all its 
obligations under said Arrangement in accordance with the terms thereof.
(b)
For purposes of Part E of the Project, the Borrower shall, through SEPLAN, 
enter into the SEPLAN Arrangement and cause SEPLAN to perform all its obligations under said 
Arrangement in accordance with the terms thereof.
Section 3.06.  The Borrower and the Bank shall, in each year during the implementation, 
of the Project, jointly review the State Road Program, as referred to in Section 2.06 (b) of the 
Project Agreement.  If, in the opinion of the Bank, the State Road Program is not satisfactory, the 
Bank may, by notice to the Borrower and AGETOP, refrain from approving new Highway 
Paving Subprojects.
Section 3.07.  The Borrower shall participate in the exchange of views referred to in 
Section 2.14 of the Project Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01.  (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of expenditure, 
the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with sound accounting 
practices, records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures are retained until at least 
one year after the Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year in 
which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made; and
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records. 
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
Page  9
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of this 
Section and those for the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii)
furnish or cause to be furnished to the Bank as soon as available, but in 
any case not later than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably requested, including a separate opinion 
by said auditors as to whether the Project Management Reports or 
statements of expenditure, as the case may be, submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls involved 
in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals; and 
(iii)
furnish or cause to be furnished to the Bank such other information 
concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01.  Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified: 
(a)
AGETOP shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement. 
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of this Agreement, an 
extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that AGETOP will be 
able to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
Section 5.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of 
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower, the Guarantor and AGETOP.
Page  10
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01.  The following are specified as additional matters, within the meaning of 
Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be 
furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Loan has been validly registered with the Central Bank of Brazil; and
(b)
that the Project Agreement has been duly executed by AGETOP, and is legally 
binding upon AGETOP in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.02.  The date April 16, 2002 is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 
12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01.  Except as provided in Section 2.10 of this Agreement, the Secretary of 
Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02.  The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
Page  11
For the Borrower:
Secretaria da Fazenda
Avenida Santos Dumont, 2233, Bloco A
Setor Negrão de Lima
74088-900, Goiânia, Goiás
Brazil
CEP 74088-900
Facsimile:  (011-55-62) 2692503
With copies to:
Ministério do Planejamento, Orçamento e Gestão
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco "K" - 5 andar
70040-906 Brasília, D.F., Brazil
Facsimile:  (011-55-61) 225-4022
Page  12
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the city of 
Brasília, Brazil, as of  the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
By /s/ Vinod Thomas
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
STATE OF GOIÁS
By /s/ Marconi Ferreira Perillo Júnior
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
      Amount of the
  % of
     Loan Allocated 
 Expenditures
Category
(Expressed in Dollars)
to be Financed
(1) Works under:
50%
(a)
Rehabilitation 
and Maintenance 
Subprojects under 
Part A of the Project 
28,700,000
(b) Highway Paving
             Subprojects under 
Part B of the Project
18,600,000
Page  13
(c)
Part D(3) of 
the Project                            
  1,000,000
(2)
Goods under Parts C(3) 
C(4), C(5), C(6), D(1), 
D(2) and E of the Project
  2,600,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures, 100% of 
local expenditures (ex-
factory cost), and 85% of 
local expenditures for other 
items procured locally
(3) (a)
Consultants' services
for engineering and 
supervision activities
under Parts A, B and D(3)
of the Project
  3,100,000
50%
(b)
Consultants’ services
(other than under 
Category (3) (a) above)
and training under Parts
C, D(1), D(2) and E of the 
Project
  3,100,000
100%
    (4)
Front-end fee                               650,000     
Amount due under
Section 2.04 of this 
Agreement
(5) Unallocated                              
  7,250,000
_________
TOTAL              
65,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term:
(a)
“foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any country other 
than that of the Guarantor for goods supplied from the territory of any country other than that of 
the Guarantor;
(b)
“local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the Guarantor or for 
goods or services supplied from the territory of the Guarantor; and
(c)
“training” includes travel costs and per-diems of trainees, and costs of course 
materials.
Page  14
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of payments made for:
(a)
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an 
aggregate amount not to exceed the amount of $6,500,000, may be made on account of payments 
made for expenditures incurred within one year from the date of this Agreement, but not before 
April 1, 2001;
(b)
works and consultants’ services under Categories (1) (a), (1) (b) and (3) (a) of 
the table in paragraph 1 above for any Subproject, unless such Subproject has been approved by 
the Bank pursuant to Section 2.08 of the Project Agreement; and
(c)
works, goods, consultants’ services and training activities under Categories (1) 
(c), (2) and (3) (b) of the table in paragraph 1 above for Parts C(6),  D or E of the Project, unless 
the SEINFRA Arrangement,  the AGMA Arrangement or the SEPLAN Arrangement, as the case 
may be, has been entered into between the respective parties thereto. 
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditures for training, and for expenditures under contracts for works, goods 
and consultants' services that are not subject to prior review by the Bank pursuant to Section I, 
Part D.2, and Section II, Part D.2, of the Schedule to the Project Agreement, all under such terms 
and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower and AGETOP.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a 
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, 
including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been 
opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into said Special 
Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received:  (i) the first Project Management Report; and 
(ii) a request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, 
withdrawals shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and 
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to Section 
3.03 of the Project Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for withdrawal on 
the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1. 
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
Page  15
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report does not 
adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 3.03 of the Project Agreement; 
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be made 
by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the period of time 
specified in Section 3.01 (b) (ii) of the Project Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: (A) the records and 
accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with 
respect to which withdrawals were made on the basis of Project Management Reports. 
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank shall have 
notified the Borrower and the Guarantor of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right 
of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the 
General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in its sole discretion, 
whether further deposits into the Special Account may be made and what procedures should be 
followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of its 
determination.
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special Account 
was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, provide 
such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the 
Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account 
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as 
the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the Special 
Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during the six-month 
period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
Page  16
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation 
in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Annex A
to
SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Not Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the amount of 
$6,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to the amount of $2,000,000 until the aggregate 
amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account, plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall 
equal or exceed $8,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the 
Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which 
in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of each such request, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.  
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents 
and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account 
for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, once 
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall 
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal 
from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
Page  17
making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B
to
SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all withdrawals 
from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special Account in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such deposit into the Special Account 
shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible 
Categories. 
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the Special 
Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account an amount equal to the lesser of:  (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the amount which 
the Bank has determined, based on the Project Management Report accompanying said 
application, is required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the 
six-month period following the date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so 
deposited, when added to the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be 
remaining in the Special Account, shall not exceed $12,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to increase the efficiency of the Borrower’s road transport 
system.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objective:
Part A
: Highway Rehabilitation and Maintenance
Carrying out of projects consisting of rehabilitation, resurfacing, safety and 
environmental rehabilitation works on a total of about 1,500 kilometers of the paved highway 
network of the Borrower, including related engineering studies, designs, environmental and 
Page  18
social assessments, and supervision services (the Rehabilitation and Maintenance Subprojects). 
Part B
: Highway Paving
Carrying out of projects consisting of paving works on a total of about 300 kilometers of 
roads linking agro-industrial centers to major highways or multimodal corridors in the 
Borrower’s territory, including related engineering studies, designs, environmental and social 
assessments, and supervision services (the Highway Paving Subprojects).
Part C
: Highway Policy and Institutional Development
Carrying out of a highway policy and institutional development program consisting of 
provision of technical assistance, equipment and software, and of training of staff, as the case 
may be, for:
(1)
the preparation, monitoring and evaluation of two pilot projects for strengthening 
the road  maintenance capabilities of a large municipality and of a group of municipalities 
associated under an inter-municipal road partnership, respectively, in the territory of the 
Borrower, and for transferring all the maintenance activities for the corresponding municipal 
roads to such municipalities;
(2)
the monitoring and evaluation of the Borrower’s highway network maintenance 
program carried out through, 
inter alia
, performance-based contracts;
(3)
the strengthening of AGETOP’s planning and management capacity through:  (i) 
the establishment of a road network database and monitoring system; and (ii) the restructuring 
and upgrading of its  management and control systems;  
(4)
the strengthening of AGETOP’s capacity to carry out its environmental and 
social safeguard functions and responsibilities;
(5)
the upgrading of AGETOP’s computerized monitoring and evaluation system for 
the Project; and
(6)
the strengthening of SEINFRA’s transport planning information system.
Part D
: Environmental Management
Carrying out of an environmental protection program consisting of the provision of 
technical assistance, equipment and software, of training of staff, and of small works, for:
(1)
the identification of, and the preparation of a map of, environmentally sensitive 
areas in the Borrower’s territory, based on a consolidated database of the Borrower’s natural 
Page  19
resources and biodiversity and the results of their analysis, to serve as a basis for screening the 
potential impacts of road projects and for consolidating and expanding the Borrower's system of 
natural areas protected for environmental purposes;
(2)
the strengthening of AGMA's capacity and procedures for screening the potential 
impacts of road projects, reviewing environmental assessments and licensing the works, 
supervising the implementation of environmental management plans, and for monitoring and 
evaluating the environmental impacts of the Project; and
(3)
      the establishment, based on the identification referred to in (1) above, of
protection areas in the regions of Serra das Galés and Serra da Bocaina, including the building up 
of the necessary basic infrastructure thereto.
Part E
:
State Reform
Provision of technical assistance and training of staff to help implement part of the State 
Reform Program, including the strengthening of the Borrower’s public utility regulation agency (
Agência Regulatória do Estado de Goiás
).
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
 Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in Dollars)
 *
On each February 15 and August 15
Beginning February 15, 2007
Through August 15, 2016
3,250,000
Page  20
___________________
* The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except as provided in Section 
4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
