Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4636 - BR
Project Agreement
(Goiás State Highway Management Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
and
AGÊNCIA GOIANA DE TRANSPORTES E OBRAS
Dated January 16, 2002
LOAN NUMBER 4636 - BR
Page  2
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 16, 2002, between the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank), and AGÊNCIA GOIANA DE 
TRANSPORTES E OBRAS (AGETOP).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the 
State of Goiás (the Borrower), the Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount 
equal to sixty-five million Dollars ($65,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the 
Loan Agreement, but only on condition that AGETOP agree to undertake such obligations 
toward the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS AGETOP, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings 
therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01.  (a) AGETOP declares its commitment to the objective of the Project as set 
forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end shall carry out: (i) Parts A, B and 
C(1) to C(5) of the Project; (ii) Part C(6) of the Project, with the assistance of SEINFRA; (iii) 
Part D of the Project, with the assistance of AGMA, and (iv) Part E of the Project, with the 
assistance of SEPLAN, all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
highway management, administrative, financial, environmental and engineering practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b)
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) above, AGETOP shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the provisions of the PIP and based on the indicators set forth 
in the Project Monitoring Letter.
(c)
AGETOP shall enter into arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, with: (i) the 
Borrower, through SEINFRA (the SEINFRA Arrangement) which shall establish the respective 
Page  3
roles and responsibilities of AGETOP and SEINFRA in the carrying out of Part C(6) of the 
Project; (ii) AGMA (the AGMA Arrangement), which shall establish the respective roles and 
responsibilities of AGETOP and AGMA in the carrying out of Part D of the Project; and (iii) the 
Borrower, through SEPLAN (the SEPLAN Arrangement), which shall establish the respective 
roles and responsibilities of AGETOP and SEPLAN in the carrying out of Part E of the Project.
(d)  
AGETOP shall exercise its rights and comply with its obligations under the 
SEINFRA Arrangement, the AGMA Arrangement and the SEPLAN Arrangement in such a 
manner as to protect the interests of AGETOP and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of 
the Project, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, AGETOP shall not amend, waive or 
fail to enforce any of such arrangements, or any provision thereof.
Section 2.02.  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works 
and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan shall be carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.03.  AGETOP shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 
9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and 
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, 
respectively) in respect of the Project.
Section 2.04.  (a) AGETOP shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with the 
Bank with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this 
Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
AGETOP shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Loan, or the performance by AGETOP of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.05.  AGETOP shall:
(a)
maintain, until completion of the Project, a unit (the PCU) with adequate 
structure, functions and responsibilities for, 
inter alia
:
(i) overall coordination and supervision 
of the execution of the Project; (ii) supervision of the procurement of goods, works and 
consultants’ services under the Project; and (iii) preparation of Project Management Reports and 
other reports in respect of the Project;
(b)
ensure that the PCU is at all times headed by a manager with qualifications, 
experience, functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, assisted by qualified staff in 
Page  4
adequate numbers; and
(c)
employ, by not later than 60 days after the Effective Date, pursuant to the 
applicable provisions of Section II of the Schedule to this Agreement, a project management 
consultant for the purposes of assisting the PCU in carrying out its functions and responsibilities 
under the Project.
Section 2.06.  AGETOP shall:
(a)
by not later than April 30 of each year during Project implementation:  (i) carry 
out surface and structural condition, traffic and accident surveys of the Borrower’s road network, 
in accordance with the procedures and guidelines set forth in the PIP; and (ii) organize the results 
of such surveys in a computerized road data base;
(b)
by not later than August 30 of each year during Project implementation, furnish 
to the Bank, for review and comments, an annual program for the Borrower’s road sub-sector 
(the State Road Program), which shall set forth the expenditures and funding programs for the 
subsequent year (including the Subprojects), such program to be prepared on the basis of the 
results of the surveys referred to in paragraph (a) above, and the indicators set forth in the Project 
Monitoring Letter, and in accordance with the criteria and methodologies set forth in the PIP; 
and
(c)
without limitation upon the provisions of Section 2.01 (a) of this Agreement, 
take into account, when preparing its road sub-sector budgetary proposal for the subsequent year, 
the relevant State Road Program and any comment of the Bank thereon.
Section 2.07.  AGETOP shall select the segments of the Borrower’s highway network to 
be included in Subprojects on the basis of:
(a)
the results of the surveys referred to in Section 2.06 (a) (i) of this Agreement; 
and
(b)
appropriate technical, social, environmental and economic criteria and 
methodologies, as specified in the PIP. 
Section 2.08.  AGETOP shall submit all Subprojects for the Bank’s approval, in 
accordance with the following procedures:
(a)
Prior to initiating detailed engineering designs of any Subproject, AGETOP shall 
furnish to the Bank, for its review and approval, an application, in the format set forth in the PIP, 
containing the following information in respect of such Subproject: 
(i)
the rationale for the selection of the Subproject; 
Page  5
(ii)
the road surface and soil conditions, and traffic projections; 
(iii)
the diagnosis of the technical problems of the road segments included in 
the Subproject and the recommended engineering solutions; 
(iv)
the estimated cost of the Subproject; 
(v)
a preliminary economic evaluation; 
(vi)
the proposed work implementation schedule;
(vii)
the results of the screening for potential impacts on the environment, on 
indigenous peoples 
(comunidades indígenas)
,
and on the historic 
patrimony, as applicable; and
(viii)
if applicable, the terms of reference for the preparation of any required 
environmental mitigation plan and/or indigenous peoples 
(comunidades 
indígenas) 
development plan.
(b)
Prior to initiating any bidding procedure for works under a Subproject, AGETOP 
shall furnish to the Bank, for its review and approval, an application, in the format set forth in the 
PIP, containing the following information in respect of such Subproject:
(i)
an update of the information provided to the Bank pursuant to paragraph 
(a) above, the final engineering designs and any other relevant studies; 
(ii)
if applicable, an environmental mitigation plan and/or an indigenous 
peoples (
comunidades indígenas
)
development plan, satisfactory to the 
Bank;
(iii)
whenever the Subproject shall require resettlement of population, the 
corresponding resettlement action plan, such plan to be prepared 
in accordance 
with the Resettlement Framework;
(iv)
in the case of the Highway Paving Subproject for the section of highway 
GO-050 linking Paraúna to highway GO-174, evidence of the adoption 
of the legal and regulatory measures required for the establishment of a 
protection area in the Serra das Galés region, referred to in Part D(3) of 
the Project; and
(v)
such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
(c)
The Bank may, if the event referred to in Section 3.06 of the Loan Agreement 
shall occur, refrain from approving Highway Paving Subprojects as provided in said Section 
Page  6
3.06. 
Section 2.09.  AGETOP shall furnish to the Bank, for comments:
(a)
not later than June 30, 2002, the design of the pilot projects referred to in Part 
C(1) of the Project, and, thereafter, shall implement such projects taking into account the Bank’s 
comments on such design, as well as monitor and evaluate the road maintenance operations of 
the municipalities under those two projects; and
(b)
not later than June 30, 2003, a plan (including an implementation timetable), 
which takes into account the results of said two pilot projects, for the transfer to municipalities of 
the management and maintenance of municipal roads in the territory of the Borrower.
Section 2.10.  AGETOP shall:
(a)
not later than June 30, 2002, invite bids for, 
inter alia,
 the performance-based 
contracts referred to in Part C(2) of the Project, and contract, as provided in Section II of the 
Schedule to this Agreement, a consultant for assisting AGETOP in monitoring and evaluating the 
execution of such contracts; and
(b)
by June 30, 2003, furnish to the Bank, for comments, a report on the monitoring 
and evaluation activities carried out under Part C(2) of the Project.
Section 2.11.  AGETOP shall: 
(a)
not later than 60 days after the Effective Date, employ, as provided in Section II 
of the Schedule to this Agreement,  consultants for purposes of assisting AGETOP in the 
carrying out of Part C(3) (i) and (ii) of the Project; and
(b)
adjust and train its staff in a manner consistent with the applicable indicators of 
the Project Monitoring Letter.
Section 2.12.  AGETOP shall:
(a)
maintain an environmental unit, staffed with adequately trained professionals, to 
be responsible for coordination of the implementation of AGETOP’s environment-related 
obligations under the State Road Programs, and enforcement of the Environmental Norms and 
Procedures;
(b)
maintain a social unit, with adequately trained professionals, to be responsible 
for coordination of the implementation of AGETOP’s social-related obligations under the 
Project, such as those relating to population resettlement, indigenous peoples (
comunidades 
indígenas
)
issues and public consultations, and implementation of the Resettlement Framework 
Page  7
and the Public Consultation Framework;
(c)
include in all contracts for road engineering and works under the Project the 
clauses needed for the implementation of the Environmental Norms and Procedures, the 
Resettlement Framework and the Public Consultation Framework; and
(d)
ensure the effective implementation of the Environmental Norms and 
Procedures, the Resettlement Framework and the Public Consultation Framework with respect to 
any Subproject, including the carrying out of environmental or social impact assessments and/or 
corresponding environmental mitigation plans and/or resettlement action plans that may have 
been approved by the Bank.
Section 2.13.  AGETOP shall, by not later than 180 days after the Effective Date or such 
later date as the Bank shall agree, complete, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying 
out of Part C(5) of the Project, and thereafter maintain the system referred to therein for the 
purposes of tracking the physical progress of the Project, assisting AGETOP in carrying out 
Project planning and monitoring activities, and providing the information referred to in Section 
3.03 (b) and (c) of this Agreement to be included in the Project Management Reports.
Section 2.14.  Without limitation to the provisions of Section 2.04 of this Agreement, 
AGETOP shall in June 2003 or whenever 50% of the Loan amount shall have been disbursed, 
whichever is earlier, conduct a comprehensive mid-term review with the Bank and the Borrower 
on the progress of the Project, and thereafter take all such action which shall have been agreed 
upon with the Bank, during such review, as necessary for the efficient execution of the Project or 
the achievement of its objective, such action to be taken in the manner and within the timetable 
agreed upon during such review.
Section 2.15.  AGETOP shall:
(a)
prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than six months before the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Bank and AGETOP, a 
plan, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, for the future 
operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with AGETOP on 
said plan.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01.  (a) AGETOP shall maintain a financial management system, including 
records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, 
Page  8
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
AGETOP shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such 
year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements, records and 
accounts and the report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records, accounts and financial statements, and the audit thereof, and 
concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time reasonably 
request. 
Section 3.02.
 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, 
AGETOP shall, not later than 180 days after the Effective Date, or such later date as the Bank 
shall agree, complete the carrying out of a time-bound action plan acceptable to the Bank for the 
strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 
3.01 in order to enable AGETOP to produce the information referred to in Section 3.03 (a) of this 
Agreement to be included in the Project Management Reports.
Section 3.03.  Upon completion of the action plan referred to in Section 3.02 of this 
Agreement and the establishment of the system referred to in Section 2.13 of this Agreement, 
AGETOP shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank not later than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter a Project management report, 
acceptable to the Bank, each of which shall:
(a)
(i) set forth actual sources and applications of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and projected sources and applications of 
funds for the Project for the six-month period following the period covered by said report, and 
(ii) show separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during the period 
covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
during the six-month period following the period covered by said report;
(b)
(i) describe physical progress in Project implementation, both cumulatively and 
for the period covered by said report, and (ii) explain variances between the actual and 
previously forecast implementation targets; and
Page  9
(c)
set forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, as at the end of the period covered by said 
report.
ARTICLE IV
Effectiveness; Termination; Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01.  This Agreement shall become effective on the date upon which the Loan 
Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02.  This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and AGETOP hereunder 
shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its 
terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify AGETOP thereof.
Section 4.03.  All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect 
notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01.  Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made under this 
Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in 
writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be 
delivered by hand or by mail, telex or facsimile to the party to which it is required or permitted to 
be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such request.  
Deliveries made by facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail.  The addresses so 
specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
(202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
Page  10
For AGETOP:
Agência Goiana de Transportes e Obras
Av. Governador José Ludovico de Almeida, 20
Conjunto Caiçara
74623-160 Goiânia, Goiás
Brazil
Facsimile:  (011-55-62) 245-4018
With copies to:
Ministério do Planejamento, Orçamento e Gestão
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco "K" - 5 andar
70040-906 Brasília, D.F.
Brazil
Facsimile:  (011-55-61) 225-4022
Section 5.02.  Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document required 
or permitted to be executed by AGETOP under this Agreement may be taken or executed by its 
President or such other person or persons as he or she shall designate in writing.  AGETOP shall 
furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature 
of each such person.
Section 5.03.  This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which 
shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the city of 
Brasília, Brazil, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR     
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Vinod Thomas
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
AGÊNCIA GOIANA DE TRANSPORTES E OBRAS 
Page  11
By /s/ Carlos Rosemberg Gonçalves dos Reis
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and 
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The invitation to bid for each contract estimated to cost $10,000,000 equivalent or more, 
to be awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 above, shall be advertised in 
accordance with the procedures applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the 
Guidelines.
3.
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto 
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Guarantor. For purposes of the 
Guidelines, the term “duties and other related import taxes” includes the Guarantor's Freight 
Surcharge for the Renewal of the Merchant Marine (
Adicional ao Frete para a Renovação da 
Marinha Mercante
), established by Decree Law 1142 of December 30, 1970, as amended to 
December 31, 1987, or any other tax, levy or charge that, in the reasonable opinion of the Bank, 
may substitute it, in whole or in part, after January 1, 1988.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods and works estimated to cost $350,000 and $5,000,000 equivalent or less per 
contract, respectively, up to an aggregate amount of $2,000,000 equivalent in the case of goods 
and $15,500,000 in the case of works, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
Page  12
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.  In the procurement of goods and 
works under this Part C.1, bidding documents in a standardized form for the Project shall be 
used.
Without limitation to any other provisions set forth in this Schedule or the Guidelines, 
the following shall apply to the procurement of goods and/or works to be undertaken pursuant to 
this Part C.1:
(a)
contracts shall be awarded to the bidder whose bid has been determined to be the 
lowest evaluated bid, such evaluation to be based on price and, whenever appropriate, to also 
take into account factors similar to those referred to in paragraph 2.51 of the Guidelines, 
provided, however, that the bid evaluation shall always be based on factors that can be quantified 
objectively, and the procedure for such quantification shall be disclosed in the invitation to bid;
(b)
whenever required by the Bank, the invitation to bid shall be advertised in at 
least one newspaper of national circulation in Brazil;
(c)
the arrangements, under the invitation to bid, for joint-ventures (
consórcios
)
of
Brazilian and foreign firms shall be approved in advance by the Bank in each case;
(d)
the invitation to bid shall not establish, for purposes of acceptance of bids, 
minimum or maximum amounts for the contract prices; and
(e)
the purchaser shall not, without the Bank's prior approval, issue any change order 
under a contract which would increase or decrease by more than 15% the quantity of goods (and 
related services) without any change in the unit prices or other terms and conditions of sale.
2.
International or National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount of $1,500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
international or national shopping procedures, at the option of the Borrower, in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount of $3,500,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts 
awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from at least three qualified domestic contractors in 
response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description of the works, 
including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement 
acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the 
contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the 
Page  13
experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement 
plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and 
works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been 
approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply with respect to:  (i) each contract for goods or works awarded under Part B of this Section; 
and (ii) the first two contracts for works awarded under Part C.1 of this Section.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 
and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection 
of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
Page  14
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services of a routine nature, such as audits, engineering design of non-complex works 
and supervision of works, estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount of $1,500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant 
Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of 
paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply with respect to 
each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$200,000 or more.
(b)
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph 
of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply with respect to 
each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of $200,000.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior 
review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been 
given.
3.
Post Review
Page  15
The procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply with respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part.
