                                      Documentof
                                 The World Bank




                                                    Report No.: 49088




          PROJECTPERFORMANCEASSESSMENT REPORT

                                      BRAZIL

         GOIAS STATE HIGHWAY MANAGEMENTPROJECT

                                   FIRSTPHASE


                                 (LOAN4636-BR)


                                    June 24,2009




Sector, Thematicand Global Evaluations
IndependentEvaluation Group (World Bank)

 Currency Equivalents(annual averages)
 Currency Equivalents (annual averages)
 Currency Unit= BRL R ($)

 2001                      US$l.oo         BRL2.31
 2002                      U S $ l.oo      BRL3.54
 2003                      US$l.oo         BRL2.89
 2004                      US$l.oo         BRL2.65
 2005                      US$l.oo         BRL2.33
 2006                      US$1.oo         BRL2.13
 2007                      US$1.oo         BRLl.78
 2008                      U S $ l.oo      BRL2.31

 Abbreviations and Acronyms

 AGETOP                            Transport and Public Works Agency, State of Goias
 AGMA                              Environmental Agency, State of Goias
 AGR                               RegulationAgency, State of Goias
 APL                               Adaptable Program Loan
 CAS                               Country Assistance Strategy
 CEMA                              State Environmental Council, Goias
 CIMOS                             Inter-Municipal Work Consortia
 CREMAS                            Contract system first usedinArgentina
EIA                                Environmental ImpactAssessment
EMP                                Environmental Management Plan
FEMA                               State Fundfor the Environment, Goias
 GIS                               Geographic Information System
HDM                                Highway DevelopmentModel
ICR                                ImplementationCompletion Report
IPHAN                              National Institutefor Protection of Historical and Archeological
                                   Sites
M&E                                Monitoring and Evaluation
NGO                                Non-government organization
PAD                                Project Appraisal Document
PCU                                Project Coordination Unit
QAE                                Quality at Entry
QAT                                Quality Assurance Team, Latin America Region
 SEMARH                            State Secretariat for Environmental andHydrologicalResources
SEUC                               Science-basedProtective Area System
TFAGO                              Tax on environmentalimprovements
Fiscal Year
Government:                January 1to December 31

Director, IndependentEvaluationGroup (World Bank)              Ms.CherylGray
Manager, Sector, Thematic and GlobalEvaluations             : Ms.Monika Huppi
Task Manager                                                : Mr.Peter Freeman

Note: Vinod Thomas, Director-General, Evaluation, was recusedfiom this evaluation due to hisprior
associationwith the Brazil Programas Country Director.

                                                              i



 IEGWB Mission: Enhancing development effectiveness through excellence and independence in evaluation.


About this Report
       The Independent Evaluation Group assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two purposes:
first, to ensurethe integrity of the Banks self-evaluation process and to verify that the Bank's work is producingthe
expected results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through the
dissemination of lessons drawn from experience. As part of this work, IEGWB annually assesses about 25 percent of
the Banks lending operations through field work. In selecting operations for assessment, preference is given to those
that are innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevantto upcomingstudies or country evaluations; those for
which Executive Directors or Bank management have requested assessments; and those that are likely to generate
important lessons.
       To prepare a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR), IEGWB staff examine project files and other
documents, interview operational staff, visit the borrowing country to discuss the operation with the government,
and other in-country stakeholders, and interview Bank staff and other donor agency staff both at headquarters and
in local offices as appropriate.
       Each PPAR is subject to internal IEGWB peer review, Panel review, and management approval. Once cleared
internally, the PPAR is commented on by the responsible Bank department. IEGWB incorporates the comments as
relevant. The completed PPAR is then sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are attached to
the document that is sent to the Banks Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to
the Board, it is disclosed to the public.

About the IEGWB Rating System
       IEGWB's use of multiple evaluation methods offers both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to
lending instrument, project design, or sectoral approach. IEGWB evaluators all apply the same basic method to
arrive at their project ratings. Following is the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion
(additional information is available on the IEGWB website: http://worldbank.org/ieg).
       Outcome: The extent to which the operation's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to
be achieved, efficiently. The rating has three dimensions: relevance, efficacy, and efficiency. Relevance includes
relevance of objectives and relevance of design. Relevance of objectives is the extent to which the project's
objectives are consistent with the country's current development priorities and with current Bank country and
sectoral assistance strategies and corporate goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country
Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers, Operational Policies). Relevance of design is the extent to which
the project's design is consistent with the stated objectives. Efficacy is the extent to which the project's objectives
were achieved, or are expected to be achieved, taking into account their relative importance. Efficiency is the
extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the opportunity cost of capital
and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. The efficiency dimension generally is not applied to adjustment
operations. Possible ratings for Outcome: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
       Risk to Development Outcome: The risk, at the time of evaluation, that development outcomes (or
expected outcomes) will not be maintained (or realized). Possible ratings for Risk to Development Outcome: High
Significant, Moderate, Negligible to Low, Not Evaluable.
       Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry of the
operation and supported effective implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate
transition arrangements for regular operation of supported activities after loanlcredit closing, toward the
achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: quality at entry and quality of supervision.
Possible ratings for Bank Performance: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
       Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower (including the government and implementing
agency or agencies) ensured quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and
agreements, toward the achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: government
performance and implementing agency(ies) performance. Possible ratings for Borrower Performance: Highly
Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.


                                                                      ...
                                                                      111



Contents

Table of Contents

PRINCIPAL RATINGS           .....................................................................................................................        V


KEY STAFF RESPONSIBLE                  ..........................................................................................................        V


PREFACE  ......................................................................................................................................        vi1


SUMMARY  ......................................................................................................................................          IX


1.    BACKGROUND               ..................................................................................................................         1

      Goias Economic Reforms and Transport                                   .......................................................................      1
      Bank and GovernmentSupportfor Roads                                      .....................................................................      I
      Environmentand Roads                    ...................................................................................................         2


2.    THE PROJECT             ...................................................................................................................         2

      Objective and Components                       .............................................................................................        2


3.    IMPLEMENTATION                 ............................................................................................................         3

      Quality at Entry (QAE)               ................................................................................................         .'.....3

4.    MONITORINGAND EVALUATION(M&E)                                         ........................................................................      6

      Design    ................................................................................................................................          6
      Implementation           ..................................................................................................................         7
      Utilization    ...........................................................................................................................          7


5.    SAFEGUARDS              ...................................................................................................................         8


6.    RATINGS       ............................................................................................................................          9

      Relevance       ..........................................................................................................................         9
      Efficacy    ............................................................................................................................          11
      Efficiency     .........................................................................................................................          12
      Outcome      ..........................................................................................................................         -13
      Risk to DevelopmentOutcome                          ......................................................................................       13
      Bank Performance               ..........................................................................................................        14

                                                                   iv


       Borrower Performance               ...................................................................................................    14


7.     LESSONS     .........................................................................................................................     15


ANNEX A. BASIC DATA SHEET                  ..................................................................................................    17


ANNEX 6. PROJECTCOMPONENTS AND COST                                      .....................................................................   20


ANNEX C: ENVIRONMENTALMANAGEMENT                                    ..........................................................................   21


ANNEX D: PERFORMANCEBASED MAINTENANCECONTRACTS FOR ROUTINE
MAINTENANCE     .............................................................................................................................    25




Tables

Table 1 Project Objective and Components                        ................................................................................ 3
Table 2 AGETOP Staff, 2000-2009                ................................................................................................  5
Table 3 Goias Fundingfor Road Maintenanceand Rehabilitation(million of current R$)13
              -




The primary author ofthis report i s Hernan Levy, Consultant. Richard Carlos Worden
contributed the review ofthe environment and social aspects. They assessedthe project in
March 2009. Romayne Pereira provided administrative support.

                                                   V



PrincipalRatings
                                   ICR*                       ICR Review*                      PPAR

Outcome                     Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                  Satisfactory


Risk to                 Negligible to Low             Negligible to Low                 Moderate
Development
0utcome


Bank                        Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                  Moderately
Performance                                                                            Satisfactory

Borrower                    Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                  Moderately
Performance                                                                            Satisfactory
* The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department. The
ICR Review is an intermediate IEGWB product that seeks to independently verify the findings of the ICR.

Kev StaffResnonsible
Project               Task Manager/                  Division Chief/               Country Director
                                                    Sector Director
Appraisal              Jacques Cellier              Danny Leipziger                 Gobind Nankani
Comdetion          Aymeric-Albin Meyer             Jose LuisIrigoyen                 John Briscoe


                                               vii


Preface

       This is a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) for the Brazil: Goias
State Highway Management Project (Loan 4636-BR), for which the World Bank
approved a loan inthe amount o f US$65.0 million equivalent on August 23,2001. The
loan, which was an Adaptable Program Loan, was closed on December 31,2006, two
years later thanplanned. US$6 million undisbursedat closing was cancelled.

       Theproject was selected for assessmentbecause it was the first loan for roads to
Brazil after a four-year hiatus, it was the first loan inany sector to the state o f Goias, and
becausethe project included a significant component aiming at assisting at Goias
improve its environmental management. The project was also selected because it was
rated as an Environmental Category `A' and was therefore an important input to IEG's
Safeguards study currently underway.

        The report is based on a review o fproject documents, including the ICR, Project
Appraisal Document (PAD), Memorandum to the President, the LoanAgreement and
project files, as well as on discussions with Bank staff involved inthe project. An IEG
mission visited Brazil inMarch2009 to review project results and met with officials
representing a broad range o f stakeholders, includingGoias transport, finance and
environmental agencies and a number o f non-governmental environmental agencies. The
mission also briefed and exchanged views with officials from the Ministry o f Planning
responsible for World Bank projects. The IEGmission made separate field visits to roads
rehabilitated or maintained under the project and to environmentally protectedareas.

        IEGgratefully acknowledges the courtesies, close cooperation andthe logistical
support received from the Transport and Public Works Agency (AGETOP) o fthe State o f
Goias, and the collaboration o f Goias environmental agencies, the State Secretariat for
the Environment and Hydrological Resources (SEMARH)andthe StateEnvironmental
Agency (AGMA).

        Following standard IEGprocedures, copies o f the draft PPAR was sent to the
government officials and agencies for their reviewbut no comments were received.


                                              ix


Summary

        This is the Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) for the Brazil: Goias
StateHighway ManagementProject - (Loan 4636-BR), the first phase o f an Adaptable
Program Loan, approved in2001. This project, at an estimated cost o f US$ 130 million
(andfinal cost o fUS$120.5 million), aimedto help Goias improve the efficiency ofthe
state's roadtransport system. The objective was relevant because o f the deteriorated
condition o f Goias' road system, the inefficient management o f the system, and the trade
barrierresulting from poorly maintainedroads andfrom roads with inadequate standards.
Improved roads, by enhancing fuel efficiency and lowering the cost o f maintenance,
increase roadtransport efficiency. The project also supported Goias's highway agency's
policy to decentralize maintenance operations.

        Further, the project included components intended to support the newly launched
fiscal reforms o fthe state, necessary to meet stringent federal requirements, and the
strengthening o f the state's environmental management inorder to adequately protect
environmentally sensitive areas. Important as these components were, they were not
adequately captured by the project's stated objective and, with other project design flaws,
this meantthat quality at entry was only moderately satisfactory.

        Project implementation took longer thanexpected (64 months instead o f 39)
because o f (i)unrealistically planned implementationtime, (ii)    problems with counterpart
funding during2003-2004 dueto atemporary spike inGoias' fiscal crisis, and (iii)        the
complexity o fthe environmental component, comprising a largenumber o f individual
contracts. The project's M&Eframework was well-conceived for the most part and
recorded as substantial.

        The outcome o fthe project i s rated satisfactory. Project activities did raise the
efficiency o f Goias' roadtransport system.The project-financed investments, together
withthe program of outsourced maintenance, substantially improvedthe condition o fthe
state roadnetwork. Improvedroads meanless use o f resources inthe provision o f road
transport services. The values o f most o fthe outcome and output indicators met the
targets. O f special significance was the proportion o f vehicle-kilometers taking place on
good condition, pavedroads that increased from 54 percent at project start to 81percent
at completion (against a target o f 75 percent). The outsourcing o fthe road system
maintenance progressed faster than originally expected, and the whole o fthe state's road
system is now maintained, at a cost 50 percent lower thanpreviously; this is achieved
through performance-based contracts with private operators, which are mostly newly
created enterprises. Such contracts, which cover routine maintenance only, are novel in
Brazil and Goias appears to be one o f the few states that has applied such an approach
state-wide. More thanhalf the state's municipalities are participating ininter-municipal
roads consortiathat can manage municipal roads, at a lower cost than before.

        Some progress was also made inimproving Goias' environmentalmanagement
capability. The geographic information system (GIS) mapping o f ecologically important
and sensitive areas was completed, the environmental unitswith both the highway agency

                                                X



(AGETOP) and the state environmental agency (AGMA - now called SEMARH) were
strengthened, albeit minimally, and the legal establishment o fprotected areas was
exceeded. However, the GIS mapping was not fully utilized by the implementing
partners, and the legal protection designation offers only the lowest level o f
environmental protectionaccording to Brazilian law, resulting inno meaningful change
inlanduse or ownershipofthese areas. The state reformcomponent enabledthe
establishment o f a public utility agency.

         The riskto development outcome is rated moderate. The benefits from the road
improvements and from the project's requirement for more extensive use o f economic
criteria inthe selection o f road investmentsare at some risk. The dismantlingin2009 of
Goias' Road Fund, created at the start o f the project specifically to ensure adequate
funding o froad maintenance, raises uncertainty about future funding. While the 2009
state budget's allocation for maintenance i s substantially higher than inprevious years,
there i s as yet no track record o f funding from the state budget. The use o f economic
analysis inthe selection o f road investments, one o fthe project's four outcome indicators,
i s also less established than expected. Adequate funding for municipal roads, though not
directly part o fthe project, requires serious attention.

          Bankperformance is ratedmoderately satisfactory.The project had a
comprehensive system o f monitoring indicators. However, project designwas faulty in
view o f the vagueness betweenthe stated objective and the environmental and reform
components. The project implementation schedule was also too optimistic and ledto
extensions o f two years before the project could be closed. Supervisionwas generally
responsive to significant issues, but the team was unable to persuade the Borrower to
allocate sufficient funds for either the building o f environmental capacity inthe relevant
agencies or for the establishment o f a management presence inthe protectedareas.

          The Bank rated the project as Category "A" from an environment standpoint. This
rating was based on the "precautionary principle" and assuming impacts "normally"
associated with new constructionand major upgrading o f highways. Category "A"
required the Borrower to prepare a Resettlement Frameworkto addresspotential impacts
on indigenous peoples and resettlement plans prior to appraisal. The PPAR finds that a
Category "By'would have been more appropriate, since the rehabilitation and paving
were for existingroads inareas already converted from their native habitat types to
agriculturally productive areas. Rating the project as "B" would have allowed greater
focus on more pertinent issues and impacts.

         Borrower performance i s also rated moderately satisfactory.The implementing
agency, AGETOP, carried out procurement well, despite having no previous experience
with Bankprojects. Implementation ofthe environment component on the other handwas
problematic: there were coordination issues between the AGETOP and the relevant
environment agencies, a shortage o f funding that ledto curtailment o f some activities,
and less than expected political support.

         The ICR contains useful guidance on the importance o f satisfactory fiscal
conditions to ensure successful project implementation, the needto create positive
incentives ifdecentralization o fmunicipal roadmaintenance i s to succeed, and on better

                                               xi


understanding o f the factors that facilitate successful implementation of APL projects.
The PPARprovides the following lessons:

       Whenroad maintenance is decentralized to municipalities, special consideration
       needs to be given tofiscal sustainability. The Goias experience with the creation
       o f an inter-municipal road consortium to provide roadmaintenance to interested
       municipalities shows that while such an arrangement i s technically and
       institutionally feasible, the weak financial condition o f municipalities can be a
       major hindrance to a sustainable arrangement.

       Outsourcing routine maintenance underperformance-based contracts ispractical
       and the PPAR shows it can lead to lower costs of maintenance. The model
       contracts to outsource routine maintenance adopted inmany LatinAmerican
       Countries typically include a road section requiringrehabilitation   -an   expensive
       activity -as a way to attract private contractors. The Goias experience i s
       important, however, since it shows that it i s possible to outsource routine
       maintenance only, that small private contractors are interested inbiddingfor such
       low-cost contracts, and that such contracts can lower the cost o f maintenance
       compared to that done by the road agency personnel.


       Designingproject activities outside the direct area of interest and expertise of the
       implementing agency, such as strengthening environmental managementthrough
       roadprojects, can beproblematic, particularly when they are not effectively
       included in a developmentobjective and supervisedaccordingly. The Goias
       project included under the environment component several activities involving the
       incorporation o fnatural habitats on a prioritized basis within a science-based
       system o fprotected areas. Such activities, were outside the area o f expertise o fthe
       implementing agency (the road agency AGETOP), and would require a broader
      partnership for implementing the project, including natural resource and
       environmentalprotection agencies, as well as more involvement andparticipation
       by universities, environmental NGOs and community-based organizations incivil
       society. When such components are added, they should be clearly matched to a
      project objective and their achievement carefully monitored.




                                                              Cheryl W. Gray
                                                                  Director
                                                                  IEGWB


                                                    1


   1.Background

   GOIASECONOMIC         REFORMS AND TRANSPORT
   1.1      Goias, a state inCenter-Western Brazil was, at the end o f the 1 9 9 0 in~a critical
                                                                                   ~
  financial situation with a highlevel o f indebtedness. A newly elected state government
  launched a series o f fiscal adjustments and structural reforms inresponse. The number o f
   state secretaries was reduced from 17to 10, capital expenditures were reduced to below
   10percent o fnet revenues, andvarious autonomous and public enterprises were
  liquidated. Several other public companies were also prepared for privatization, including
  the Metrobus systeminthe state capital o f Goiana. A number o f other measures were part
  o f fiscal adjustment and structural programs that the government intendedto put inplace.

   1.2      Improving Goias' fiscal situation was an essential element for securing the
'  sustainability o f any improvement to the state's road system. Dueto several years o f
  maintenance neglect, the state's road network was inmediocre condition - only 64
  percent o f the paved roads were ingood condition, and 10percent were inneedo f urgent
  and expensive rehabilitation. The poor condition o fthe road network, by raisingtransport
   costs, acted as a non-tariff barrier to trade, hindering development o f agricultural and
  other domestic exports.

   1.3      The neglect o froadmaintenance was due to a combination o fthree main causes:
   first, inadequate funding for maintenance, giventhe state's precarious finances, second,
  wasteful allocationo f public investment based on political demands rather than economic
   efficiency (only 10percent o f state highway expenditures had economic rates o f returns
   o f over 12percent), and third, inefficient highway maintenance management, with the
   state carrying out maintenance activities essentially with its own personnel (an approach
  known as `force account') - both domestic and international experience shows that
  maintenance by private contractors i s more cost-effective.

  BANKAND GOVERNMENT             SUPPORTFORROADS
   1.4      The strict fiscal policy followed by Brazilduringmost o fthe 1990s(and part o f
  the 2000s) ledto a strong curtailment infinancing for transport infrastructure. This fell
  from some 3 percent o f GDP inthe 1970sto less than one half o f one percent inthe late
   1990s.Inparallel, Bank financing for infrastructure, especially transport and roads, fell
   dramatically inthe second half o fthe 1990sand early 2000s. The Bank lent Brazil $378
  million for roads duringthe four-year period FY1993-1997, including federal as well as
  multi-state road projects. Through these projects, the Bank assisted federal and state
  governments incarrying out decentralization and concession programs, supporting road
  maintenance funding and prioritization strategies and outsourcing maintenance via
  performance-based contracts.

   1.5      Instark contrast, the Bankmadeno loans to Brazil for roads duringFY1998-
  2001. Thus, the Goias project, approved inFY2002, was the first roadproject for Brazil
  approved after a four-year hiatus. Itwas also the first Bank road project for Goias.

                                               2


ENVIRONMENT ROADSAND
1.6     Past experience with the NorthwestRegion Development Program inBrazil
showed that, unless proper protective measures are taken, highway investmentscan lead
to significant long-term and indirect environmental impacts such as disorderly
colonizationand destructive and oftentimes illicit economic activities, such as logging,
poaching, andtrafficking inflora and fauna. This experience i s relevant for Goias, a state
which over the past decades has seen conversion and expansion o f land use by
mechanized agricultural crops for growing export and domestic markets, such as corn,
soybeans, and sugarcane for ethanol, while the state hadfew established areas to protect
and conserve native vegetative cover, natural resources and biodiversity.

1.7     Towards the end o fthe 1990s, a consensus began forming inGoias o f the need to
protect the state's natural habitats more effectively and to strengthenandmodernizethe
state's environmental agency (at that time, AGMA, now subsumed within SEMARH).
Work began on incorporating environmental protectionelements into the design of the
Goias Highway Management Program to address both the direct and indirect impacts
created by the program's activities, including the decisionto create a geographically
referenced inventory and prioritization o fthe state's most important and ecologically
sensitive natural resources and habitat types as part o f a scientifically-basedprotected
areas system (called SEUC).


2. The Project

OBJECTIVE AND COMPONENTS
2.1     The objective stated inthe Project Appraisal Document (PAD) andthe Loan
Agreement was to increase the efficiency of the state's roadtransport system. This
concise objective was relevant giventhe deteriorated condition o f Goia's roadtransport
network,the inefficient management o fthe network, andthe non-tariff trade barrier to
Goias resulting from poorly maintained roads and from road standards inadequate to
efficiently serve road freight. The Project objective was also consistent with the 2000-
2002 CAS prevailing at the time of project approval, especially the CAS focus on
reducing the cost o f doing business inBrazil (Custo Brazil) andthe related transport
costs. Subsequent CASs (2003 and2006 Progress Report) had similar development
priorities.

2.2     The project objective and its components are shown inTable 1 below (project
cost, at appraisal and actual, i s presented inAnnex B).

2.3     This project was designed as the first phase o fanAdaptable Program Loan
(APL). The second phase was intendedto decentralize road administration and
consolidate and expand the state's system of environmentalprotection areas.

                                                       3


Table 1 ProjectObjectiveand Components
Project Objective                       Project Components
Increase the efficiency o f the state's (a) highway rehabilitation and maintenance, o f
road transport system                   about 1,500 kilometers o f the paved highway
                                        network
                                        (b) highway paving, of about 300 kilometers
                                        linking agro-industrial centers to major highway or
                                        multimodal corridors
                                        (c) highway policy and institutional development
                                        to provide technical assistance, equipment,
                                        software and training o f staff inaddition to
                                        preparing, monitoring and evaluating two pilot
                                        road decentralization projects.
                                        (d) environmentalmanagement, including
                                        technical assistance, equipment, training, mapping
                                        o f environmental sensitive areas and strengthening
                                        of the environmental agencies.

                                        (e) state reform to provide technical assistance and
                                        staff training to help implement the state's
                                        structural and administrative reform programs.


2.4       Components (a) to (c) were appropriate to support the project objective since
improved roads would lower transport costs and increase the efficiency or road transport.

2.5      The PAD adds that components (d) and(e), environmental management and state
reform, were to ensure that the development objective was to be achieved within
sustainable environmental and fiscal frameworks, butthis comment i s omitted inthe loan
Agreement. This i s discussed inthe ratings chapter.

2.6      Dueto the importance o fenvironmentalmanagement andthe preparation,
currently underway for the APL's second phase, the PPAR covers inAnnex C various
aspects of the environmental component o fthe project.



3. Implementation

QUALITY AT ENTRY          (QAE)
3.1      A QAEassessmentin2002 rated the overall quality assessmentas satisfactory.
The assessment noted as positive factors duringproject preparation: (i) soundness o f  the
the background analysis, (ii) understanding o fthe linkages ofthe operationwith the
                                     the
state's fiscal situation andthe use o f the APL concept, (iii)           the clear andrelatively simple
design, (iv) the strong ownership and commitment o fthe Borrower, and (v) the state o f
readiness o fthe project. However, the relevance o fthe design had flaws discussed in
section 6.

                                               4




IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE

3.2     Implementation Delays. Project completion took 64 percent longer to complete
thaninitially expected (39 months originally from approvalto closing date, comparedto
64 months actual).

3.3     Implementationdelays were the result o ftwo main factors: First, the amount o f
time for project implementation as originally conceived, three years and three months,
was unrealistically short, consideringthat: the physical investmentswere plannedto be
carried out inthree groups, with only Group one being engineering ready at project start;
the time requiredfor biddingandcontracting; and, the fact that the construction seasonis
limitedto about eight months per year inview o f the heavy rainy season, November
through February. Second, there were problems with counterpart funding during 2003-
2004, due to temporary problems inGoias's fiscal situation. There was also a potential
third cause o fdelay relatingto the environmental component, butthe PPARmission
encountered disagreement among the various agencies' staff on this matter. Onthe one
hand, AGETOP personnel arguedthat a major cause o fdelays was the implementation
complexity o fthe environmental component which (i)       involved a large number o f
individual contracts (over 30) andthe attendant time requiredto process them, and (ii)
requireda difficult coordination for the preparationo fthe consultants' terms o freference
betweenthe technical agency responsible for the substance o f the consulting contracts,
AGMA, with SEMARH,the environmentalpolicy agency ofthe state, and withthe
implementing agency AGETOP. On the other hand, SEMARHstaff argued that the
preparation o fthe terms o freference was expeditiously done, and that it was AGETOP,
as the implementing agency, that had delayed the procurement o f consultants.

3.4     Performance-Based Maintenance Contracts. This activity was carried out as
expected, and the experience to date has beensuccessful. Itrepresents an important
change inthe way to carry out routine maintenance: from force account maintenance
carried out by Goias highway personnel, to output based, performance contracts carried
out by private contractors. Further, the Goias approach, with contracts covering routine
maintenance only, i s different from what has become the classical contract model in
several LatinAmerican countries, including Brazil's federal roads, over the last 15 years.
Such contracts, inaddition to routine maintenance for a road subnetwork, include a
section for road rehabilitation, a higher cost work that attracts private contractors. The
GoiadAGETOP approach i s called 3a Via, meaningmaintenance done by third parties,
`empresas terceirizadas' inPortuguese. According to AGETOP officials, there are two or
three other Brazilian states testing the outsourcing o f routine maintenance ina way
similar to Goias', butthose pilots are so far limitedto a few road sections.

3.5     Inthe Goias model, the state was dividedinto 26 regions(the same regions
AGETOP usedwhen it was responsible for carrying out routine maintenance) and 26
different contractors were awarded contracts each to maintain a part o f Goias' state road
system. Dueto the relatively small value o f each contract, contractors ended up being
newly formed enterprises specifically to bid for such contracts.

                                             5


3.6    Dueto the interest ofthis topic for the Bankand its borrowers, more detailed
analysis andcomments on the 3aVia contracts is presentedinAnnex D of this PPAR.

3.7    Maintenance of Municipal Roads. The transfer from AGETOP of the maintenance
of municipal roadsto municipal road consortia took place as expected, and it was more
extensivethanthe two pilots foreseeninthe PAD. In2009, 127 out of Goias 246
municipalities are groupedin26 inter-municipal work consortia, known as CIMOS, the
same number reportedinthe ICR three years ago. But, the CIMOS program i s a fragile
one. On the demand side, municipalities' fiscal position i s weak, andthey are unableto
enter into stable contractswith the respectiveconsortia. (During a PPAR field visit to the
CIMOS based inthe city of Catalao, most municipalities were unableto award contracts
for more than 60 days at atime). Onthe supply side, CIMOS' maintenanceequipmenti s
old, having beenreceived from the road agency (CRISA) that existed prior to AGETOP.
CIMOS does not generate enoughrevenue from the fees it chargesto be able to finance
equipmentrenewal. Furthermore, most CIMOS personnelare from AGETOP that usedto
work inmunicipal road maintenance; AGETOP will not replace them whenthey retire.
CIMOS' problemswith staff as well as with equipment will certainly increase.

3.8    Retrenchment ofAGET0Ps Stafl As shown below, AGETOP's staff was
reducedby more than70 percent over a 10-yearperiod.


         2000      2001     2002     2003     2004    2005      2006    2007     2008    2009

Staff    4,470     3,116    2,952    2,589    1,804    1.719    1,687   ma.      ma.      1,305



3.9    Radical staff reduction programs, such as AGETOP's, usually cause significant
social disruption. This could have substantially hamperedproject implementation, but it
did not. The AGETOP staffing processproceededsmoothly, mainly because most ofthe
personnelthat were retrenchedwere temporary personnelwho worked inroad
maintenanceand found work either with CIMOS or withthe 3aVia enterprises. Staff laid
off was compensated according to Brazilianfederal law. The remaining staff reduction
was by attrition, as those who retiredwere not replaced.

3.10   A training programwas carried out, which includedstaff from AGETOP and
SEMARH.The training for AGETOP was a substantiveprogram for 40 people, carried
out over aperiod of 15 months by the well reputedUniversity of Brasilia. 39 of the
AGETOP stafftrained remainwith the agency. The program includedinter alia training
to carry out environmental monitoringactivities andvarious aspects of highway
engineering.

3.11    Environmental Management Component. The GIS mapping of sensitive and
ecologically important habitats and natural resourceswas carried out with technical
assistance provided by the World Wildlife Fund- Brazil, Conservation International, The
Nature Conservancy, and the Federal University of Goias staff and faculty members.
More than one million hectares of environmentally protectedareas for sustainable use
(APA inPortuguese) were "legally created" during project preparation and

                                              6


implementation. However, no necessary basic site infrastructure was created to
effectively protect the natural habitats and resources they contain andto indicate a
management presence inthe area.

3.12    Stakeholder involvement inproject preparation and implementationwas carried
out satisfactorily by the implementingagency, AGETOP, with support from
environmental and social communication consultants and Bank staff. A Public
Consultation Framework was developed and implementedwhich involved consulting
with affected communities and agricultural associations inmore openpublic hearings and
followed up by additional informal consultations to assess their needs, desires, and
concerns regardingplannedroad works nearby. Consultations with NGOs and other
groups incivil society were less pronounced, according to interviews with them andwith
Goias project staff.

3.13    State Reform. The project's role was primarily to finance a consultant who
provided assistanceto the newly-created(at the time o fproject launch) agency incharge
o f regulating the state utilities, known as AGR. This agency's role intransport i s limited
to passengertransport, since freight transport i s not subject to economic regulation.



4. Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)

DESIGN
4.1     The M&E framework compriseda broad list o f indicators, including four outcome
indicators and 12 intermediate outcome indicators related to the project's stated objective.
N o indicator was designedto directly measure improvement inroad transport efficiency,
the project's stated objective, but several indicatorsprovided indirect information. The
most relevant indicators were:

     e  Increase inthe proportion o f road user distance traveled on paved, good condition
        highways;
     e  Reductioninaverage land transport cost for agro-industrial exports;
     e  Increase inthe proportion o f paved network length ingood condition;
     e  Increase inthe proportion o f state highway network effectively maintained by
        private contractors;
     e  Increase inthe proportion o f state capital expenditures on roads with satisfactory
        economic rates o f return

4.2     Several other indicators were related to institutional improvements, which would
enhance the productivity o f resources and staff involved with the management o fthe road
system. Such indicators included: piloting and makingoperational inter-municipal road
consortia to be responsible for municipal roadmaintenance, implementation o f road
maintenance by contract, a proportion o f state highway network to be maintainedby
private contractors, and downsizing o f AGETOP staff.

                                                  7


4.3      All o fthe indicatorswere feasible to measure, some through accepted modeling
procedures, but the majority through direct observation. Baseline values were available.
One o fthe outcome indicators aimedto measure how landtransport costs, would, as a
result o fthe project, decrease for Goias agro-industrial exports. Such a decrease did not
take place. This was a poorly selected indicator. The ICR acknowledges this and notes
that: (i)road condition i s only a minor parameter o f landtransport costs, (ii) costs
                                                                                  such
dependon market andtrucking conditions and, (iii) roads arejust a part o fthe
                                                         project
itineraries used infreight routes.

4.4      Environment-related indicators. The M&E also included five environment-related
indicators that focused on intermediate outputs or inputs. These are discussed inAnnex
C.

4.5      State Reform Indicators. The M&E had none. Overall, M&E design was
substantial, though with caveats inrespect o fthose for the environmental and social
components.

IMPLEMENTATION
4.6      The indicators were monitoredthroughout the project. None o fthe targets were
revised duringproject implementation. All o fthe outcome indicators and some of the
most critical output indicators (such as road condition) were measured at the start and at
the end o f the project, but not afterwards, so that it was not possible for the PPAR to
update the ICR values for 2006. Due to the cost and time requiredto carry out road
condition surveys, such surveys are normally done every 2-4 years, so it i s acceptable that
AGETOP did not have updatedvalues for the PPAR mission. A similar situation
occurred with other indicators. Data on the institutional indicators were readily available,
however.

4.7      Practically all o f the indicators related to roadtransport efficiency are used for
managing the road sector, andtherefore their collection and analysis i s sustainable. M&E
implementation was substantial.

UTILIZATION
4.11 The main use o fthe M&E indicators was to monitor progress on the achievement
o f project objectives and the impact o fproject components. The indicators are also used
by state agencies for their ownplanningpurposes, including, for example, the planningof
the state's roadfreight transport andfutureactivities inthe environmentalfield. However,
all indicator values need to be updated on a regular basis ifthey are to retain their
usefulness. M&E utilization was substantial. Overall, M&E performance was substantial.

                                                8


5. Safeguards

5.1     The project at appraisal was identified as Environment Category "A" after lengthy
internal discussion among Bank staff becauseittriggered five safeguardpolicies:
Environmental Assessment, NaturalHabitats, Indigenous Peoples, Physical Cultural
Resources, and InvoluntaryResettlement. Two of the Safeguardpolicies were triggered
on the basis ofthe "precautionary principle." However, inreality, there was no
involuntary resettlement of, or impacts causedto, indigenous people. Thus, there was no
need to apply the plans and programs preparedby the project to satisfy these two
Safeguardpolicies.

5.2     The EnvironmentalAssessment (EA) SafeguardPolicy was triggered dueto the
expecteddirect and indirect impacts associatedwith road projects. A Sectoral
Environmental Assessment (SEA) was contracted out by the implementingagency,
AGETOP, with Bank support and approvalheview, which contained sevenvolumes
includingthe Executive Summary, Terms of Referencefor the Environmental Impact
Assessment (EIA), Road Sector Environmental Report, Public Consultation Manual,
Synthesis on Environmental Studiesinthe state of Goias' road program, Manual of
Environmental Regulations andNorms for Road Construction inGoias, and Basic
Guidelinesfor Involuntary Resettlement policy. The work was adequatelypreparedand
comprehensiveenoughto satisfy the EA Safeguardsrequirementsfor the first phase of
the APL.

5.3     The NaturalHabitats (NH) Safeguardspolicy was also triggered, and this
requirementwas complied with satisfactorily by the preparationof GIS-mapping of
natural habitats and resourcesfor the entire State of Goias by a consortium of well-known
andrespectedNGOs ledby a faculty member from the FederalUniversity of Goias.

5.4     The Physical Cultural Resources(PCR) Safeguardspolicy was satisfactorily met.
This was evidencedby the fact that careful preparatory surveywork revealedthe
existenceof two unique geological formations and two archeological sites that could have
potentially beennegatively affected by plannedroad improvements/rehabilitationworks,
andthat the appropriate authorities from the NationalInstitutefor Paleontology, History,
and Archeology (IPHAN) was brought into determine and execute the appropriate
actions required.This appears to have beendone well, and this close coordination
betweenAGETOP and IPHAN, when sensitive or important cultural heritage resources
are encounteredinroad work activities, i s being continued and i s successfulaccording to
interviews with AGETOP staff.

5.5     Duringprojectpreparationthere was considerable debate aboutthe relevanceof
triggeringthe IndigenousPeoplesandInvoluntaryResettlement Safeguardpolicieswithin the
Bank, which is directly pertinentto the issueofthe program's classificationas a Category "A"
project.The Quality Assurance Team (QAT) Coordinatorreviewingthe PAD for the Goias
projectrecommendeda Category "A" ratingonthe basisofthe "precautionary principle" anddue
to impacts"normally" associatedwith new construction andmajorupgradingof highways.This
characterization ofthe program's scope was challengedby bothBorrowerand Bank staff
interviewedduringthe missionas overly expansive as they stressedthe project's emphasis on
rehabilitatingandupgradingexisting, well-travelledroads inareas already converted from their

                                                 9


native habitattypes to agriculturally productive areas. Inparticular, they stressedthe diversion of
resources andtime lostto preparea ResettlementFrameworkto address potential impactson
indigenouspeoplesandresettlement plansprior to appraisal. The PPAR finds that a Category
"B" would have beenmore appropriate, since the rehabilitation andpavingwere for
existing roads inareas already converted from their native habitat types to agriculturally
productive areas. Rating the project as "B" would have allowed greater focus on more
pertinent issues and impacts.


6. Ratings

RELEVANCE
Project Development Objectives

6.1      The project supported the government's strategic planfor development (Goias
21st Century, PPA 2000-2003). The plan emphasized sustainable economic growth,
including productivity o f the agricultural and agro-industrial sectors by improving the
workers' skills and technology, and reducing transport costs as a major objective.
Improving the condition and quality o fthe road network and improving highway policies
and institutions, for which the project comprised specific activities that were, and are,
likely to improve the efficiency of the roadtransport system. The project, particularly its
institutional dimensions relating to improving transport efficiency, remains relevant to
current Bank and government objectives as reflected inthe 2008 CAS.

6.2      The road network at the start o f the project was inpoor condition as a result o f
years o f neglect o f both periodic and routine maintenance. Poor roads were a major
constraint to the state's economic development, as they hinderedthe competitiveness o f
its agricultural productionboth domestically and internationally. No major investments
devoted to improving the condition o f the existingnetwork hadbeen made inthe state for
close to 20 years. The project was also relevant to the allocation o f resources to the road
sector, as investmentsunder the project were subject to rigorous economic analysis,
contrasting an allocationthat was based, prior to the project, on political demands rather
than economic efficiency. At the time o fproject inception, the state's transport
institutions were also inthe process of carrying out major reforms, and support was
needed to help the newly created transport agency, AGETOP, improve efficiency inthe
management o fthe road system. The project's aim to help AGETOP focus on the
planning of road maintenance and investments,rather than also carrying out maintenance
with its ownpersonnel and equipment, by decentralizing (municipal roads) and
outsourcing to private contractors (state roads) would likely make AGETOP a more
efficient agency, and reduce the cost o f maintenance to the state. The project
development objective could have been crafted with more attention, however, and
covered all components with greater specificity, especially the components related to
fiscal and environmental sustainability. Nevertheless, despite this shortcoming, the
project development objective was substantially relevant.

                                               10


Design

6.3      A potential issue about the relevance o fthe road-focused components was the
balance betweenrehabilitation and periodic maintenance. It i s not clear whether a higher
proportion o f the rehabilitation and maintenance component could have beenapplied to
resurfacing only, likely yielding higher returns and preventing the need for rehabilitation
(at a later date). The fact that some o fthe roads inpoor conditionhave deteriorated
further over the project periodis anindication that insufficient periodic maintenance
(resurfacing) was performed on the network as a whole.

6.4      Onthe fiscal side, the project, via its state reform component, was intendedto
help implement the state's structural and administrative reform programs, including the
strengthening o fthe new public utility regulatory agency (AGR). The PAD notedthe role
o f the Bank duringproject preparation to ensure that Goias' fiscal position was
strengthened to the point where it would be able to fully guarantee the provision o f
counterpart funding for carrying out the project. Yet, the formulation o f the fiscal
component inthe PAD was vague. As it turned out, the reform component primarily
consisted o f the financing o f a consultant to assist with the strengthening o f the Goias'
public utility regulatory agency. However, the introductiono f the new maintenance
system also undoubtedly contributed to improving the overall fiscal condition o fthe
sector inthe state.

6.5      The project's environmental activities consisted o ftwo parts; the first was to
strengthen the implementing agency's (AGETOP'S) technical capabilities to implement
the environmental and social safeguards, as well as the state's environmental agencies at
the time AGMA and SEMARHto license roadprojects and ensure compliance with
social and environmental safeguards. The second part was to strengthenthe overall
environmental management o f the state. This was important for Goias because o fthe
rapid development of agriculture over the decade precedingthe project, the location o f
Goias inthe highcentral plains o f Brazil (known as the Cerrados), with very few
remaining forests around the rivers, andthe fact that Goias hadjust started an inventory
o f its natural resources and sensitive areas. Goias was moving to protect the state's
natural habitats more effectively. The designo f market incentives for land management
was also a positive move forward.

6.6      The timing o fthe project was sound, coinciding with changes inthe state
government andnewpolicies aimed to radically improve the state's fiscal condition.
Given that the state was highly indebtedand the federal government was taking stern
measures to improve the states' fiscal condition, the change o f policies inGoias were
necessary for the federal government to guarantee external loans, such as from the Bank.
At the same time, the reform policies were essential to support the roadproject, by
ensuring that counterpart funding would be available at the levels requiredand by
providing funding for road maintenance.

6.7      However, duringpreparation o fthe project, it was agreed that the APL approach
would be used. It was expected that the APL model would allow adequate sequencing o f
the institutional development actions andtheproject-financed works over two-phases,
while giving the Borrower andthe Bank the option to proceedto the second phase

                                              11


depending on the performance o f the project and the status o f the state's fiscal
adjustment.

6.8     PPAR mission discussions inBrasilia, though, suggested that the APL model i s
not regarded as especially useful by Brazilian authorities when applied to infrastructure
projects; the modeli s more useful for social projects, which are viewed as being `softer'
with the government more inclinedto ensure continuous dialogue, and faster transition
between program phases.

6.9     As noted inthe ICR, the Bankdecisionto use the APL approach came relatively
late inthe project preparationcycle, and included an agreement betweenthe Bank and the
State o f Goias that the APL's two phases shouldnot exceed the duration o f six years
originally envisaged for the whole program. This resulted inan unrealistically short
implementationperiod and was a major reason for the project closing two years late. In
the circumstances the APL concept did not work well.

6.10    The relevance of the design is therefore considered modest and the overall
relevance of objectives and design together is rated modest.

EFFICACY
RoadImprovements

6.11    Efficacy under the PAD'S objective o f improving the efficiency o f Goias road
transport systemwas substantially achieved,butthere were shortcomings under the
environmental management component. Roadimprovementcomponents were mostly
achieved. Better roads means that road transport services needto use less resources
(gasoline, tires, maintenance) for the same level o f output thanbefore, and therefore the
project did improve road transport efficiency. There were also improvements inthe
management o fthe road system.

6.12    Measuringefficacy directly i s not possible, but a number o f indirect indicators
confirm that efficacy was satisfactory. The large majority o f the road improvements
targetedunder the project were carried out (1,250 kilometers o frehabilitationand
resurfacing, comparedwith a target o f 1,500 kilometers, and 302 kilometers o f roads had
beenpaved by 2009, compared with a target o f 300 kilometers). These improvements
caused a significant improvement inthe quality and connectivity o f the road system, as
the proportion o fpaved roads ingood condition improved from 64 percent at appraisal to
74 percent at project completion (against a 72 percent target). Inturn, the better roads
resulted inthe proportion o f vehicle-kilometers withinGoias taking place on good
condition, pavedroads reaching 81percent, while it was only 54 percent at appraisal.
This was probably the single most importantindicator ofimprovement intransport
efficiency, and the value at the end of the project surpassedthe target (75 percent). On the
other handdeterioration inthe condition o f the poorest roads suggests neglect o fperiodic
maintenance.

                                                12


Institutional Development

6.13     Most o f the policy and institutional targets were achieved, and this further
contributed to improving transport efficiency, by improving the efficiency of road
maintenance operations, therefore enhancing the efficiency inthe allocation of resources.
Some 40 newprofessionalengineers were recruited, while many temporary personnel
who were semi-skilled or unskilledwere retrenched. The outsourcing of highway
maintenance under performance-based contracts i s inoperation inAGETOP's 26 regions,
far exceeding the projecttarget. This programhas beeninstrumentalinreducingthe cost
o f road maintenance, and inallowing AGETOP to change its focus from an operational
agency to one focusing on planningand management o f Goias state roads, and so has the
outsourcing o f municipal roads. However, (although not directly part o fthe project) the
municipal work consortium i s currently fragile becausethere are insufficient resources to
enable contracts of muchmore than60 days to be entered into. The downsizing o f
AGETOP also helped improve efficiency inthe management of the road sector, although
the total staff level (1,697 in2006 and 1,305 inMarch2009) didnot meet thetarget
(1,000 in2006).

Environmental

6.14     The project's activities on the environment fell short o f expectations. The State
didinstitutea system of GIS maps for protected areas, butthese maps havenot beenused
inameaningfulway and aweak level ofprotectionis offeredto affectedareas.
AGETOP's environmental department i s ineffect only one person (see Annex C for a
fuller explanation). Sustainability o fthe relevant agencies' capacity to effectively
perform their functions continues to be weak. Only one third o f the estimated expenditure
for this component was actually spent, which means the capability remains fragile.

State Reform

6.15     With Bank support the state reformprogram, particularly the privatization
program, has moved forward. A state regulatory agency (AGR) has been established and
withinthe framework o fthe project AGR has beenstrengthened withthe preparation of
appropriate regulatory instruments, and with training o f agency staff and supply of
computer hardware, software and equipment. The agency's role intransport i s limited to
passengertransport, since freight transport i s not subject to economic regulation.
However, the new maintenance system hada positive effect on the Goias' fiscal situation.

EFFICIENCY
6.16     Improvement o f the roadtransport system's efficiency was highly achieved.
Estimatedeconomic rates of return were highfor rehabilitation, 99 percent (94 percent at
appraisal) and satisfactory for paving, 23 percent (63 percent at appraisal). The lower
thanexpected (butstill satisfactory) returnofthe pavingwork was due mainly to a
significant increase inconstruction costs (While roadrehabilitation generally yields high
rates o freturn, the very highvalues inthe Goias project suggest some overestimation o f
benefits, probably resulting from overly pessimistic assumptions should the rehabilitation
not take place). At the same time, the percentage o f state highway expenditureswith rates

o f returno f over 12 percent increased from 10 percent at start o fthe project to 49 percent
at completion.

6.17    Further, the transfer o f municipal roads to the CIMOS program and the
outsourcing o f the maintenance o f Goias state roads to private contractors have increased
the efficiency of AGETOP operations, substantially reducing its costs related to the
maintenance o f municipal and o f state roads as evidenced inAnnex D.At the same time,
AGETOP's effectiveness has improved, as it now operates with a staff that i s close to one
thirdthe level ithadat the start ofthe project.

OUTCOME
6.18    The overall outcome rating of satisfactory i s based on ratings o f modest
relevance, substantial efficacy and highefficiency. However, the shortcomings inproject
designmake this a marginal call.

RISKTO DEVELOPMENT           OUTCOME
6.19    The PPAR downgrades the risk to development outcome rating inthe ICRto
moderate because of the potential risks associated with the inadequate funds for road
maintenance especially inthe municipalities and because of the nonutilization o fproper
economic models for rankingfuture road investments.

6.20    Regardingthe risksrelated to the project financed investments, and whether
benefits may cease, or drop, prematurely, there are two sides. Onthe positive side, the
demand for roadtransport is likely to continueto grow, AGETOP clearly is capableo f
managingthe road system, and the 3a Via program has been working well for several
years now. These factors suggest that the benefits stream would be sustained. On the
negative side, there i s a risk regardingthe financing of roadmaintenance, since
inadequate financing would meana decline inthe condition o fthe road system, and
therefore a drop inthe level o f benefits. The Road Fund, which had been established at
the start o fthe project withthe specific aim ofensuring adequate financing ofroad
maintenance, was dismantled in2009. The allocationto road maintenance for this year
has been substantially improved (Table 3) and this is a signal that the Goais state
government has the resources and i s concerned about the financing of road maintenance,
but it maybepremature to say that this trend is sustainable. Meanwhile, the adequacy o f
finance for municipal roads remains unresolved.


               2002        2003       2004       2005       2006        2007       2008      2009
                                                                                           (estimate)
TOTALa         81.3        89.4        81.8      81.3       83.1        96.0       97.3      170.1




6.2 1   The second risk factor concerns AGETOP's capacity to carry out adequate
economic analysis for its future investments. The applicationo f economic analysis was
one the project's outcome indicators, selected because o f the previous poor record o f
Goias inthe use o f economic criteria for allocating road investments. AGETOP personnel

                                                14


involved inthe running o f the HDM,the standard model for evaluating road investments,
have either left the agency or have been assigned to other functions, with the result that
AGETOP is not presently utilizing the model for the analysis o f current road investments.
A recent set o f 10 engineering alternatives to use when consideringroadimprovements,
based on economic and engineering criteria may help, but such an approach, does not
allow comparisono f the relative economic merit o f alternative interventions and does
not, therefore, allow prioritizing road interventions under budget constraints.

6.22    There was also some serious concern that although the project was compliant in
its application o f safeguard policies, there i s a strong likelihood that the opportunities
created by this initiative will be inadequately pursued. A discussion o fthe risks relating
to what was intendedto be achieved regarding the project's environment goals i s
presented inAnnex C.

BANKPERFORMANCE
6.23    Quality at entry (QAE), assessedby the Bank's Quality Assurance Group was
rated satisfactory. This was based on project design, sound M&E framework and status o f
preparation. However, the PPAR finds the design o f the project faulty, (as also discussed
underrelevance), because o fthe ambiguity between the stated objective and some o fthe
components. The time planned for the roll out o fthe institutional improvementswas also
unrealistic and the overall project completion schedule was too tight. The IEGmission
rates QAE as moderately satisfactory.

6.24    Banksupervision was characterized by an adequate frequency o fmissions and
good continuity by the Bank's team -generally increasing the size o f the supervision
teams when necessary. However, an important weakness on the environmental side was
the lack o f success by the Bank inpersuading the Borrower to spendsufficient funds on
buildingenvironmentalcapacity inthe relevant agencies or the establishment of a
management presence inthe protected areas. This resulted ina disconnection, confirmed
inthe ICR, whereby while the protected areas (APAs) hadbeen"legally created" they
had"not been implemented" meaningthat no basic infrastructure hadbeen introduced to
demonstrate the new status. Quality of supervision is rated moderately satisfactory and
the overall ratingfor Bankperformance is moderately satisfactory.

BORROWERPERFORMANCE
Governmentperformance

6.25    The Borrower was committedto the state's structural reforms and carried them
out ina way that fully met federal fiscal requirements.Although duringa couple o f years
(2003-2004) it was not able to provide the neededamount for counterpart funding, the
government's overall performance was satisfactory, especially consideringthe difficult
conditions at the start o fthe project. The Borrower also provided, with only minor gaps,
sufficient funding to sustain the 3a Via program o f outsourced routine maintenance,
which was essential to ensure the success o f the program.

6.26    Nevertheless, funding for the project's environmental activities was cut
dramatically by over 70 percent during the implementation phase from an appraisal

                                               15


estimate o f $3.7 million to an actual o f $1.1 million. Ininterviews with Bank project
staff, it was arguedthat this disparity was due to the lack of "assimilative capacity" and
"relative immaturity" o fthese functions withinboth organizations, a point admitted to by
these units in separate interviews. They also noted that funding for environmental
activities suffered more than other components duringthe two years when Goias was
unable to provide the requiredcounterpart funding. Governmentperformance was
moderately satisfactory.

Implementing Agency

6.27     The implementingagency AGETOP performedwell onthe procurement side,
despite not havingprior experience with Bank projects. No major procurementproblems
occurred and financial management was adequate, but some issues did arise regarding
preparation o f the financial management reports. Problems o f coordination arose,
however, with the environmental agencies, which had an impact on the speed and
effectiveness o fthe implementationo fthe environmental components. AGETOP
complied with the relevant environmental and social safeguards inthe project.

6.28      The environment management strengthening component was nevertheless
problematic duringproject implementation. The fundamental issues o f concern were: i)
lack o fthe establishment o f adequate and sustainable safeguard capabilities and little
mainstreaming o f such issues withinthe implementingagency and its partners, and ii)
inadequate funding for these functions to be carried out ina fully effective manner. An
example i s the failure thus far to effectively use the GIS mapping o f important and
sensitive natural areas for its intendedpurposes o f informing land-use decisions, selecting
protected areas, and screening and classifying projects. Its use has not yet been integrated
into decision-makingprocesses, thereby demonstrating that environmental considerations
have not been successfully mainstreamed.Inthe second phase o f the APL it would be
desirable for SEMARHto have better access to the funds it needs for capacity building.
Performance of the implementing agency was moderately satisfactory and overall
Borrower performance was moderately satisfactory.



7. Lessons

7.1       The ICR contains useful guidance on the importance o f satisfactory fiscal
conditions to ensure successful project implementation, the needto create positive
incentives ifdecentralization o f municipal road maintenance i s to succeed, andbetter
understandingofthe factors that facilitate successful implementationo fAPL projects.
The PPAR provides the following lessons:


          Whenroad maintenance is decentralized to municipalities, special consideration
         needs to be given tofiscal sustainability. The Goias experience with the creation
         o f an inter-municipal road consortium to provide roadmaintenanceto interested
         municipalities shows that while such an arrangement i s technically and

                                      16


institutionally feasible, the weak financial condition o f municipalities can be a
major hindrance to a sustainable arrangement.

Outsourcing routine maintenance underperformance-based contracts ispractical
and the PPAR shows it can lead to lower costs of maintenance. The model
contracts to outsource routine maintenance adopted inmany Latin American
Countries typically include a road section requiring rehabilitation-an expensive
activity- as a way to attract private contractors. The Goias experience i s
important, however, since it shows that it i s possible to outsource routine
maintenance only, that small private contractors are interested inbiddingfor such
low-cost contracts, andthat such contracts can lower the cost o f maintenance
compared to that done by the road agency personnel.


Designingproject activities outside the direct area of interest and expertise of the
implementing agency, such as strengthening environmental management through
roadprojects, can beproblematic, particularly when they are not effectively
included in a development objective and supervised accordingly. The Goias
project includedunder the environment component several activities involving the
incorporationof natural habitats on a prioritized basis within a science-based
system of protected areas. Such activities, were outside the area o f expertise o fthe
implementing agency (theroad agency AGETOP), and would require a broader
partnership for implementingthe project, including natural resource and
environmental protectionagencies, as well as more involvement and participation
by universities, environmentalNGOs and community-basedorganizations incivil
society. When such components are added, they should be clearly matched to a
project objective and their achievement carefully monitored.

                                                17


Annex A. BasicData Sheet

BRAZILGOIASSTATEHIGHWAY MANAGEMENT PROGRAM(LOAN4636-BR)

Key Project Data (amounts in US$million)
                                              Appraisal       Actual or       Actual as % of
                                              estimate     current estimate appraisal estimate
Total project costs                                130.0               120.5         93
Loan amount                                          65.0              64.4          99
Cancellation                                                            0.6          0.5
Economic rate of return (%)                           85               78a/
a/ Weighted average of rehabiltationandpaving

Project Dates
                                                     Original                   Actual
Appraisal                                          12/15/2000                 03/26/2001
Negotiations                                      05/14/2001                  05/21/2001
Board approval                                    03/15/2001                  08/23/2001
Effectiveness                                     03/26/2002                  03/26/2002
Closing date                                       12/31/2004                 12/31/2006


Staff Inputs(staffweeks)
 (c) Staff Time and Cost
                                                Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
         Stage of ProjectCycle                No. of Staff Weeks          USD Thousands
                                                                        (includingtravel and
                                                                          consultantCosts)
 Lending
                    FY98                                                                   4.98
                    FY99                                                                   5.64
                    FYOO                                         9                        64.28
                    FYOl                                        42                       168.98
                    FY02                                        18                        25.67
                    FY03                                                                   0.16
                    FY04                                         2                         0.78
                    FY05                                                                   0.00
                    FY06                                                                   0.06
                   FY07                                                                   0.00
                                      Total                     71                      270.55
 SupervisionllCR
                   FY98                                                                   0.00
                   FY99                                                                   0.00
                   FYOO                                                                   0.00

               18


FYOl                         0.00
FY02                 11     71.77
FY03                 12     53.81
FY04                 14     83.32
FY05                 28     92.83
FY06                 20    110.17
FY07                 12     39.78
       Total         97    451.68

                                             19


Mission Data
        Names                    Title           Unit      ResponsibilitylSpecialty
Lending
Rodrigo Archondo-       Highway Engineer       TUDTR   Economic Analysis
Callao
Vitor Bellia           Consultant              LCSPS   Environmental Aspects
Jose August0 Carvalho Consultant               LEGLA   Legal Aspects
Jacques L. Cellier     Consultant              LCSFT   Team Leader
Tulio Henrique Lima     Financial Management   LCSFM   Financial Management
Correa                 Specialist
Ademildes De           Operations Officer      LCSHE   Operational Aspects
Mendonca Dantas
William R. Dillinger    Lead Public Sector     ECSPE   Public Sector Mgt.
                        Management
Teresa Genta-Fons       Lead Counsel           LEGLA   Legal Aspects
Daniel R. Gross        Consultant              LCSEN   Safeguards
Efraim Jimenez          Lead Procurement       LCSPT   Procurement
                       Specialist
Aymeric-Albin Meyer    Sr. Transport. Spec.    LCSFT   Technical Aspects
Adriana Moreira        Sr. Biodiversity Spec.  LCSEN   Environmental Aspects
Robert Mosse           Consultant              EAPCO   Environmental Aspects
Catarina Isabel Portelo Counsel                LEGLA   Legal Aspect
Jean-Claude Sallier    Consultant              LCSFT   Technical Aspect
SupervisionllCRLEGLA
Rodrigo Archondo-       Highway Engineer       TUDTR
Callao
Jacques L. Cellier     Consultant              LCSFT   Inst. & Economic Aspects
Flavio Chaves           Research Analysts      LCC5C   Environment Aspects
Tulio Henrique Lima     Financial Management   LCSFM   Financial Management
Correa                 Specialist
Elisabeth Goller       Transport. Spec.        LCSFT   General Project Mgt. & ICR
Jose C. Janeiro        Sr. Financial           LCSFM   Financial Management
                       Management Spec.
Eric R. Lancelot       Transport Spec.         LCSFT   Technical Aspects
Aymeric-Albin Meyer    Sr. Transport. Spec.    LCSFT   Team Leader
Jean-Claude Sallier    Consultant              LCSFT   Technical Aspects
Tatiana Cristina 0.de  Finance Assistant       LOAGI   Financial Management
Abreu

                                              20


Annex B. ProjectComponents and Cost

                Component                   Appraisal   ActuaV      Percent
                                            Estimate    Latest      of
                                             (US$      (US$         Appraisal
                                            millions)   million)    (%I
1. Highway Rehabilitation andMaintenance          62.20       77.20     124.12
       1.500 km of Davednetwork
2. Highway Paving                                 40.10       37.60      93.77
       300 km of roads linking agro-
       industrial centers to major highways
       or multimodal corridors
3. Highway Policy and Institutional                3.30        3.50     106.06
   Development
       StrengthenState's Roads
       ManagementCaDacitv
4. Environmental Management                        3.70        1.10      29.73
       StrengthenAGMA
       Prepare Environmental Protection
   Plan
       Implement First Phase of Plan
5. State Reform Component                          0.80        0.50      62.50
      SupportImplementation of State's
   Structural andAdministrative Reforms
   Total BaselineCost                            110.10

   PhysicalandPrice Contingencies                 19.30

   Front-End Fee IBRD                              0.60        0.60
TOTAL                                            130.00      120.50

                                               21


Annex C:EnvironmentalManagement

1.       This Annex comments on the implementation andachievements o fthe project's
environmental management component. This component did not support the project's
objective, but hadvalue initself because it was intendedto strengthen Goias' capacity for
ensuring compliance with safeguards and for overall environmental management o f the state.

2.       The EnvironmentalManagement component consisted o fthree parts: i)the GIS
mapping o f environmentally sensitive areas inGoias to serve as a basis for screening the
potential impacts o fprojects, ii)strengthen capacity to review environmental assessments
and license works, supervisethe implementationo f environmental management plans, and
monitor and evaluate the environmental impacts o f the project; and iii)to establish the
environmental protection areas o f Serra das Gales and o f Serra da Bocaina, including the
construction o f the areas' necessary basic infrastructure.

3.       The GIS mapping of sensitive and ecologically important habitats andnatural
resources was successful. The mapping was conducted at a highlevel o f professionalquality
withtechnical assistanceprovidedby World Wildlife Fund-Brazil, Conservation
International, The Nature Conservancy, and the Federal University o f Goias staff and faculty
members. However, interms o f it being usedto its full potential as the powerful and fonvard-
looking tool that it i s for biodiversity and critical natural habitat conservation, this was not
achieved during the first phase o f the program. It i s now expected to happen inthe APL's
2nd phase currently under discussion betweenthe State o f Goias and the World Bank.The
protected areas that were created during the preparation and implementationperiod o fthe 1st
phase of the program were not selected on the basis o f the results o fthis analysis since they
had already been decided upon prior to the completion o fthe GIS mapping in2004.
Therefore, their selection could not have been informed by the analysis and, according to
PPARinterviews, were based more on political and economic grounds as areas less suitable
to mechanized agriculture. Hopefully, this tool will be put to full use for the purpose for
which it was developed: to generate the scientific basis for selecting new protected areas or
consolidating existing ones with the State's system o f protected areas (SEUC).

4.       Regarding SEMARH's (thencalled AGMA) capacity to screen, review and license,
supervise, and monitor and evaluate road projects inGoias, the achievement of that objective
i s barely functional, tenuous and likely not sustainable. Ininterviews with key AGETOP and
SEMARH staff involved inthese functions, none o fthem professed any sentiments that
acceptably functional, stable, or sustainable environmentalunitshad yet been established
withinthese institutions, andthat further strengtheningo fthem with the attendant resources,
staff, andtraining was required. Inaddition, all mentioned strong political pressures and
unrealistic timeframes and workloads placedupon them were symptomatic o fthe failure to
mainstream their functions within the larger, political structures o ftheir organizations.

                                                22


5.      The establishment o fenvironmentalprotectionareas, includingthe constructiono f
the areas' necessary basic infrastructure, was carried out, although with qualifications. More
thanone millionhectares ofenvironmentalprotectedareas for sustainable use (APA in
Portuguese) were "legally created" duringproject preparationand implementation. However,
no "necessary, basic infrastructure" was created to effectively protect the natural habitats and
resources they contain. Environment-relatedindicators. The output indicators were generally
acceptable, and included completion o f a GIs-based map o f environmentally sensitive areas,
program o f consolidation and expansion o fthe state's legally protectedareas, technical
support o f SEMARH's screening, supervision and monitoring systems, and increasing the
total area o f legally established environmentalprotection areas. However, the lack o f
outcome indicators was a significant drawback. Outcome indicators could have been
included to demonstrate the existence o f voluntary agreements, land easements, or
conditional use o f privateproperties located within protected areas, management plans and
programs to supplement the legal designation o f protected areas as such, or to actually use
the GIs-basedtargeting andprioritizationscheme to select future protected areas andparks
withinthe context o fthe larger system(i.e., SEUC).

6.      The Natural Habitats (NH) Safeguards policy was triggered, and this requirement was
complied with satisfactorily by the preparation o f GIs-mapping o f natural habitats and
resources for the entire State o f Goias by a consortium o f well-known and -respected NGOs
ledby a faculty memberfrom the Federal University o f Goias. While the output indicator
required to satisfy the NHSafeguards policy was met (Le., "Map o f environmentally
sensitive areas completed"), the actual outcome achieved as a result of this impressiveeffort
was less thanoptimal or reasonable to expect. Therefore, it is hopedthat inthe 2nd phase o f
this road management program inGoias, the results o fthis mapping o f priority natural
habitats will be used to inform decisions involving the selection o fprotectedareas as part o f
the larger State System o fProtected Areas (SEUC) inGoias, andthat they will also beused
to determine the most appropriate level o f legal protection (i.e., a higher level U C
designation) provided those areas to ensure their biological integrity and conservation. In
addition, enforcement o f compliance by SEMARH i s still lacking and the effective protection
and conservation o fprotectedareas is not credibleat this time due to a continuedlack of
effective and meaningful institutional capacity within AGETOP and SEMARH. Therefore,
economic incentives as an alternative to the command-and-control approach currently being
used should be pursued to increase the likelihood that adequate funds will be raised to
support the effective management o f these areas. Presently, the funds raised through a tax for
environmental improvements (Le. TFAGO) inthe state o f Goias have been steadily falling,
not increasing, over the past several years. Secondly, economic instruments must be created
to provide more incentives and reduce the transaction costs for private land-owners to meet
their 20 percent set-aside requirementsunder Brazil's Forest Code. The concept ofcreating a
"Bolsa Verde" i s being developed, and greater importance and resources should be devoted
to achieving the potential results that such an approach i s capable o f producing. However,

                                               23


this effort should be measured interms o f a results-based PDO and IR indicators, and not by
simple inputsor outputs that can be complied with little meaningful change or impact.

7.       Efficiency inachieving the project's implicit environmental goals was very low. This
i s because, as shown inthe ICR, the indicators were not met ina timely fashion, and there i s
no evidence to point to that would suggest that the results o f these indicators ever resulted in
any change inpolicies or activities. For instance, the "request for proposal" to map
environmentally sensitive areas inthe state o f Goias was approved inmid-2001, but not
completed untilthe end o f 2004. An analysis of this type normally can be done inthree to six
months, and had it been done earlier inthe project cycle, it mighthave had more influence
over the selection o f sites for designation as APAs. Likewise,another indicator mentions that
an "implementation plani s ready," but it didn't indicate whether that planhadbeenused or if
it still continues to be usedfor its intendedpurpose. Finally, another indicator statedthat the
"screening, supervision, and monitoring system" inAGMA (now called SEMARH) was ina
"test phase,". .. butthat the "system i s expected to be fully operational by project end, which
will mean a 100percent achievement" ofthe indicator. That assertion cannot be accepted at
prima facia.

8.       The PPAR finds the sustainability ofthe relevant agencies' capacity to effectively
perform their environmental screening, review, supervision, and monitoring and evaluation
functions to be weak. Both agencies (i.e., AGETOP and SEMARH) environmental safeguard
unitswere found to beweak andmarginalized withinthe larger, political decision-making
processes o fthe organizations. The newly created environmental review departmentswithin
AGETOP and SEMARHare minimally staffed. The environmental department within
AGETOP i s ledby a highly competent and committed engineer who serves as the only
environmental specialist for all o f AGETOP's road work projects, the only one out o f 70 road
engineers employed by AGETOP! There are two assistants, who appear to have limited
training, to effectively carry out their functions. InSEMARH, the picture i s better, but still
not stable, mainstreamed, or reliably sustainable.


                                                  25




Annex D: Performance Based Maintenance Contracts F o r
Routine Maintenance'


1.      This Annex provides details o fthe contracts for routine maintenance launched under
a Word Bankroadproject inGoias (Loan -4636-BR) by AGETOP, the Goias transport
agency, soon after its creation at the start o fthe 2000s. Untilthat time, routine maintenance
inGoias was carriedout by force account by AGETOP's predecessors, two agenciesknown
as CRISA and DER-GO.

2.      Approaches to Road Maintenance. The AGETOP approach, consisting of
performance based maintenance contracts ofroutine maintenance only, is different from what
has become the more classical form o fperformance based maintenance contracts inmany
Latin American countries, and including Brazil's federal road system. Such classical systems
use contracts for a road subnetwork, normally of some 200 kilometers inlength, comprising a
section to be rehabilitated (around a quarter of the length o f the subnetwork) and the
remainderto receive routine maintenance. Such contracts were first launched inArgentinain
the 1990s, where they were labeled CREMAS (Contratos para Recuperacion y
Mantenimiento, or Contracts for Rehabilitationand Maintenance).

3.      The principles behindthe CREMAs are that private contractors are not generally
interested inroutine maintenance, an activity which i s labor intensive and low-cost per
kilometer. The section to be rehabilitatedi s what attracts contractors to such type o f
maintenance contracts. The contractor becomes responsible for maintaining the whole road
subnetwork at predefinedstandards, over a period, generally 3-5 years. Finesare applied
whenthe contractor does meet the standards.

4.      Thus, the novelty inthe AGETOP contracts is that they are for routine maintenance
only. The AGETOP contracts are knownas 3a Via, meaningmaintenance done by third
parties, `empresas terceirizadas' inPortuguese. The 3a Via contracts are, as the CREMAS,
also performance based, with standards determined by measuring a number o f important
variables, such as the patching ofpotholes, that define the quality ofthe maintenance work
done. The first phase of the AGETOP program took place during2001-2006, and the second
phase i s under way in2009.




1This Annex is basedon informationprovidedby AGETOP staff, supervisionconsulting company RTA, and
RTA's report: RelatorioSintetico de Atividades do Program3a Via, Fase11, Febereiro2009.

                                                   26


5.        According to informationprovided by AGETOP officials, there may be one or two
other states inBrazil that are testing an approach similar to Goias, but they are so far limited
to a few, pilot road sections of those states' roadnetworks.

6.        Key Features of the Goias Program. Inthe first phase o fthe 3a Via Program, the state
o f Goias was divided into 26 subnetworks, corresponding to the same subregions that existed
whenroutine maintenance was carriedout by force account. At the start ofthe Program,
those state roads inthe worst condition were included for rehabilitation under the Bank's
Goias highway project. Underthe Bank project, the original intention was for Goias to select
a pilot subnetwork for testing the AGETOP approach to routine maintenance under the 3a
Via. Inpractice, however, AGETOP decided to skip the pilot and launch the maintenance by
contract simultaneously inathe whole o f Goias state roads network.

7.        The first phase o f the program hadthe following characteristics:

          26 regions
          Kilometers covered: 20,700 (inround numbers), that is, the whole extension o fthe
Goias state roads, divided into 9,500 paved and 11,200 unpaved
          5-year contracts
          2-5 bids were received, depending on the region
          the unitprice perkilometer turned out to be very similar for all the winning contracts,
withprice variations inthe order o f 10percent

8.       All companies biddingwere newly formed companies, established especially to bidin
the AGETOP routine maintenance program. As could be expected, there was a wide range in
the quality ofthe companies, althoughmost managed to comply reasonably well with
contract terms. O fthe 26 contracts awarded, three hadto be rescinded due to contractor's
performance, andwere subsequently awarded to the second lowest bidder.

9.        Supervision o f the contractors is carried out by AGETOP personnel, with one
supervision engineer assigned for each region. Inaddition, a private company has been
recruited to provide independent supervision, and provide AGETOP with monthly reports on
the performance o f contractors

10.      Cost and Financing. Inorder to ensure reliable funding to pay the contractors, at the
start o f the Program's first phase, the state o f Goias established a Transport Fund, a dedicated
fundfed by aportionofthe state's vehicle registration tax. While the arrangement worked
well duringmost of the first phase, there was period in2007 where funding didnot reachthe
necessary levels. The fundwas abolishedin2009 under a state-wide fiscal restructuring, but
AGETOP's 2009 maintenance budget shows significant increase over the past years,
explained by improvements inthe state's fiscal condition inrecent years and especially in
2008 and expected for 2009.

                                              27


 11.     Data for the 24 months betweenJanuary 1,2007 and December31,2008 shows the
 following:


                      Item                                Amount inR$ million
 Actually paidby AGETOP                                           96.35
 Fines (non compliance with standards)                            12.15
 Deductions (road sections undergoing                             19.88
 rehab)
 TOTAL ifno fines or deductions                                   128.38
 Monthly average                                                  5.35

12.      Overall, the program has shownto be cost effective. AGETOP reports that prior to
the 3aVia Program, for a similar network it cost AGETOP about R$10 milliodmonthto carry        .
out routine maintenance,while under the 3a Via it only costs about R$5 milliodmonth. While
either number may not be very precise, especially the cost when AGETOP carried out
maintenanceby force account, they give a good idea of the level of savings achievedthrough
the Program.

13.      Road ConditionMeasures and Compliance. The table below shows the variables
covered by contracts, and the range of compliance of each variable.

3a Via Program, Program Variables and ComplianceLevels
              Variables Measured                    ~Percent executed (excluding outliers)
 Patching of Potholes                                             70-98
 Resurfacing, including base                                     65-100
 Sealinn of cracks                                                0-100
 Vertical signs                                                  25-100
 Cut vegetation near road                                         33-90
 Clean drainage                                                  20-100
 Shoulder repair                                                 40-100
 Pain drainage                                                   70-100
 Grading (unpaved roads)                                         65-100
 Regravel (u.r.)                                                 30-100
 Clear traffic blocked points (u.r.)                             60-100
 Maintenance wood bridges (u.r.)                                 65-100
 Clean culverts (u.r.)                                           80-100
 Signaling (u.r.)                                                85-100

 14.         Itis not clear the extent to whichthe measurementsshown inthe table actually
 meet AGETOP standards.Monthly supervision reportsprovide more details of performance
 quality, suggestingthat there areproblems with compliance. For example, a field visit
 revealedthat while potholes are patched, andtraffic speeds are high, the patching appears to

                                                  28


consist o f filling the holes with asphalt, but limited to potholes only. Incontrast, standards
call for cutting a larger area than the pothole, and patching that entire area.

15.     Conclusions. The 3a Via Programappears to be more successful than could have been
expected, especially since it was launched without the benefit o f a pilot that would have
helpedfine-tune the designo fthe program. While there are issues o fquality, routine
maintenance i s being carried out, allowing faster speeds, reducing vehicle operating costs and
slowing down surface deterioration. Further, this i s being accomplished at a cost substantially
lower thanwhen maintenance was done by force account. The second phase o f the program,
now underway, should provide additional informationto judge performance and adjust the
program design or supervision ifnecessary. A potential issue is whether the elimination o f
the fundwill result inlower funding for roadmaintenance, althoughthis is not expectedto
happen in2009.

