                                    Document of
                                The World Bank



                                                                      Report No. 39843




             PROJECT PERFORMANCEASSESSMENT REPORT


                                    INDONESIA

      SECONDAGRICULTURALRESEARCH MANAGEMENT PROJECT
                      (CPL-38860; SCL-38866; SCPD-3886s)

DECENTRALIZEDAGRICULTURALAND FORESTRY EXTENSION PROJECT
                        (IDA-32800; TF-26727; SCL-45100)


                                    June 1,2007




     "Everyfarm is an experiment station, and everyfarmer is the Director thereof"
                            George Warren,Cornell, 1905

         "Toteach a dog a new trick,youfirst have to know more than the dog."
                     HeavyKohlmeyer, PurdueUniversity, 1957




Sector, Thematicand GlobalEvaluation Division
Independent Evaluation Group

CurrencyEquivalents(annual averages)

Currency Unit =Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)

                                 Rp. 2,249
                                 Rp. 2,342
                                 Rp. 2,909
                                 Rp. 10,014
                                 Rp. 7,855
                                 Rp. 8,422
                                 Rp. 10,261
                                 Rp. 9,311
                                 Rp. 8,577
                                 Rp. 8,939
                                 Rp. 9,705


Fiscal Year

 Government:             April 1-March 31




Director-GeneralEvaluation                       : Mr.VinodThomas
Director,IndependentEvaluationGroup              : Mr.AjayChhibber
Manager, Sector,Thematic and GlobalEvaluation    : Mr.AlainBarbu
TaskManager                                      : Mr. ChrisGerrard
Consultant                                       : Mr.WilfiedCandler

     IEGMission:Enhancingdevelopmenteffectivenessthroughexcellenceand independenceinevaluation.


About this Report
     The IndependentEvaluationGroupassessesthe programsandactivities of theWorld Bankfor two purposes:first,to
ensurethe integrityof the Bank's self-evaluation processandto verify that the Bank'swork is producingthe expected
results, andsecond, to helpdevelopimproveddirections, policies, and proceduresthroughthedisseminationof lessons
drawnfrom experience. As partof thiswork, IEGannuallyassessesabout25 percentof the Bank's lendingoperations.In
selectingoperationsfor assessment, preferenceisgivento thosethatare innovative, large, or complex;thosethat are
relevantto upcomingstudiesor countryevaluations;thosefor which ExecutiveDirectorsor Bank managementhave
requestedassessments; andthosethat are likelyto generateimportantlessons. The projects,topics, andanalytical
approaches selectedfor assessmentsupport largerevaluationstudies.
     A ProjectPerformanceAssessment Report(PPAR) is basedon a review of the ImplementationCompletionReport
(a self-evaluationby the responsibleBank department)andfieldwork conducted by IEG. To preparePPARs, IEGstaff
examine projectfiles and otherdocuments, interviewoperationalstaff, and in mostcasesvisit the borrowingcountryfor
onsite discussionswith project staff and beneficiaries.The PPARtherebyseeks to validate and augmentthe
informationprovidedinthe ICR,as well as examine issuesof special interestto broaderIEGstudies.
     EachPPARis subject to a peer review processand IEGmanagementapproval. Once cleared internally,the PPAR
is reviewedby the responsibleBankdepartmentand amendedas necessary.The completedPPAR is then sent to the
borrowerfor review; the borrowers' commentsareattachedto the documentthat is sent to the Bank's Boardof
ExecutiveDirectors.After an assessment report has beensentto the Board, it is disclosedto the public.


About the IEG RatingSystem
     The time-testedevaluation methods used by IEGaresuited to the broad rangeof theWorld Bank'swork. The
methodsoffer both rigorand a necessarylevel of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or sectoral
approach. IEGevaluatorsall apply the same basic methodto arriveat their project ratings. Followingis the definition
and ratingscale usedfor each evaluationcriterion(moreinformationis available on the IEGwebsite:
http:lhnrorldbank.org/oedleta-mainpage.html).
     Relevanceof Objectives: The extent to which the project's objectives are consistentwith the country's current
development prioritiesandwith current Bank countryand sectoralassistance strategies and corporategoals
(expressedin PovertyReductionStrategy Papers, CountryAssistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers, Operational
Policies). Possibleratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
     Efficacy: The extent towhichthe project's objectiveswere achieved, or expectedto beachieved,taking into
account their relativeimportance.Possibleratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
     Efficiency: The extent to whichthe projectachieved, or is expectedto achieve, a returnhigherthan the
opportunitycost of capitaland benefitsat least cost comparedto alternatives. Possibleratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible. This ratingis notgenerallyappliedto adjustmentoperations.
     Sustainability: The resilienceto risk of net benefitsflows over time. Possibleratings: HighlyLikely, Likely,
Unlikely, HighlyUnlikely, Not Evaluable.
     InstitutionalDevelopmentImpact: The extent towhich a projectimprovesthe ability of a country or regionto
make moreefficient, equitableandsustainable useof its human, financial, and natural resourcesthrough: (a) better
definition,stability,transparency, enforceability,and predictabilityof institutionalarrangementsandlor (b) better
alignment of the missionand capacityof an organizationwith its mandate, which derives from these institutional
arrangements. InstitutionalDevelopment Impact includesboth intendedand unintendedeffects of a project.Possible
ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
     Outcome: The extenttowhich the project's major relevantobjectiveswere achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. Possibleratings: HighlySatisfactory, Satisfactory, ModeratelySatisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory,HighlyUnsatisfactory.
     BankPerformance: The extent to whichservices providedby the Bank ensuredquality at entryand supported
implementationthroughappropriate supervision(includingensuringadequatetransitionarrangementsfor regular
operationof the project). Possibleratings: HighlySatisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory,Highly Unsatisfactory.
     BorrowerPerformance: The extenttowhich the borrower assumedownershipand responsibilityto ensure
qualityof preparationand implementation, and compliedwith covenantsand agreements, towards the achievementof
developmentobjectives and sustainability. Possibleratings: HighlySatisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory,Highly
Unsatisfactory.


Contents

PRINCIPAL RATINGS           ..........................................................................................................................V

KEY STAFF RESPONSIBLE                 ................................................................................................................    V


ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS                          .................................................................................................    VI


PREFACE .........................................................................................................................................VII

SUMMARY   ..........................................................................................................................................      IX


1
.     AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EXTENSIONIN INDONESIA                                                           .........................................I

2
.     PROJECTOBJECTIVES. COMPONENTS. AND DESIGN                                                    .....................................................3

      Project Objectives and Components                           .....................................................................................    3

      Project Design and Implementation                         .......................................................................................4

3.    PROJECT RATINGS: OVERALL OUTCOME                                        ..........................................................................8

      Relevance:Were the Projects' Objectives and Design Appropriate?                                                     ................................9
          SecondAgricultural ResearchManagementProject                               .........................................................................
                                                                                                                                                           9
          DecentralizedAgricultural and Forestry ExtensionProject..............................................................10

      Efficacy: Didthe Projects Achieve their Stated Objectives?                                           ............................................1
          SecondAgricultural ResearchManagementProject                               .......................................................................11
          DecentralizedAgricultural and Forestry Extension Project                            ..............................................................I
                                                                                                                                                            I

      Efficiency     ..............................................................................................................................14
          SecondAgricultural ResearchManagementProject.......................................................................                             14
          DecentralizedAgricultural and Forestry Extension Project..............................................................14


4.    INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT IMPACTAND SUSTAINABILITY                                                             ..................................15

      Institutional Development Impact                       ........................................................................................ 15
          SecondAgricultural ResearchManagementProject.......................................................................                             15
          DecentralizedAgriculturaland Forestry Extension Project                             ..............................................................
                                                                                                                                                          15

      Sustainability       ..........................................................................................................................    16
          SecondAgricultural ResearchManagementProject                               .......................................................................
                                                                                                                                                          16
          DecentralizedAgriculturaland Forestry Extension                          ..........................................................................
                                                                                                                                                          16


5.    BORROWERAND BANK PERFORMANCE                                         ..........................................................................    16

      Borrower Performance                 .........................................................................................................     16
          SecondAgricultural ResearchManagementProject                               .......................................................................16
          DecentralizedAgriculturaland Forestry Extension Project                             ..............................................................
                                                                                                                                                          17

      Bank Performance              .................................................................................................................    18

          Second AgriculturalResearchManagement Project                       .......................................................................
                                                                                                                                                  18
          DecentralizedAgricultural and Forestry ExtensionProject                      ..............................................................18


       MONITORINGAND EVALUATION(M&E)                               ............................................................................19

       Second Agricultural Research ManagementProject                                 ......................................................... 19
       DecentralizedAgriculturaland Forestry ExtensionProject                                     .............................................20

7
.      LESSONS   ...............................................................................................................................20

ANNEX A .BASIC   DATASHEET             .......................................................................................................23




Table 1
      .DevelopmentObjectives              and Outcome of ARMP 11                     ............................................................8
Table 2 DevelopmentObjectivesand Outcome of DAFEP
      .                                                                             ............................................................. 9
Table 3 FinancialAnalysis of Sample FMA Interventionsin DAFEPvillages
       .                                                                                                           .............................13

Principal Ratings

SECONDAGRICULTURALRESEARCH                    MANAGEMENT            PROJECT(LOANNO.38860)

                                       iCR*                         ICR Review*                         PPAR

Outcome                            Satisfactory                      Satisfactory                    Satisfactory

Sustainability                         Likely                           Likely                           Likely

InstitutionalDevelopment            Substantial                      Substantial                     Substantial
Impact

Bank Performance                   Satisfactory                      Satisfactory                    Satisfactory

BorrowerPerformance                Satisfactory                      Satisfactory                    Satisfactory




                                       ICR*                         ICR Review*                          PPAR

Outcome                            Satisfactory              ModeratelyUnsatisfactory        ModeratelySatisfactory

Sustainability                         Likely                      Non-evaluable                         Likely

InstitutionalDevelopment               Modest                           Modest                       Substantial
Impact

Bank Performance                   Satisfactory                    Unsatisfactory                  Unsatisfactory

BorrowerPerformance                Satisfactory                    Unsatisfactory                  Unsatisfactory

* The ImplementationCompletion Report(ICR) isa self-evaluation by the responsibleoperationaldivision of the Bank. The ICR
Reviewis an intermediateIndependentEvaluationGroup (IEG) productthat seeks to independentlyverify the findingsof the
ICR.



Key Staff Responsible

SECONDAGRICULTURALRESEARCHMANAGEMENTPROJECT(LOANNO.38860)

Project                        TaskManager/Leader                  DivisionChief/                CountryDirector
                                                                   Sector Director

 Appraisal                         Dirk Leeuwrik                  Anthony P. Cole                  Marianne Haug

 Completion                        Dely Gapasin                    Mark D. Wilson                 Andrew D. Steer




Project                        TaskManager/Leader                  Division Chief/               CounfryDirector
                                                                   Sector Director

 Appraisal                         Dely Gapasin                    Geoffrey B. Fox                   Mark Baird

 Completion                       ShobhaShetty                     Mark D. Wilson                 Andrew D. Steer

Abbreviations and Acronyms

AIAT     Assessment Institutesfor AgriculturalTechnology,recentlyrenamed BPTP.
ARMP I1  SecondAgricultural ResearchManagement Project
BIPP     DistrictAgency for Agriculturaland ExtensionServices
BPP      Sub-DistrictRural Extension Center
BPTP     SeeAIAT
CAS      CountryAssistance Strategy
CGIAR    Consultative Group for InternationalAgricultural Research
DAFEP    DecentralizedAgriculturaland ForestryExtension Project
DEC      District ExtensionCommittee
ERR      InternalEconomicRate of Return
FAOICP   Food and Agriculture Organization's Cooperative Programwith the Bank
FEAT1    Farmer Empowerment throughAgriculturalTechnology and Information
FET      Field ExtensionTeam
FMA      Farmer-ManagedActivity
GDP      GrossDomestic Product
IAARD    Indonesian Agency for AgriculturalResearch and Development
ICR      ImplementationCompletionReport
IEG      IndependentEvaluation Group
IRRI     InternationalRice ResearchInstitute.
M&E      Monitoringand Evaluation
MIS      Management Information System
NCAE     National Center for AgriculturalExtension
NCFE     National Committeeon ForestryExtension
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PRA      Participatory Rural Appraisal
PPAR     Project PerformanceAssessment Report
R&D      Research and Development
RAC      RegionalAdvisory Committee
RPO      Rural Producers' Organization
SAR      StaffAppraisalReport
T&V      Training andVisit System
VAP      Village Action Plan
WATSAL   Water Resource StructuralAdjustment Loan

Preface

This is the Project PerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR) of two projects in Indonesia: the
SecondAgriculturalResearchManagement Project and the Decentralized Agricultural
Forestry and ExtensionProject.

The Second Agricultural Research Management Project (ARMP 11)was approved in
May 1995for an BRD Loan of US$63.0 million (Loan 38860). US$22.9 million was
cancelled at the Borrower's request duringthe Asian Economic Crisis 1998-99.At project
closure, 99percent of the uncancelled portion of the Loan was disbursed. Theproject was
closed in December 2002, twenty monthsbehind schedule.

The DecentralizedAgricultural and ForestryExtension Project (DAFEP) was approved in
August 1999for an IDA Credit of US$18.0 million equivalent (Credit 30040). At project
closure, 92 percent of the Credit was disbursed. Theproject was closed in March 2005, three
monthsbehind schedule.

This report is based upon areview of the projects' appraisalreports, implementation
completionreports (ICRs), legal documents, sectorreports, and project files, as well as the
findingsof an IEG mission to Indonesia from May 7-22,2006. The IEG mission spent one
week in Jakarta meeting government officials,project directors, and staffinvolvedwith the
implementationof ARMP I1 and DAFED in the IndonesianAgency for Agricultural
Researchand Development (IAARD),the central Assessment Institute for Agricultural
Technology (AIAT) in Bogor, and the National Committeeon Forestry Extension(NCFE).
The IEG mission spent the secondweek visiting project sitesin Yogyakartaand South
Sulawesiprovinces, which includedmeetingswith senior governmentofficialsresponsible
for the implementationof ARMP 11,with the Director and staff of the AIATs, and physically
in the fieldswith farmerbeneficiaries, extension and research staff, and othersinvolvedin
the implementationof DAFED. The collaborationof all persons met is gratehlly
acknowledged..

The visit to Yogyakartapermitted the IEG mission to talk with the "rich" orchid growers, and
the visit to South Sulawesiprovided an "off-Java" site, an especiallysuccessfblAIAT, and
fish-farmingactivitiesfor export. These siteswere chosen in part to allow the IEGmission to
convenientlyvisit both DAFEP villages and an AIAT supportedby ARMP 11.Farmers,
formal extensionworkers and researcherswere very open and pleased to talk about (and
show the IEGmission) what had been achieved.

In additionto verifying the outcome, institutional developmentimpact and sustainability
ratingsof the project in the context of the Bank's assistanceto agriculture and rural
development in Indonesia, the IEG mission focused on threekey issues that had emerged
from the ICRs. The first was the plausibility of the high benefitJcostratios reported in the
DAFEPproject, the secondwas the extent to which AIATs were continuingto be adequately
funded and appropriately focused, and the third was the effectiveness of the formal and
informal extension systems. The findingsof this assessmenthave also contributedto the
backgroundreview of agriculture and rural developmentfor IEG's current Country
Assistance Evaluationof Indonesia.

Following standardIEG procedures, copiesof the draft PPAR was sent to government
officials and agencies for their review and comments.No Commentswere received from the
Government.

Summary

       This is aProject PerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR) of two projects financedby
the World Bank in the Republicof Indonesia:The SecondAgriculturalResearch
Management Project (ARMP 11)and the DecentralizedAgricultural and ForestryExtension
Project (DAFEP).

        Theprincipal objectivesof the SecondAgricultural Research ManagementProject
(ARMP TI), approved in 1995,were to strengthenagriculturalresearch and development in
Indonesia's regionsby establishinganetwork of regional Assessment Institutes for
AgriculturalTechnology(AIATs), as well as some strengtheningof commodity-specific
research. The first national agriculturalresearch system, headedby the Indonesian Agency
for Agricultural Research and Development(IAARD),had been createdin 1974by
amalgamatinga disparate range of commodity-orientedresearch stationspreviously
administeredby the Directorates-Generalof Food Crops, Estate Crops, Forestry, Fisheries,
Animal Husbandryand other agencies.By 1990IAARDhad expanded to about 2,400
employees(including240 Ph.D.s and 650 M.Sc.s) and strong commodity and discipline-
orientedresearchprograms. Even so, research spendingin Indonesia as a whole represented
only 0.21 percent of agriculturalGDP, whichwas well below that of comparableAsian
countriessuch as India, Pakistan, and China (0.41 to 0.51percent), and even fbrtherbehind
developed countries(2.0 percent). The AIATs establishedby the project are located in
diverse ago-ecologicalzones, and are farmer-oriented.Additional AIATs have been
establishedsincethe project closed, one for each of the 30 provinces. These are designedto
produce and test technologicalpackages for release to the agricultural extension system and
to farmers.

        Theprincipal objectives of the DecentralizedAgricultural and ForestryExtension
Project (DAFEP), approved in 1999,were to enhance farmers' capacityto participate in
extensionactivities and to strengthenthe capacityof the district-level integrated agricultural
and forestyextension system in orderto improve farmingpractices and increasefarmers'
incomes. This was in effect (althoughnot in name) apilot project to introduce and
demonstratea decentralized,village and farmer-orientedextension service. Theproject
designrecognizedthat the diversityof farmers' needs precluded effectivetop-down
extension.The country having achieved self-sufficiencyin riceproduction in 1985,it was
now evident that higher agricultural incomeswould have to come from a varietyof non-
traditional crops attunedboth to ago-ecological zones and to individual farm situations such
as size, labor and capital availability, age and experienceof the farmer. DAFEP was an
innovativeproject with a portfolio of Farmer-Managed Activities (FMAs) including farmer
field investigations,formationof farmerstudy groups and marketing groups, field and inter-
village trips, farmer-requestedtraining and the like. An advisoryand support,but not
leadership,role was reserved for extension field staff.

        The overall outcome of ARMP I1was satisfactory. Its objectivesmeshed directly
with the Government's emergingpolicy of decentralization,the need to add (or at least
reorient) a farmingsystemselement to the IAARD's researchportfolio, and to provide the
research underpinnings for a regionalized, farmer-orientedextension service. A huge and
necessarychangehas been made in the physical plant and psychology of IAARD. Both have

been re-directed outwardstowards farmers. Ten AIATs were established and staffed and 421
peoplereceived long-termtraining, including21 to the Ph.D. level and 341 for M.Sc.
degrees. At the sametime, 800distinct studieswere supportedwithin the existingcommodity
and discipline-oriented research institutes,thus providing results for evaluationand
demonstration by the AIATs.

       The overall outcome of DAFEP was moderately satisfactory.Several stated
objectiveswith respect to support of the extension servicewere only partially achieved. In
spite of this, increasesin farm income appearto have been achieved, which was the key
impact objective. The objectiveof bringing about a paradigm shift from top-down to bottom-
up extensionwas achievedon the small scaleof this defacto pilot project. The project
demonstrated the feasibilityof a village and farmer-based extensionservice. A diverse
spectrum of innovationswas implemented with the aid of village-level grants. Ex post
evaluationof a sampleof their choices showed high benefitlcost ratios through this
innovativeapproach to extension,which is now on its way to being adopted nationwide.
However, the early closure of the project resulted in the cancellation of the intended impact
assessment surveythat could have provided more systematic evidence of project outcomes,
and that might havejustified a "satisfactory" rating.

        Sustainabilityis rated likely for both projects. Both the AIATs and district-level
integratedextensionactivities continued to be financed by the central and district
governments,respectively, evenbefore the follow-onproject (Farmer Empowerment through
Agricultural Technologyand Information)was discussed and prepared.

       InstitutionalDevelopment Impact is rated substantial for both projects as well. The
more positive assessmentfor DAFEP compared to that in the ICR rests on the Government
having extended the FMA-based extensionmodel from 20 to another 200 districts. A further
53 districts areplanned to adopt the FMA-based extensionmodel under the follow-onproject
that was approvedby the Bank's ExecutiveBoard in February2007.

       Both Bank and Borrower performanceare rated as satisfactory for ARMP 11. Careful
Bank and Borrowerprojectpreparationresulted in a very "operational" SAR that was
coupled with regular and constructivesupervisionmissions. Indonesianresearchers achieved
a paradigm shift from a disciplinaryto a "whole farm" orientation. The Bank and Borrower
successfullynegotiated a downsizingof the project after the 1997Asian financialcrisis that
was consistentwith reduced resource availability,while minimizing adverseproject effects.

       Both Bank and Borrower performancearerated as unsatisfactory for DAFEP.
Projectpreparationwas "mixed" with an ambiguous attitude toward the existingpublic
extensionsystem. Bank supervisionmissions appearnot to have recognized the high rates of
return being obtained in some farmer-managedactivities, and the Borrower's sudden
cancellation of the project minimized the opportunityto learn lessons. The latter was
particularlyharmful in what was a defacto pilot project.

       These two projects have demonstratedthe potential for high returns to innovationin
agriculture, which has the potential to become one of the more dynamic sectorswithin the
economy,with much of this dynamismbased on production for export. A strongprogram of

sectorwork would appearto be called for, coveringrecent innovationswithin the sector,
export market potential and services,and most importantlythe future of the research and
extensionsystem.Under the present circumstances,the long-termvision containedin the
DAFEP appraisal document of aminimalist public sector extension service-which would
only assist the poorest farmerswho could not obtain extension servicesfrom anyother source
-  seems questionable. That changesareneeded in how extension is deliveredis certainly
right, but the analysis of the needed changes shouldbe fromthe widestpossible perspective.
This will require substantialand serioussectorwork on the role of public and private
extension.Private firmscannotbe relied on to extend technologiesthat do not contributeto
theirbottom line, and poor farmerscannot be relied on to pay for advice,no matter how high
the (social)benefit.

        Severallessonsof both a substantive and procedural nature have emerged from this
review:

        Extension projects with grant-fundedFarmer-Managed Activities should
        provide for early recognition of highly profitable farm-levelinnovationsand for
        disseminationto otherfarmers. Suchprojects should facilitatethe timely
        identificationand disseminationof both farmer-managed and research station
        innovationsthat areprofitable.

        Research and extension projects should directly address rather than bypass the
        problemof an ineffective public sector extension service.Projectpreparation
        should include sectorwork that specificallyaddresseswhat is wrong with the existing
        system and how it can be improved.

        If a project is defacto a pilot, then designate it a pilot project.The expected
        outcomes for the DAFEP project would not have been as high if it had been
        designated apilot. Monitoringand evaluationwould have had a largerprofile, and
        alternativeapproachesto the financing of FMAs might have been used in different
        districts.

        Project appraisal documents should describenot only what activitiesare
        proposed, but also why they are proposed. The problemsthat the componentsof
        both projects were expectedto resolve were hardly addressedin either appraisal
        document. What was particularlymissingwas a discussion of farmers' needs.

        Projects should provideearly intensivetraining to local project staff on the
        application of Bank procurement guidelines in order to preventprocurement
        deficiencies.Theuse of two procurement systemsled to majoi delaysin the financing
        of the Farmer-ManagedActivities in the DAFEP project.



                                                                               Vinod Thomas
                                                                             Director-General
                                                                                   Evaluation


        Agricultural Research and Extension in Indonesia

1.1     Agriculture is a key, but lowproductivity sector of the Indonesianeconomy-
providing45 percent of Indonesia'sjobs, but only 17percent of GDP, The huge increasesin
rice yields that characterizedthe Green Revolutionare now twenty years in the past. Future
productivitygrowthis more likelyto come fiom labor leaving agricultureand from
diversifying crops and products rather than producingtraditional crops more efficiently.
Between 1993and 2003, theproportionof farm householdsproducinghorticulturalcrops
almostdoubled to 38 percent.

1.2     Thisposes major issues for the futureof the formal research and extension system.To
begin with, farmers arenow seeking information not only on how to grow their grain or
horticulturalcropsmore efficiently,but also on what crops to grow in the firstplace. In
addition, the very diversityof possiblehorticulturalcrops means that researchon anyone
cropis likely to be relatively shallow (if it exists at all)comparedto grain crops, particularly
rice. Together,these necessitate a whole change in the approachto deliveringextension.

1.3     A top-downresearch and extension system such as the Training and Visit systemmay
be able to answerthe "how" question reasonably well sincean innovationthat raises yields
without significantlyraising costs generally increases farmers' profits. The Green Revolution
wasbasicallyimplemented in such a "top down" fashion. High-yieldingvarieties of rice and
wheat that had been developed at internationallyfunded CGIAR centerswere transferred to
and further developedby nationalresearch stations for regional evaluation, and then the best
varieties were released and introduced to farmerswith the supportof the Indonesian
extension service.This canbe described as the extension as teachingparadigm.

1.4     A top-downresearch and extension systemis less able to answer the "what" question.
As the flow of yield-increasingvarieties fiom the CGIAR and national research stationshas
declined, and as consumer demand for agriculturalproducts has diversifiedaway from staple
food crops, continuedagriculturalgrowthnow relies more on improved management of the
farm as a whole,includingan appropriatemixture of crops and integratedwith livestock
production. In this situation-traditionallyknown as the "whole farm" and more recentlyas
the "farming systems" approach-the formal extensionserviceneeds to switch its focusto
helping the farmer to learn, since everyfarm differs, and sincethe farmerknows more about
his farmthan an extensionfield worker can ever know. This canbe describedas the
extensionas learningparadigm, which includesnot onlyhelping farmersto learnbut also
learningfrom farmers.

1.5     Under the extensionas teachingparadigm, extension fieldworkers relied on research
stationsor the central administrationof the extensionserviceto provide the lessons that they
shouldteachto farmers. Under the extensionas learningparadigm, extension fieldworkers
are expectedto learnboth from the research system and fiom their interactionwith farmers.
In addition, farmers' needs are expectedto help determinethe work program of the extension
worker, and the expressed needs of farmers and extensionworkers are expectedto help set
prioritieswithin the research system.

1.6     Thus, the extensionas learningparadigm is also expectedto change the conduct of
the research system as well as the extension system. Like the extension system, the research
system needs to move closer to the farmer, both physicallyin terms of establishingregional
research stations, and psychologicallyin terms of the "whole farm" or "farming systems"
approachto agriculturalresearch.

1.7     The formulation of an extension strategyunder the extensionas learning paradigm
also needs to addressthe quality, terms of employment and training of field staff. Should
extensionbe their sole occupation, or should they be specially appointed (andpaid) farmers?
Should they have more academic education,or real-life experiencethan the farmerswith
whom they work? Should they designtheir own work programs? To what extent should they
have a budget to travel and organizeevents? How should they relate to other extension
workers? To what extent shouldtheybe able to call on subjectmatter specialists? To what
extent should therebe an institutionalizedtraining system, and an in-service training
program, etc.?

1.8     There is also a potential role for the commercialprivate sectorin research and
extension in buyingproducts and in selling seeds, fertilizers, equipment, and otherinputs.
The extent of the private sectorrole vis-h-vis that of the public sectoris determined largely
by the abilityof the private sectorto appropriate or capture the extra value which they
provide. There is less scope for the private sector in improvingthe yields of open and self-
pollinated varieties,where the farmer can savehis own seed from seasonto seasonwithout
experiencinga decline in yields. There is more scope for the private sector in the case of
hybrid seeds-where farmers have to purchase a new supply of seeds each season. The
profits to be realized from annual seed salesprovide the motivation forprivate companiesto
develophigher yielding varietiesand to make sure that farmersknow of the availabilityof
these varieties.

1.9     The objectivesand the design of the two projects assessed in this PPAR were based
on the research and extension as learningparadigm. Both ARMP 11and DAFEP were
intended to radicallychangethe orientationof the research and extension systems,
respectively.ARMP I1was intended to decentralize agriculturalresearch by establishinga
network of regional Assessment Institutes for Agricultural Technology(AIATs).' DAFEP
was intended to empower farmers to decide what and how they would learn by grant-
financing"farmer-managed activities" (FMAs).




1. AIATs have recentlybeenrenamedBPTPs.The oldterminologyis used inthis report,to maintain
consistencywiththe StaffAppraisalReport andthe ImplementationCompletionReport.

        Project Objectives, Components, and Design

ProjectObjectivesand Components

2.1     The main objectiveof the ARMP IIproject was "to strengthenregional agricultural
R&D, based on local human and naturalresources, by collaboratively developingand
transferring location-specifictechnologywhich is market-orientedand client-drivento
support agribusiness and agro-industry development.Thiswould be achievedthrough the
establishmentof a network of regional AIATs, improvement of regionalresearch
management, expansionof research in priority areas, and strengthenedlinkages to local,
national, and internationalinstitutions,thereby facilitatingthe deliveryof researchresultsto
end-users."*

2.2      The objectiveof the DAFEP project was "to assist the Borrower in enhancing
farmers' capacityto participate in extension activities and in strengtheningthe capacityof the
district-level integratedagricultural and forestryextension systemwhich would promote
economicallyfeasible,environmentallysustainable,and socially acceptable farmingpractices
and increased farmers' in~ome."~

2.3      Thusboth projects aimed to strengthenthe capacity of agricultural research and
extension systemsto deliver appropriate location-specifictechnologies to farmersin orderto
improvetheirproductivity. ARMP I1aimed to strengthenregional research and development
and facilitatethe delivery of research results to farmersby establishing a network of regional
AIATs, whileDAFEP aimed to strengthenthe capacity of the district-levelagriculturaland
forestry extensionsystem and to enhancethe capacityof farmersto participate in extension
activities.

2.4      ARMP 11had fow components:

    (a) Regionalization of AgriculturalR&D (USfi53.8 million at appraisal, $25.5 million
         actual): Supportingthe establishment and operationof eight AIATs in 12provincesin
         a new regionalnetwork of 17AIATs that were expected to developstronglinkagesto
         all segmentsof the agriculturalcom~nunity.~

    (b) Institutionalizationof R&D Management at the RegionalLevel (US$17.8 million
         at appraisal,$5.6 million actual): Introducingadministrativeand management


2. StaffAppraisalReport,page 9.

3. ProjectAppraisalDocument, page 2.

4. The AIAT network is very much a "work inprogress." Originally(in the SAR),the Bank was to help support
8AIATs in a regionalsystemof 17AIATs. Later two additionalAIATs were transferred to ARMP I1from
anotherBankproject. Thenthe concept of regionalAIATs was replacedby the more politicalobjective of one
for each of the 26provinces. Then the number of provincesto receiveAIATs was increased to 30, resultingin
30 AIATs at project closing(10 supportedby the Bank loan), 12supportedby the Asian Development Bank,
andthe balance by the centralgovernment.

        procedures in the AIATs to incorporatebottom-up planning, to develop regional
        R&D masterplans, and to improvepriority setting.

   (c) Supportto Priority Commodity andDiscipline-Oriented Research (US$22.2
        million at appraisal, $19.3 million actual): Supportingpriority commodityand
        discipline-orientedresearch that would be carriedout by commodityresearch
        institutes in support of the regional R&D program.

   (d) StrengtheningR&D Collaboration (US$8.0 million at appraisal, $1.9 million
        actual): Improvingthe collaborationof Indonesian scientistswith Asia-Pacific and
        internationalresearch centers, and strengthening collaborationwith local agricultural
        stakeholders,farmers, extensionstaffs,ago-business interestsand universities.

2.5     DAFEP had three components:

   (a) EnhancingFarmers' Capacityto Participate in and Lead Extension Activities
        (US$6.19million at appraisal, $7.4 million actual): Supportingthe revitalization of
        Rural ProducersOrganizations(RPOs), providing grants for farmer-managed
        activities (FMAs), and promotingotherparticipatoryactivities.

   (b) Strengtheningthe District Extension System (US$8.2 million at appraisal, $7.8
        million actual): Introducinginstitutional and managerial reforms at the districtlevel,
        and building the capacity of extension staffin participatingdistricts. Integrating
        agriculturalextensionwith forestryand estate crop extension-estate crop extension
        having recently been moved to the Ministry of Forests.

   (c) SupportingProject Management andthe Improvement of Central Extension
        Policy(US3.6 million at appraisal,$4.6 million actual): Conductingspecial studies
        to improveextensionpolicy, in-servicetraining, and providing technical assistance.

Project Design and Implementation

2.6     ARMP I1was designedto extend the reach of the national agriculturalresearch
systemby establishingregional applied research stations,known as Assessment Institutes for
AgriculturalTechnology(AIATs). This was an extension, down to the local level, of the
global agriculturalresearch systemwhich supports a few CGIAR (ConsultativeGroup on
InternationalAgriculturalResearch) centers that conduct fundamentalgeneticresearch and
provide improved genetic materials and training5for national agriculturalresearch systems,
which in ecologicallydiverse countries (such as Indonesia)then feed intoregional research
groups attuned to their local environment and dominant farming systems. The AIATs were
designedto fhlfillthis latter functionand demonstrateprofitabletechnologicalpackages as a
basis for extensionto farmers.



5. Over 500 Indonesianrice researchershave been trained in IRRI (the CGIAR funded InternationalRice
ResearchInstitutein the Philippines)giving Indonesia a very strongcadreof rice researchers. Since 1980
Indonesiahas had the highest rice yields in tropicalAsia.

2.7       In spite of the apparentsimplicityof its components,this was in fact an extremely
complexproject. ARMP I1involvednot only settingup new "technology assessment
institutes" in different provinces (and hence different "administrative cultures"), but also
undertaking activitiesto support elementsof virtuallyall the ongoing research of IAARD
(the IndonesianAgency for AgriculturalResearch and Development). Moreover, it was
crucialthat the AIATs be outward-looking-seekinginput and providing feedbackfrom as
wide a spectrumof agriculturalstakeholders as possible. This was to be facilitatedby the
appointment of a Regional Advisory Committee(RAC) for each AIAT.

2.8       DAFEP was designed(a) to devolvedecision makingto the field and (b) to integrate
and reduce by attritionthe agricultural and forestryextensioneffortsin the field. Together,
these objectivesinvolved a major change in the whole cultureof extension: and shifted the
role of the centralMinistry of Agriculture from controlling the extensionprogram to
monitoringit: "Policy at the center, implementation at the periphery." Just as the AIATs were
the key innovation for ARMP 11,Farmer-Managed Activities (FMAs)were the key
innovationfor DAFEP. The project provided a total of Rp 75 million to each of about 20
participatingvillages for Farmer-Managed Activities(Rp 30millionin years 1and 2, and Rp
15million in year 3).7 Thus, therewas no competitionbetween villages for FMA funds, but
there was competitionwithin villages. As finallyimplemented, farmers or groups of farmers
who wished an activityto be supportedfrom an FMA grantshad to register themselves
within a village. Then a village action plan (VAP) would be formulatedby interested
villagerswith the assistance of the field extensionworker, which would in turn be forwarded
to the district BPP (sub-districtextension center)for vetting and approval.

2.9       These farmer-based experimentsand technology assessmentscouldbe based on or
adapted from husbandries demonstratedat AIATs or anyother part of the formal agricultural
system. But they did not have to be. FMAs could be the idea of any farmer (or extension
representativeor agribusinesssalesman).The activities could even involve a crop never
previously grown in the region (andnot grownby the regional AIAT). Thus the potential
existed for FMAs to experiment and innovate beyond the parameters of the technologies
providedby the national and regionalresearchlextension system. Ideally, there would alsobe
active feedback to the AIATs (and hence to the national system) in caseswhere farmers
found particularnew technologiesattractive.

2.10      From one perspective, FMAs could be seen as the logical completionof the chain
from the CGIARto the National Research Systemto the regional AIATs and to the farmer's
field, with technology generated at each stagebeing adapted to local conditions.This
perspectiveimpliesthat knowledge flowsprimarily from the researcherto the extension


6. The IEG missionwas toldby anextension worker thatprior to DAFEP there was one recommendationfor
fertilizationofrice, "150Kglha" Indonesiawide.

7. Thisrepresented$3,000to $3,500per village during the first two years, and$1,500to $1,750in the third
year.

8. A wide range of activitiescouldbe supportedas FMAs:"(a)village assessments,(b) farmer group and
village planning,(c) farmers' fieldinvestigations,(d) village inter-groupmeetingsandvisits, (e) farmer media
materialspreparationanddissemination, (9farmer technicalandbusinessmeetings,(g) farmer-to-farmer
training andtechnologydissemination".(PAD,page 53)

representativeto the farmer. But FMAs also embodied another perspectivethat information
flows from farmersto extensionrepresentatives and from them to other farmers aswell as
"upwards" to researchers.From this point of view, "a good extensionofficer listens, as well
as talks."

2.11     DAFEP was defacto, but not explicitlyapilot project which only covered 20 pilot
districts. Theidea of empowering village committeesto overseethe allocationand
implementationof block grantswas similarto the Bank-supportedKecamatanDevelopment
Program in Indonesia9and the idea of empoweringfarmersplayed a key role in the Water
Resources StructuralAdjustment Project (WATSAL), in which the control of field canals
was transferredto water users' association^.'^ The follow-onFarmers Empowerment
Through AgriculturalTechnologyand Informationproject (FEATI) intendsto expandthe
coverageof the DAFEP extension strategyfrom 20 districtsto 53 districts in 16provinces
covering 3,000 villages."

2.12     In spiteof an intended reduction in extension field staff associatedwith the piloting of
FMAs, the second and third componentsof DAFEDprovided for strengtheningand
integratingdistrict and national level extension. It thus appears that a shrinkingrole for
public sectorextensionat the field level was felt to be compatiblewith an expansion of
seniorextensionstaff. These extra staffwere to be used primarilyto strengthenpolicy
making and the monitoring of the field activities.

2.13     The two projectswere intendedto supportresearch, informal extensionand their
linkages: there is littleevidencein the project appraisal documentsof an expected
intermediationfwnction for the formal extension service field staff. For instance,the
objectiveof ARMP I1is curiouslyworded: "to strengthenregional agriculturalR&D ...by
collaborativelydevelopingand transferring location-specifictechnologywhich is market-
oriented and client-drivento support agro-businessand ago-industry." This statementlacks
anyreferenceto either farmersor extension,unless these areunderstood to be included in the
undefined term "clients". A simplereading of this statementwould suggest that agro-
business and ago-industrywere regarded as the main "clients" and that the project was
intendedto bypass the existing formal extension service and field staff.12

2.14     Thus, in assessingthe outcomes of ARMP I1and DAFEP, it is important to
distinguishbetween theformal extensionsystem comprisingboth senior staffand field staff


9. Startedin 1998andbased onprevious Bank-supported community-basedrural infrastructureprojects, the
KecamatanDevelopmentProgramis now the largest community developmentprogram h d e d by the Bank in
the developing world. However,project filesand staff interviewssuggestthat the WATSAL project played a
largerrole than Kecamatan in influencingthe project's design.

10.PAD,page 5. The WATSALproject was approvedin 1999and closedin 2004.

11.This follow-onproject was approvedby the Bank's Board onFebruary 13,2007.It did not include a
separateforestry component.

12.Annex 5 of the Final Supervisionand ICR Missionexplicitlysaysthat extensionwas not usedby the AIATs
to spreadawarenessof approvedtechnologies.''ARMP I1 doesnot have a component focusing on extension(as
opposedto dissemination).The spread of the technologyis likelyto be largelyby word of mouth and the initial
effortsof AIAT staff in assessingthe technologies on selected farms."

responsible for direct communicationwith farmers, and informal extensionthat informs the
world about agriculturaland forestrytechnologies, includingprivate sector"sales" and
"advertising". It is also important to distinguishbetweenpublic extension-positively
regarded throughout this PPAR -and the extensionfleldstaff, which the appraisal
documentsgenerallyregarded as out of their depth in the post-GreenRevolutionextension
environment.

2.15     For both projects, the poor qualityof the agricultural field staffwas felt to pose an
intractableproblem. While their trainingwas adequate for a top-down approach,the Ministry
of Agriculturefelt that many field staffhad neither the humility, flexibilitynor knowledgeto
operate effectivelyunder the new paradigm.13The Ministry felt that the agriculturalfield staff
were not well equipped for "farming in apost-Green Revolutionworld," to the point that the
DAFEP appraisaldocument explicitlystatesthat "the overall number of extensionstaff could
be reduced by attrition. ....Having fewer extensionworkerswould improvethe conditions
fortheremaining staff."14

2.16     So severalapproacheswere incorporated in the design of the two projects to deal
with the perceived weaknesses of the agriculturalfield staff. The number of field staffwas
expectedto be reduced by "attrition." Research would be brought physicallycloser to the
farmerwith the creationof the AIATs. The AIATs were charged with amodest
"dissemination" function and were to report directlyon the number of farmersadapting
AIAT-approvedtechnologies. FMAs were designedto allow (butnot require)villagesto
bypass their extensionfield officer. Public sectorextension was to be decentralizedto the
district level and removed from central control. District (and national) level support services
to field extensionstaffwere to be strengthened, and training in the FMA approachwas to be
provided to 5,000 extensionworkers. (In fact training was provided to almost 4,000
extensionworkers, this target having been revised in June 2002.)

2.17     In short,while skepticalas to the suitabilityof the staff in place to implementthe new
paradigm, DAFEP did the best with what it had. Therewas a clear vision in the appraisal
documentsof a minimalist public sectorextensionservicethat was not expectedto be used
by progressive farmers. Public extension was expected to assist onlythepoorest farmerswho
could not obtain extension servicesfrom any other source.l5




13.The ForestryDepartmentexpressedno suchdoubts aboutthe qualityof its field staff, who have long been
trainedin agro-forestryandsocial-forestry. It was proud of its fieldstaff, alongwith their initialandin-service
training.

14.PAD, page 7.

15. "Publicextensionservice being withdrawnwhere it is not needed, or where the private sectorand other
providerscould fill in. ...the ultimate goal ...wouldbe for abare minimumextensionservice for aportionof
the poor section of farmers, whereas those well-offwouldhave access-like all farmers-to massmedia andto
extension for a fee."(italics added)PAD,page 6.

3.       Project Ratings: Overall Outcome

3.1      The overall outcome of ARMP I1was satisfactory (Table 1).Its objectives meshed
directly with the Government's emergingpolicy of decentralization,the need to add (or at
least reorient) a "farming systems" or "whole farm" elementto the IAARD's research
portfolio, and to provide the research underpinnings for aregionalized, farmer-oriented
extension service.Ahuge and necessarychangehas been made in the physical plant and
psychologyof IAARD. Both have been re-directedoutwardstowards farmers.Ten AIATs
were establishedand staffed, and 421 people received long-termtraining, including 21 to the
Ph.D. level and 341 for M.Sc. degrees. At the sametime 800 distinct studieswere supported
within the existingcommodity and discipline-oriented research institutes, thus providing
results for evaluationand demonstrationby the AIATs.


Table 1. DevelopmentObjectivesand Outcomeof ARMP I1

DevelopmentObjectives                                    Relevance        Efficacy        Efficiency

(1) To strengthenregionalagriculturalR&D, basedon
    localhumanand naturalresources. bv
    collaborativelydeveloping andtransfirring
                                                         Substantial    Substantial      Substantial
    location-specifictechnologywhich is market-
    orientedandclient-drivento support agribusiness
    and agro-industry development.

(2) To establisha networkof regionalAIATs,
    improvementof regionalresearch management,
    expansion of research in priorityareas, and
                                                         Substantial    Substantial      Substantial
    strengthened linkagesto local, national, and
    internationalinstitutions,thereby facilitatingthe
    deliveryof research resultsto end-users.

Overall Project                                          Substantial    Substantial      Substantial

Overall ProjectOutcome                                                  Satisfactory


3.2      The overall outcomeof DAFW was moderately satisfactory(Table2). Severalstated
objectivesrelating to supportof the extension servicewere onlypartiallyachieved.Despite
this, farmersinterviewedby the IEGmission and case studiesreported in the ICR suggest that
someincreases in farm incomewere achieved, which was the key impact objective. The
objectiveofbringing about aparadigm shift from top-downto bottom-up extensionwas
achievedon the small scaleof this defacto pilot project. Theproject demonstratedthe
feasibilityof avillage and farmer-based extensionservice.A diversespectrumof innovations
was implementedwith the aid of village-level grants. Ex post evaluationof a sampleof their
choices showedhigh benefitkostratiosthrough thisinnovative approachto extension,which is
now on its way to being adoptednationwide. However,the earlyclosureof the project resulted
inthe cancellationofthe intended impact assessmentthat couldhaveprovided systematic
evidenceofproject outcomes, and that might havejustified a "satisfactory" rating.16

16. The project's original closingdate was March31,2004. The Governmentrequestedanextensionto
December31,2004, andlaterto December 31,2005. However, anewMinister ofAgriculture, electedin
November2004, decidedto close the projectonMarch31,2005. IEGunderstandsthat this impactassessment
ofthe DAFEPprojecthasnowbeencompleted(in2007), buthasnot yet receivedacopy ofthe finalreport.

Table 2. DevelopmentObjectivesand Outcomeof DAFEP

DevelopmentObjectives                                Relevance        Efficacy        Efficiency

(1) To enhancefarmers' capacityto participate in
                                                     Substantial    Substantial       Substantial
    extensionactivities

(2) To strengthenand Integratethe capacity of the
    district-levelagriculturalandforestryextension    Modest          Modest           Modest
    system

(3) To promoteeconomicallyfeasible, environmentally
    sustainable, andsociallyacceptablefarming         Modest        Substantial       Substantial
    practicesand increasefarmers' income

Overall Project                                       Modest         Substantial      Substantial

Overall ProiectOutcome                                          ModeratelySatisfactory




Relevance: Were the Projects' Objectives and Design Appropriate?


3.3       Therelevanceof the objectives and the design of the project was substantial.The
objectiveswere consistentwith the 1995CountryAssistance Strategy(CAS)which
emphasized inter-regionalequityand enhancedcompetitiveness, greater decentralizationof
responsibility,and improved delivery of public services,especiallyto the poor. The
objectiveswere also consistent with the most recent 2003 CAS, which specificallyidentifies
the importanceof agriculturalresearch and extensionunder the strategyof Making Service
Delivery Responsive to the Needs of the Poor. Thereremains the need to make the
agriculturalresearch systemmore reflective of the climatic and ecologicaldiversityof
Indonesia, and to increase expenditures on agriculturalresearch which, at 0.21 percent of
agriculturalGDP, were well below those of comparableAsian countriessuch as India,
Pakistan, and China (0.41 to 0.51 percent), and even Wher behind developed countries(2.0
percent).

3.4       However, the stated objectiveof the project -'"tostrengthenregional agricultural
R&D ...by collaborativelydeveloping and transferring location-specifictechnology,which
is market-oriented and client drivento supportagribusinessand agro-industrydevelopment"
-raisesquestionsabouttheexpectedorientationoftheexpandedpublicsectorresearch
system and the way in which its researchresults would be transmitted to farmers. While the
word "client" presumablyrefers to farmers,the implicitreliance on the private sectorto carry
researchmessagesto farmers undermines to some extent the rationale for publicly fbnded
research. As discussed earlier(inparagraph 1.8), the private sector can onlybe expected to
provide research and extension servicesto the extent that it can profitablyappropriateor
capturethe extravalue that it produces. But much agriculturalresearch is a "public good,"
the benefits of which cannotbe appropriatedby any oneperson or organization. Thus, there
remains a need forpublic provision (or at leastpublic funding)of the disseminationand
extensionof the results of publicly funded research, even after the private sectorhas been
encouraged to investin those areasin which it can realize aprofit. Theproject objectives
 seemto have overlooked this need.

3.5     The establishmentof new technologyassessment institutes in different provinces and
the increasingfocuson the "whole farm" or "farming systems" approachto research were
clearly timely, given the increasing diversityof Indonesian agriculture.But the design of the
project reflected the view that the agriculturalextensionfield staffwere not up to thejob, nor
capableof beingbrought up to thejob of giving"whole farm" advice. Theproject viewed
them aspart of theproblem, not the solution. Thisissue is not discussed explicitlyin the
appraisaldocument,nor supportedby significant sectorwork. Both projects were designedto
work around the problem of an ineffective extension service,rather than reinvigorate it. This
left Indonesiawith the dead-weight loss of paying for an ineffectivepublic extension service.
Futureprojects shouldbe based on sectorwork that analysesthe problems of the extension
service, and what canbe done aboutit. Again, relying mainly on "private extension" that is
based on the profit motive is likely to exacerbaterather than solvethe problem.

DECENTRALIZEDAGRICULTURAL FORESTRYEXTENSIONPROJECT
                                     AND

3.6     Therelevance of the first objective"to enhance farmer capacityto participate in
extension" was substantial.This objectivewas consistent with both the 1997and 2003
CASs. Providingvillage-administeredgrantsfor Farmer-ManagedActivitiesand otherwise
enhancingfarmers' capacityto participate in extension activitiesin orderto improve farming
practices and increase farmers' incomeisparticularly relevant in the presence of a failingor
failed extension service.

3.7     Therelevance of the secondobjectiveof "strengthening and integratingthe district-
level extension service" was modest due to weaknesses in the design. The project designwas
ambiguouswith respect to the role of the formalextension service. On the onehand the
project aimed to allowboth the number of extension field workers and the range of farmers
served to decline,but on the other hand it sought to improve support services at the district
and national levels. FMAs provided a channel for farmersto bypass the village field worker,
if he was ineffective. Clearly, the extensionas learningparadigm required a wrenching shift
in the mind-set of extension fieldworkers, fromrepeating extension messagesdevelopedin
Jakarta to being set loose to develop one's own extensionmessages. However, there is no
discussionor data in the appraisaldocument on the proportion of fieldworkers likely to be
effectiveunder the new decentralizedsystem, how effectiveness couldbe increased, and
what to do about ineffective fieldworkers. Nonetheless,the project was to upgrade central
and district-levelpolicy staff and provide training to some 12,700field assistantsin extension
supportand FMAs. The appraisaldocument was not clear whether thesewere the sameor
different field assistantswho were to be rundown by attrition, and whose serviceswere
expectedto be used by onlythosewith no other accessto information.

3.8     Therelevanceof the third objectiveof "promoting economically feasible,
environmentallysustainable, and socially acceptablefarmingpractices and increasing
farmers' income" was also modest. There is no reason apriori to expect economically
feasible, environmentallysustainableand socially acceptablepractices to be correlatedwith
increasedfarmers' incomes.And there was alsono provision in the project design to exclude
economically, environmentallyand sociallydamaging activities. Indeed empowering farmers
might well liberatethem to pursueprofitable,but environmentallydamagingpractices (such
as over-pumpinggroundwaterfrom aquifers).

3.9      While the appraisal documents for both projects were clear as to what the projects
were intended to do, the problems that both projects were expectedto resolvewere hardly
addressed.Perhaps these were felt to be so widely known that it was not necessaryto address
them? Theprojects supportedthe Government's policy of decentralization,increasedlocal
autonomy, increased supportfor the private sector, and a shift from providingphysical
infrastructure to support servicessuch asresearch and extension.However,what was missing
was a discussionof farmers' needs. Were farmersheld back by lack of knowledge, insecure
title, lack of capital,lack of socialorganization,lack of physical infrastructure(roads,
communications),or lack of ambition?What were the problems that decentralizationand an
increased role for the private sectorwere expectedto address?Both appraisaldocuments
would havebenefited from an explicitdiscussion of these issues, and a considerationof the
retrainingpossibilities for existingstaff and the incentive structure for field staff. Perhaps
direct earlyretirement bonuses should have been considered?

3.10     Taking allthese factorsinto account, the overall relevanceof the objectives and
design of DAFEP was modest.

Efficacy: Did the Projects Achievetheir Stated Objectives?


3.11     Efficacywas substantial.The regional Assessment Institutes for Agricultural
Technology(AIATs)were established and staffed almost exactly as projected. And the
AIATs which the IEGmission visited were adequatelyfunded and the staffswere was clearly
applications-oriented. By 2002, each AIAT had developed on average nineteen location-
specificresearcWassessments. Illustrative examples of these assessments include seed
potatoes in West Java, North Sumatraand West Sumatra,mangosteen seedlingsin Riau,
virus-freecitrus in Central Java, and virus-freebanana seedlingsin North Sumatra. IAARD
also established a privatelymanaged IntellectualProperty and Technology
CommercializationOffice in 1999.While weaknesses in MIS and M&E are acknowledged,
management reforms, training, and a studyof incentivesare other successfulproject results.
Over 800 studieswere fundedin IAARD's traditional areas of commodity and discipline-
orientedresearch.

3.12     In fieldvisits, the AIAT staffwere on good terms with villagers and carried out trials
in farmers' fields,thusproviding an elementof demonstration alongwith their research. The
IEGmission observedthis was a two-wayrelationship,in that FMA farmerswere confident
enoughto visit AIAT stationsinperson. In South Sulawesi,the AIAT demonstrated direct
seedingof rice, thus eliminatingthe labor-intensivetransplantingprocess. Rough calculations
suggestthat the benefits from this directplanting innovation, alreadyadoptedby 60 percent
of farmersin the province, might be abletojustify the entireproject. To the IEG mission,
relationsbetween the AIATs and field extension staffseemed cordial,but not close.

DECENTRALIZEDAGRICULTURAL PORESTRYEXTENSIONPROJECT
                                      AND

3.13     Efficacywas substantial.The key project innovationwas village-administered FMA
grantsto empowerfarmersto select what and from whom they would learn. And the major
justification for this rating is the positive outcomes associatedwith the FMA component in

terms of numbers of farmersbenefiting from the project, net benefits received and increases
in incomeexperienced (Table 3). For those activities onlyrequiringoperatingexpenses
(i.e., working capital) the ratio of net benefits to incrementaloperatingcosts ranged from 1.3
to 15.7, and for those activitiesrequiringboth capitalinvestment and operatingexpenses,the
ratio of net benefits to incrementalcosts was 1.4 to 33.1. The IEG mission interviewed orchid
growers,vegetable growers, fish farmers, and rice growers who had managed to irrigate a
third crop, and found substantial evidenceof benefits in line with these benefitlcost ratios.
E G mission observations were also consistentwith the increasesin incomereported in the
ICR of 5percent to 80percent in a sampleof selected villages over the life of the project.

3.14    The early closure of the project in March 2005 in relation to the previously agreed-
upon extensionto December 31,2005, unfortunately aborted the intended impact assessment
in relationto the baseline survey that had been completedat the start of the project.17In spite
of this, the FAOICP and Bank team which prepared the ICR undertook this quantitative
assessment of the project's impactsbased on field visit interviews and focusgroup
discussions. Thiswas a substantial effortto model (or "budget") representativeFMAs and to
compensate for weak project M&E. The ICR mission "covered more than 25 villages in six
participatingdistricts from four provinces to interactwith project beneficiaries. In addition ex
post valuation of selectedFMA activities covering221 respondents in 25 villages (3 districts)
was also carriedout in 2005 that provided data for the analysis of financialbenefits. Focus
group discussionswith FMA beneficiaries helped generatethe data for the impact of 16
FMA-based interventions."

3.15    From the perspective of the IEG mission, the DAFEP represented an interesting
variation on ParticipatoryRural Appraisal (PRA) in that the FMA grant gave the village a
concretesum of money to be allocated. In the absenceof grant funding, it would have been
more difficultto attractinterest in a villageplanning activity. A good plan would be of little
more use than a bad plan, or no plan at all, if the plan could not be financed. Once the village
agreed on a plan, the FMA grant meant that the village training and informationpriorities
couldbe funded, at least up to the limit of the grant. Havingreal money to allocate animated
the villages in a way that would not have occurredin the absenceof the grant. Moreover,
"empowered" by this seedmoney, villagers have discoveredhow cheap it is to gather
information,and the dynamic unleashedby the initial grant continueseven in its absence.
Villagersinterviewed by the IEG mission were insistent that FMA grants have been used
only for informationgathering, and the cost of meetings, and not to subsidize on farm
demonstrations.

3.16     The project was less successfulwith the subsidiaryobjectiveof strengtheningthe
capacityof the district-levelextension system. Areaswhere outcome-type objectiveswere
not fully achieved includedthe district extensioncommittees. Intended to have
representativesfrom all stakeholders(agri-business,electedrepresentatives, NGOs, FMAs
and officials),these were implemented, but oftenwith weak non-governmentparticipation.
Mass-media extensionwas alsoweak. However, "mass-media extension" is more associated
with the former top-down extension as teachingparadigm, so that this "failure" may have


17.IEGunderstands that this impact assessmenthas nowbeen completed(in2007),but IEGhas not yet
receivedacopy ofthe finalreport.

                                                       13


 Table 3. FinancialAnalysis of Sample FMA Interventionsin DAFEPvillages

                                                             Farmers     Training                     Net
                                                            benefitedas budgetfor     Net benefit   benefitto
     Name of the
                         Benefitsprovidedunder FMA           percentof  activity as to operating annualized
       activity
                                                              village   percentof     cost ratio   investment
                                                             farmers    FMA budget                   ratio11

                     Technologytransfer; Farmertrainings
 Cat fish raising                                                          3.5           0.73         2.5
                     for nursery raisingand cat fish raising

                     Technologytransfer; Apprenticeship;
 Gurmifish raising   Potentialassessment; Business              12          24           2.1          8.6
                     meeting,andtour

                     Technologytransfer; Study tour;
 Duck raising        Networkingfor duck raising& golden         16          7            2.9          4.2
-                    snail pest as feed

                     Technologytransfer; Apprenticeship;
 Orchidcultivation   Tour; Comparativestudy; Field              3.4        28.5          1.O          7.7
                     school meeting

 Cultivation of
                     Fieldschooland technologytransfer          27         4.7           3.0          7.5
 bittergourd

 Coconutjelly        Technologytransfer; Apprenticeship
                                                                0.4        6.4           1.3          12.5
 processing          and Study tour

                     Technologytransfer; and training
 Citrus cultivation  organized in collaborationwith pest        31         3.1           6.8          33.1
                     managementschool

                     Apprenticeship programfor
 Paddythrashers      technologytransferto make                  9.2        4.1           15.0         1.4
                     indigenouswooden thrasher

 Partnership         Externalexpertise providedtraining
                                                                100        3.1           NA           NA
 building            on partnershipactivities

                     Training for technologytransfer-faster
 Cattlefattening     growth andweight gain-enablingtwo          27         4.7           2.2          NA
                     cycles in2 years

 lmproved   paddy    Rainfedpaddy field school                    8        3.1           2.2          NA
 technology

 Bamboohandcraft     Demonstrationand supervision by
                                                                 15         NA           15.7         NA
 for youth           invitedartisan

 Improvedcattle by
 breeding1ration     Technologytransfer and training            100         NA           2.8          1.9
 formulation

 Localchicken        Technology transferfor better rearing   More than
                     - increasedstocking                                    4            9.0          9.0
                                           and production        50

 Processingof        Technologytransferfor spices
                                                             Lessthan
 spicesfor value     processingin2002 andfieldmeeting                      14.5          2.1          NA
                                                                  1
 addition            for spice crops cultivation in 2003

 Rambutan
 selection, budding  Technologytransfer and training             75         13           NA           NA
 and production                                                        ,
 11 Annualized investmentcost is estimatedbasedon 10 percent interestrate and 3 to 5 years of repayment
 periodwherever appropriate. NA: Notavailablelapplicable.
 Source: ICR, Annex 3 on "Economic Costsand Benefits," pages34-35.

been a "blessingin disguise." Certainlyboth projectswere successfulin bringing about a
major and desirableparadigm shift as to how the public sector should support farmers under
the extension as learningparadigm.

Efficiency


3.17    Efficiency was substantial.The ICR calculated a project ERR of 14.5percent. This
PPAR findsthe assumptionsused to calculatethis ERR to be inherentlyplausible. First, the
analysisrested on "case studies" of 6 out of 41 identified technologies. The estimated
financialrates of return for individual farmerswho adopted eachof the six technologies
ranged from 11.5to 89.0 percent and averaged 20 per~ent.'~Then the project ERR was based
on (a) the number of new technologiesintroduced, (b) the number of adopting farmers, and
(c) the number of yearsbefore the technology would have been adoptedin the absence of the
project, project costsbeing given. Based on 40 new technologies a year and 2,466 adopting
farmersper technology, the estimatedproject ERR was 14.5percent. This project ERR
includesall ARMP 11project expenses in the calculation,but no others. Given a project
design which had no explicitrole for public extension, and in which the role of public
extensionin disseminatingnew technologieswas modest at best, this is probably appropriate.
It could alsobe arguedthat public extension was a "fixed cost".

DECENTRALIZEDAGRICULTURAL FORESTRYEXTENSIONPROJECT
                                      AND

3.18     Efficiencywas substantial.As shownin Table 3 above, the ICR reported net benefit
ratios of 1.4to 33.1. Excluding citrus, the range of net benefit ratios is amore reasonable, but
still an impressive 1.4to 12.5.These calculations assume a 10percent interest rate and 3 to 5
year repayment period. The discussionswhich the IEGmission had with farmers confirmed
attractive returns in a cost-consciousframework.But these estimatedreturns are so high, that
they shouldbe regarded with caution in the absenceof an impact study.

3.19     That the earlyclosingof the project aborted the planned impact studywas real loss.
Thiswas particularlyunfortunatesincethe project had completeda rigorous baseline study at
the beginning. Thought shouldbe given to how such studiescan be protected in the event of
earlyclosing. Governmentofficials agree that many potential lessonswill not be learned in
the absenceof this impact study.

3.20     Numerical estimatesof project outputs suggest that sometargets were exceededwhile
other fell short. For instance,the officesof 16District Centers for Informationand Extension
(BIPP)were operationalversus20 originallyprojected, and 436 extensionmanagerswere
trained versus 240 projected. The actualproject cost was 16percent lessthan projected. The
lower project cost and good returnsto farmers also indicates a substantialefficiency.

3.21     In terms of cost-effectiveness,it ispossiblethat atriage approachto existingstaff-
making someeffort to separatethem into those givenearlyretirement andthoseto be retrained
-  would have been less costly and identifiedthosebest ableto benefit fiomtraining. But the


18. ICR, page 23, andAnnex 5, Final SupervisionandICR Mission,November 04-22,2002.

political feasibilityof such an approach and its likelyeffecton morale (positiveor negative) are
beyond the scopeof thisPPAR. Apart from thismodest implementation alternative, it is hard
to envisageonethat couldhave been more cost-effective,

3.22    In discussingthe efficiencyof the DAFEP project, the ICR makesthe curious
statementthat "no financial rates of return for the project will be estimated as it is likely there
will be no financial paymentsto the Government as a result of project acti~ities,"'~because
smallfarmers (agricultural incomesunder Rp 15million) are tax-exempt. This is an unusual
use of the term "financial rate of return" sincethe term usually refers to the private
profitabilityof project componentsthat are expectedto be implementedby the private sector,
such as the financialrates of return estimated for farmers adoptingnew technologies
introduced by the ARMP I1project. In the absence of direct farmer taxation, increased
economic activity should at somepoint increasetax revenues from some parts of the
economy.


4.       Institutional Development Impact and Sustainability

Institutional DevelopmentImpact


4.1      The establishmentof a network of AIATs that is changing the way in which
agriculturalresearch is being conductedin Indonesiato a research as learningparadigm
represents substantialinstitutional development. Staffing and staff training for the AIATs
have alsorepresenteda substantialhuman resource investment for Indonesia. At the same
time the project has supportedthe core commodityand discipline research stations,thus
providingkey results for adaptationand testingby the ALATs.

DECENTRALIZEDAGRICULTURAL FORESTRYEXTENSIONPROJECT
                                     AND

4.2      The institutionalimpact of the project has been substantial.The IEG mission found
that the new approachto extensionthat was piloted by the project -based       on the extension
as learning paradigm and involvingvillage-administeredgrants for Farmer-Managed
Activities-has now been extendedfiom the 20 districts directly involved in the project to
220 districtsnationwide, albeit with smallerFMA grants. That the new approachto extension
embodiedby the project has now been scaledup explains the higher rating compared to the
ICR rating of modest. This is not to saythat a new paradigm is always better than the old. In
an agriculturewith a clearlydominant (usuallymono-crop) farming system,with a new
technology that improvesyields at minimum cost, and with poorly trained extension field
staff, a top-down"teaching" model for extension (such as T&V) might be appropriate. But at
the present time in Indonesia,and looking at the wide range of profitable innovations
identified under FMA, it is clear that extension as learning is likely to be more effectivein
quicklyspreadinginnovations among farmers,than in trying to fit them all into a
preconceived strait-jacket.



19.Annex 5 ofthe Final SupervisionandICR Mission, November04-22,page 17.

Sustainability


4.3     Sustainabilityis likely. The IEG mission found that the AIATs were receiving
adequatefinancial support(predominantlyfromthe centralgovernment), and that staff
morale and productivity appeared good. The appraisal document for the follow-onproject
(FarmerEmpowerment through AgriculturalTechnology and Information) provides for
continuedlinkages in both directions between AIATs and Farmer-ManagedActivities. The
project establishesa systemof competitivegrants for research, and intendsto encourageand
monitor the number of technologypackages developedby AIATs that are used in FMAs.

DECENTRALIZED        AGRICULTURALFORESTRYEXTENSION
                                           AND

4.4     Sustainabilityis likely.Farmer-ledextensionhas demonstrated impressivereturns,
and there is a rapid expansionof interest in FMAs in other districtsand about 20,000 existing
extensionworkerstrained in the rnethod~logy.~~Sustainabilityis likelyto be accompaniedby
a reduction in the village grants. Already the grant element has had to be reduced-showing
that the generousgrant support characteristic of DAFEP seemsunlikelyto be continued.
However, the profitability of the FMAs and the diversityof projects shownto be profitable is
likelyto ensurethat this decentralizedapproachto extension continues. The follow-on
FEAT1projectprovides substantial support of US$40.3 million for a componentto
strengthenfarmer-drivenextension,which includes grants for FMAs in 3,000 villages.


5.      Borrower and Bank Performance

Borrower Performance


5.1     Theperformance of both the Government and the implementing agencywere
satisfactory.The Governmentprovided a full-timehigh-level team which worked closely
with the Bank to add the planned-for regional dimensionto government-sponsored
agriculturalresearch. An implementationplan was prepared that survived almost unchanged
overthe life of the project. When the Asian financial crisis hit in 1997,the Government
worked closely with the Bankto seehow much foreign exchangecould be savedby
cancellingparts of the project, while at the sametime maintaining full funding as required in
local currency.At the same time, the Governmentallowed limited essentialrecruitmentfor
AIATs, despite a generalban on new hirings. The Asian crisisprovided a good test of the
Government's commitmentto the project, which proved to be high.

5.2     The implementingagency, IAARD, operated an effectivecentral Project
ManagementUnit. Opening and stafing ten new assessment instituteswithproperly trained


20. Thistraining of extension workers provides an element of "conceptual dissonance". Theproject design
documents call for "attrition" of the public extension service (inpart based on the implicitassumptionthat they
couldnot be retrained)but project resourceshave been used to train the remaining front-line extension field
staff.

staffwas a major administrativeundertaking.Along with the establishment of the new
AIATs came the need to develop"whole farm" research programs, whilepaying due
attention to farmers' profitability. Understandably,the quality and timelinessof reporting
sufferedwhen "something had to give" in the wake of the Asian crisis. However, financial
reportingand auditingwere timely, and all audit reportswere unqualified. The biggest
weaknesswas in monitoring and evaluation.

DECENTRALIZEDAGRICULTURAL FORESTRYEXTENSIONPROJECT
                                          AND

5.3      The performance of the Government was unsatisfactory,primarily due to
shortcomingsduring implementation. Learning from the positive experienceof transferring
control of field canalsto water users' associationduringthe Water Resources Structural
Adjustment Loan, the Government used the project to pilot farmer-led extension. The
Government and the national agriculturaland forestry extension services collaborated on
project preparation, while also involving district officials, BIPP staff, and representative
farmers. This ensured goodproject ownership even before Board approval.

5.4      But there was considerableconfbsion afterproject effectiveness as to how FMA
h d s were to be transferred to farmer gro~ps.~'This led to substantial delaysin the first 30
months,which in turn resulted in the requested extension of 21months (indicatingan
element of catch-~p).~~

5.5      The closing of the project was initially extendednine months from March 31to
December 31,2004.When a new Minister of Agriculturewas appointedin October 2004, he
signed the long-negotiated M e r extension to December31,2005, in earlyMarch 2005. But
later the samemonth, he cancelledthe project.23This action alone-cancelling a project
within days of extendingit -can onlybe described as highlyunsatisfactory.Moreover, the
suddencancellationdirectlyresulted in the loss of the planned impact assessment.
(Negotiationswith the firmthat had undertakenthe initial baseline surveywere alreadywell
advanced.) In spiteof goodperformance duringpreparation, the early delays afterproject
approval, the surprisecancellation,and their combined effects yields an unsatisfactoryrating
for Governmentperformance.

5.6      Theperformanceof the implementing agencieswas satisfactory.The National
Center for Agricultural Extension(NCAE)was the lead implementationagencyin


21. Thekey problemwas that FMAs were to be h d e d 80:20 by the Bank and the Government. Government
proceduresrequired specificationof exactlywhat the money would be used for, while for the Bank it was
sufficientto know the purpose. Sinceit was left to the villagersto decide exactlyhow the grant would be used,
it was difficultto impossible to meet the governmentrequirement.In the event the Bank took over 100percent
financingof the FMAs.

22. Absent the delay, it canbe hypothesizedthat the project would have been completedbefore the Ministerof
Agriculturedecidedto cancelthe project. Under thishypothesis,the impact of the delay was substantial,
especiallysince earlycancellationhas resulted in no impact assessment to followup the existingbaseline
survey.

23. Reportedly, the Minister's decisionwas not based on any dissatisfactionwith DAFEPperse. Rather his
decisionwas based onthe belief that Indonesiaalready owed enoughto the multilateralBanks, and that these
loans and credits violated Sharia requirementsfor sharingrisks betweenborrowersand lenders.

collaborationwith the National Center for Forestryand Estate Crops Extension for the
forestry-relatedactivities.While therewas a centralProject ManagementUnit locatedin
NCAE, much of the implementationthat was crucialto achievingthe project's objectives
occurred at the district level due to the decentralizednature of the project. Theparticipating
districtswere generally successfulin creating a largenumber of decentralizedadministrative
structures-District Extension Committees(DECs), multi-disciplinary Field Extension
Teams PETS),farmer groups, and village committees-to evaluate and consolidate village
proposals for FMA support.Annual reportswere prepared for 2000to 2004, as well as the
Final Evaluation Report coveringthe entireperiod from Jan 1,2000to December 31,2004.
This satisfactoryassessmentof the performance of the implementingagenciesassignsthe
responsibility for the abrupt cancellationof the project solelyto the Government.

5.7      Taking all factors into account, the overallperformance of the Borrower is rated
unsatisfactory.

Bank Performance


5.8      Quality at entry, quality of supervision,and overall Bank performance were
satisfactory.Administratively,this was a very smoothlyrun project. The SAR is suitably
specificas to what was proposed, includingthe list of 12areaswithin the commodityand
disciplineresearchcomponent that needed strengthening in support of the new regional
research stations.No major surprises arose during negotiations.Bank supervisionwas both
regular and constructive.Supervisionmissions helped Borrower staffmake the transition
from technical, disciplinary,and commodityresearch to the "whole farm" approachin the
context of the ecologicalcharacteristicsof each regionbeing served.Duringthe Asian
financialcrisis, the Bank agreed to cancel $22.9million from the loan at the Borrower's
request,while minimizing the negative impacton the project. The substitutionof local h d s
still allowed local training to substantiallyexceedproject projection^.^^

DECENTRALIZEDAGRICULTURAL PORESTRYEXTENSIONPROJECT
                                       AND

5.9      Quality at entry, quality of supervision,and overall Bank performance were
unsatisfactory.Theproject attemptedto addressthe two problems of (a)the need to
decentralizethe extensionservice and (b)the weaknessof the existingextension field staff in
the contextof the extensionas learningparadigm. But the designof the project onlymade
provision for the reduction in field staff "by attrition". The PAD'S vision forpublic sector
extensionin Indonesia was a very long-term vision that did not provide operationalguidance
for a five-yearproject. The extension servicewould evolve first towardpublic financingand
private sectorprovision, and ultimately toward private financingand privateprovision. The
ultimate goal would be abare minimum public extensionservicefor a portion of the poor
section of farmers.25


24.Although$22.9million(36%)ofthe $63 millionloanwas cancelled,overallproject costwas only 52%
(measuredindollars)of the appraisedestimate due to decline inthe value ofthe Rupiah.

25. PAD, page 6.

5.10    The PAD alsoprovided no field-levelevidence-only estimatedgrowthrates of
agricultural productionin the affected districts for the project to break even. The IEG mission
agrees with the ICR that "the analysis adopted by the PAD is simplistic in approach and
unrealistic in terms of the assumptionsmade. Detailed worksheets of the economic and
financial analysisused for the appraisalwere not available for the ICR mission, so that it is
not known what crops or other activities (such as livestock) may have been consideredin the
analysis."26

5.11    The way in which the FMAs were expectedto work was not by "raising district wide
yields" as the PAD suggests,but by introducing specific innovations (oftenproducts not
previouslyproduced, or existingproducts using very differenttechnologies)that were
expected to be profitable (such as benefitlcostratios of 1.2 to 1.4 on a good day). The PAD
made no effort to identifywhat the innovationsmight be, and therefore did not establishthat
much higher benefitlcostratiosmight be available, as turned out to the case. This low level of
appraisal rigor is less than the Board and the Borrowerhave a right to expect.

5.12    The conflictbetween the Bank and the Borrower in the administrativeprocedures for
disbursement of h d s led to major delays in the financing of FMAs, and eventuallyto a
necessary amendment of the cost-sharingof FMA grants from 80120 for BanklBorrower
to 10010.Although large (7 or 8-person)supervisionteams were regularly in the field every
5 or 6 months for a total of 8 supervisionmissions, only 20 percent of supervisingstaffhad
technicalqualifications.No one seemsto have noticed until the time of the ICR that the
FMAs had identified a number of highly profitable opportunitieswith high benefitlcost
ratios. This lack of recognition of the high rates of return being earnedby FMA activities
until the ICR contributesto the unsatisfactoryrating of Bank performance.


         Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)

SecondAgricultural Research ManagementProject

6.1     The SAR for ARMP I1called for the implementing agency, IAARD, to monitor all
major inputs, outputs, and outcomes even down to the "number and type of equipment,
journals and books procured," as well as information on the "number and type of technology
or technologypackages generated, tested and verified by AIATs and farmers,rate of
diffusion." However the SAR is silent on evaluation,or how the monitored data were to be
utilized.

6.2     At the time of the ICR, the Borrowerwas "still in the process of establishingan
effectiveM&E system." Bank supervisionmissions were effectivein gettingAIATs to report
on their most promising and successfulinnovations, and a review by an external Impact
StudyTeam provided an independent(and critical) evaluation of AIAT assessments.But
these intermittentreports cannot be describedas an MIS or M&E system.




26. ICR, page 30.

DecentralizedAgricultural and Forestry ExtensionProject

6.3     By contrast the PAD for DAFEP presented detailedand ambitiousplans for
monitoringand evaluation. This was motivated by the perception of the project as a grass
roots-oriented project which emphasized testing, piloting and promotion of innovative
participatoryextensionapproaches that would require an efficient M&E system. The project
design included an impressiverange of M&E activitiesfrom benchmark surveys during the
first year to collectbaseline data on the key performance indicators to strengtheningthe
centralMIS and M&E system^.^'

6.4     Unfortunately, after this encouragingstart, M&E implementationwas disappointingly
deficient. In short,the M&E systemreported adequately on inputs, produced somepertinent
informationon outputs, but was ineffectivein measuring outcomes. The surprisecancellation
of the project preventedthe impact assessment studyscheduled for completionin the last
year of the projectbeing carried out. IEG understands that this impact assessmenthas now
been carriedout, but IEG has not yet received a copy of the final study.


7. Lessons

7.1     Severallessonsof both a substantive and proceduralnature have emerged from this
review:

        Extension projects with grant-funded Farmer-ManagedActivities should
        provide for early recognition of highly profitablefarm-levelinnovations and for
        dissemination to otherfarmers. Suchprojects should facilitatethe timely
        identificationand disseminationof both farmer-managed and research station
        innovationsthat areprofitable. The failure to make other farmers aware of profitable
        innovationsarisingfrom FMAs will of course limit the impact of the grants and the
        FMAs that the grants supported.

        Research and extension projects should directly addressratherthan bypass the
        problemof an ineffective public sector extensionservice.Allowingthe existing
        public extensionservice simplyto be reducedby attrition is neither an intuitively
        appealingnor efficientsolution.Projectpreparation should include sectorwork that
        specificallyaddresses what is wrong with the existingsystem and how it can be
        reinvigorated.

        If a projectis defacto a pilot, then designateit a pilot project. The DAFEPproject
        would have benefited frombeing explicitlydesignatedas a pilot project. Its expected
        outcomeswould not have been as high. Monitoringand evaluationwould have had a
        largerprofile during implementation,and alternativeapproachesto the financingof
        FMAs might have been used in different districts.




27. PAD, page 11.

Project appraisaldocuments should describenot only what activities are
proposed, but alsowhy they areproposed.The documents for these projects were
much strongeron the "what" than the "why". The problems that the componentsof
both projects were expectedto resolve were hardly addressed in either document.
What was particularly missing was a discussionof farmers' needs.

Projectsshould provide early intensive trainingto local project staff on the
application of Bank procurementguidelinesin orderto preventprocurement
deficiencies.The use of two procurement systems-both the Bank guidelinesand
the government guidelines-led to major delays in the financing of the Farmer-
Managed Activities in the DAFEP project. Weaknessesin the English proficiencyof
the project staff also caused misinterpretationsof the Bank guidelines. Although this
is a well known lesson, it is reiterated once again because it has not been fully
absorbed.


                                                                               Annex A


 Annex A. Basic Data Sheet

 SECONDAGRICULTURALRESEARCHMANAGEMENTPROJECT(LOANNO.38860)

 Key Project Data (amountsin US$millions)

                              Appraisal              Actual or         Actual as % of
                               estimate           current estimate   appraisal estimate

IDA Credit

Government                      38.8

Total projectcosts              101.8


 Cumulative Estimatedand Actual Disbursements
                                   -- -
                          ppppp         -p




                           FY95 FY96   FY97     FY98   FY99   W O O FYOl   FYOZ    FY03

Appraisal estimate
 (US$M)

Actual (US$M)              0.0    2.0   5.0     10.2   13.7    22.6 29.6   35.5    37.8

Actual as % of appraisal   0.0   28.6  23.8     28.3   27.4    39.6 46.9   56.3    60.0

 Dateof final disbursement:


 Project Dates

                                         Original                      Actual

Initiatingmemorandum

Appraisal

Board approval

Effectiveness

MidTerm Review

Closingdate


 Staff Inputs

                                     No. of Staff Weeks                USS'OOO

Identification1Preparation

AppraisallNegotiations

Supervision

ICR

Total

Annex A                                       24


Mission Data
                             -


                    Date       No. of             Specializations                Implementation Development
                (month/year)   persons              represented                    progress     objectives
- -                                  - -

Identification1 06/09-08/21/95    2    Task Team Leader, Agriculturalist
Preparation

Appraisal1         11/4/94-       5    Task Team Leader, Lawyer, Financial            S
Negotiations       04114/95            Analyst, DisbursementOfficer,
                                       Agriculturalist

Supervision1      08/0111995      2    Research Management,
                                       Agriculturalistrrask Team Leader

Supervision2      04/29/1996      3    Research Management,Agriculturalist,           S
                                       FinancialAnalyst

Supervision3      12/12/1996      4    Agriculturalist,FinancialAnalyst, M&E          S
                                       Specialist, ResearchManagement
                                       Specialist

Supervision4      07/02/1997      3    Agriculturalist,ResearchManagement,            S
                                       FinancialAnalyst

Supervision 5     04/27/1998      4    Research ManagementSpecialist,                 S
                                       Agriculturalist, Anthropologist, Research1
                                       ExtensionSpecialist

Supervision6      05/01/1999      4    Agriculturalist, Jr. Prof. Officer,            S
                                       Consultant, ProcurementSpecialist

Supervision 7     1011511999      6    Task Team Leader, Consultant, Sector           S
                                       Coordinator, Operations Officer,
                                       ProcurementSpecialist

Supervision 8     04/28/2000      3    Task Team Leader, Procurement
                                       Specialist, HRDSpecialist

Supervision9      04/28/2000      5    Team Leader, Mission Members(4)                S

Supervision 10    05/04/2001      7    Team Leader,OperationsOfficer,                 S
                                       ProcurementSpecialist, Financial
                                       ManagementOfficer, Gender Consultant,
                                       LivestockSpecialist, Program
                                       Coordinator

Supervision 11    10112/2001      5    Task Team Leader, OperationsOfficer,           S
                                       ProgramCoordinator, Financial
                                       ManagementOfficer, Procurement
                                       Specialist

Supervision 12    05/22/2002      6    Task Team Leader, OperationsOfficer,           S
                                       Soil Scientist. Biotechnology Specialist,
                                       R&ESpecialist, FinancialManagement
                                       Specialist

ICR               11/22/2003      8    Task Team Leader, OperationsOfficer,           S              S
                                       ProcurementSpecialist, Financial
                                       ManagementOfficer, AgriculturalSupport
                                       Services, Economist, Management
                                       Specialist,ProgramAssistant

                                             25                                  Annex A


 DECENTRALIZEDAGRICULTURAL FORESTRYEXTENSIONPROJECT(LOANNO.4510)
                                   AND

 Key Project Data (amountsin US$millions)

                              Appraisal               Actual or         Actual as % of
                               estimate            current estimate    appraisalestimate

IDACredit                       18.0                    16.5                  91.O

Government                       5.6                    3.3                   60.0

Total projectcosts              23.6                    19.8                  83.9


 Cumulative Estimatedand Actual Disbursements


Appraisal estimate        1.5      6.0       11.5      11.5       16.1    18.0      18.0
(US$M)

Actual (US$M)             0.9      1.4       3.7        8.7       13.1    16.6      16.7

Actual as % of            60.0     23.3      32.1      75.7       81.4    92.8      53.6
appraisal

Dateof final disbursement


 Project Dates

                                          Original                      Actual

Initiatingmemorandum                                                   0511511997

Appraisal                                                              0411511999

Boardapproval                                                          0813111999

Effectiveness                            11/01/1999                    02/22/2000

MidTerm Review                          07/01I2002                     03/06/2003

Closingdate                              12131I2004                    0313112005


 Staff Inputs

                                      No. of Staff Weeks                US$'OOO

Identification1Preparation                   n.a.                         n.a.



Supervision                                  n.a.                         n.a.

ICR                                          11.6                         63.8

 Staffweeks not available

   Annex A                                       26


   Mission Data

                  Date      No. of        Specializations              Implementation Development
               (month/year) persons          represented                 Progress     Objectives

Identification1 0612711996     3    Task Team Leader, Operations
Preparation                         Specialist, ExtensionSpecialist

                10/02/1996     2    Task Team Leader, Operations
                                    Specialist

                10/15/1997     9    Task Team Leader, Economist,
                                    Agricultural Specialist, Financial
                                    Specialist, Sociologist, Extension
                                    Specialist (2),Agroforestry
                                    Specialist

Appraisal1      0411511999     7    Task Team Leader, LeadRural
Negotiations                        DevelopmentSpecialist, Legal
                                    Specialist, Disbursement
                                    Specialist, AgriculturalSpecialist,
                                    OperationsSpecialist, Agricultural
                                    ExtensionSpecialist

                               7    Task Team Leader, Legal
                                    Specialist, Economist, Financial
                                    Specialists (3),Procurement
                                    Specialist

Supervision     OW1112000      7    Team Leader,OperationsOfficer,          S
1                                   ProcurementSpecialist, Financial
                                    ManagementOfficer,
                                    Agriculturalist,Agroforestry
                                    Specialist

Supervision     09/08/2000     7    Team Leader, OperationsOfficer,         S
2                                   ProcurementSpecialist, Financial
                                    ManagementSpecialist,
                                    Agriculturalist,Agroforestry
                                    Specialist, OperationsOfficer
                                    Alternate

Supervision     02/22/2001     7    Task Manager, Operations
3                                   Officer(2)ProgramAssistant,
                                    ForestryExtensionSpecialist,
                                    Gender Specialist, Lead Rural
                                    DevelopmentSpecialist

Supervision     08/24/2001     8    Task Team Leader,Operations             S
4                                   Officer(2),ProcurementOfficer,
                                    FinancialManagementSpecialist,
                                    ExtensionSpecialist,
                                    GenderlHRMSpecialist,
                                    GenderlExtensionSpecialist

Supervision     02/08/2002     8    Sr. Agriculturalist, Lead Rural
5                                   DevelopmentSpecialist,
                                    Consultant, OperationsOfficer,
                                    ProcurementOfficer, Financial
                                    ManagementSpecialist, Gender
                                    Consultant(2)

Supervision     07/08/2002     7    Task Team Leader, Sr.                   S
6                                   Agriculturalist,OperationsOfficer,
                                    ProcurementOfficer, Financial
                                    ManagementSpecialist,
                                    AgriculturalConsultant,
                                    Communityand Training
                                    Consultant, Agro Economist

                                                                                 Annex A


               Date      No. of        Specializations           Implementation Development
            (month/year) persons          represented              Progress     Objectives

Supervision  02/21/2003     7    EconomistrraskTeam Leader,           S
7                                Extension,Research,Gender,
                                 Agriculture, Forestry,Financial
                                 Management, Procurement

Supervision  02/23/2003     6    Extension,Research,Operations,
8                                Procurement,Financial
                                 Management, Econornicsrrask
                                 Team Leader

ICR                         3    Mission Leader,Participatory         S              S
                                 Extension,Economics

