                                               Document of
                                            The World Bank

                                        FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                         Report No: 25940




                              IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                 (CPL-38860; SCL-38866; SCPD-3886S)

                                                   ON A

                                                   LOAN

                                IN THE AMOUNT OF US$40.1 MILLION

                                                  TO THE

                                       REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA

                                                 FOR THE

                 SECOND AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT PROJECT




                                               June 26, 2003




Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
Indonesia Country Unit
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office



 This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
 official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                           (Exchange Rate Effective November 2002)

                                      Currency Unit = Rupiah (Rp.)
                                            Rp. 1000 = US$ 0.115
                                            US$ 1.00 = Rp. 8700

                                             FISCAL YEAR
                            April 1       -    March 31 (up to Year 2000)
                          January 1 - December 31 (from Year 2001)

                             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB         -    Asian Development Bank
AEZ         -    Agro Ecological Zone
AIAT        -    Assessment Institute for Agricultural Technology
APBN        -    Angarran Pendapatan dan Belanja Nasional (National Government Budget)
APBD        -    Angarran Pendapatan dan Belanja Daerah (Local Government Budget)
BAPPENAS    -    Badan Perencanaan Pembangunan Nasional (National Development Planning Agency)
BIPP        -    Balai Informasi dan Penyuluhan Pertanian (District Agency for Agricultural Information
                 & Extension Service)
CAS         -    Country Assistance Strategy
CASERD      -    Center for Agricultural Socio-Economic Research and Development
CRI         -    Central Research Institute
DAFEP       -    Decentralized Agricultural and Forestry Extension Project
DINAS       -    Provincial and District Support Service (Local Government)
ERR         -    Economic Rate of Return
GOI         -    Government of Indonesia
IAARD       -    Indonesian Agency for Agricultural Research and Development
IATADI      -    Indonesian Agricultural Technology Assessment and Development Institute
ICR         -    Implementation Completion Report
M&E         -    Monitoring and Evaluation
MENPAN      -    Menteri Negara Pemberdayaan Aparatur Negara
MIS         -    Management Information System
MTR         -    Mid-Term Review
NGAS        -    New Government Accounting System
NGO         -    Non-Government Organization
NPV         -    Net Present Value
NRI         -    National Research Institute
PDATP       -    Participatory Development for Agricultural Technology Project
PIU         -    Project Implementation Unit
PMU         -    Project Management Unit
PRA         -    Participatory Rural Appraisal
RAC         -    Regional Advisory Committee
R&A         -    Research and Assessment
R&D         -    Research and Development
RPO         -    Rural Producers' Organizations
RTWG        -    Regional Technical Working Group
SAGA        -    Socio-economics and Gender Analysis
SAR         -    Staff Appraisal Report
TAT         -    Technical Assistance Team


                                   Vice President:              Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
                               Country Director:                Andrew D. Steer, EACIF
                                  Sector Director:              Mark D. Wilson, EASRD
                             Task Team Leader:                  Dely P. Gapasin, EASRD

                     IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT

                                         INDONESIA


                     Second Agricultural Research Management Project
                                  (Loan Number 3886-IND)


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 12
8. Lessons Learned                                                               14
9. Partner Comments                                                              15
10. Additional Information                                                       17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             21
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             26
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             28
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                29
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            30
Annex 8. Government of Indonesia's Implementation Completion Report              31

Map: IBRD #26593R2

Project ID: P003972                                                      Project Name: Second Agricultural Research
                                                                         Management Project
Team Leader: Mohamed N. Benali                                           TL Unit: EASRD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 27, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: Second Agricultural Research Management                  L/C/TF Number: CPL-38860; SCL-38866;
                            Project                                                                  SCPD-3886S
   Country/Department: INDONESIA                                                          Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Agricultural extension and research (75%); Sub-national
                            government administration (25%)
                  Theme: Other rural development (P); Decentralization (P)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    05/20/1994                                        Effective: 07/09/1995              07/09/1995
   Appraisal:    11/04/1994                                            MTR: 10/24/1998                10/24/1998
    Approval:    05/16/1995                                         Closing: 04/30/2001               12/31/2002

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOI/AARD
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Russell Cheetham
Country Director:               Andrew D. Steer                                Marianne Haug
Sector Manager:                 Mark D. Wilson                                 Anthony P. Cole
Team Leader at ICR:             Dely Gapasin                                   Dirk Leeuwrik
ICR Primary Author:             John Nickel; Edgardo
                                Quisumbing


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:SU

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

3.1.1    The main objective of the Second Agricultural Research Management Project (ARMP II) was to
strengthen regional agricultural research and development, based on local human and natural resources, by
collaboratively developing and transferring location-specific, market-oriented and client-driven technologies
to support agribusiness and agro-industry development. The Project supported: (a) the establishment of a
network of regional Assessment Institutes for Agriculture Technology (AIATs) in twelve provinces; (b)
improved regional research and development management; (c) expanded research in priority areas and
commodities; and (d) strengthened research and development linkages to local, national, regional and
international research organizations. The Project objective and expected outcomes were clearly stated and
consistent with the country's development plans and the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS). They
were also consistent with the government's decentralization policies and its shift in agricultural strategy
from production targets to increasing farmers/fishers' incomes and welfare.          The design of project
components was clearly linked to the achievement of the objective.

3.2 Revised Objective:

3.2.1    The original objective remained unchanged throughout the life of the Project. However, the scope
of the Project was expanded in May 2000 when support for the AIATs in two provinces, East Nusa
Tenggara and West Nusa Tenggara, was transferred to the ARMP II from the Nusa Tenggara Agricultural
Area Development Project (Loan 3984-IND), another project in part funded by the Bank.

3.3 Original Components:

3.3.1    The Project had four components. The projected costs shown here included price and physical
contingencies.

3.3.2   Component 1: Regionalization of Agricultural Research and Development
[Estimated cost: at appraisal US$52.8 million; after reallocation/cancellation US$27.4 million, of which
US$19.0 million from the Bank.]
This component was designed to strengthen on-farm research, using farming systems methodology, and to
facilitate technology transfer through the decentralized AIATs of the Indonesian Agency for Agricultural
Research and Development (IAARD). The activities were: (a) development and operation of twelve
AIATs, including the organization of a Regional Advisory Committee (RAC) and a Regional Technical
Working Group (RTWG) for each AIAT; (b) characterization of agro-ecological zones (AEZs) as the basis
for regional research and development (R&D) planning and technology dissemination; (c) provision of
support for regional R&D management, focusing on important constraints and technology needs of
farmers/fishers; and (d) the provision of support for regional technology transfer programs to enhance the
utilization of location-specific technologies.

3.3.3    Component 2: Institutionalization of Agricultural Research and Development Management at
the Regional Level
[Estimated cost: at appraisal US$18.2 million; after reallocation/cancellation US$5.8 million, of which
US$3.5 million from the Bank.] This component introduced management and administrative reforms
developed under a previous Agricultural Research Management Project at the AIATs to improve the
IAARD's capacity to respond to specific needs of farmers/fishers and other stake-holders at the district and
field levels. The activities were: (a) the strengthening R&D planning, priority setting, policy formulation,



                                                     - 2 -

management of information, monitoring and evaluation (M&E), and administration; (b) the strengthening
national communication and scientific literature services to support AIATs; (c) the establishment of
Management Information System (MIS), M&E, and new government accounting and financial systems at
the AIATs; (d) building the regional assessment and technology dissemination capacity of AIAT staff to
manage integrated R&D programs; (e) piloting a regional soil fertility and fertilizer use program; and (f)
support for project implementation.

3.3.4   Component 3: Priority Commodity and Discipline-Oriented Research Programs
[Estimated cost: at appraisal US$22.5 million; after reallocation/cancellation US$19.8 million, of which
US$16.0 million from the Bank.] This component helped to accelerate the development of new and
improved technologies, and increased the relevance of research conducted by commodity national research
institutes to backstop the needs of AIATs in working with men and women farmers/fishers. The activities
were: (a) the provision of support for research on livestock, fisheries, horticulture and tree crops,
biotechnology, post-harvest treatment, agricultural machinery, market studies, anthropology and sociology,
and agricultural policies; (b) the provision of degree-level and other training on selected basic and applied
research disciplines; and (c) the augmentation of the expertise within relevant commodity and
discipline-oriented institutes on key topics.

3.3.5   Component 4: Strengthening Research and Development Collaboration
[Estimated cost: at appraisal US$8.3 million; after reallocation/cancellation US$2.3 million, of which
US$1.6 million from the Bank.] This component improved Indonesia's access to internationally-generated
technologies, research tools and improved methodologies.          The activities were: (a) tapping research
expertise in universities and other R&D institutes through the University Competitive Research Grants
Program; (b) strengthening linkages with the private sector, nongovernmental organizations (NGOs), and
agricultural services units (DINAS); and (c) strengthening linkages to international and regional research
centers.

3.4 Revised Components:

3.4.1 The original components remained essentially unchanged throughout the duration of the Project. In
May 2000, AIATs in two additional provinces (East Nusa Tenggara and West Nusa Tenggara) were
included under the Project. Bank support for project activities was suspended because of the instability in
Maluku in FY2000 resulting in the destruction by fire of the AIAT headquarters in Ambon. However,
twenty staff were sent for degree training and three for diploma training. Other staff were redeployed
temporarily to other AIATs, and all project activities were continued using Government of Indonesia (GOI)
development funds up to the Project's closing date.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

3.5.1   Overall, the quality at entry is rated as having been satisfactory. No Quality Assurance Group
(QAG) review was carried out for this Project. Project design was responsive to prevailing conditions at
the time, and both project preparation and appraisal were generally well managed. Borrower ownership
and commitment were strong throughout, the Project was adequately prepared, and a Project
Implementation Plan was prepared prior to Board presentation. The Project was consistent with the CAS
for Indonesia discussed by the Board of Executive Directors on March 21, 1995. The focus was on
inter-regional equity and enhanced competitiveness, delivery of high-quality public services especially to
the poor, greater decentralization of responsibilities, and improved environmental management.




                                                       - 3 -

3.5.2    The IAARD had anticipated the Government's decentralization policy by the establishment of
regional AIATs. The Project supported this move and thus helped to position IAARD to provide research
and development services to the new decentralized government structure. More attention should have been
given to familiarize decentralized implementing units with the Bank's procedures and guidelines for the
procurement of goods and civil works, which was remedied by training project staff. Base-line data were
not available, resulting in difficulty in comparing the project outcomes and impacts. Base-line data should
have been collected prior to or at the beginning of the Project.


4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

4.1.1    The Project substantially achieved its original objective and expected outputs and is rated as
satisfactory. It succeeded in developing regional assessment institutes as viable units that worked closely
with farmers/fishers in testing and disseminating technologies and production practices relevant to specific
agro-ecosystems and farming systems. It helped IAARD to transform its organizational structure and
institutional culture towards a demand-driven, "farmer first" strategy. At the same time, it helped to
improve the flow of new technological components and innovations by strengthening the up-stream national
research institutes by funding priority research and training and promoting inter-institutional collaboration.
The AIATs have successfully tested and disseminated location-specific technologies that have increasingly
been adopted by farmers/fishers who have integrated these into their farming systems.               Research
management tools and processes have improved research and assessment planning, priority setting,
financial management and overall AIAT operations at the regional level. The linkages with farmers/fishers,
extension and technical service staff, university researchers, and private agribusiness entrepreneurs have
been strengthened. Local governments have increasingly been willing to provide funding for further testing
and dissemination of technological innovations.

4.2 Outputs by components:

4.2.1 Component 1: Regionalization of Agricultural Research and Development The outputs of this
component are rated as satisfactory. The research and development activities of the IAARD have been
decentralized and made more relevant to the needs of farmers/fishers by the development of fourteen
AIATs. Considering the diversity in the county, the original plan was to develop one AIAT per province,
hence, the remaining twelve AIATs were developed through a complementary project, the Participatory
Development for Agricultural Technology Project (PDATP) funded by the Asian Development Bank
(ADB). Facilities for these have been constructed or renovated and equipped. Staff has been augmented
and upgraded. All AIATs, with the exception of one in Maluku where facilities were burned down during
civil unrest, are now fully functional and are working in a participatory manner with farmers/fishers and
extension agencies. All AIATs now have the same structural status (Echelon 3) through a Ministerial
Decree issued in 2002.

4.2.2 These AIATs have already developed, tested, and recommended many location-specific technologies.
In 1996, each AIAT had only three or four location-specific research/assessments. In 1999, the average
increased to eleven, and in 2002 this further increased to nineteen. An increasing number of approved
technologies has been adopted by farmers/fishers and integrated into sustainable farming systems,
increasing farm income. All AIATs provide the following services: library facilities, AEZ maps and
bio-physical and socio-economic data bases, multi-media production facilities; in addition, soil/plant tissues
analysis is available in three AIATs.       More recently, many farming systems zone maps have been



                                                     - 4 -

developed at a scale of 1:50,000 for selected districts and sub-districts and in relation to specific topics,
such as land use potential. These are being used for research assessment and planning by the AIATs, as
well as by local governments in regional development planning.

4.2.3   RACs and RTWGs were established to provide technical oversight but their effectiveness has been
variable. However, there were frequent direct consultations and meetings of AIATs with DINAS offices,
the District Agencies for Agricultural Information and Extension Services (BIPPs), extension staff, farmer
leaders, university researchers, and private sector representatives. In one province, the Vice-Governor
chairs the RAC and members participate actively. In others, the AIAT has stimulated the development of
farmer-led agricultural technology clinics. These are owned and managed by farmer groups, and serve as a
useful focal point for technology dissemination.

4.2.4    Support for the research and assessment (R&A) program facilitated the development of AIAT
capacity to test technologies for location specificity based on agro-ecological and socio-economic
conditions and on farmers/fishers' needs, with the active participation of farmers/fishers and extension
workers. Guidelines and methodologies were developed by a Technical Assistance Team (TAT), organized
by the Center for Agricultural Socio-Economic Research and Development (CASERD), to provide
hands-on training, technical back-stopping, and M&E of AIAT programs. The TAT was also responsible
for quality assurance and capacity building in strategic planning, priority setting, M&E, participatory rural
appraisal      (PRA),     socio-economic      and     gender     analysis     (SAGA),      and     Strength-
Weaknesses-Opportunities-Threats methodologies.         In 2002, the Indonesian Agricultural Technology
Assessment and Development Institute (IATADI) was established to assist CASERD in providing
management support and supervision of the AIAT network.

4.2.5 Component 2: Institutionalization of R&D Management at the Regional Level The outputs of
this component, to introduce management and administrative reforms developed under a previous
Agricultural Research Management Project and adapt them to be appropriate for management of regional
assessment institutes, were satisfactory. This overall rating was based on impressive achievements in most
of the activities covered under six sub-components. Training of staff improved staff capacity in many
areas (see Human Resources Development section below). Initially, the ARMP II supported the training of
staff of 26 AIATs until the ADB/PDATP became effective. Long-term Strategic Plans and mid-term
Research Master Plans (2000-2004) have been developed by each AIAT, including those in non-ARMP II
provinces.

4.2.6    Annual planning and budgeting has improved substantially during implementation of the Project.
Currently, inputs from PRA, SAGA, the AEZ maps, and RAC/RTWG members are routinely utilized in
planning, and the quality of proposals and implementation has improved. The Social and Gender Analysis
Program and network of SAGA-trained staff in AIATs have improved the social and gender awareness of
staff, resulting in more gender-sensitive programs. RAC's support to AIAT is important in the formulation
of the R&D plan that harmonizes with the provincial development plan, and RAC's recommendation is the
basis for local government's increasing level of funding from its local budget (APBD). About US$2.1
million was provided to the AIATs by provincial governments up to FY2002. The development of AEZ
and fertilizer maps enabled AIATs to focus on priority needs in the region. Under the "Harmonization
Program", the National Research Institutes (NRIs) and AIATs meet each year to discuss common problems
and issues related to regional technology assessment and dissemination. Also, joint planning and budgeting
between NRIs and AIATs have been carried out for national programs such as the Rice-Based Farming
Systems Program, the Integrated Crop Management Program, and the Integrated Crop-Livestock
Management Program involving many provinces.




                                                    - 5 -

4.2.7    The Project enabled the Center for Agricultural Library and Technology Dissemination to develop
further the central IAARD library, assist in the development of AIAT libraries, and train AIAT and NRI
library staff. Websites have been developed linking the AIATs with NRIs and improving their access to
global databases (such as those in the Consultative Group for International Agricultural Research centers).
Pilot Regional Soil/Plant Tissue Analysis facilities have been established at three AIATs and at the Center
for Soil and Agro-Climate Research and Development, to which farmers send samples for analysis through
the AIATs and BIPPs.

4.2.8    There were less than satisfactory achievements in three aspects: the MIS, M&E, and the Personnel
Incentive System. M&E of the outputs and outcomes of AIATs began late in project implementation by the
TAT. All AIATs have established M&E Teams that were trained by the TAT. However, monitoring and
documentation of impact has not yet been adequately established as a regular function of the AIATs.
Progress on development of a functional MIS for activities at the regional level has been slow. All AIATs
now utilize MIS data-bases for personnel and financial management, and some manage data on programs
and R&A outputs. However, the data-bases are managed separately, using non-relational software. While
the systems in place are working to serve the routine reporting required by the government, they do serve as
flexible, user-friendly tools to assist managers in decision-making. Central IAARD support for MIS and
M&E development has been limited.

4.2.9    A review of the incentive system was carried out by IAARD, but some recommendations are still
being internally discussed prior to their presentation to MENPAN/Civil Service Commission. Coordination
and technical back-stopping from the new IATADI is still at an early stage, and its coordinating mandate
needs to be clarified since it is in the same organizational level (echelon) as the AIATs. There is also
limited technical back-stopping and interaction between some AIATs and a few Central Research Institute
(CRIs)/NRIs (e.g., RI Coconut and RI Marine Fisheries) because of distance and limited technical staff.

4.2.10 Management efficiency of the AIATs could be measured by: (a) increasing the number and variety
of dissemination activities; (b) large numbers of information materials developed and utilized; (c) frequent
technical consultations with farmers/fishers and other stakeholders; (d) numerous field trials and large farm
demonstrations managed by farmers/fishers each year; and (e) increasing requests, assistance from districts
and sub-districts and positive response from AIATs, and increasing contacts with farmer leaders,
farmers/fishers' organizations, extension staff, and other stake-holders. Local governments and institutions
recognize the contributions of the AIATs and are increasingly willing to fund their activities.

4.2.11 Component 3: Priority Commodity and Discipline-Oriented Research Program The outputs
of this component were satisfactory. This component was implemented by highly trained scientists in the
CRIs and NRIs. Over 800 research studies were funded under this component in livestock, fisheries,
horticulture, and tree crops, as well disciplinary research in bio-technology, gender studies, socio-economic
policy, agricultural engineering, and post-harvest treatment. The research component resulted in numerous
improved technologies (i.e., improved crop varieties, improved goat and duck hybrids, new techniques of
fish fry production suitable for farmers/fishers' fields, improved goat husbandry, new vaccines, biological
control agents, bio-pesticides, and other component technologies).            The quality of linkages and
consultations between the CRIs/NRIs and the AIATs resulted in the formulation of a more relevant and
responsive research agenda of CRIs/NRIs and their increased involvement and cooperation in regional
on-farm research and assessment.

4.2.12 The Project support resulted in high quality laboratory research, highly sophisticated research, and
conservation and characterization of valuable agricultural microbes. New in vitro techniques produced
40,000 disease-free citrus seedlings per month, laboratory tissue culture technique resulted in the


                                                      - 6 -

propagation of disease-free banana seedlings, laboratory technique led to the production of Mycorrhiza,
Trichorderma and Beauveria as bio-pesticides. A major achievement was the construction of a bio-safety
facility, the main laboratory in the country, which is becoming self-financing through fees that private
sector companies pay to test the safety of genetically modified crops and transgenic plants. Support for
bio-technology research (about US$1.7 million) resulted in highly trained scientists who carried out
sophisticated research to transform rice with cry1A gene for resistance to rice stem borer, development of
cry1Ac transgenic maize with resistance to Asian corn borer, development of transgenic soybean (R2) with
pinIIgen for resistance to pod borer, etc. Use of molecular markers developed by researchers accelerated
the breeding process.

4.2.13     Component 4:       Strengthening R&D Collaboration           The outputs of this component on
strengthening R&D collaboration were satisfactory. This component expanded the knowledge and
technology base for Indonesian agricultural development by: (a) tapping the research expertise in national
and regional universities and other R&D institutes through the University Competitive Research Grants
Program; (b) strengthening linkages with the private sector, non-governmental organizations (NGOs), and
DINAS; and (c) improving access to internationally generated technologies, research tools, and improved
methodologies by establishing links with international and regional research centers. The collaborative
research supported by this component produced technology relevant to the work of the AIATs.

4.2.14     Established and emerging enterprises and agro-industries have benefited from technologies
developed and disseminated by CRIs/NRIs and AIATs. Some enterprises included: (a) twenty potato seed
producers in West Java, North Sumatra and West Sumatra; (b) ten farmer cooperatives that produce
mangosteen seedlings in Riau; (c) a company producing 40,000 tissue cultured virus-free citrus plants per
year in Central Java; (d) a company producing 30,000 tissue cultured virus-free banana seedlings per year
in North Sumatra; (e) four hatchery companies producing milk fish tuna baits in South Sulawesi; and (f)
the Association of Estate Crops Producers commercializing NoBB (a growth regulator), OrgDec (an
organic fertilizer), Green-G (a bio-fungicide), and Emas (a bio-fertilizer).

4.2.15     The IAARD Scientific Foundation established a privately-managed Intellectual Property and
Technology Commercialization Office in 1999 that links up with private companies to negotiate
commercialization of technologies generated by the national research system.         NRIs have registered
trade-marks for new crop varieties and hybrids produced under the project. The following crop varieties
have been licensed for commercial production with private sector partners: fifteen varieties of
chrysanthemum, three varieties of carnation and one variety of potato. IAARD is ready to sign contracts
for the following: two varieties of hybrid rice, one variety of mango, and nine varieties of vegetables.
Seven varieties of rose, including the Megawati Rose, are under negotiation for licensing. A contract with
the private sector for use of trade-mark would ensure full cost recovery for breeder seeds, quality control,
and 2-3% royalty of the total sales for IAARD. Similar contracts are being negotiated for patented
technologies like vaccine formulas.

4.2.16     Because of improved research facilities in CRIs/NRIs, there is better collaboration with
international research institutions on strategic research. Some NRIs have become members of international
networks such as the Asian Rice Biotechnology Network, Asian Corn Biotechnology Network,
International Network for Bananas and Plantain, and the Regional Network for Agricultural Engineering
and Mechanization. IAARD's Veterinary Diagnostic Laboratory has been accredited by the International
Laboratory Standard Organization for diagnosing anthrax and laptospirosis diseases.

4.2.17 Human Resources Development (Components 2 and 3) Under the Project, 428 people received
long-term training. Of these, 21 IAARD staff were trained for Ph.D. and 341 for M.Sc. degrees. Of the


                                                      - 7 -

21 Ph.D. participants, eight were from the AIATs and thirteen from the NRIs/CRIs. Seven participants
obtained Ph.D. degrees overseas. Of the 341 M.Sc. participants, 190 came from AIATs and 151 from
CRIs/NRIs. Thirty-eight were trained overseas. In addition, 23 staff completed in-country B.Sc. degrees
and 43 received diplomas.

4.2.18 The Project supported short-term training of about 5,445 staff, of whom 134 were trained overseas.
The short-term training for AIAT staff was in the following areas of specialization: research and
assessment (19 per cent); extension, information and dissemination (11 per cent); management of research,
assessment, and extension (52 per cent); administration and finance (14 per cent); and support services (4
per cent). A total of 382 people were trained in Social and Gender Analysis (18 master trainers, 119
trainers, and 345 staff from IAARD and partner institutions) that has had a positive impact on the planning
and implementation of research, assessment and dissemination activities.

4.2.19   The number of staff trained far exceeded the original design estimates when IAARD decided to
send more participants to train locally to take advantage of the amount of local currency that became
available when the Rupiah was devalued during the period of economic crisis. Impressive as these
achievements are, they have not resulted in an appropriate skill mix in some AIATs. More staff need
training in management information systems, agri-business management, rural sociology, post-harvest
handling and processing, food technology, agricultural economics, and marketing.

4.2.20    The intermediate impact of training could be assessed by: new knowledge from high quality
research, development of innovative technologies, development of standards and guidelines, and high
quality publications by IAARD staff.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

4.3.1 The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) did not estimate an economic rate of return (ERR) or net present
value (NPV) for the Project because this was not required for research projects at the time of preparation.
For this completion report, an ERR has been estimated using information collected as part of a previous
external impact study of project activities and assessments of possible future developments. The ERR was
based on benefits to farmers/fishers arising from introducing new technologies. The base-case scenario
suggested that the ERR could be 14.5 per cent (see Annex 3 for a discussion on the data analyzed).

4.3.2 Socio-cultural impacts of adopted technologies and environmental protection benefits were assessed
by the Impact Study Team. Reduction of poverty among resource-poor farmers/fishers is shown in
increasing their access to improved technologies (such as Bisma corn in West Kalimantan and swamp-land
rice farming in Jambi); strengthening of farmers' associations (such as a village cooperative for cattle
fattening in Yogyakarta, and a village goat breeding center run by farmers in Jambi); and changing of
subsistence farming to commercial agriculture (such as sheep farmers in North Sumatra exporting sheep to
Malaysia).    Many technologies had positive impacts on women by increasing their opportunity to
participate and improve work conditions for both men and women. The environmental impact of new
technologies is shown by the attention given by NRIs and AIATs to the development and use of insect- and
disease-resistant crop varieties, development and use of bio-pesticides, use of integrated pest management
practices in many crops (especially biological control agents), improved management of wastes (such as
organic fertilizer), and alley cropping in upland areas to control soil erosion.

4.3.3 As the objective of the Project is primarily institutional strengthening, the ERR is directly linked to
the ERRs that could be achieved through technologies introduced by the Project. A survey conducted by
the external Impact Study Team in June 2002 collected data on 16 out of 41 technologies recommended for



                                                     - 8 -

review by the AIATs. Six out of these sixteen technologies were selected for this economic analysis based
on an assessment that these technologies were the most representative of the potential impact areas of the
ARMP II. The average ERR, using these six technologies, was estimated to be 20 per cent. The lower
ERR for the ARMP II takes into account the cost of project activities averaged across an estimated one
million farmers/fishers who may benefit from adopting the technologies. If, in the future, significantly
higher ERRs would be achieved for on-farm technologies, the ERR for the ARMP II could be
proportionately higher. The impact study showed high rates of adoption of technologies in districts and
sub-districts where technologies were tested and disseminated by AIATs two to three years before the
closing of the Project.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

4.4.1 No financial rate of return was calculated for the Project or any of its activities.

4.5 Institutional development impact:

4.5.1 The impact of the Project on institutional development was substantial. This rating is based on the
fact that the Project enabled the IAARD to make radical changes in its organizational structure and
institutional culture. The centerpiece of this bold move was the creation of the AIATs that enable extension
workers and researchers to work closely together with farmers/fishers in participatory, on-farm technology
testing and validation and adaptive research.         This transformation will contribute significantly to
sustainable agricultural development and improvement of the welfare of farmers/fishers as Indonesia
implements national policies of decentralization and de-concentration to give more autonomy to the
provinces, districts, and the local communities.      In the past, agricultural research in Indonesia was
accomplished mainly by the national research centers and institutes of IAARD working in a
highly-centralized manner. In its 1995 Strategic Plan, IAARD declared a "farmer first" policy in a new
paradigm that involved moving research closer to farmers/fishers, taking into account location-specific
conditions, and assuming a greater role in the pre-extension phase of technology.

4.5.2   The institutional development challenge to IAARD in the implementation of the new paradigm was
to establish the AIATs while keeping the national research institutes/centers strong in strategic and applied
research to ensure a continuous flow of technological innovations for local validation and adaptation. The
Project was well designed to help the IAARD meet these challenges. The transformation of the structure
and institutional culture of the IAARD continues to evolve in conformity with the decentralization policy of
the Government. However, linkages between the NRIs/CRIs and the AIATs are still variable, although
many NRIs are working closely with the AIATs. An NRI Director described the AIATs as the "arms and
legs" of his research institute. To implement the national gender main-streaming policy of the Government
within the research system, IAARD organized a Core SAGA Team and a regional network of SAGA Focal
Points who trained master and regional trainers, and trained staff and partners on gender mainstreaming.
SAGA has been integrated into the research and assessment programming, implementation, and monitoring
process in all AIATs and a significant number of staff, officials, and other stake-holders have been trained
on SAGA and gender-sensitive PRA processes.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

5.1.1 The influence of outside factors on project outcomes was substantial. In January 1997, the country
was affected by the Asian economic crisis which resulted in a significant devaluation of the Rupiah (from
Rp. 2,200 to as low as Rp. 15,700 per US$ in August 1998). The crisis affected the Government's ability


                                                     - 9 -

to provide adequate counterpart funding (especially for recurrent operating costs as originally planned), and
led to the cancellation of US$22.9 million from the original loan amount of US$63.0 million. Local
counterpart funding requirements for the civil works program and procurement of equipment increased
significantly as a result of the devaluation, resulting in implementation delays.       Plans for the wider
assessment and dissemination of useful and relevant technologies had to be scaled down as a result.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

5.2.1   The Decentralization Law 22/1999 and Fiscal Autonomy Law 25/1999 facilitated the expeditious
implementation of development programs at the district level.         However, consultations with national
agencies located in their areas (e.g., the AIATs) to clarify new mandates, relationships, and operating
arrangements of newly organized or reorganized local institutions were inadequate and created confusion
and uncertainty.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

5.3.1    The decentralization of IAARD, through the development of AIATs, was a bold and highly
significant achievement that allowed a better and more effective flow of required technologies from the
national research institutes to the various production systems in the agro-ecological zones of the provinces.
However, support obtained from local governments was inconsistent. A few AIATs have succeeded in
getting substantial cost-sharing support but others have not received any at all. A mechanism that will
allow other AIATs to learn from AIATs who have been successful in obtaining support from local
governments and other stakeholders has not yet been fully institutionalized. IAARD continues to establish
new national research institutes and research stations by taking out these units that have already been
transferred to AIATs.      This could weaken IAARD's decentralization program as well as undo the
consolidation of facilities that has been implemented during the Project. Arrangements should be made for
CRI/NRI scientists to carry out research with national scope at the AIATs. Administrative support could
be provided by AIATs, thereby avoiding the employment of similar administrative staff at the new national
research institutes/research stations.

5.3.2  The provincial and district governments continue to reorganize and AIATs, in particular, have been
adjusting to these changes on a case-by-case basis. Some NRIs established new, centrally-managed
research stations (e.g., for goats, beef, citrus, and fruits) instead of developing mechanisms to allow
research with national scope to be carried out in the regions by NRIs in collaboration with AIATs and
universities.  IAARD should monitor these and put in place a system to understand: (a) how these
organizational changes have an impact on the decentralization plan and the operations of IAARD Work
Units; and (b) how AIATs have responded. These experiences and lessons learned should be shared across
IAARD on a regular basis.

5.4 Costs and financing:

5.4.1    Financial management and disbursement levels were satisfactory.         The Project disbursement
schedule closely tracked the SAR disbursement plan. Financial audit reports for FY2000/2001 were
submitted, and accepted by the Bank. The final financial audit reports will form part of the Borrower's
completion report for the Project. The total cost of the 7-year project was estimated at US$101.8 million,
of which US$63.0 million was to be funded through a loan from the Bank and US$38.8 million from the
GOI. In 1998 and 1999, a total of US$22.9 million was cancelled at the request of the Borrower during the
Asian economic crisis; this included US$0.79 million which was cancelled because of misprocurement
cases.



                                                    - 10 -

5.4.2 The Project cost was revised down to US$65.7 million at the Mid-Term Review (MTR) in October
1998, and to US$55.3 million in December 1999. The Project funding up to the Loan's Closing Date was
estimated to be US$52.3 million, with Bank financing of US$37.8 million (72.3 per cent). In September,
2001, the original Closing Date of April 30, 2002 was extended to December 31, 2002. Total actual
disbursements were US$35.84 million. About US$2.1 million of further expenditures were not presented
to the Bank for reimbursement, and the amount of US$2.27 million remained undisbursed at the closing
date of the loan account.


6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

6.1.1   Project sustainability is rated as likely. Continuity is assured in the short term by the strong
commitment of the Government to provide adequate counterpart funding and by continuing support from:
(a) Bank-funded projects (the Nusa Tenggara Agricultural Area Development Project and the Decentralized
Agricultural and Forestry Extension Project); (b) an ADB-funded project (the PDATP); and (c) bilateral
donors. The government's support has been strong; the ARMP II was the fourth Bank-funded operation
negotiated by the Government to support agricultural research and development. A new project is being
identified to build on the successes of the ARMP II and lessons learned from the Decentralized Agricultural
and Forestry Development Project (DAFEP), and will include the empowerment of rural producer
organizations (RPOs) and other stake-holders to enable them to benefit from and participate in research,
assessment, and extension activities.

6.1.2    Longer-term sustainability is likely with the strong commitment of the national and local
governments to provide continuing budgetary support for agricultural research, assessment, and
dissemination. This is reinforced by the enactment of the National Research System Law No.18/2002 on
July 29, 2002, which requires provincial/district governments and the private sector to contribute funding
for research, and gives authority to IAARD research centers and national research institutes to retain
earnings from commercial activities to finance R&D activities. This law will enable IAARD to raise funds
through sales and royalties from the technologies it develops and registers under the Crop Varietal
Protection Law No. 29/2000.          It also provides property rights to the developers of high-yielding,
disease-resistant crop varieties. In the last two years, provincial/district governments have emerged as
important partners which can contribute to the sustainable operation of AIATs through contracting AIATs
for essential and useful services to their farmers/fishers, and for training and technical back-stopping to
extension staff. In addition, farmers/fishers have been willing to contract for soil analyses services and for
advice on crop and livestock disease diagnosis and treatment.

6.1.3 The Project has significantly enhanced the professional skills of IAARD staff through post-graduate
training, particularly for Ph.D. and M.Sc. degrees, and short-term, in-service training. However, in the
next five years a significant number of staff will leave through retirement and normal attrition. To ensure
sustainability of research and assessment activities, IAARD must develop and implement a strategy to
maintain a critical mass of experienced scientists at the NRIs and AIATs.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

6.2.1 The Government's proposal for the transition arrangement to IAARD's regular operation is divided
into short-term (with FY2003 proposed budget) and longer-term (2003-2008) activities. In FY2003,



                                                    - 11 -

IAARD proposed to include in its central budget (APBN) provision for: the completion of civil works in
two centers; the retention fee (5 per cent) for completed construction of three NRIs; tuition, stipends and
return transportation for six remaining overseas M.Sc. degree participants; associated costs for 32
remaining in-country diploma training participants; and completion of the installation of recently procured
laboratory equipment, including training of technicians to run them.

6.2.2   The IAARD Director General has designated a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) - the Bagian
Proyek Pembinaan Kelembagaan Litbang Pertanian - for the ARMP II under the Proyek Pengembangan
Teknologi Agribisnis, Jakarta, with support from the Government for FY2003. This PIU will complete all
requirements for closing the Project, especially: (a) preparation of the Project's final financial report; (b)
satisfactory completion and payment of all contracts; (c) submission of all disbursements and requests for
reimbursement applications by April 30, 2003, and (d) prepare the final completion report and the
Government's ICR of the ARMP II.

6.2.3 In the next five years, the continuation of internship of AIAT staff at CRIs/NRIs will be funded by
the respective AIATs. Support for the provision of technical guidance on priority activities of AIATs from
IAARD's central units (the Secretariat, CRIs/NRIs) will be provided through the respective unit's budget.
Maintenance of facilities and equipment procured by the Project has been transferred to the routine budget
of the respective IAARD work units. Research, technology assessment, and technology dissemination
activities of AIATs and CRIs/NRIs will be funded by IAARD's central budget, by collaborating regional
and local governments (APBD), other donors, and IAARD's institutional revenues on a cost-sharing
arrangement. Collaborative activities with universities, international research organizations, private sector,
and NGOs are expected to be reduced but it has been proposed to be cost-shared by AIATs, CRIs/NRIs
and their partners. The central budget required for the FY2003 activities has been discussed with and
agreed by the National Development Planning Agency (BAPPENAS).

6.2.4 Preliminary discussions are being held by the Government to follow up on a new initiative tentatively
titled "Farmer Empowerment through Agricultural Technology and Information" which will build on the
successes and lessons learned from the ARMP II and extension reforms under the DAFEP, with the strong
participation of farmers/fishers and RPOs. An assessment has been made of the status of RPOs in
Indonesia and of future potential ways of empowering them as partners of government in reaching the
poorer sector of the rural society.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

7.1.1 The Bank's performance in the lending process was satisfactory. The lending program was managed
efficiently, given the institutional complexity and significant design issues pertaining to establishing a
decentralized research and development structure within the seven year time-frame of the project. The
Project anticipated the Government's plan to decentralize government services by five years, and was
designed in accordance with Indonesia's development strategy and priorities and the Bank's CAS. The
Bank responded expeditiously to alleviate the impact of the Asian economic crisis by canceling a portion of
the loan and adjusting the percentage of expenditures to be financed; this increased the Bank's financing in
some categories and reduced the Government's counterpart funding requirements for civil works, goods,
consultants' services, and research incremental recurrent costs. The increase in local currency available
resulted in more facilities being constructed and more local degree and short-term training carried out than
were targeted in the SAR.



                                                   - 12 -

7.2 Supervision:

7.2.1 The Bank's supervision performance was highly satisfactory. Bank supervision played a key role in
the transformation of the mindset of researchers and managers, particularly those staffing the AIATs, to
address actual problems of the production systems in various agro-ecological zones. The Bank also made
optimal use of consultants' trust fund resources to include specialists on gender issues, bio-technology,
research management, human resources, research and extension linkages, and thereby to broaden the
composition of supervision missions. Bank staff inputs have been consistent. The core task management
and technical back-stopping team was the same from appraisal through completion.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

7.3.1 The overall performance of the Bank was satisfactory. Timely technical back-stopping and support
for procurement and financial management operations was provided from both Headquarters and the
Indonesia Country Office.      Internet connectivity provided through the Project facilitated daily and
continuous interaction between Bank, project staff, and implementers.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

7.4.1  The Government's performance in preparing the Project was satisfactory. A full-time preparation
team, comprising high-level officials of IAARD, clearly articulated the Government's vision and worked
closely with the Bank team in formulating the strategies and actions to achieve the vision. As part of
project preparation, IAARD prepared: (a) an Agricultural Research Policy Statement (1994-1999); (b) a
Strategic Plan for Agricultural Research and Development (1995-1999); and (c) an Economic Impact
Assessment of various crops, livestock, and fisheries. A project Operational Manual, including a Project
Implementation Plan and cost tables, was prepared. Project design and components did not require major
modifications during the life of the project.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

7.5.1  The Government's implementation performance was satisfactory. Despite the economic crisis that
occurred during the Project period, the Government gave high priority to the provision of counterpart funds
to enable the project activities to continue. In spite of the "zero growth" policy, which placed a ban on
recruitment of government staff, the Civil Service Commission/MENPAN allowed limited recruitment of
staff for the AIATs which was critical for their development.          Decentralization also caused some
performance lags on the part of the Borrower.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

7.6.1  The performance of the implementation agency was satisfactory. During the entire project period,
the IAARD maintained a central Project Management Unit (PMU) in the IAARD Secretariat. The PMU
managed and coordinated the planning and implementation of project activities in 14 AIATs out of 26, and
35 NRIs/CRIs, and other work units. IAARD-designated PIUs operated in all IAARD work units involved
in project implementation. The quality of the work of the PIUs has been variable, particularly in financial
and procurement matters. The IAARD was responsive in appointing capable managers to head the AIATs
in a timely manner. Planning of project activities was on time in relation to obtaining Government
allocations to the budget. However, the analytical quality of reports and the timeliness of reporting still
need improvement. Financial reporting and auditing were timely, and all audit reports from FY1996 to
FY2001 were unqualified.


                                                   - 13 -

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

7.7.1 The overall Borrower's performance was rated as satisfactory. Ownership has been strong from the
outset, although some delays in release of counterpart funds were experienced as a result of the Asian
economic crisis. While the Government agreed to provide an annual increase of 3.0 per cent in real terms
in IAARD's budget over a period of seven years, the devaluation of the Rupiah meant many activities were
less expensive than originally anticipated. Thus, while IAARD's budget actually declined by 4.0 per cent
per year on average over seven years, the intent of the Loan Agreement was maintained.

7.7.2   The Borrower succeeded in establishing 26 assessment institutes and redeploying large numbers of
staff to them, and carried out a massive degree and non-degree training and reorientation program to make
the institutes operational in a relatively short time. Given the current strategies to decentralize research and
development to make them more responsive to farmers/fishers' needs, the Borrower is giving priority
attention to long-term sustainability of the research and assessment activities by consolidating and
strengthening institutional arrangements for obtaining cross-support from local governments and other
stakeholders. Legal provisions have been enacted by the Borrower to allow IAARD to commercialize its
technologies, provide services and retain earnings derived through such enterprises in partnership with the
private agri-business sector. The Borrower, however, is still in the process of establishing an effective
M&E system to measure project impact and has not yet installed a performance-based incentive system for
staff.

8. Lessons Learned


8.1 Institutional Development:

        Continuing restructuring and reorganization of local governments and IAARD, resulting from the
         decentralization of the government, has caused confusion about the roles of various agencies at the
         provincial and district levels. As a consequence, change management practices need to be
         incorporated into the operating procedures for IAARD.
        When reforming an institution that involves merging of personnel from different agencies, tasked to
         do similar work, comparable remuneration and benefits should be instituted up front, and made a
         conditionality of project implementation. (N.B. This is a problem and recommended solution,
         rather than a lesson learned).
        To institutionalize gender and social issues in an organization, it is important to mainstream gender
         and social concerns early, organize teams, and train staff in this topic.

8.2 Regional Technology Assessment:

        Technological innovations are more likely to be useful to and adopted by farmers/fishers when they
         are tested and validated in a participative manner under local conditions.
        Farmer-to-farmer exchanges are very effective mechanisms for introducing improved technologies.
         Any follow-up project should give high priority to promoting farmer-managed assessment and
         dissemination activities.
        Better production practices are more widely disseminated among farmers/fishers when the
         practices are integrated into a small business enterprise framework, and link with the private
         sector.
        Documentation of economic benefits and impact of new technology is critical for convincing local
         governments and other partners to provide funding for the AIATs.



                                                      - 14 -

8.3 R&A Management:

        Local governments are only willing to provide funding when they see tangible benefits to
         farmers/fishers in their province or district.
        Decentralization of R&D activities becomes more successful when the IAARD accompanies this
         with appropriate decentralization of authority and clear mandates. (N.B. This is an observation;
         rather than a lesson learned.)


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

9.1      The ARM II Project's objective was to strengthen regional agricultural research and development
based on local human and natural resources, by collaboratively developing and transferring location
specific technologies which are market-oriented and client-driven, to support agribusiness and
agro-industry development. The Project consisted of four components: (1) Regionalization of Agricultural
Research and Development; (2) Institutionalization of Research and Development Management at Regional
Level; (3) Priority Commodity and Discipline-Oriented Research Programs; and (4) Strengthening
Research and Development Collaboration.           The objective and components of the Project remained
unchanged during the project implementation. The changes occurred only in the project cost, closing date,
and coverage. Due to the economic crisis, the loan portion was cancelled up to US$22.9 million of the
original amount of US$63.0 million. The closing date was extended to December 31, 2002 from the
original closing date of April 30, 2002. Based on the fourth Loan Amendment of May 15, 2000, support
for the AIATs in the provinces of East Nusa Tenggara and West Nusa Tenggara were included under the
Project.

9.2      Quality at entry of this Project was rated as "highly satisfactory" because before the start of the
Project, IAARD had (a) established AIATs to decentralize R&D; (b) prepared a Project document with the
World Bank Project Preparation Mission; (c) appointed the PMU Director and staff; and (d) provided
offices, furniture, and vehicles to ensure the implementation of the Project.

9.3      Overall, the Project had achieved its main objective, and the outcomes of project were rated as
satisfactory because a majority of the targets exceeded the original programs, particularly on: (a) total
provinces coverage; (b) total number of trained staff, partners and farmers; (c) office and laboratory
facilities and equipment provided; (d) recommended local specific technology packages adopted by farmers;
and (e) increased the proportion of female staff with M.Sc. degrees from 14 per cent to 21 per cent showing
higher concern in gender equity among scientists..

9.4      The achievements of the four components were rated as satisfactory and are summarized as
follows:

        Component 1: The ARM II Project successfully supported the establishment of 14 AIATs, carried
         out AEZ characterization, transferred Relocation-specific technologies to farmers, prepared and
         implemented regional AIAT master plans, established the RAC/RTWG to support the AIATs, and
         staff capacity was improved significantly.

        Component-2: 14 AIATs have applied the systematic R-A-D management processes and tools,
         strengthened the national communication networks and scientific literature, applied an accountable


                                                      - 15 -

         financial management system through NGAS, continued the programs of internship and scientific
         exchange for scientists and managers; established four fully functional soil and plant tissues
         analysis laboratories (Bogor, Medan, Yogyakarta, Maros) to serve 26 provinces, and provided
         management support to the PMU and PIUs.

        Component-3: Livestock research accomplished excellent outputs due to the provision of advanced
         laboratory equipment procured by ARMP II, CRIFI had developed its capacity building by funding
         prior to its transfer to new Ministry of Marine and Fishery, developed superior varieties of
         ornamental plants, vegetables, fruits, and reduced crops losses by producing virus-free citrus and
         banana planting materials, established a bio-safety containment facility for testing transgenic corn,
         soybean, cotton, and sweet potato, developed agricultural tools such as rice thresher, rolling
         injection seeders and corn sheller.

        Component-4: encouraged IAARD's staffs to collaborate with private sectors in developing their
         research results for technology patents, and improved the IAARD credibility in international
         research networks.

The institutional development impacts of the Project among others were decentralization policy of
technology recommendation and AIATs have become as regional center of excellence in agricultural
development.

To ensure the sustainability of post project activities IAARD has made some programs as set in the
transitional arrangement plan that was submitted by DG IAARD to the Bank by letter of April 15, 2003.

The overall borrower and the Bank performances were rated as satisfactory since the project preparation
and implementation as well as project supervision had been carried out appropriately.


(b) Cofinanciers:

9.5 There were no co-financiers of the Project.


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):



9.6 Farmers/Fishers


        Technologies provided in the past were based on "written" advice from pamphlets and brochures
         coming from the central research or extension office. What is available now is more useful
         because they are based on actual field results from activities involving farmers/fishers and
         extension workers.

        Technological information is readily accessible now at the AIATs. In the past, there was too much
         bureaucracy for seeking advice on new technologies and oftentimes information was not relevant to
         farmers/fishers' needs.

        RAC and RTWG serve as useful fora for farmers/fishers' consortia and organizations to
         articulate their concerns and problems and to get answers.



                                                    - 16 -

      Technology for producing fish frys was tested and developed on-site. Frys are now available from
       local producers who are farmers/fishers within the community at much lower cost and have less
       mortality than those obtained from outside the region.

9.7 Private Agribusiness Sector

      A company engaged in rice seed production and another in rice production using hybrid seeds
       received relevant information that was used in their production programs.

9.8 Government Officials

      Governors and district heads were highly appreciative that the technologies developed by the
       IAARD are now available to their farmers/fishers. They have supported technology assessment and
       dissemination activities of AIATs and will continue to do so "for as long as the technologies
       respond to problems of their farmers/fishers and those who have adopted the technologies benefit".


9.9 Universities

      The universities appreciated the opportunity to avail themselves of competitive research grants that
       have also been used to support thesis research of students. A university research director indicated
       that, through proper collaboration with AIAT, it was possible to prepare proposals, especially in
       socio-economics research, for funding by various sources, including local governments and
       bilateral donors.

9.10 Research and Extension Staff

      Technologies, having been assessed, adapted and tested in farmers' fields, are location-specific and
       more relevant and focused on actual problems. Extension interventions were more focused.

      New, high-yielding varieties do not require national adaptability trials since they can be selected for
       location specificity and performance, hence they are easier to promote locally.

10. Additional Information

N/A




                                                 - 17 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix




     Outcome/Impact
     Indicators
         Indicator/Matrix                  Projected in last PSR1                         Actual/End of Project
 Increased adoption rate of       Increased adoption rate of improved       Benefit:cost analysis done by ICR
improved technologies by          technologies by farmers/fishers in project mission, using six technologies
farmers/fishers in project areas. areas.                                     surveyed by SEARCA, estimated ERRs
 ncreased income of those         Increased income of those who have       of 11.5 to 89 per cent with aggregate of
who adopted improved              adopted improved technologies.             20 per cent.
technologies.                                                                 Base case scenario assumed an
                                                                             average ERR of 20 per cent, with 40
                                                                             new technologies each year with
                                                                             maximum of 2,466 farmer adopters,
                                                                             ERR would be 14.5 per cent.
 Improved capacity of IAARD  Capacity of IAARD work units to                IAARD updated its Strategic Plan in
to respond to regional priorities respond to regional priorities has         2002 to respond to government
and farmers/fishers' needs.       improved.                                  decentralization and new MOA's
 R&D programs are relevant to  he R&D programs are better targeted agribusiness approach.
regional priorities and           to regional priorities; and needs of        AIATs updated their master plans in
location-specific needs of        specific farmers/fishers (including        2002.
farmers/fishers (including        women).                                     AIATs' R&A and dissemination
women).                                                                      programs using farming systems
                                                                             approach were updated annually in
                                                                             response to farmers/fishers'' needs and
                                                                             demands.
 AIATs are operational in 12      12 AIATs are fully operational.           13 AIATs were fully functional in December
provinces; changed skill mix of  Basic skills of staff in place and their   2002 (of 12 targets) except AIAT Maluku with
staff at AIATs based on their     capacity strengthened through training,    facilities burned in 1999 violence.
mandate.                          recruitment, etc.                           AIAT facilities and equipment in place.
 mproved capacity of AIAT         Number and skill mix of staff are         asic skills of AIAT staff augmented and
staff to respond to               appropriate to AIAT mandate.               upgraded, staff completed Ph.D. (8) & M.Sc.
farmers/fishers' needs and                                                   (190) degrees, far exceeding targets.
problems.                                                                     any staff completed non-degree training on
                                                                             research management, technical fields and
                                                                             other fields.




                                                         - 18 -

     Output Indicators
        Indicator/Matrix                     Projected in last PSR1                       Actual/End of Project
 Establishment of regional         12 regional AIATs are well              13 AIATs were fully functional in
Assessment Institutes for          established,                              December 2002 (of 12 targets), except
Agricultural Technology            with basic skill mix of staff, assessment AIAT Maluku with facilities burned in
(AIATs) in 12 project provinces. facilities in place, and well-focused       1999 violence;
                                   programs to develop location-specific     Sufficient facilities and equipment in
                                   technologies.                             place to carry out activities;
                                                                             AIAT staff augmented and
                                                                             upgraded, 198 completed Ph.D. and
                                                                             M.Sc. degrees, far exceeding original
                                                                             targets; and
                                                                             Many technologies were tested
                                                                             on-farm and promoted with
                                                                             farmers/fishers' active participation.
 R&D management processes  R&D management processes and tools  Strategic planning, priority setting,
and tools (planning, priority      are fully operational in strategic        annual planning & budgeting, financial
setting, monitoring and            planning, priority setting, M&E,          and personnel management.,
evaluation, financial              financial and personnel management,       social/gender analysis were adequate.
management) are in place at all social and gender analysis.                  SAGA Core Team and regional focal
AIATs; trained staff on             Staff have been trained on research     points have trained trainers, staff and
management.                        management.                               partners;
                                                                             MIS and M&E systems development
                                                                             were inconsistent across AIATs; and
                                                                             MIS and MES central support need
                                                                             further strengthening.
 AIAT support services are         AIAT support services are fully         AIAT libraries in use.
operational: information access operational: IAARD work units                multi-media support (print, radio,
(internet), regional MIS           connected by internet.                    TV) reached the public and
sub-systems, libraries, AEZ         five MIS sub-systems operational;       farmers/fishers.
mapping and databases, soil         AEZ maps/databases used for             AEZ, soils, other labs were
service for farmers/fishers,       planning;  Soil service for              functional with well trained staff.
multi-media support.               farmers/fishers fully operational.        AEZ maps/databases used by local
                                    ulti-media (print, video, audio) reach government in planning.
                                   them.                                     Outputs from AIAT support services
                                                                             like soil analysis laboratory and
                                                                             multi-media services have benefited
                                                                             local governments and farmers/fishers.
 Research outputs from priority Flow of technologies in priority           AIATs tested and promoted many
programs of the national           commodities/disciplines constant towards technologies based on farmers/fishers'
research institutes are tested and AIATs.                                    demands.
promoted successfully by AIATs. Strong NRI-AIAT linkages to ensure          NRI-AIAT linkages need further
                                   flow of technology; and                   strengthening in some commodities.
                                    igh quality research at RIs is          KP-KIAT promoted technology
                                   maintained.                               commercialization with private sector
                                                                             partners; some patents have been
                                                                             approved and many under process.
                                                                             NRIs maintained research quality
                                                                             and outputs.
 Improved partnership with         International research centers,         Collaboration with universities was
international research centers,    universities, private sector, and NGOs    strong through competitive grants.



                                                          - 19 -

universities, private sector, and become active partners of IAARD in      Strong private sector partnership
NGOs in technology generation technology generation and transfer; and resulting in commercialized
and transfer.                      Good collaboration between NRIs and technologies; 50-50 cost-sharing.
                                  AIATs.                                  Good collaboration with
                                                                         international research centers but
                                                                         limited linkage with NGOs.
                                                                          Strong NRI/AIAT collaboration
                                                                         livestock, rice, fisheries, and
                                                                         horticulture.
 Number of trained IAARD          Six staff completed foreign Ph.D.     Total IAARD staff completed degrees: 21
staff in degree training (Ph.D.   degrees and 8 staff with local Ph.D.   Ph.D. (8 from AIATs), 341 M.Sc. (190 from
and M.Sc.), about 80% should      degrees.                               AIATs), 23 B.Sc., and 43 diploma.
be from AIATs.                     40 staff completed foreign M.Sc.      Far exceeded overall 167 target; 38 staff
                                  degrees and 113 staff with local M.Sc. were trained overseas; target of 80% from
                                  degrees (about 80% from AIATs).        AIATs was not attained (over 50%).
                                                                          About 5,445 staff completed non-degree
                                                                         training on technical, research management
                                                                         and other fields.


    1 End of project




                                                      - 20 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

                                    Project Costs by Component
                          (including contingencies, in US$ million equivalent)

                   Component                          Appraisal       Actual/Latest % of Appraisal
                                                       Estimate          Estimate      Estimate
                                                     (US$ million)    (US$ million)
Regionalization of Agricultural R&D                       52.8              25.5         48.3
Institutionalization of R&D Management                    18.2               5.6         30.7
Priority Commodity & Discipline Research                  22.5             19.3          85.8
Strengthening R&D Collaboration                            8.3               1.9         22.9
Total                                                    101.8             52.3          51.4




Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                        1
                                                Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB               NCB                  2        N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                                    Other
1. Works                           0.00             11.60            0.00           0.00         11.60
                                  (0.00)            (8.10)          (0.00)         (0.00)       (8.10)
2. Goods                          10.00              2.00            1.40           2.00         15.40
                                  (8.00)            (1.60)          (1.10)         (0.00)       (10.70)
3. Services                        0.00              0.00            0.00           0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)            (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Training and Research           0.00              0.00           16.90           0.00         16.90
                                  (0.00)            (0.00)          (13.90)        (0.00)       (13.90)
5. Incremental Operating           0.00              0.00           53.10           0.00         53.10
Cost                              (0.00)            (0.00)          (26.50)        (0.00)       (26.50)
6. Technical Assistance            0.00              0.00            4.80           0.00         4.80
                                  (0.00)            (0.00)          (3.80)         (0.00)       (3.80)
    Total                         10.00             13.60           76.20           2.00        101.80
                                  (8.00)            (9.70)          (45.30)        (0.00)       (63.00)




                                                - 21 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
         Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
   1. Works                                 0.00               7.70              0.00             0.00              7.70
                                           (0.00)             (5.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (5.00)
   2. Goods                                 2.90               1.40              1.00             0.60              5.90
                                           (2.60)             (0.90)            (0.70)            (0.00)           (4.20)
   3. Services                              0.00               0.00              0.00             0.00              0.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
   4. Training and Research                 0.00               0.00              7.60             0.00              7.60
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (6.40)            (0.00)           (6.40)
   5. Incremental Operating                 0.00               0.00             29.10             0.00             29.10
   Cost                                    (0.00)             (0.00)           (20.30)            (0.00)           (20.30)
   6. Technical Assistance                  0.00               0.00              2.00             0.00              2.00
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (1.90)            (0.00)           (1.90)
       Total                                2.90               9.10             39.70             0.60             52.30
                                           (2.60)             (5.90)           (29.30)            (0.00)           (37.80)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
Regionalization of             32.70        20.10                    17.90         7.60                  54.7      37.8
Agricultural R&D
Institutionalization of R&D    11.30         6.90                     3.30         2.30                  29.2      33.3
Management
Priority Commodity &           13.90         8.60                    15.10         4.20                  108.6     48.8
Discipline Oriented
Research Programs
Strengthening R&D               5.10         3.20                     1.50         0.40                  29.4      12.5
Collaboration




                                                           - 22 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


A.3.1   The methodology behind the economic analysis is based on the perspective that the maximum
possible ERR for the Project is the average ERR for the introduced technologies. The greater the number
of farmers/fishers benefiting from the Project, the less will be the cost per person of strengthening the
AIATs and the closer will be the project ERR to the average ERR for the introduced technologies. The
ERRs for the six technologies varied between 11.5 per cent and 89 per cent, with the aggregate ERR being
20 per cent. While other research suggests different technologies may generate higher rates of return, the
data collected by the independent evaluation of the ARMP II also suggests that some of the surveyed
technologies had negative rates of return.

A.3.2 Using the six technologies as the basis for estimating the ERR for future technologies, the following
table sets out ERRs for various scenarios for the ARMP II. The base-case scenario assumes the average
ERR on new technologies is 20 per cent, 40 new technologies are introduced every year with a maximum of
2,466 farmers/fishers adopting each technology. The ERR is 14.5 per cent.

A.3.3 The SAR for the ARMP II did not estimate either a NPV or an ERR. According to ICR preparation
guidelines, in such cases "the ICR analyses the project using cost-effectiveness criterion to determine
whether the project represented the expected least-cost solution to attain identified and measurable
benefits either by analysis of cost per unit of input or cost per unit of output". The analysis in this annex
was based on an ex ante benefit:cost analysis utilizing the results of an independent evaluation of the
ARMP II conducted in May-June 2002. The information collected by this evaluation is limited and does
not enable in-depth analysis of all the potential benefits of the Project (e,g., social and environmental
benefits). The objective of this economic analysis is to show, under various reasonable assumptions, what
the ERR for the Project could be.


Project Benefits

A.3.4 There are three important assumptions underlying the assessment of benefits. These include:

(a) GOI expenditure on agricultural research and dissemination would have been the same with or without
    the ARMP II (e.g., there would be no difference in expenditure both during the life of the Project and
    the subsequent fifteen years when benefits are expected to be realized);

(b) Individual technologies researched and disseminated by the AIATs benefit farmer adopters for five
    years, and are not separately promoted by extension agents; and

(c) The institutional strengthening achieved by the ARMP II has an effective life of ten years after closure
     of the Project.

Each of these assumptions probably underestimates the real benefits of the ARMP II. First, as a result of
project activities, the benefits of increased GOI expenditure on agricultural research may increase. Second,
the Bank-supported DAFEP is likely to be more successful in improving the efficiency and effectiveness of
extension agents as a result of the ARMP II. Third, the institutional framework established by the ARMP
II should facilitate further improvements in the future in terms of developing closer linkages with the
private sector.

A.3.5 Many of the technologies that will be evaluated by the AIATs over the next ten years are still being
researched. It is therefore not possible in this analysis to identify all the technologies that will be promoted



                                                     - 23 -

by the AIATs and adopted by farmers/fishers. Instead, a selection of six technologies assessed and
disseminated in recent years was examined.          These technologies were selected from 16 technologies
surveyed as part of the independent evaluation of the ARMP II. The technologies, which cover a range of
different commodities and districts, are assessed as those that are most representative of the possible impact
of the ARMP II.

A.3.6 The six technologies examined are: cattle fattening in Yogyakarta; Salak (snake fruit) production in
Yogyakarta; sheep production in North Sumatra; cocoa farming in South Sulawesi; goat production in
West Kalimantan; and rice/coconut integrated farming system in North Sulawesi.               The ERRs were
estimated by comparing a group of adopter farmers/fishers with a group of non-adopters with similar
agro-ecological and socio-economic characteristics. The benefits to adopters were largely in terms of
increased yields per hectare or production per animal. This survey showed that labor costs represented
60-80 per cent of total costs. An additional assumption used in the base scenario for the benefit:cost
analysis is that productivity (yields) would increase by 3.7 per cent per year for four years.            This
assumption is consistent with farmers/fishers learning from experience (16 per cent increase by year 5 over
initial yields).

A.3.7 To assess the benefits of these technologies at the district level, the base assumption is that initially
50 farmers/fishers would successfully try the technology and then each adopting farmers/fisher would on
average encourage 1.65 farmers/fishers ever year (for four years) to adopt the new technology. In total,
about 2,500 farmers/fishers are assumed to adopt each new technology. For nearly all the technologies
examined, this adoption rate is significantly below the maximum potential capacity for the district.

A.3.8 The benefits of the ARMP II lie in the more focused approach to the identification, assessment and
dissemination of technologies suitable for particular districts. In other words, it would not be appropriate
to assign the costs of operating the AIATs to the new technologies developed as the result of ARMP II
activities. Based on 40 new technologies being introduced every year for 10 years, and with 2,500
farmers/fishers benefiting from each technology, the total number of farmers/fishers to benefit from the
Project would be one million.


Project Costs

A.3.9 Project costs consist of Loan funds; GOI counterpart funds directly associated with implementation
of project activities; and costs associated with farmer/fishers implementing the new technologies. There are
no GOI costs associated with the realization of project benefits after the completion of the project. The
costs and benefits associated with implementation of individual technologies were valued in rupiah. All
inputs/outputs are based on actual prices paid/received. Benefits for future years are valued at the same
value as for the base year (2002). For the project economic analysis, all financial transactions were
converted to US dollars at Rp.10,000 = US$1.0.


                      Table 1. Sensitivity Analysis on Economic Rates of Return (%)


                   Assumptions                            ERR on technologies
  Annual number of          Maximum number             15%          20%        25%
   new technologies              of adopters
            30                       1953               9.2          12.5      15.6
            40                       2466              10.9          14.5      18.0
            50                       3073              12.1          16.0      19.8



                                                     - 24 -

                        Assumptions                              Change in ERR (percentage points)
Feed/fertilizer (price +25%)                                                         -1.14
Vitamins/pesticide (price +25%)                                                      -0.26
Labor (wage rate +25%)                                                               -5.19
Labor (wage rate 25%)                                                                4.77
Other inputs (price +25%)                                                            -0.45
Price of output (+25%)                                                                6.80
Price of output (-25%)                                                             -10.43
Yield (+25%)                                                                        10.90
Yield (-20%)                                                                       -11.66
Start-up cost (+25%)                                                                 -0.82
Start-up cost (-25%)                                                                  0.91
Exclusion of GOI project costs                                                        1.21
Inclusion of IAARD cost of US$10 million per year                                    -5.86


Financial Rates of Return

A.3.10 No financial rates of return for the project have been estimated. Generally, estimated increases in
farmers/fishers' incomes are less than Rp. 2.0 million per year. Since farmers/fishers only pay tax when
their income exceeds Rp. 15.0 million per year, it is unlikely that the benefits of these technologies will lead
to significant tax payments.




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year   Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              06/09-08/21/95             2    TASK TEAM LEADER;
                                              AGRICULTURIST

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              11/4/94-04/14/95           5    TASK TEAM LEADER;                S               S
                                              LAWYER; FINANCIAL
                                              ANALYST;
                                              DISBURSEMENT
                                              OFFICER;
                                              AGRICULTURIST

 Supervision

              08/01/1995                 2    RESEARCH MANAGEMENT;             HS              S
                                              AGRICULTURIST/TASK
                                              TEAM LEADER
              04/29/1996                 3    RESEARCH MANAGEMENT;             S               S
                                              AGRICULTURIST;
                                              FINANCIAL ANALYST
              12/12/1996                 4    AGRICULTURIST;                   S               S
                                              FINANCIAL ANALYST; M&E
                                              SPECIALIST; RESEARCH
                                              MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST
              07/02/1997                 3    AGRICULTURIST; RESEARCH          S               S
                                              MGMT; FINANCIAL
                                              ANALYST
              04/27/1998                 4    RESEARCH MANAGEMENT              S               S
                                              SPECIALIST;
                                              AGRICULTURIST;
                                              ANTHROPOLOGIST;
                                              RESEARCH/EXTENSION
                                              SPECIALIST
              05/01/1999                 4    AGRICULTURIST; JR. PROF.         S               S
                                              OFFICER; CONSULTANT;
                                              PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
              10/15/1999                 6    TASK TEAM LEADER;                S               S
                                              CONSULTANT; SECTOR
                                              COORDINATOR;
                                              OPERATIONS OFFICER;
                                              PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
              04/28/2000                 3    TASK TEAM LEADER;                S               S
                                              PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST;
                                              HRD SPECIALIST
              04/28/2000                 5    TEAM LEADER; MISSION             S               S
                                              MEMBER (4)
              05/04/2001                 7    TEAM LEADER;                     S               S



                                               - 26 -

                                                   OPERATIONS OFFICER;
                                                   PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST;
                                                   FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                                   OFFICER; GENDER
                                                   CONSULTANT; LIVESTOCK
                                                   SPECIALIST; PROGRAM
                                                   COORDINATOR
               10/12/2001                     5    TASK TEAM LEADER                    S           S
                                                   OPERATIONS OFFICER;
                                                   PROGRAM COORDINATOR;
                                                   FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                                   OFFICER; PROCUREMENT
                                                   SPECIALIST
               05/22/2002                     6    TASK TEAM LEADER;                   S           S
                                                   OPERATIONS OFFICER; SOIL
                                                   SCIENTIST;
                                                   BIOTECHNOLOGY
                                                   SPECIALIST; R&E
                                                   SPECIALIST; FINANCIAL
                                                   MANAGEMENT SPECIALIST

 ICR
               211/22/ 2003                   8     TASK TEAM LEADER;                  S           S
                                                    OPERATIONS OFFICER;
                                                    PROCUREMENT
                                                    SPECIALIST; FINANCIAL
                                                    MANAGEMENT
                                                    OFFICER; AGRIC.
                                                    SUPPORT SERVICES;
                                                    ECONOMIST;
                                                    MANAGEMENT
                                                    SPECIALIST; PROGRAM
                                                    ASSISTANT



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                        Actual/Latest Estimate
                                        No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                   53.6                           142.7
  Appraisal/Negotiation                        27.9                             76.4
  Supervision                                  99.2                           241.6
  ICR                                          15.5                             47.0
  Total                                       196.2                           507.7
According to Bank's accounting system, consultant weeks were recorded only until Fiscal Year 1999.
Input values include all expenses, including consultant staffweeks (fees).




                                                   - 27 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA
Farmers Group




                                                    - 28 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


A. Bank and Project Documents:
Indonesia Country Assistance Strategy, February 27, 1995
Indonesia Country Assistance Strategy Progress Report, July 25, 2002
Indonesia Second Agricultural Research Management Project: Project Memorandum and Recommendation
    of the President, April 21, 1995
Indonesia Second Agricultural Research Management Project: Staff Appraisal Report, April 21, 1995
Amendments to Loan Agreement: July 22, 198, August 28, 1998, December 13, 1999, May 15, 2000, and
    November 5, 2001
World Bank Guidelines for Preparing Implementation Completion Report, June 1999
Operational Policies (OP 13.55) for Implementation Completion Reporting
Operational Directive (OD 13.05) for Project Supervision

B. Bank Supervision Mission Reports:
First Supervision Mission Report, January 21, 1997
Second Supervision Mission Report, July 8, 1997
Third Supervision Mission Report, May 7, 1998
Fourth Supervision Mission Report, December 17, 1998
Fifth Supervision Mission Report, February 5, 1999
Sixth Supervision Mission Report, June 3, 1999
Seventh Supervision Mission Report, November 24, 1999
Eighth Supervision Mission Report, June 13, 2000
Ninth vision Mission Report, November 14, 2000
Tenth Supervision Mission Report, June 2, 2001
Eleventh Supervision Mission Report, November 7, 2001
Twelfth Supervision Mission Report, May 31, 2002
Final Supervision and ICR Mission Report, November 22, 2002

C. Government/Project Reports:
Indonesia: ARMP II Impact Assessment, SEARCA, September 2002
External Institutional Review of IAARD, A Report, July 21, 2001
First Annual Progress Report, October 1995  October 1996
Second Annual Progress Report, October 1996  October 1997
Mid-term Review Progress Report, October 1995-September 1998
Fourth Annual Progress Report, March 1998-January 1999
Fifth Annual Progress Report, April-September, 1999
Sixth Annual Progress Report, April  December, 2000
Seventh Annual Progress Report, January-August, 2001
Draft Transition Arrangement Plan, November 2002
Draft Final Report, October 1995-December 2002
GOI Draft ICR Report, November 21, 2002
IAARD Work Units' Progress Reports
IAARD Work Units' Final Report and Participatory Evaluation Summary
Summary Final Component Reports
Various Consultants' Technical and Management Reports
Technical Assistance Service Team's Quarterly Reports




                                                 - 30 -

Additional Annex 8. Government of Indonesia's Implementation Completion Report

Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and Quality at Entry

Original Objectives. The ARM-II Project's objective was to strengthen regional agricultural research and
development based on local human and natural resources, by collaboratively developing and transferring
location specific technologies which are market-oriented and client-driven, to support agribusiness and
agro-industry development. The project would: (a) establish regional Assessment Institutes for Agriculture
Technology (AIATs) in 12 provinces; (b) improve regional research and development management; (c)
expand research in priority areas and commodity and (d) strengthen research and development
collaboration with local and national community services and private sectors, regional and international
research organizations

Revised Objectives. The original objective remained unchanged throughout the project duration. However
based on the 4th Loan Amendment of May 15, 2000, the AIATs in the provinces of East Nusa Tenggara
and West Nusa Tenggara (former areas of NTAADP - Ln.3984-IND) were merged to the ARM-II Project.
The GOI 's budget for these two AIATs was allocated commencing from FY 1999/2000 while loan budget
started in FY 2000.

Original Components. The Project comprised the following components:

(a)      Regionalization of Agricultural Research and Development. This component was to strengthen
         on-farm research using farming systems methodology and facilitate technology transfer through
         IAARD's decentralized assessment institutes. The activities included : (i) establishment and
         operation of 12 AIATs including the organization of Regional Advisory Committee (RAC) and
         Regional Technical Working Group (RTWG) for each AIAT; (ii) characterization of AEZ as basis
         for planning and technology transfer; (iii) provision of support for regional research and
         development management focusing on important constraints and technology needs of farmers; and
         (iv) provision of support for regional technology transfer program to enhance utilization of location
         specific technologies.

(b)      Institutionalization of Research and Development Management at Regional Level.                   The
         component introduced R & D management reforms at the regional level, including the remaining
         twelve     AIATs, through the following activities: (i) strengthening the regional research
         management, provision of management training, the AEZ and regional R&D Master Plan; (ii)
         strengthening national communication and scientific literature services; (iii) establishment national
         MIS and New Government Accounting System (NGAS) as well as financial and administrative
         system in the region; (iv) building regional research and technology transfer capability of the staff
         of AIATs; (v) piloting the regional soil fertility and fertilizer use program; and (vi) support for
         ARMP-II implementation.

(c)      Priority Commodity and Discipline-Oriented Research Programs. This component provided:
         (i) support for research on livestock, fisheries, horticulture and tree crops, biotechnology, post
         harvest handling, agricultural machinery, market studies, anthropology and sociology; (ii) national
         degree and non-degree training in selected disciplines; and (iii) expertise of the relevant commodity
         and discipline-oriented researches.




                                                     - 31 -

(d)      Strengthening Research and Development Collaboration. This component improved IAARD's
         access to internationally generated technologies, research tools and methodologies. The activities
         included: (i) strengthening linkages to national agencies, such as collaboration with universities,
         private sector, agricultural service units (Dinas) and NGOs; and (ii) strengthening linkages to
         international and regional research organizations.

Revised Components. Project components remained unchanged. However, on May 15, 2000 the AIAT of
East Nusa Tenggara and West Nusa Tenggara, which were funded by Nusa Tenggara Agricultural Areas
Development Project (NTAADP - Ln.3984-IND), were transferred to ARMP-II. In addition, due to the
instability in Maluku, in 2000 the loan budget allocation for AIAT Maluku was suspended up to the
closing date of ARMP-II and GOI had allocated the necessary budget for operational research and
assessment as well as for technology transfer.

Quality at Entry. Quality at entry was rated as "highly satisfactory", due to the following factors :(i) the
ARM-II Project Document was designed by IAARD with the World Bank Project Preparation Mission, and
supported by Project Implementation Plan (PIP) comprising background information, project activity plan,
proposed technical assistance, project cost and financing and proposed civil works and equipment
procurements; (ii) AIATs as regional R & D institutions were established officially before the ARMP-II
started; (iii) the GOI had given strong commitment by providing fund when the ARMP-II was officially
established; (iv) the appointment of PMU director and staff, provision of office, furniture sets and vehicle
ensured the implementation of ARMP-II; (v) shifting research policy from commodity-based research to
resource-based research with focus on optimizing regional productivity; and (vi) the ARMP-II was timely
prepared, four years well ahead of the effective date of the regional autonomy Law No. 22/1999 on 7 May
1999.

Achievements of Objectives and Outputs

Outcome/Achievement of Objectives: The ARMP-II accomplished its main objective and was rated as "
satisfactory"; some project achievements exceeded the planned target. The achievements, among others
were : (i) originally ARMP-II was designed to develop 8 AIATs serving 12 provinces, however, at the end
of the project ARMP-II facilitated the establishment of 14 AIATs serving 14 provinces; (ii) ARMP-II
rehabilitated and/or constructed the necessary facilities of the 14 AIATs such as offices, laboratories,
guesthouses and staff housing, and provided necessary equipment and furniture sets; (iii) ARMP-II
exceeded the target on training, from 15 Ph.D. and 152 M.Sc. in SAR to 21 Ph.D., and 341 M.Sc.; (iv)
AIATs have developed local specific agricultural technologies recommended by the Regional Advisory
Committee (RAC); (v) a significant increase in the proportion of female MS degree holders from 14 to 21
percent indicating a higher concern in gender aspect; (vi) AIATs have developed AEZ maps and social
economic data-base for planning purposes; and (vii) AIATs have contributed to local and regional
agricultural development programs, e.g. through specific location fertilizer application recommendation.

IAARD has reallocated qualified researchers serving much wider geographic areas of the country in 26
provinces compared to before ARMP-II, which was very limited and concentrated around Jakarta and
Bogor. As the result, researchers were able to work more closely with farmers and other stakeholders in the
region.

Outputs by Components:

Component 1: Regionalization of Agricultural Research and Development. The outputs of Component
1 were rated as "satisfactory" due to the following reasons: The 14 AIATs have been in function and


                                                    - 32 -

operation as indicated by the facts that each AIAT has had : (a) new or rehabilitated offices and research
facilities with sufficient furniture sets and equipment; (b) qualified staffs as a result of degree as well as
non-degree training programs; (c) master plan, which was formulated by AIATs as the basic reference for
annual program planning; and (d) its own AEZ maps as the guide for planning and assessment of
developments in their respective region.

In addition, all AIATs have had practical experiences in planning and implementing regional research and
assessment with assistance of the Regional Advisory Committee (RAC) in formulating the AIAT Master
Plan, annual plan, monitoring and evaluation of research and assessment. In term of research results
dissemination, AIATs have successfully transferred their technology by various means such as technology
show-case, field-day, visitor plot, technology application forum, distribution of printed materials (leaflets/
Liptan), brochures, folders, posters) and multi media production.

Component 2: Institutionalization of Research and Development Management. The outputs under this
Component 2 were rated as "satisfactory" based on the following achievements: (i) at least 14 AIATs in
14 provinces had implemented systematic research, technology assessment and dissemination programs; (ii)
national communication and scientific literature services were strengthened through improvement of the
technical capability of IAARD librarians, and provision of computers, electronic mail, books and journals
for strengthening scientific literature services in the respective libraries; (iii) a systematic and accountable
financial management had been applied through a computerized new government accounting system; (iv)
the continuing internships and scientific exchange programs for CRIs, RIs and AIATs staff to improve R,
A & D capability and scientific communication were carried out; (v) four soil laboratories (Bogor, Medan,
Maros and Yogyakarta), were established to serve the 26 AIATs and not only the 14 AIATs supported by
ARMP-II; (vi) the implementation of project management by PMU and 50 PIUs throughout the ARMP-II
period was well organized.

Component 3: Priority Commodity and Discipline-oriented Research Programs. The total support of
ARMP-II for this component reached US$12,800,000 for funding about 834 studies. Agricultural
biotechnology research and development received substantial funds of US$1.2 million. The outputs of this
component were rated as "satisfactory" The studies supported under this component included livestock,
fisheries, horticulture and tree crops, and disciplinary research such as biotechnology, gender issues, post
harvest, agricultural engineering, and social economic policy. Some major achievements were as follows:

(a)      Important diseases like ND for chicken, brucellosis in cattle and pigs have been reduced by the use
         of repressive vaccines, some of which have been patented. Improved breeds of duck, chicken, sheep
         and goat had increased productivity.

(b)      The tuna stock assessment studies to a large extent was accomplished in 1998, in collaboration
         with the Philippines experts of BIFAR, Marine Research Institute, and South Pacific Commission
         of Oceanic Fishery Program.

(c)      Various varieties of ornamental plants, vegetables, fruits, fiber and medicinal crops, spices, and
         estate crops had been developed. The development of superior varieties such as of Chrysanthemum
         , potato, chili, shallot, cucumber and string beans were officially released and some of them were
         licensed to private sector for commercial production. Reduced crop losses management was
         successfully applied in virus free citrus seed production and rubber tapping panel disease
         management.




                                                      - 33 -

In disciplinary research, achievements were among others: patented organic fertilizer and pesticide formula,
the establishment bio-safety containment facility for testing transgenic corn, soybean and cotton,
development of agricultural tools such as rice thresher Amini III and the rolling injection seeder and corn
Sheller that were widely used by the farmers. There were very few reports on anthropological and social
studies; however, IAARD SAGA Core Team introduced gender issues in to AIATs' programs.

Component 4: Strengthening of Research and Development Collaboration. The outputs of component
4 were rated as "satisfactory". The achievements of this component were: (i) expanding the horizon of
knowledge and skill as well as critical thinking of IAARD staffs in management of agricultural research
and development particularly in approaching and encouraging private sector to collaborate in agricultural
research, development of new scientific disciplines; (ii) improvement IAARD credibility towards
international research organizations and private sector; and (iii) enlarging of opportunity for collaboration
in agricultural research and development.

Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return. The analysis for the Economic Rate of Return is adopted
from the report of the World Bank ICR on Annex 3.

Financial Rate of Return: Not Applicable

Institutional Development Impact. The institutional development impact of ARMP-II was rated as
"Substantial". The establishment of AIATs changed the policy of technology recommendation, from
centralized policy based on Ministerial Decree No. 439/1989 to a decentralized one based on Ministerial
Decree No. 804/1995. The establishment and capacity building of AIATs, prior to regional autonomy,
positioned AIATs as the center of excellence in regional/district agricultural development, and now AIATs
have been used as agent for dissemination of research results by the other ministries or institutions. The
early success of ARMP-II in strengthening AIATs in 12 provinces encouraged ADB to support the
establishment of PAATP to support the 12 remaining provinces.

The Government of Indonesia approved the IAARD proposal on the establishment of new agricultural
research institutions, among others due to capacity building as developed by ARMP-II. The new RIs were
RI for Soil, RI for Agro-climate and Hydrology, RI for Agricultural Processing, Assessment and
Development Institute for Agricultural Technology, Research Station (RS) for Citrus and Sub Tropical
Crops, RS for Tungro Diseases, RS for Goat, and RS for Beef Cattle.

Major-Factors Affecting Project Implementation and Outcome

Factors Outside the Control of Government or Implementing Agency. There were three major factors,
beyond the control of Government or IAARD that affected the implementation of ARMP-II: (i) economic
crisis started in 1997, which caused the devaluation of the IDR from IDR. 2,200 per US$ in January 1997
to IDR.15.700 per US$ in August 1998. The crisis also reduced the purchasing power of the farmers and
people at large, who were the end users of the technology; (ii) the impact of decentralization which was
unfamiliar yet to the local government official led to the slowing down of the policy and financial support
to regional agricultural R & D; and (iii) the unsecured conditions in some locations, particularly in Maluku,
Nangroe Aceh Darussalam, Sambas (West Kalimantan), and Poso (Central Sulawesi) disturbed the
ARMP-II activities in the regions.

Factors that are Generally Subject to Government Control. In spite of the fact that there was economic
and monetary crisis, the GOI was still able to commit to provide the counterpart budget. Strong spirit of the
government to widely apply the regional autonomy law has changed the structure of agricultural office in


                                                    - 34 -

the region, particularly on the structure of extension institution at the district level. However, the perception
of each district to the law is different from one to another and this phenomenon affected more or less the
performance of technology dissemination in the region. Although the GOI had applied the " zero growth "
policy in civil servants recruitment, IAARD was able to recruit in favor of the provincial AIATs to fulfill
the regional staff needs.

Factors that are Generally Subject to Executing Agency Control. Factors affecting the implementation
of the Project were: (i) difficulty in staff assignment to particular AIATs, in the remote locations; (ii) the
implementation of staff training was not as scheduled, due to the insufficient number of AIAT staff who are
qualified for certain degree training; (iii) improper execution of procurement in accordance to WB
guidelines, due to lack of understanding of the guidelines; (iv) slow process in the loan disbursement
application caused relatively heavy backlog of the application; (v) improvement of the linkages between
CRIs and RIs with AIATs was still insufficient for improving the flow of research information from CRIs
and RIs to AIATs; (vi) lengthy administrative process delayed some building construction and
rehabilitation; (vii) the frequent change in PMU's as well as PIUs' staff, delayed the implementation of
some activities.

Cost and Financing. Original estimate of total project cost was US$101.8 million, of which US$63.0
million was the World Bank loan. Due to the economic crisis, however, after the Mid Term Review in
1998, upon mutual understanding, the loan was cancelled up to US$22.1 million, excluding the case of
procurement deficiencies case of US$0.79 in July 2000, and the remaining loan balance was US$40.1
million. There was also some changes in the portion of loan and GOI in some categories. Initially, the
Project closing date was April 30, 2002, but the government requested to extend the closing date to
December 31, 2002. It is estimated that at the closing date of the project the expenditure would be US$37.8
million and there will be project balance of US$2.3 million that should be cancelled. Information in details
were presented in Annexes 2 (c) and 2 (d) of the World Bank 's ICR.

Sustainability

Rationale for Sustainability Rating. Project sustainability was rated as ''likely''. Institutional capacity
building supported by ARMP-II under component 2 has successfully strengthened the institutional capacity
of AIATs, CRIs and RIs, in term of human resource, facility development, research management,
technology assessment, and dissemination.

There were several policies supporting the sustainability of the activities initiated by ARMP-II such as : (a)
IAARD had committed to allocate routine as well as development budget, starting FY2003, to continually
provide financial support for activities that in the were funded previously by ARMP-II; (b) enforcement of
Crop Varieties Protection Law No. 29/2000 allowing the institute and researcher to receive royalty; (c)
enforcement of National Research System Law No. 18, 2002 of 29 July 2002 allowing the national and
provincial/district government to allocate funds for research activities as well as to use the institutional
revenues generated from research and development, and service activities to further finance the R & D and
technology transfer activities. Besides, the law also encourages the private sector allocating partly of their
profits for funding research and development activities, (d) the instruction of Ministry of Agriculture,
through Ministerial Letter of 5 June 2002, No. 183/LB.12/A/VI/2002, to IAARD working units to
collaborate with private sector in financing the research, assessment and transfer of technology activities.

Transitional Arrangements to IAARD Regular Operation. The transitional arrangement to IAARD's
regular operation is divided into short term and longer-term activities.




                                                     - 35 -

The short-term activities are aimed to complete the remaining activities of the FY 2002 such as: (i) Civil
works, (ii) Diploma training program, and (iii) Installation of new laboratory equipment and training of
laboratory technicians. These activities will be funded in FY 2003 by GOI through PIU Bagian Proyek
Pembinaan Kelembagaan Penelitian dan Pengembangan Pertanian of the PMU Proyek Pengembangan
Teknologi Agribisnis. This PIU will also complete all administrative matters and other requirements, such
as preparing the final ICR, for closing of the ARMP-II.

The longer term (2003  2008) activities comprise of: (i) Internships of AIAT staff in CRIs/RIs; (ii)
Provision of technical guidance for AIATs; (iii) Continuation of research, technology assessment and
dissemination of AIATs; (iv) Researches of CRIs/Ris; (v) Collaborative activities with universities,
international research organizations, private sector, and provincial/district governments; and (vi)
Maintenance of facilities and equipment provided by the Project. These activities will be funded by
National Development Budget (APBN), Provincial/District Budget (APBD), counterpart funds from
private sector partners, institution revenues, PAATP and Poor Farmers Income Improvement Project for
certain AIATs.

Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank

Lending. The lending performance was rated "satisfactory". The initial loan agreed by the Bank was
US$63.0 million. Due to the economic crisis that hit Asian Countries, and Indonesia had suffered most
among the countries in Asia, the Government requested the cancellation of the loan portion amounting to
US$22.9 million so that the total amount of the loan became US$40.1 million. In addition, in order to
reduce the burden of the Government to provide counterpart budget, the portion of loan to GOI budget was
changed in some categories. The Bank regularly reported the disbursement status of the Project; therefore,
any unwanted matters such as possible over drawn could be anticipated and solved quickly during the
Project life. All documents and guidelines related to the project implementation were given to the Project.

Supervision. The performance of the supervision by the Bank was rated as "satisfactory". The Bank's
first supervision to ARM-II Project was held on March 11-22, 1996 and the final supervision mission was
held on November 4-22, 2002. During ARMP-II duration, there were thirteen (13) supervision missions.
Bank    staff   and   consultants   performed    their   professional  supervision,  provided    appropriate
recommendations and action plans with certain follow up deadlines, which were always attached to the
Aide Memoires. Formal and informal communications between the Bank and the Executing Agency were
carried out intensively. The Bank also provided the urgent training such as the application on the Bank
procurement guidelines, preparation of ICR, and actions to be taken prior to the closing date.

Overall Bank Performance.          The Bank's performance was rated as "satisfactory" throughout the
preparation and implementation. In the course of project implementation, particularly in the Mid Term
Review, the Bank had provided assistance to restructure the Project's funding and redesign the priority
portion to include the RIs.

Borrower

Project Preparation. The government performance in preparing the project was rated as "satisfactory".
The Government of Indonesia had prepared ARMP-II Project Document in details, covering technical,
administrative as well as financial aspects. Experiences from ARMP-I were used in designing the project,
particularly in accelerating technology transfer, shifting of commodity-based research to resource-based


                                                    - 36 -

research with focus on optimizing regional productivity through integrated farming and diversification of
agricultural business sector. Before the project was implemented, the GOI officially established the AIATs
as the implementing agency of the project in the region. The GOI also established PMU and allocated funds
in FY 1994/95 for ARMP-II to initiate the implementation of the project.

Government Implementation Performance. The performance of the government implementation was
rated as "satisfactory". In spite of the multi dimensional crisis since 1997, however, the GOI was able to
provide the required counterpart budget as committed in the Loan Agreement. In improving loan efficiency,
the GOI agreed to ARMP-II loan cancellation in the amount of US$22.1million, as recommended in the
Mid Term Review report. In addition, the GOI repaid the procurement deficiencies in the amount of
US$790,456.88 in FY 2000, which made the total cancellation amounting to US$22.9 million.

Executing Agency Performance. The performance of the executing agency was rated as "satisfactory".
The executing agency successfully fulfilled fifteen out of the sixteen Loan Covenants i.e. : (i) Commitment
on the Project application with due diligence and efficiency; (ii) Commitment to Procurement Procedures
application; (iii) Transition Arrangement Plan; (iv) Adequate records and reports; (v) Financial Audit
Report submission; (vi) SOE-s review; (vii) AIATs staffing; (viii) RAC and RTWG performance; (ix)
Annual Works Programs; (x) Vehicle provision; (xi) Technical Audit Report submission; (xii) Adequate
policy for monitoring and evaluation procedures in accordance to certain indicators; (xiii) M/E reports
through the mid terms period and efficient completion and objectives achievements; (xiv) URG procedures
application; and (xv) First five selected URG proposals must be notified by the Bank. The covenant that
could not be fulfilled by executing agency was the budget provision with 3 % annual increase in real term;
although the GOI had provided counterpart budget increase of 16 % per annum in nominal term, but it
appeared to be decreasing at about 4 % in real term, due to devaluation of IDR.

Overall Borrower Performance. ARMP-II had been the most complicated and challenging project for
IAARD. There were problems, such as delay in funding provision, ineligible expenditures and procurement
deficiencies, however, the overall Borrower's performance had been rated as "satisfactory", considering the
all achievements those have been made.

Lesson Learned

Human Resources Development. The sufficient number of qualified staff is the critical factor for AIATs
to play its role in the regions. AIATs were expected to provide services in any agricultural technological
aspect and commodities in the regions. However, the imbalance in skill composition of AIATs' staff made it
difficult for AIATs to provide better services. The decentralization of agricultural research and
development had some constraints on human resources management on the aspects of number and
qualification of AIATs staff as well as the RIs' staffs who were not well motivated to be relocated to the
more remote AIATs.

Management Information System. In spite of the fact that AARD had initiated the MIS for a long time,
only the financial and human resource subsystems that had been successfully operated and used. The other
subsystems of program, facility and monitoring and evaluation were not in function as expected. Based on
the experience so far it could be concluded that the operational success of the financial and human resource
subsystems was due to the fact that these subsystems had been used officially and regularly in government
system at national level. While the other subsystems need enforcement and strong commitment of the
assigned staff in applying full use of the subsystems.




                                                    - 37 -

Project Monitoring and Data Base. The ARMP-II was the continuation of the previous ARMP-I project
dealing with similar objectives on research management. In increasing the Project's effectiveness, the
ARMP-II project was operated in parallel with the ARM-I project for a period of 10 months, even though,
base line data or the benchmark at the start of the project was not prepared. As a consequence it was very
difficult to get the relevant and appropriate data to calculate the increment of outcomes and initial impacts
of the project.

Project Procurement System. There were basically two systems that were frequently used in the Project
procurement i.e. the Bank guidelines and the government guidelines (Keppres - Presidential Decree). The
weakness in English proficiency of the project staffs usually caused misinterpretation of the Bank
Guidelines. Therefore, early intensive training or guidance on the application of the Bank Guidelines to
project staffs will very helpful to prevent any procurement deficiency in the future projects.




                                                     - 38 -

- 39 -

